-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Witcher
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/thewitcher/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dark, foreboding world that looks, sounds, and feels lived in.
 Fantastic story populated by realistic NPCs with realistic problems.
 Innovative new combat mechanics add depth in place of mindless clicking.
 Cinematic visuals and a superb soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Could have done a better job introducing the new combat mechanics.
 Odd dialogue and somewhat cheesy voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 7,006 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 30, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
New battle mechanics, a fantastic storyline, and a gritty setting make The Witcher one of the most 
 engrossing, mature RPGs to arrive on the PC in years. 

  Don't be afraid of change. Even though The Witcher may scare off some people with inventive combat 
 that replaces comfortable old rapid-fire clicking with rhythmic sword swinging, there is no need 
 to avoid one of the deepest, most adult role-playing games to hit the PC in years. Polish developer 
 CD Projekt has crafted one of those landmark games that moves the goalposts for everybody, a truly 
 grown-up take on swords and sorcery that breaks just about every fantasy tradition in the book. 
 Once you experience a grimy medieval world so realistic that you can practically smell it, quests 
 that reject simplistic good and evil for ambiguous "decisions and consequences," and, yes, newfangled 
 battle mechanics that add welcome twists to left-click scrapping, you'll find it awfully hard to 
 go back to the usual D&amp; D rip-off.  

  Built on a 2007 edition of the Aurora Engine that powers Neverwinter Nights, The Witcher is something 
 of a cross between action RPGs such as Diablo and more complex plate-mail potboilers such as Neverwinter 
 Nights. Essentially, the developers work both sides of the street. On the one hand, you have exactly 
 one character choice in the form of greasy-haired Geralt of Rivia, the monster-hunting mercenary 
 "witcher" of the title, along with other ostensibly dumbed-down features such as big bunches of 
 combat and Gatling-gun-quick leveling up. But on the other hand, you also get a postwar fantasy 
 world called Temeria that feels lived in (if not postapocalyptic) , as well as plot points that 
 involve serious moral choices. Story and setting have been borrowed from  The Last Wish , a Polish 
 fantasy novel published way back in 1990 by Andrzej Sapkowski, and for once such an adaptation 
 has been pulled off successfully.  

           Guy with a great big sword. Sinister sorcerers. Creepy, magical lighting effects. Yep, 
 it's an RPG, alright.      

  Although there is a fair bit of saving-the-world RPG claptrap involving a powerful evil mage and 
 a mysterious group called the Salamanders, you deal with a lot of lowlifes. Woman-hating religious 
 fanatics; merchants who deal in abducted children; slatternly bar wenches who'll bed down with 
 you for a bottle of wine; witches who sell poison and play with voodoo dolls; racists who openly 
 hate nonhumans and threaten to kill elves and dwarves. Make no mistake: Although there are a lot 
 of traditional, Gygaxian monsters on the prowl here -- barghests, wargs, ghouls, drowned undead, 
 vampires, wraiths, wyverns, and loads of different demons -- the biggest enemy that Geralt faces 
 is always his fellow humans. You're not much of a hero, either. Requests for assistance can be 
 turned down. Money is always a factor, even when you decide to be a good guy and lend a helping 
 hand. And you have no problem taking advantage of just about every woman you encounter, having 
 pre-marital relations with a handful of babes in every act of the game despite apparently being 
 in love with one of your fellow witchers.  

  It shouldn't be much of a surprise that the line between good and evil here isn't a very thick 
 one. Everything is a murky gray. The first act is simply astonishing in how it plays out. You start 
 off trying to track down the bad guys who raided your witcher fortress and killed one of your pals, 
 but soon get involved in a feud that pits the religious leader and nobles of a hamlet against a 
 witch. However, nobody's hands are clean. One merchant you deal with is in cahoots with the evil 
 cult you're hunting. A guard you help with a ghoul problem turns out to be a rapist. The village 
 priest you're helping cleanse the region of a demonic dog called "the Beast" is actually a misogynistic 
 lunatic. And the witch isn't much better, given that she's sold poison used in a suicide and employed 
 a voodoo doll to make one of the local bigwigs kill his brother. By the end of the act, in a showdown 
 complete with burning torches and pitchforks, you're forced to choose between the woman-hating, 
 rape-loving, cult-affiliated mob and the murdering witch. It makes the most sense to side with 
 the witch because the villagers are an awfully sleazy lot, but doing so forces you to slaughter 
 virtually all of them and leave their town burned to the ground.  

  So no, The Witcher sure isn't all sunshine and lollipops. But even though you might need a few 
 Prozac pills to handle the game's bleak tone, the story becomes incredibly compelling when you 
 have so much riding on your actions. Characters seem like real people, not the good-evil-neutral 
 triad of stereotypes that populate most fantasy games. Only a few aspects of the story and setting 
 remind you that you're just playing a game.  

  A lot of this is probably due to poor translation from the original Polish. Dialogue seems truncated 
 in many spots, which leaves you in the dark as to character motivations. You know something important 
 has just taken place, and the interface clearly points out what you're supposed to be doing, but 
 the big picture doesn't completely come together.  

           Bleak, eerie scenes are so common that it often feels as if you've wandered away from 
 a fantasy RPG and into a gothic horror movie.      

  Swearing and bizarre word choices are another issue. One moment you're cruising along listening 
 to fairly standard RPG conversations, and then you're hit with out-of-the-blue modern slang and 
 "F" bombs. It's pretty jarring to hear the leader of your witcher band calling a female team member 
 "babe," let alone to hear Geralt disgustingly grunt "Abso-f***ing-lutely!" Voice acting often lacks 
 authority as well, which highlights these strange lines. Fellow adventurers look like grizzled 
 warriors but sound more like high schoolers. The actor who voices Geralt tries too hard, like a 
 kid attempting a deep, gravelly voice so he can fool the counter jockey at the corner store into 
 selling him a six-pack. Likewise, the youngest member of your group has all the gravitas of Potsie 
 Weber (for a reason, it soon turns out) .  

  Interactions between the sexes are also risqu in a corny way that would rev up only Beavis and 
 Butthead. It's ridiculous enough that the side quests in every act let Geralt get horizontal with 
 virtually every woman he meets, but it's just pathetic that each conquest is rewarded with a playing 
 card that depicts the lovely lass in a come-hither pose. There isn't even any real payoff with 
 these pics, either, given that the nudity that appeared in the European version of the game has 
 been censored due to prudish Stateside sensibilities. (Thank you, Hot Coffee controversy.) At any 
 rate, the sex is ludicrous and out of place, and is apparently there only to give game geeks hope 
 that a fellow guy with lanky, unwashed hair and corpse-pale skin can score with hot babes.     
 

  The game's mechanics are a little more reserved, although CD Projekt has tried to slightly jazz 
 up everything that fantasy gamers take for granted. Combat mechanics are the biggest change. Instead 
 of the traditional left-click attacks employed by virtually every other real-time RPG this side 
 of the cult-hit Gothic series, melee fighting here is based on give-and-take combos. You click 
 once on an enemy to begin an attack sequence, then click again precisely when the sword-swinging 
 ends to begin a second flourish, and then again and again to string together combos. Miss your 
 moment at any point and it's back to square one.  

           You want options? You've got them. Geralt can be customized with dozens of different abilities 
 and skills.      

  This sounds pretty simple, but it doesn't work so well at the beginning. The game starts with few 
 unhelpful tips on how to fight on all three difficulty settings, and on hard there is no obvious 
 visual feedback indicating when to click again to link a second attack to your first. You're supposed 
 to take click cues from a twirling sound and visual indicators like a flaming sword slash, but 
 this information is buried more than 20 pages into the manual. In order to figure things out from 
 a hands-on perspective, you need to play on easy or medium difficulty, which removes all doubt 
 about when to click by turning the combat icon into a flaming sword. Then you pretty quickly pick 
 up on the visual and audio cues provided during Geralt's actual fighting. When you do get used 
 to things and want to try a more challenging difficulty setting, however, as both easy and medium 
 are a little elementary at times (aside from some of the boss battles) , you have to restart the 
 game. Still, even with the poor introduction, it's hard not to love the combat system. Battles 
 are only a little more involved than the standard clickfest stuff, yet the mechanics always make 
 you think about what you're doing and provide real satisfaction when you take out tough foes. Attacks 
 also simply look cool, especially when you're jumping around slinging your sword in all directions 
 in the middle of a pack of monsters.  

  Three different fighting styles as well as a skill system with more listings than the Manhattan 
 yellow pages add to the cerebral workout. You can change your battle stance between fast, strong, 
 and group, each of which makes you better able to handle speedy, muscular, and gangs of enemies, 
 respectively (the last of which lets you make sweeping swings that hit multiple bad guys at once) . 
 The one catch is that these styles can be employed only while wielding witcher steel or silver 
 swords, which makes a lot of the other weapons that you find during the course of the game pretty 
 much useless. Each style can also be tweaked with the talent points earned every time that you 
 level up (which happens early and often; expect to cruise beyond level 30 before wrapping Geralt's 
 adventures) . All of your other characteristics can also be upgraded, from your attributes to your 
 abilities with both types of witcher sword, as well as your aptitude for the signs that make up 
 the game's spellcasting component.  

  Every category has five levels, and each sports four different related skills. For example, you 
 get started in strength by taking the basic level-one ability to buff attacks and then move on 
 to specific proficiencies such as Cut at the Jugular, which increases enemy bleeding damage after 
 successful attacks, or Bloody Rage, which boosts damage done by 40 percent whenever your vitality 
 dips below 15 percent. CD Projekt even shows a bit of a sense of humor with some skills. For instance, 
 buzz means that your attacks are improved when drunk. The only negative with the skill system is 
 that it seems to force you into a jack-of-all-trades configuration where you're talented as both 
 a warrior and a spellcaster. Consequently, players who like to hardcore specialize in a class are 
 out of luck here.  

  At any rate, magic isn't actually as big a deal here as it is in most other fantasy RPGs. The five 
 signs featured are fairly generic takes on the elements and the basic D&amp; D schools of magic 
 that let you blast off fireballs, charm enemies, set up protective globes, and that sort of thing. 
 Basically, the signs just give you alternate attacks with the right mouse button. More mystical 
 depth is provided by alchemy. Witchers are notoriously good with magical concoctions, and as such 
 Geralt can acquire various recipes that let him brew up potions and oils that heal, enhance weapons, 
 and so forth. It actually seems as if you're really cooking something up, too, because you have 
 to meditate before an open fire (you level up and assign talent points in the same fashion) . However, 
 as with most of these brew-your-own systems in RPGs, you don't have to get too involved with the 
 creation of your own noxious chemicals, aside from the odd quest that makes doing so a key part 
 of fulfilling an objective.  

           As in the real world, human morals and motives here fall in the gray area between good 
 and evil.      

  As you might expect from the grim moments catalogued above, The Witcher is pretty dour when it 
 comes to look and sound. The Aurora Engine has never looked better, and it's hard to believe that 
 this thing dates back to Neverwinter Nights in 2002. Landscapes are generally gorgeous, and the 
 characters are all distinctive (if a bit cartoonish) , but the graphics deal in awfully bleak scenery. 
 Many stone buildings in the game are either run-down or falling down. Villages consist of ramshackle 
 huts constructed with wattle and daub and topped with straw roofs. Skies always seem to be a dim 
 steel gray, and rain pours down pretty much every other day. NPCs are filthy, and often come with 
 various scars and minor disfigurements. There are two main camera angles, over-the-shoulder and 
 isometric, although the former is the best choice because it provides the best perspective on everything. 
 The controls are smooth even close-up.  

  Audio effects and music are perfect counterparts to the look of this shattered world. Little kids 
 skip around while talking about death and playing crude pranks like pissing in the dwarf's bellows. 
 Women can be overheard setting up assignations with their lovers. And all of this is surrounded 
 with subtle, creepy tunes loaded with offbeat tones and sparse organ notes. The superb soundtrack 
 is particularly effective at night; the gothic organ plinking under the moonlight makes you shiver 
 like someone just walked over your grave.  

  Memorable story, immersive combat, fascinating characters -- what's not to like? A few fit-and-finish 
 issues mean that The Witcher isn't quite an all-time classic RPG. Regardless, it's awfully, awfully 
 close, warts and all, and it provides a new benchmark for future developers that are looking to 
 lift their games out of the done-to-death elf-and-orc ghetto.  

    Editor's Note: The original review text stated that the tutorial did not display visual cues 
 for combat on the normal difficulty level, which is incorrect. GameSpot regrets the error.     
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (381 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is definitely a title I've had my eye for a while and after picking it up I played 
 it almost exclusively for while until it was announced that the EE would be released soon, which 
 of course took much longer to be released. I am finally getting around to putting some serious 
 time back into this game and can provide a fair review of it.
  
  The story and NPC interaction is the driving force while the combat takes a back seat. Which for 
 me is a disappointment. The combat started off a bit boring in my opinion but once things started 
 opening up, it became a lot more interesting and frankly there isn't enough of it. The combat consists 
 of managing the following...
  
  - Which weapon you are using
  - Which combat style you are using
  - Use of potions or special items (bombs)
  - Use of special 
 magical abilities (of which there are 5 but you won't have access to all 5 until you get to chapter 
 3, there are 5 chapters in total) .
  - Moving your character around, positioning, you can't just stand in one place and button mash 
 you have to move around because most of the time you are taking on multiple opponents.
  
  Needless to say, when all of this is going on, it makes combat fun and challenging. Unfortunately, 
 the first two chapters are painfully easy and all your abilities don't become available right away. 
 So the game takes time to pick up from an action perspective. Plus the areas/maps you have to visit 
 for the first two chapters are few, but as you progress things open up. 
  
  So how is the story? It's very good, although it has a bit of modern influences going on, which 
 at first is a bit off putting, but there is plenty of intrigue and generally speaking a good narrative 
 with more adult themes. 
  
  The role-play is very good, given the fact that you are given no choice on the character you are 
 playing, you do get plenty of choices that have substantial impact on the story and the player 
 character.
  
  The graphics, while not cutting edge in terms of lighting and post processing effects and all that 
 other fancy stuff, are very well done and the art direction is superb.
  
  Performance wise, it could be better, the engine seems to do really well at first but as you visit 
 more of the towns, you will have major slowdowns (especially in chapter 3) , it's not show stopping 
 but it is annoying and mars an otherwise solid gaming experience. The sound effects and music is 
 also very well done.
  
  Overall the presentation is 9 out of 10. Wandering through the swamps at night or the city sewers 
 and seeing the beautiful artistry in front of you and add in a 5.1 surround sound system and it 
 is pretty impressive. Just try to ignore the slow downs you'll see in-town.
  
  In the end The Witcher is definitely more for the RPG diehards and old-schoolers and I think they 
 will find it a more rewarding experience than say a casual RPG gamer who thinks Oblivion is greatest 
 game (forget RPG) ever made.
  
  For me, this game is my RPG of choice at the moment and surpasses some other moderns RPGs in my 
 library at the moment, such as: Mass Effect, Oblivion and Neverwinter Nights 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  Given that this is a game from a little-known developer in Eastern Europe, I must say that I was 
 pleasantly surprised by "the Witcher." It doesn't quite reach the heights of classics such as Morrowind 
 or Baldur's Gate 2, but it is good roleplaying fun nonetheless. 
  
  Gameplay: This is a single-player RPG, tailored to the PC. It's set in a medieval-inspired world 
 that has its share of intrigue, moral dilemmas, and other troubles. The goal, of course, is to 
 rescue the world from an evil cult and various other nasties. In so doing, you'll battle several 
 types of monsters, travel through various environments, meet various people, and gain various skills. 
 Standard RPG stuff. What is new here is the focus on combat and the ways in which Geralt (the main 
 character) can improve his skills. The combat mechanics, while simple, are fun and never get old. 
 You will not find much in the way of new armor or weapons, but there is enough combat, alchemy, 
 and magic to keep the game interesting. There are many quests, ranging from "fetch this" or "kill 
 that" to more involved scenarios. Character interactions can get pretty interesting, especially 
 when you have to make difficult choices. The game earns its "mature" rating. Even if you are not 
 really looking for it, there are at least a half dozen women that Geralt will have the opportunity 
 to be intimate with during the main quest. I suppose that there are several others that I missed 
 all together. In the American version of the game, there is no outright nudity. Additionally, there 
 is some profanity and gory scenes, but nothing that's really over the top.
  
  Graphics: This is a good-looking game. Environments are convincingly rendered, and character models 
 and animations look good, too. Some character models are repeated way too often, and you may get 
 tired of encountering the same monsters (such as Drowners) dozens of times. But still, the game's 
 visuals are immersive and convey a good sense of the grittiness of Geralt's world.
  
  Sound: All is well with the auditory for the most part. The music is appropriate to each context, 
 and the voice acting is reasonably performed. Environmental sounds are also present.
  
  Technical issues/documentation: This game may have crashed my computer 2-3 times during about 40 
 hours of gameplay. Otherwise, it was stable. It comes with a decent manual, and the first half-hour 
 of gameplay is a tutorial. With the first patch installed, I found the loading times to be reasonable, 
 though there were a few areas that took 15-20 seconds to load.
  
  Replay value: Given the limited character customization and rather linear plot, I found no reason 
 to play this game a second time. However, there are several quests that allow for alternate resolutions, 
 so some players might go back a second time.
  
  Overall, this is a fine RPG that takes full advantage of the PC's power and controls. I hope that 
 a sequel is forthcoming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  There are two things that bring this game down. One of them, the game is too linear. In a game 
 like this, it's disappointing not to be able to do whatever it is you want to do, for instance, 
 having to follow paths or roads is boring in a game like this. In a fantasy environment the biggest 
 thing games of this type lack, excluding oblivion, is the feel of exploration. If you want to run 
 across a field into a dungeon in some unknown area, or attack unknown foes OFF the quest line, 
 you should be able to do that at will in this type of game. Constantly being block by fences or 
 hills and never running into anything unexpected is very dull in a fantasy setting. This game just 
 doesn't supply a very open ended environment, at least enough of one too keep it interesting. The 
 second thing that really brings this game down is again, in this type of setting, there are no 
 real surprises. The caves look the same, the dungeons look the same and the encounters are all 
 very similar, lacking any surprise or unknown. When will there be a game of this type where each 
 encounter is different and the dungeons and caves have their own individual feel, where the traps 
 and monsters etc. are all random and different. This game just doesn't supply that. Without the 
 feeling of exploration and surprise this type of game becomes boring and dull in a hurry. The same 
 goes for loot, who wants to run around with the same items and fight the same mobs and explore 
 the same type of environment over and over. If this game was more open ended and supplied more 
 unique environments, loot and encounters I think it would really offer something then. Even oblivion, 
 the caves and dungeons all look the same pretty much with the same environments, IT'S DULL in a 
 fantasy setting. I was hoping this game was going to get away from that trend but it didn't and 
 it's very dissapointing. On the good side, the game runs well, the music is interesting and the 
 graphics are good. There are some new ideas which are good to see. Game is an 8 at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExeterTheMonk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has some nice game play, music, and graphics mixed with a progressing and curious story. 
 
  
  First thing about the witcher is that it is very overwhelming at first. the interface and combat 
 take some getting used to. Combat is simple but exciting. All the side quests and the free roaming 
 aspect of the game make you easily loose sight of your story line goals.
  
  If your looking to invest a lot of time into a single game this is a good one to do it with. If 
 you liked Never Winter Nights, or Knights of the old republic you might like this one.
  
  The developers of the game have released an upgrade to the game with new graphics and content... 
 however i haven't been able to get it to work on my computer since the update and have given up 
 on it.
  
  overall its fun and time consuming, but not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleeperx9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  It all started quietly enough. From the text and video previews, you would think that this is another 
 unremarkable medieval action\RPGs, perhaps with decent combat and occasional alternative paths. 
 You'd see a castle, hear some engaging music or dialogue and classify it as an OK buy. That is 
 because this is the sort of game that needs to be played first in order to hold any claim over 
 its quality. The Witcher, as you will come to find, does not suffer from herd-ism. In truth, it's 
 quite a breath of fresh air. Certainly, the game's story is a continuation of an already existing 
 one (see The Witcher books) , but this is not to discredit in any way the developers' creative power 
 or their independence, as seen in the plot, as well as in the game mechanics.
  
  As it happens, though, this game will not show its true face in the prologue either. While 
 great as a tutorial, the beginning of Witcher is also its least impressive segment. But that's 
 part of the appeal and greatness of it. The Witcher is a game that becomes better every minute, 
 however it does it so subtly that you might take this for granted unless you finish it. 
  
  From the very outset, you will notice that the combat system is entirely new and entirely enjoyable. 
 There are three main types of battle stances: fast, strong and group - each with their individual 
 attacks; also, there are two types of swords: steel, which is used on humans, and silver for non-humans. 
 There are alternative weapons, yet those become outpowered past a certain, very early point. If 
 you're willing to spend some gold or to harvest the fruits of some very scattered plants, you can 
 go for the easy-to-use alchemy to aid yourself in fights. Another original feature is the level-up 
 system, which is arborescent, yet simple and powerful.
  
  The setting is presumably medieval England. It serves as a distinctive, suitable place for the 
 story to unfold. As far as the story itself goes, it provides the main source of continuity to 
 the game. For Oblivion or Fable, it is the openness of the world. The Witcher neither claims, nor 
 needs that permanent freedom of movement. In the 5 chapters of the game, you'll find yourself exploring 
 roughly 5 distinct vast areas. This is not to add any sense of obligation to the player, since 
 the quests can be approached at any given time. 
  
  As a great, haunting and engrossing story wasn't enough, the game also offers you choices which 
 impact the outcome of the story and most of your relationships with the key-characters. In that 
 respect, The Witcher, in unmistakable Witcher-like fashion, does a sensible, apt job. Unlike the 
 cartoony good/evil choices in games such as Fable, Jade Empire or Star Wars: KOTOR, CD Projekt has 
 opted for pro-human, pro-non-human and neutral alternatives, which actually make sense in the game's 
 universe.
  
  Because Witcher gets better every minute, the last chapter is the most memorable piece of gaming 
 I've experienced since playing Gothic. What the latter did best was employing the Will to Power 
 in an interactive game. In other terms, starting out as a bum who is tossed about by small-time 
 thugs and gradually emerging at the top. This can be seen comparatively often in the history of 
 gaming, even in games other than RPGs, only to a lesser degree. Such is the case with the GTA series. 
 To achieve it completely, you must avoid making the game's world evolve in the same pace that you 
 do, as in The Elder Scrolls series. This is where The Witcher shines. Here, you are given the opportunity 
 to feel powerful, but half-way or more into the game. The most important aspect of this game is 
 the fact that it becomes more and more rewarding, the more you play it.
  
  The combat, the story, the characters - what would these be without art direction? The way matters 
 stand, with the music being one of the most suitable in tone hitherto in any game and often perfectly 
 enjoyable as a stand-alone, as well as the beautiful graphics, this is about as far as atmosphere 
 can go. Listening to the main theme of the game will send you back to the time you played it even 
 if it's a whole year later.
  
  All of this is not to say that the game doesn't have it's share of flaws, such as the shortage 
 of character models or the occasionally problematic voice acting, but simply that these flaws are 
 almost entirely made up for. If you're looking for a quality RPG or indeed a game of any genre, 
 look no further, because The Witcher provides excellence in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  What defines right or wrong? Good and Evil? Justice and Lawlessness? Is it the act, or its observer? 
 Whichever the answer you believe in, it is fair to say that morality is a tricky business. Games 
 are the ideal medium to convey these questions, for one simple reason: they give the possibility 
 of choice. Unlike a book or a movie, where you are stuck with perceiving the decisions (and consequences) 
 a character makes, in games you can actually do it for them - your moral compass can actually be 
 tested. That is not to say, that the morality of the authors is absent; the consequences that derive 
 from these choices, and the moral weight they carry, are entirely defined by the creators. And 
 that opens a whole new world of possibilities from a narrative standpoint. Should the player be 
 rewarded for a good deed and punished by an evil one? Or should he be reminded, that in the real 
 world, good deeds are hard choices, with no real compensation to speak of, and that the crime, 
 sometimes actually does pay? That law is not always just? That to achieve great things, compromises 
 must be made? Should the gamer even be aware of the morality of his choice, or should he make his 
 own judgment?
  
  Just the fact that so many issues can be discussed is a testament to the importance of interactive 
 narratives. For many years, western rpg's have been the genre in which the gamer is actually provoked 
 by the kind of tricky questions mentioned before. This is in no small part, thanks to Bioware and 
 its writers, especially Drew Karpyshyn ("Knights of the Old Republic", "Mass Effect") and to Black 
 Isle/Obsidian's lead designer, Chris Avellone ("Planescape  Torment", "Knights of the Old Republic 
 II") ; the whole morality issue in interactive narrative was introduced by these authors. But in 
 their games, morality has been dealt in an almost absolute way, with good and evil separated by 
 well defined, glowing white lines. Not that the worlds they depict are black and white, mind you, 
 they are grey and dark, but the decisions players can take are undoubtedly polarized into good 
 and evil (and sometimes, lawful and chaotic) . The direction they are taking, however, is in the 
 sense of introducing more ambiguity and relativity into moral choices (and both "KotOR II" and 
 "Mass Effect" tread in that same direction) . Nonetheless, it is a path they have only begun to 
 embrace.
  
  In comes "The Witcher", an RPG by the newborn polish company "CD Projekt Red" (sister to CD Projekt, 
 a polish games translator company) . "The Witcher" is an adaptation of the world created by Andrzej 
 Sapkowski, in a series of dark fantasy novels centered round a monster-slaying mutant with magical 
 powers, i. e. "The Witcher" Geralt. Sapkowski's work is very reminiscent of high fantasy classics 
 like Tolkien's "Lord of the Rings", but, as is common in dark fantasy narratives, twists its classical 
 and mythological nature in favor of a more cynic and realistic tone. Racism, segregation, social 
 struggles, political and law corruption are just some of the themes that manage to squeeze into 
 his universe, transforming it into less of a fantasy world, and more to an allegorical version 
 of our own decaying human society. The game's narrative borrows this tone, and in the same way 
 that Sapkowskis twists Tolkien, CD project twists Bioware.
  
  The tale of the witcher Geralt starts with an attack on the witchers' citadel, carried out by an 
 evil mage who seeks to steal the magic and arcane secrets hidden by the witchers. After failing 
 to repel the attack, Geralt and his witcher brothers start out on a quest to recover those secrets 
 and have revenge. As poor as the start of this tale might sound, it develops in a series of unpredictable 
 and interesting ways: on his journey for vengeance, Geralt will be caught in the middle of a conflict 
 between humans and non-humans. Elves, dwarfs and other species have been the focus of prejudice 
 throughout the development of human civilization, and so have decided to take up arms against them. 
 On the other hand, humans see these "freedom fighters" as terrorists that are not afraid to kill 
 women or children. Throughout the game, Geralt will have to make difficult choices in a war that 
 he does not understand and that has nothing to do with him. Does he help the non-humans, that have 
 a noble cause, but are so filled with hate and anger that will not stop at any means to fulfill 
 their objectives? Or does he side with the humans, that are merely defending themselves against 
 terrorists, and whose society, though decadent and filled with corruption, is a synonym of order 
 and stability? He can also stay neutral, letting both sides destroy each other, and thus bringing 
 a whole nation to shambles. So which is it? Many, many choices the player will have, and none right 
 or wrong. In most of them, the player will only acknowledge their consequences much later in the 
 game, when his overall perception of characters and events has changed. More than once, good-hearted 
 decisions will have horrible consequences, and cold and difficult judgments will bring good in 
 the end a bit like real life, if you ask me. This simple substitution of black and white decisions 
 with gray ones, joined with the butterfly effect, transforms binary selections into conundrums 
 of unpredictable consequences, and gives a whole new meaning to the word: "choice". If you let 
 yourself immerse in this Universe, you will no doubt spend many minutes before making decisions, 
 calculating carefully what might happen in either case. And since the consequences are only known 
 much further in the game, there is no point in doing the save-load routine: once you make a choice, 
 there's no turning back.
  
  The script of the game is not only interesting from the interactive point, as it is a testament 
 to the creativity and quality of its author's writings. Dialogs are rich and mature, characters 
 are usually intelligent and filled with ulterior motives rarely can they be judged at first sight. 
 As standard, a number of unpredictable twists will turn the whole world upside down near the end 
 of the game. The only downfall in this department is the somewhat lack of quality in some small 
 game aspects, like the character animations, which are simply abominable, and the absence of certain 
 narrative bridges, that make the game's plot somewhat confusing at times.
  
  The presentation of the game is almost as good as its narrative. Art design department had a lot 
 of work in conjuring up this dark-themed world, half way between Earth and Middle Earth, without 
 falling in the temptation to transform it into either of them. Scenarios could have been taken 
 from a historical-background game like "Assassin's Creed", as cities are usually places of decadence 
 and poverty filled with anglo-saxonic architectural details, and have little, if anything, of a 
 magical nature. Even forests and lakes, places typically associated with magic, have a down-to-earth 
 feel, with somewhat drab color palettes. The game manages to feel idyllic, thanks to a good use 
 of lighting and weather effects, but never surreal or magic, like most fantasy-themed games. Sometimes, 
 it does feel a bit too drab and gloomy, lacking some contrast in colors, but overall it is an extremely 
 beautiful game. On the sound department, nothing out of the normal to report: the soundtrack is 
 mostly epic and medieval sounding, with one or two great tracks, but fails to harness the emotional 
 power of, say, Jeremy Soule's compositions ("Oblivion") .
  
  On the subject of gameplay, "The Witcher" stands as most western RPG's - In each chapter, you'll 
 have to enter a town hub, talk to villagers to fetch some quests and make money (that go from the 
 "slay 1500 monsters and bring back proof" quest, to the "get the item that ***** bastard stole 
 from me" quest) . Once you've fed up with those trifle matters, you can do the main quests and enjoy 
 the unveiling of the plot. On the good side of things, most quests have something to say about 
 the game's setting, so, no matter how boring they might seem, expect them always to manage unveiling 
 some dark little secret. Combat is a bit of a hack and slash, with the player only having to click 
 on their enemies at the right time for Geralt to release massive sword swinging combos (a bit like 
 rhythm based games or "Legend of Dragoon") . There are also some magic spells Geralt can invoke, 
 and 6 different combat styles, each of them with a typical usage scenario, which brings some tactical 
 planning into play. It doesn't reinvent the wheel, but it manages to keep the player captivated.
 
  
  And so, what seemed like an intangible possibility was accomplished by a new company: a truly interesting 
 and morally ambiguous choice-driven RPG. Few games can even brag about having meaningful stories, 
 let alone about having meaningful possibilities in them. The questions posed in this review's first 
 paragraph were definitely thought of during the game's design and subtly inserted in the plot. 
 By taking the best out of the "Good vs Evil" rpg's (which were, by all means, brilliant) and adding 
 a morally confusing tale, the authors ended up creating an epic and thought-provoking fantasy world. 
 It has the writing quality of a book, and the endless possibilities of a game; it is, in every 
 aspect, the new landmark in interactive storytelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wARLORD246
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  Don't worry me reviews ae always simple and easy to read, I make sure readers get the qualities 
 and flaws quick and snappy.
  
  Take note that this only has a singleplayer campaign and no multiplayer content, if there were 
 downloadable multiplayer content, I still wouldn't include it in this review.
  
  The Good:
  
  There are nicely designed and engrossingly foreboding places.
  
  Added with 
 great soundtrack, which really enhances emotion, despair, horror and intensity.
  
  Nice beautiful graphics, especially for the beaches, forests and women.
  
  New innovative timing 
 combat system, that requires you to click at the precise moment.
  
  Magic, potions and weapon enhancements really add for strategy in combat.
  
  Nice engrossing 
 and epic story, that makes good use of emotion, fantasy, pity and mystery. Plus cinematic events 
 that will intrigue you more.
  
  Nice RPG elements also add up to its replay value and playing time.
  
  Alchemy, waiting, crafting.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Long and annoying loading times when entering levels, saving the gaming and loading a savegame.
 
  
  Lack of NPC models and individual faces and voices can confuse or fool you, and really affect your 
 appeal for the game's realism.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3fl3x3d
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game 
 I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The 
 Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I 
 ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The 
 Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I 
 ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The 
 Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I 
 ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The 
 Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I 
 ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. The Best Game I ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Gibbon
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is definitely not like any other RPG I've played. I waited until the Enhanced Version 
 came out and am basing my review on the Enhanced/downloadable content version.
  
  The game is beautiful. The scenery is more immersive than any game I have ever played. The game 
 takes a lot of risks.
  
  This game is a perfect RPG with three serious flaws and one minor one. The minor flaw is re-use 
 of characters models to portray different people. In a game that is otherwise so immersive, this 
 this like a bucket of cold ice water over the head.
  
  The most fundamental flaw with the game is that it is linear to a degree that just seems silly. 
 This isn't a point-n-click adventure, but that's how the story unfolds. There are "side quests" 
 but you are put in a straightjacket when it comes to the main plot.
  
  This relates to the second flaw. The quests are poorly programmed. You may accidentally complete 
 a quest you had no idea about or jump 3 stages ahead. It is also easy to choose a path you don't 
 want simply because you did not complete tasks in the right order. Some characters appear only 
 during brief windows in the day. You have to constantly check your log, meanwhile trying to guess 
 what the developers were thinking. It's rather easy to break a quest by doing something in the 
 wrong order. Like the recycled models, this is just sloppy and really diminishes enjoyment of the 
 game.
  
  The other serious flaw (which is more of a design decision) is that while the game claims that 
 there is no good or evil, in the game there is only evil. Sure, there are times in life where you 
 have to make difficult decisions, but most of the time, one comes up with a better choices than 
 the "dilemmas" you face in the game. Most decisions are something like "would you like to bomb 
 hospital or burn the children with a flamethrower?"
  
  While this sort of hamfisted writing could be overlooked if they were occasional, these lose-lose 
 situations are the norm in this game.
  
  Having said all that, the game was great fun to play. The character development system is great 
 fun. The things you can make and acquire of fun.
  
  The best risk the developers took was how they handled combat. It is a mix between action and RPG 
 that no other title has managed to so perfectly balance. It is tremendous fun to go forth and slay, 
 which is really where you spend your time in an RPG.
  
  I'm glad I bought it. I'm glad I played it. I could have been a much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Over the years Ive probably played 100s of computer RPGs ranging from freeware and shareware 
 games, to top of the range, multi-million dollar budget games. Yet, despite playing these games, 
 none have ever captured me for more than a few weeks, and with some of the longer games I didnt 
 even finish them (without resorting to some kind of cheat) . However, for once, a game has come 
 along that combines the hack and slash of some of the more simplistic games, with the atmosphere 
 and character building of the often too complex AD&D games. 
  
  From the very first moment, with the opening movie, which is stunning, you are immersed in a dark 
 dank world full of danger and dripping with atmosphere. This initial movie, that is several minutes 
 long, really sets the scene on what you are about to experience. 
  
  This game is not your normal AD&D hack and slash type of gaming, but is an immersive, adult and 
 dark game that is more about the storyline, rather than manipulation of statistics, armor class 
 and Thac0  you know all that geekish stuff (Before I offend the geeks, I am a self professed 
 geek  and this game does have those elements  leveling up etc, but I found that they 
 are not as important as many other games) . 
  
  What really attracted me and kept me coming back was the feel of the game, the immersive 
 world that is distinctly medieval and for a game of this type is pretty realistic. 
  
  I was also attracted by the way the quests didnt simply offer you a good or bad option  
 there were some pretty deep moralistic scenarios, touching on child abuse, racism etc. The plot 
 is essentially adaptive, and as you make your choices you are driven down a different road  
 this adds to the longevity of the game as you can take a different route each time. One particular 
 route I took involved defending a bunch of dwarfs and elves  they were rioting and 
 causing mischief, and the authorities were trying to stop them  mostly in violent clashes. 
 I decided to join the cause of the dwarves and elves, and in doing so alienated a couple of Non 
 Playing Characters I had met earlier  had I chosen differently, and decided law and order 
 was more important, I wouldnt have interacting with some of the elves and instead would 
 have built a relationship with some of the alienated characters. 
  
  The game itself is built on the engine of Neverwinter Nights (NN) . While I enjoyed NN I found it 
 very linear, and basically cheated to get to the next section. While the graphics in NN were good 
 and atmospheric at times, I never really felt that I was in an immersive world. I felt I was in 
 a modular world with distinctly different areas  the updated version of the engine seems 
 to allow for a more seemless transition (one thing I note  the early version of the game 
 was very slow to load between areas  this was improved in a later version  you may 
 have to download the update though) . 
  
  
  One downside to the game perhaps  although after playing for a while I feel that it was 
 important for the game  is that you dont have a choice of character type, class or 
 even name. You are simply presented with Geralt of Rivia  as you progress through the game 
 you can concentrate on certain aspects of his character and essentially form your own class as 
 you go along, but initially I felt this was very restrictive. However as I moved forward, I realize 
 that this initial restriction was important, as the storyline really needed a central character 
 that was solid and not a creation of someone who didnt know the story. 
  
  The story itself overall is an atypical story  good v evil, save the world type thing  
 this is a central theme, and the battle against the bad guys (salamanders) doesnt change 
 overall  however, the ability to make moral choices along the way, that adapt the way the 
 story is told is exceptional. One thing that is very interesting is that the good v evil isnt 
 very distinct. While you join one faction or the other, you notice that each faction has its own 
 idiosyncrasies. 
  
  Like most RPGs there are plenty of monsters, ranging from vampires to wargs  however perhaps 
 the biggest factor of the game is that these are really secondary enemies  the plot (s) mostly 
 involve dealing with human enemies and their failings. One thing I liked (a little spoiler ahead) 
 is that the end of scenario bad guy never got killed, he always managed to get away 
  this added a nice edge to the game! 
  
  The other point that should be made is that Geralt isnt your typical hero  he is 
 an outcast himself, who also seems to have lost his memory  some of the people he meets 
 know him, but he has no recollection  it was also interesting that the interaction of your 
 friends also changed  there were jealousies etc, and that often kept things interesting. 
 Geralt isnt particularly out to save the world, or indeed help anyone  most quests 
 he takes on are for personal gain, or for information  part of the central plot is a quest 
 to find out his past. This selfish feel to the game is unique. 
  
  One thing to note is that this game is intended for a mature audience  there are elements 
 of swearing as well as much sex  while its not graphic in the US version, 
 it is very suggestive and a lot of the women seem a little too eager  this aspect of the 
 game really didnt add much, and perhaps is aimed at teenage males to gain more sales. It 
 seems that the reward for a lot of the quests are some semi-nude cards  hmmm 
 are us geeks really that shallow! 
  
  As for the game itself  the mechanics are fairly standard. The combat is different than 
 most PC games, but is a little reminiscent of some of the better Playstation games. Essentially, 
 based on your skill level  you have varying moves your character can make  as you 
 start combat by clicking, clicking at various timed times moves you to the next move 
 in the sequence  fail in the timing and your back to step one. Using this method you can 
 eventually come up with some pretty deadly sequences. 
  
  When using the Witchers silver sword you also get to choose between three different modes 
  one is used for single combat, one is used for multiple opponents and the last is used 
 for tricky single opponents who are quicker than most  one downfall of this is that all 
 the additional multitude of weapons you can get become meaningless as these modes are only available 
 when using the Witchers sword. One other trick is that there are two types of Witchers 
 sword  a silver one and an iron one  one is more useful against monsters, while the 
 other more useful against humans. 
  
  As you level up, you can improve the effectiveness of these modes by using talent points. The points 
 can effectively be used to upgrade all elements of your character ranging from fighting abilities, 
 magical abilities to improving general attributes such as strength etc. The system was a little 
 convoluted for me, and to get the best out of it  read the manual!!! 
  
  Magic is included in the game, but I found it to be secondary and in fact the first time I finished 
 the game I barely used magic  aside from a few difficult enemies, I found magic to be a 
 pain. However, the game does provide a fairly extensive alchemy system  this has its good 
 side and its bad side. 
  
  There are hundreds of potions that you can make  but each potion needs a recipe and an abundance 
 of ingredients. To get the most out of the system you essentially have to roam around looking for 
 the ingredients (you have to read about the separate herb lores prior to doing this) . This became 
 very cumbersome at times, and even though the potions were powerful and diverse I again didnt 
 concentrate on this aspect of the game (although if you play on difficult you really need to do 
 this!) . 
  
  The interesting part of potions is that while taking them, they have a detrimental effect on you 
  the more you take the more they effect you  some make you blinded, others seem to 
 make you effectively drunk. For me, this was a distraction. 
  
  The biggest problem with this system is the inventory  it quite simply is a mess  
 its impossinle to find anything in the inventory and I just ended up selling every.. this 
 is supposedly going to be improved in a free update soon! 
  
  Having said that, while the mechanics arent that different from other games, that doesnt 
 really matter. Its the feel and sound of the world that makes the mechanics secondary  
 giving you the feel that you are not in a game, but are in a story. 
  
  So overall this great is excellent  Atari have gone out of the way to make a very immersive 
 game, with a decent plot that keeps you involved and negates the boredom of repetitive and nonsense 
 quests. There are a few rough edges, but if this is the future of RPGs then I am a happy man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demi_veritaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game starts out slow, and just keeps picking up steam. The graphics are great, the gameplay 
 is better, and the dialogue is suitable although cheesy at times.
  
  I'm infatuated with this game. The storyline draws you in and keeps you there. The quests often 
 are collect and/or kill this, but the twists are always worth the effort.
  The morality implementation is great. If you insult someone outright, they won't do business with 
 you anymore. If you do favors and act kind, you get benefits from whoever you helped.
  
  Great example: You kill undead that attack goods at a small harbor. After you finish them off, 
 rebels approach asking you to let them take the goods so their comrades won't die. Do you do your 
 duty and tell them no? Or do you believe them when they say the shipment is for them and let them 
 make off with the goods?
  
  Great game, great buy, I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmanDante
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  I was very hesitant to get this game. I ended up getting it several months (8-9?) after it came 
 out. I had watched a bunch of the videos, but they didn't really do anything for me. It didn't 
 set off my interests, and the fact it was designed by Atari didn't help it (Anyone play Enter The 
 Matrix?) . I was sitting around one day and was uber bored. I decided to drive to the nearest Best 
 Buy, picked up a copy, and went home. When I got to my computer, I made sure my expectations were 
 low for the game, and I installed it. Upon completion of installation, I booted it up and waited. 
 I got to the main menu, hit play, and I was on my way. I have to say, the first five minutes, I 
 was thoroughly engaged in the game. The whole period I spent playing the game was amazing. The 
 story was so captivating, and I'm a man for stories. It's the number one thing I look for in a 
 game. Most of the time, I found it hard to STOP playing the game. It had gotten ridiculous, but 
 I wasn't complaining. The fighting was also very different, something I had never experienced before. 
 It was, however, very fun. Running around kicking the crap out of creatures with some bad-ass swordplay, 
 is the way to go. Seriously, you just can't go wrong with this game. I admit that my initial judgment 
 was wrong and totally a-skewed. I would recommend this game to any fan of the genre, or to any 
 gamer, in general. I would especially recommend this to the fans of game-stories. This one rocked. 
 The characters were most memorable, as was the story-line.
  
  Review Over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bytor60150
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo for the original game when it first came out a year ago. I Thought it was fun 
 and had potential, but after reading the reviews I decided to stay away based on all the technical 
 snafu's. After this new 'EE' version came out I decided to give it a shot, and I'm glad I did! 
 The story is great, graphics are smooth on my system**, and it's just a lot of fun! The potions 
 that you can make are unique and the customization of your character can be pretty extensive. There 
 are still some bugs here and there, but that's to be expected on the platform. From the looks of 
 things it doesn't seem like CD Projekt is gonna stop supporting this title any time soon. All in 
 all, if you're in the mood for a fairly deep story, fun game play and a little nookie thrown in 
 for good measure-then The Witcher: Enhanced Edition has you covered.
  
  **Dual-Core E6300 1.87 per core
  2GB RAM
  Nvidia 7600 GT OC 256MB
  
  Running at 1280x1024 
 w/ AA at 2x and everything set to medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnsch
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I first thought this game would be boring, slow and just another run of the mill RPG and I put 
 it away after just 20 minutes of play. I loaded the update, gave the game a second chance and found 
 a great game here. once past the main introductory part that starts the story. I was off to the 
 true RPG story part itself, this became a fun game almost instantly. Combat when done right is 
 brutal and you can survive groups of baddies when choosing the correct style of combat and that 
 choice is very easy to make before or during the beatings. I wish I could slap the crap out of 
 anyone I wanted, but the fist fighting is limited mainly to the bar room brawling area and there 
 are many NPC's you just can't abuse at all, however if you chose, you can draw a monster into town 
 and let it eat townspeople up for a while before you kill it and then get some goodies off of there 
 dead bodies. The gambling games are fun as well and although you will lose more often at first, 
 you gain skills and soon you will be taking there money in piles. The ability to learn how and 
 then brew potions is nice and can be very helpful in those big fights where every edge you can 
 get will keep you from being the victim. Bottom line, If you like RPG's, GO BUY THIS GAME and give 
 it a chance. It will grown on you quickly and then keep you quite entertained. It has it week spots 
 and there will be times you will wonder whet the hell was the developer thinking, but there are 
 not many of those and certainly not enough to take away from the fun and deter you from enjoying 
 a good game. 
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  If anyone is an RPG fan I suggest you get this game. You will get addicted to the great story line, 
 the characters, and the choices and decisions you get to make. Also the action and fighting is 
 what makes this game a must have. It is really hard to compare this game with any other game because 
 it is so unique, but if i had to compare it to any other games, I would say its kinda like a M 
 rated Legend of Zelda lol. Along with Mass Effect with the "Over-the-Shoulder" camera angle and 
 cause BioWare made it, letting you choose what you want to say and ask to people when you talk 
 to them. 
  
  The graphics and sound really depends on what you choose best for you PC. So I can't really go 
 on much on them subjects, but overall even on Low detail the graphics are still good. (Or so I 
 think lol)
  
  Overall, if you are wanting to get a great game to get into and to kill time, i suggest getting 
 The Witcher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GroverXPv2
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  It's a bit difficult for me to describe The Witcher, on the one hand I enjoy the game for its relatively 
 interesting combat system and it's atmosphere. However, on the other hand, everything else about 
 this game has nearly been done to death. One example being the golem in act II, as soon as I realized 
 I was going to be fighting a gigantic golem my thoughts were "Holy crap.. I've stepped right back 
 into D&D". On a serious note though, it has all been done... from the massively annoying 'run here 
 and talk to this guy.... and then run back over there to talk to that guy, to get an item you need... to 
 talk to the other guy!' quests, to the rather stereotypical storyline. When I first got The Witcher, 
 the game would not even run, but seeing as I have Windows Vista, I'm not sure if that's more the 
 games fault or the operating system so I cant really harp on that too much.
  
  I hate to bring up something that a lot of other reviewers have, but I feel the load times on this 
 game are horrendous. It takes a good 50 seconds to 1 minute and 30 seconds, to load any given area.. longer 
 if the game auto-saves while loading a area. And to have to do that just to walk into a room and 
 back out again, is a good waste of roughly 4 minutes of you're time staring at a pictionary graphic. 
 I mean... the games graphics are good, but not good enough to warrant load times of that degree.
 
  
  All-in-all the game is not 'bad' really, I could just do without the multitude of 'fetch' quests 
 and the horrendous load times. But it really just boils down to a game full of things iv already 
 played and seen with a few added annoyances to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gormta
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Actually, I love this game. It has a great story, perfect graphics (if not the most advanced, technically) 
 perfect sound, and the mature part makes it more 'alive'. 
  
  Also, that they made an enhanced edition on an already great game is something that needs to be 
 rewarded! I bought both the first version and the enhanced one. If you like RPGs - this is the 
 closest you get to Baldurs Gate, Fall Out and other classics. This game was made by people who 
 really cares about their creation - the only minor issue is that its a bit to easy... 
  
  Damn, I didnt thought I would come love a game this much, last time it happened was "System Shock 
 2". 
  
  The ingame information screens makes a great impact on my review, cause with all these interesting 
 plots and characters - its so nice to be able to review them whenever you feel like needing that 
 information. First time you read about topics like "magic" or a special location it might seem 
 - too much - and you cannot put everything in place, but suddenly when you read it again, it feels 
 like home - therefore building a whole complete world. 
  
  The information in books you find have a real impact on the world and on your character, for example, 
 giving you wisdom of certain plants, enemies and locations. In other RPGs like Oblivion and in 
 fact, Baldurs Gate - the stories in books, rarely have any impact on anything in-game. Even the 
 smallest tasks, missions suddenly make sense in the main quest, main story - its perfectly managed 
 - with a lot of surprises. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fisheagle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Having played Oblivion and really enjoyed it was a pleasant surprise to find that The Witcher was 
 even better, in graphics, game play and storyline. Characters were more lifelike and the AI was 
 good. On the down side the same faces for the different groups, ie soldiers, farmers etc and the 
 lack of variety in the voices put a mild damper on the play. The world map was good as was the 
 local map. The combat style is a pleasure and easy to master. The AI controlling a large part of 
 the action gives the player time to plan his moves be more in control of the situation. With the 
 line between good and evil being somewhat vague it is easy to make the wrong decision. You must 
 decide on what kind of guy you want Geralt to be. I thoroughly enjoy playing and it gave me hours 
 of fun. With the choice of lots of quests you can take hours completing those without moving too 
 far into the main story line. The choice is yours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iq2luc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher blends together politics, love, hate, revenge, sex, good, evil and any other kind of 
 things the human nature may embrace... and it does it in such a perfect way that I wonder now if 
 I will ever play a game not meeting this standard: consistent and sophisticated storyline matched 
 by a suited graphic engine and an almost perfect gameplay. 
  
  Loved the controls, fighting styles, magic effects, skill and character improvement system. 
 
  Also a great replayability value, given by the fact that almost every choice you made affects 
 the future events in a smaller or greater measure.
  
  Played with 1.3 patch, no crash or some any other annoying bugs from start to end. 
  I will definitely 
 look for any new release from these polish guys: I'd LOVE to see a sequel as soon as possible with 
 a similar superb storyline, maybe even better gameplay, more play time, more various loot (armors, 
 weapons, spells etc.) ... meanwhile I'll give the new 'The Witcher Enhanced' a spin on by choosing 
 a more political inclined attitude for Geralt :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollomite704
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the theme and speed of this game. The graphics were good and the environments were 
 definitely 'lived in'. Had this been a little longer and a bit tougher - it would have gotten a 
 better grade; plus the ending was a let down (major disappointment) if you ask me. That was probably 
 my biggest drawback - working my way all the way up to have a final confrontation like that? Lame. 
 Have the fun is having a major battle at the end with something huge and tough - not trying to 
 spoil anything here, but it was a let down. I like the personal building up of tension and size 
 of the enemy, personally. Otherwise - good game; just needs some honing in on the next one! I do 
 hope that they continue in the series. Like I said, the theme is great, the character is a bad-a__ 
 and all the side stuff makes it very entertaining. You should definitely get the newer, upgraded 
 version and enjoy it to the max! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerforsale
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I'll get started Pro's first. Cons second.
  
  -------------------------
  Pro's
  Great fun combat system.
  Interesting story line
  Great combat animation.
  Nice talent system.
 
  Magic is fun to play with.
  Plenty of enemy's
  In depth
  O. K replay value
  -------------------------
  Now it's time for this games flaws.
  BAD. voice acting and I mean 
 BAD.
  Example (spoiler free) "It's over there pass the inn."
  "Let's go." They say it without emotion. Now I understand he's the Geralt the white wolf. But did 
 the other guy is normal he has to have some feelings right?
  Character recycles to much.
  "Hey didn't I just see that guy?" Now I understand there's other games that do this. (GTA for example) 
 I expect that from a shooter but The witcher is a damn RPG GAME at least put some differences jeez.
 
  Combat gets boring but a lot of RPG hack n' slash have boring combat systems.
  Walking.. BY GOD THE WALKING. Exit the building go to the other side of the map then go back. At 
 least put some form of faster travel.
  ----------------------------
  another thought. Where have I seen the whole press a button and drag the mouse combat system before? 
 Oh yeah.. TES: ARENA Even though arena sucked and it was randomly generate. The combat system was 
 still used before the witcher.
  ----------------------------
  SUMMARY
  The game deserves what game spot gave it. IF your looking to buy it It's a good deal. Patching 
 it fixes the load times. Overall not a bad game but could've been fixed up and polished a little 
 more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is an RPG based on a popular (in Poland, anyway) fantasy series of roughly the same 
 name. The titular character is Geralt of Rivia, a white-haired, scar-faced celebrity monster-slayer, 
 who comes back from the dead to awaken at the witchers' mountain fortress with all parts intact, 
 sans - some things simply must be, I guess - his memory. At the fortress he shortly meets other 
 witchers and a sorceress, who's pretty "tit-ular" herself, if you know what I mean. This merry 
 band will help you understand the basics of the game, including its decidedly mature tone, and 
 kick the story off. From there, you're mostly on your own.
  
  And it's quite a journey. In a world of 7-hour campaigns and episodic gaming, 50-odd hours I spent 
 playing through The Witcher is a welcome experience. Granted, it involves a lot of walking, but 
 the quest system is extremely user-friendly and well-managed, and there is basically no point in 
 the game at which you don't know what to do. The quests themselves, although of a standard RPG 
 variety, are mostly interesting and integrated well with the main story. The story also is above 
 average. It's complex and well-plotted (aside, arguably, from the amnesia bit) , and would have 
 been even better if not for shortcomings in translation. That said, the translation and voice-over 
 work are not nearly as horrible as some reviewers will have you believe. A great part of storytelling 
 technique here is the game forcing you to make difficult choices, whose results may not be apparent 
 to you for a while after you make them, but which will affect the story in the long run. Regrettably, 
 however, this also could have been realized better, as the changes your action will cause in the 
 story, except for ONE, although meaningful to Geralt, will not affect the overall outcome of the 
 game. And the single major choice the game offers will ultimately decide what ending you will see.
 
  
  The Witcher is set in the kingdom of Temeria, which is (according to the translation) either south 
 or north of the witcher stronghold of Kaer Morhen. You'll progress through areas one at a time, 
 unlocking them as you complete quests important to the story. The system is tried and true and 
 is a bit of a hassle at this point in gaming, actually, as you cannot return to most of the areas 
 once you've played through them, and some side quests and their benefits may be lost to you if 
 you trigger the chapter end too soon.
  
  The gameplay is one of the bright spots of the game. I played through with an over-the-shoulder 
 camera, because I prefer a bit of sky in my games, but isometric view is reportedly very workable 
 as well. You can also choose whether to play with a mouse only a la Diablo or use WASD. Whatever 
 you choose, you'll soon see how cool the combat is. Geralt wields two swords (separately, alas) 
 - a silver one for monsters and a steel one for humans - and fights in 3 distinct, intuitive styles: 
 Strong, Fast and Group. In order to be successful you will have to often switch from one sword 
 to the other, toggle between styles, time your swings, use rudimentary magic, drink potions and 
 apply appropriate, self-made blade oils. And it looks awesome! The only annoying combat-related 
 mechanic is Geralt's inability to use exits or loot bodies "while in combat." It works well most 
 of the time, but there are some areas later in the game where you will be running around looking 
 for that last Drowner for fifteen minutes in order to be allowed to enter a quest-related cave, 
 only to have two more who have respawned waiting for you when you return. But all in all, The Witcher 
 probably offers the most satisfying combat experience in an RPG since Fallout 2.
  
  The game has well-documented flaws, most of which are going to be fixed in the upcoming update. 
 The abovementioned translation flaws, the very limited number of character models and speech animations, 
 the poor inventory management, the load times are all included here and probably need no further 
 elaboration. I will say, though, that the load times on a 4 gig of RAM system aren't too bad, and 
 the inventory, which everyone seems to hate, did not annoy me too much. If anything, I thought 
 the problem was the lack of things to put into that inventory. Most of the stuff you pick up consists 
 of either monster body parts or herbs, both used in alchemy and certain quests, and aside from 
 these there's very little to be looted in Temeria. There are things like food, which is supposed 
 to restore vitality but is largely useless; alcohol, which is also used to make potions; gold, 
 which you'll use to buy gear maybe once or twice, books, which you can read to gain knowledge and 
 immediately sell, and various weapons you can't carry, but all of these comprise roughly ten percent 
 of the loot, versus the ninety percent of the alchemical ingredients.
  
  Before wrapping up, I have to mention the non-gory (most of the time) "mature" part of the game, 
 aka sex. There are plenty of Temerian lasses looking for a bit of mutated attention, but while 
 potentially cool, the sex is actually one of the sadder parts of the game, with the reward neither 
 stimulating nor particularly appealing. I don't think you even get experience points for these 
 "conquests." It's not as bad as Fable-esque oos and giggles in the dark, but aside from a couple 
 of more animated sequences a total letdown. The wait for a game that will deal with sex appropriately 
 continues.
  
  And the verdict: The Witcher is a great-looking, great-playing, long-lasting RPG, with revolutionary 
 combat and pretty bad sex. You'll probably want to wait till September to buy the new version when 
 it comes out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeis-net
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  The witcher starts with so much promise, but rushed implementation soon starts to show. It is not 
 often you need to talk about disk caches and hardware when playing a game, but if you don't own 
 a serious SATA drive you may as well give up now. However even with a state of the art SATA drive 
 you will find that the game continually frustrates. Load times are genuinely minutes which would 
 not be so bad between areas, but when you have waited 2 miniutes for the inside of a house to load, 
 to get a 5 second dialogue in which you are thrown out of the house, then wait a further 2 minutes 
 for the town to load. This is the point I stopped playing.
  
  If you have a good book to read for the load sequences you will find a decent RPG built upon the 
 NWN engine. The graphics are stylised and the game does have a different feel to most RPGs which 
 does get you through the frustrations of load times for a few hours.
  
  This said if you have played NWN recently you may start to notice the plot hierarchy appears to 
 be duplicated (although I did not play to the end due) and there are way to many items and way 
 to few shops. Combat is odd and takes some getting used to.
  
  However the overriding feeling is that this game was not finished when released. There are too 
 many bugs and the performance and flow of the game make it unplayable on most PC's. The writers 
 have kind of admitted the game is not working and are releasing an "enhanced" (read working) version 
 which will be released Sept 08. I might re-visit this then, but until then life is too short to 
 watch the endless loading screens.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaizenx
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The game was reviewed after installing the 1.2 patch.
  
  The Witcher is a good RPG.
  
  The combat in the Witcher on the other hand is a poor approximation of games like Devil May Cry 
 or even God of War. There is 1 button and you time your clicks, its not a lot even compared to 
 action RPGs like Diablo 2 where the tactical choices are much more varied.
  
  There is a lot of combat in the Witcher and sometime after the first chapter it gets boring. The 
 rest of the game is a series of Fedex filler quests strung together by a meandering storyline that 
 gets nowhere. 
  
  The graphics of the game is excellant and the audio is inspiring, there is no faulting the production 
 values of the game. Some weird translation issues abound but nowhere as bad as other Eastern European 
 games.
  
  It is not quite your standard RPG, measured up against games like Mass Effect or the all time classic 
 Baldur's Gate II, it falls short.
  
  If you like well produced games that border on being good you should give the Witcher a try, but 
 if your tastes in RPGs fall towards higher expectations there are far superior fare out there for 
 your enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canigia1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I started playing The Witcher after 3 months in AOC and it really felt like playing a game again.
 
  This game is all about role-playing. Predefined char Geralt of Rivia is truly a memorable character. 
 As you involve with the game more you really become addicted to the story and you feel like you're 
 there somehow. I'll never forget the first time I've been to the swamp.
  Great graphics (if you can support them) , original combat ( give it time, in the beginning its quite 
 difficult to get used to it) , nice magic and sophisticated alchemy can give the edge.
  But the greatest asset of the game is its adult theme and nature straight from the books of Sapkowski. 
 A mature CRPG who is worth a lot for one simple reason- there aren't many.
  Some bad dialogue options, and long loading times are the main problems but overall they fail to 
 spoil the fun.
  Play it. Its worth it. Good games become fewer and fewer. Don't miss a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  The Witcher seems to suck you in quickly with the story. As you venture through the game the story 
 gets even more gritty. The graphics are good they could be a little better but nothing that takes 
 away from the game. You may at sometimes feel as if you are in a horror game instead of a RPG with 
 some of the eerie enviroments. You get many chances to make many choices in the game. Although 
 these choices do not determine if you are good or evil. As the game states its just consequences. 
 There are many different weapons to pick up being axes, daggers torches, and of course your sword. 
 The world is very big and has much to explore to your freewill. To add more to the game they have 
 many side quest that are posted by merchants or others who need some work to be done. A lot of 
 them consists of killing many monsters but still easy way to get some more money. Alchemy is very 
 in depth. You can make many different potions and can even pick certain ingredients from plants 
 or skin a monster for ingredients. You also need formulas so you know what to make. You can also 
 experiment and sometimes improve your potion to something greater. The figthing system is based 
 on timing rather you need to click at the right time to continue your chain of attacks. You will 
 also have to switch your stance depending on the type of opponent you are fighting. Overall the 
 game has a great story good fighting and is just plain fun in everyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I really am getting tired of RPG games with stupid bonehead quests (i havent played mass effect, 
 but im gonnna get to that.) A good example of one would be the witcher. About halfway through (ive 
 gotten too bored to play it all the way through) you just stop caring about the secondary quests, 
 as they mount up pretty quickly with go here and kill x number of monsters, bring that back to 
 me missions, and quests where you have to talk to someone to find out more information.
  
  The gameplay is painfully simple. go to a town, go see a person and talk to them, get a side mission, 
 battle some drowners, then repeat. i got to the dike in the game when it started to get real boring. 
 The characters arent really worth caring about and the story is very boring and cliche'. My biggest 
 problem is that when you have a quest and then you go to where you are supposed to go or talk to 
 a person to get information and you cant for some reason, which gets VERY annoying,. the combat 
 is almost too simplistic, with just a click of a mouse you fight the bad guys, which is very repetitive.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but not great, and the games loading times are very annoying. the water 
 and environments look good, but the character models are reused so much youre thinking, didnt i 
 just see that guy like 5 min ago?
  
  What it boils down to is if you like a weak story, simplistic gameplay, and stupid side quests, 
 then youll like this, and for some reason this got really good reviews, i wonder if the uncensored 
 is any better, cause all the sex scenes are blurred out, which is cheesy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  - Lots of action, monster variety is very good. 
  - As you progress through the game you gain levels and thus you achieve new skills and abilities 
 for your character.
  - Throughout the game you interact with other characters, some critical to the story of the game, 
 others will just give you side quests for you to do and gain levels and have some fun and make 
 some money, which you will need in this game if you want to add cool attributes to your swords, 
 so collect all the money you can and sell all the extra items you can, anything you can spare. 
 (just a tip :P) . 
  - One other cool thing you can do in this game is the creations of potions ;) , with the right formula 
 and the right ingredients from merchants you can create very cool potions that can aid you in tough 
 situations. 
  - The overall game play its just amazing, you play as Gerald and he can gain elemental abilities 
 like that of fire, he can also gain telekinesis to knock down walls and enemies among others; graphics 
 are amazing too, if you're the type of player that enjoys a good RPG with lots of quests and a 
 really good story and deep plot, The Witcher is the game for you, it won't be a waste of money 
 or time. ;)
  
  
  Cons:
  I enjoyed the game so much, I went to sleep late and I overslept and was late for work, my boss 
 was mad at me : (. LOL
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Once I got over the misleadingly bad prologue, I slowly started to see why others had been heaping 
 praise on this game. The enviromnents are all very nicely done, and the monsters and your own actions 
 look realistic and convinving. I also found the combat to be surprisingly enjoyable after a got 
 the hang of it, and the use of potions and bombs really makes a big difference in the larger fights. 
 There's also a great alchemy system that you can get into. The storyline is really well done- the 
 most engaging I've seen in an RPG since - well, probably ever, and while you'll find yourself with 
 ten plus Qs on the go at any given time the quest tracker lets you keep track of them all with 
 ease. The only dissaponiting aspect of The Witcher for me was was the size of the dungeon-like 
 areas, but apart from this this game is a triumph of originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  +es: Fantastic story, great combat, great alchemy system that encourages experimentation ,fantastic 
 but somewhat cheesy voice-acting,
  long single-player quest (40 hours) , an artistic direction which is very believable, good technical 
 graphics, many side-quests, active combat.
  
  -es: Repetitive character models and clothing (that is supposed to be fixed in the Enhanced Edition) , repetitive 
 character dialog gesticulations (which will also be fixed) , somewhat cliffhanger ending in where 
 one main question remains to be answered, shortage of armors, repetitive music, the inventory system, long 
 load times
  
  
  I will start with the graphics. The artistic direction is extremely good and very believable. It's 
 sort of medieval style.
  Some things in the game are inspired by Slavic mythology (like monster names character names as 
 well) . The technical side
  is also very good and it just looks like it fits with the artistic direction. it overlaps with it 
 and the tech side makes the artistic side shine and the artistic side makes the tech side shine 
 as well. The character models are textured very good especially the textures of Geralt. The faces 
 of the characters have been built with much care and consideration. Overall
  these elements give it a fantastic visual presentation.
  
  Gameplay. You can level up and when 
 you level up you get talents. Most of these talents are passive with the exception of a few skills.
 
  Some people dislike that fact that it has more passive skills that active ones. I for one love 
 that fact. I hate having 10 skills
  in my hotbar and having to chose a skill to use every second.
  
  There is "magic" in the game 
 in the form of signs. There are 5 signs which I used only the first 2 you get. Aard which is sort 
 of a 
  force push and Igni which deals burn damage to your enemies. There are other signs as well. Quen 
 which creates a shield in which you can 
  drink potions in safety, Axii which frightens your enemies and stuff like that, and Yrden which is 
 supposed to be a trap of some kind.
  These sings are a pleasant diversion from the main sword fighting and in some cases they are very 
 use full especially Aard and Igni
  
  There is also a very interesting Alchemy system in the game which allows you to make Potions, Bombs 
 and Oil coatings. The game encourages
  you to invent new potions or bombs or coatings by promising that it has secret formulas. Now I tried 
 experimenting with them but only got 
  failed ones and I would advise to try not to use them because you will get poisoned by potions 
 the bombs will do nothing and the coatings will reduce damage
  
  The game mechanics are like this. The combat is divided into 2 groups. The first group is the Steel 
 group which is to fight humans and it has 3 classes.
  Strong which is used to fight strong human opponents fast which is used for small and fast human 
 opponents and group for a combination of the 2.
  All three can be upgraded with talents that increase damage and other effects as well (like knockdown, bleeding, pain 
 etc) .
  The other group is essentially the same only the main blade is made of silver and is intended for 
 monsters. It has the 3 styles (strong, fast, group) 
  and they can also be upgraded increasing damage and other effects.
  
  The combat is active 
 and you click your enemy when the sword (cursor) turns red to chain attacks. It's rather active and 
 not at all boring.
  
  The damage is dealt randomly from you talents. If the talent says you deal 30-60 damage you will 
 deal damage somewhere around that spectrum.
  There are also damage amplifiers in the game (on swords or temporary runes)
  
  There is also 
 a system to upgrade your weapons with Blue red or yellow meteorite for the steel sword and other 
 3 runes for the
  silver sword but once you get better weapons you won't need to reforge them.
  
  Also the inventory 
 is really crowded and you can't store weapons in it. You will always have a bunch of alchemical 
 stuff alcohol for potions
  and other stuff and it will get filled really quickly.
  
  It also has a bunch of mature stuff in it (like sex but don't think hot-coffe like) loads of blood 
 and mature themes (like drugs and alcohol)
  
  Story. The story is excellent with a great number of choices through-out the game. I can't really 
 tell much about the story cause I will spoil some of it
  and I really don't want to spoil the experience. I will tell that your character is named Geralt 
 and he is a witcher with amnesia and a bunch a other
  witchers find him and bring him in the Witcher fortress (Kaer Morhen) .
  
  Sound. The voice acting 
 is great but somewhat cheesy in places and a few strange dialog lines. The sound battles are good 
 and
  Geralt's war cries when you reach the final attack sound good. The music is also great but repetitive. Especially 
 the battle
  music. There are only like 2-3 battle music things.
  
  Replay Value: Because you can chose 3 main paths in the game the game is worth at LEAST 2 playthroughs. Also 
 that is amplified
  by the character builds you can make (like sign-intensive or combat-intensive etc etc) .
  
  
 Closing Comments. The Witcher is an exceptional blend of what makes an RPG and is extremely worthy 
 of your time. There are some annoying issues but they can be easily over-looked because of the story 
 and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005wrxsti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Does it look pretty? Yes! Does it have great sound? Yes!, Is the atmosphere engaging? Yes! Is the 
 story good? Yes!
  
  But even with all of these things going for Witcher the mechanics of the game are clunky at best. 
 The battle system is slow to respond to input and seems to be half baked. The tutorial is horrible 
 to say the least and doesn't introduce you to many aspects of the game that you're left wondering 
 how you do things. Oblivion had a great intro that showed you step by step how to do everything, 
 this is the exact opposite, details are left out. It's not that the game doesn't have rich content, 
 it's that they don't walk you through it very well.
  
  For instance, alchemy... you need bases to produce potions?! Well unless you're truly a chemist 
 you probably wouldn't understand. Numerous other game items like "power sources", you're not introduced 
 to until you run across them, then you don't know what to do with them. Sure a small tutorial window 
 pops up with some seemingly deliberate confusing information that leaves you scratching your head 
 saying "Was that in english?"
  
  Think of it this way, it's like writing a book. If you write it, then edit your own work, you miss 
 things, you make assumptions about knowledge and gameplay because you personally designed it. However 
 you need an outsider to point out all of the blanks that need to be filled in. It's like they didn't 
 beta test it when it comes to learning curve. Regardless I plan on going home and reading more 
 on the web about it.... but it's a game, supposed to be fun, not a chore to learn! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etheesdad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I was initially attracted by the Adult nature of the Witcher, and straight from 
 having played Oblivion, some inevitable comparisons arise. 
  
  There's some interesting storyline, and some great looking graphics in the game, which make it 
 very attractive in those respects. However, the inventory system completely sucks - I wont go into 
 great detail but when you're selling items, you have to double click them and the default setting 
 is to sell 1 item. If you want to sell more than that you have to click an additional slider and 
 then click ok. This can be VERY ANNOYING if you want to sell, say, 10 different types of item, 
 each of which you own more than 1 of. 
  
  There's more, but the game should never have been released with the inventory in this state. Items 
 icons are very small, and they are hard to differentiate from one another. You have to hover the 
 mouse over them and a black popup appears with the details of what you are looking at. its a cumbersome 
 method and difficult to read. 
  
  There's no option for thievery (such a big component of Oblivion) and no options for stealth. Basically 
 you walk into peoples houses and take whatever you want from their cupboards. Apparently they hate 
 witchers, so its inconsistent from the storyline and detracts from the immersiveness of the gameplay
 
  
  Another annoyance is that often you click on items in the game and nothing happens. It often took 
 me 3 or 4 clicks to be able to talk to characters or interact with items. The version of the game 
 I was playing was 1.3 (third patch since release) , and I would have thought fixing this would have 
 been a priority. its a big frustration and really detracts from the gameplay. 
  
  The npc's are only based around a few models, and most of the characters look exactly the same 
 for their type (all the whores look the same, all the priests look the same, etc etc) , so you feel 
 like you're interacting with the same character over and over, which really detracts from your 
 immersion in the story. 
  
  This game renminded me of Gothic, in terms of what id call a 'dumbed down rpg'. If you liked Gothic 
 or Gothic II then chances are you'll like the Witcher. If you're looking for any complexity - most 
 of the quests are pretty easy to solve, there's only one character type - so character development 
 options are pretty limited - and the first section of the game is almost entirely linear. (this 
 improves in the later sections where more quest options open up)
  
  This could have been a really good game. all the basic elements were there - storyline, good game 
 engine, excellent graphics and locations. What lets it down is its poor interface, lack of character 
 choice, the strange capacity to take whatever you want from whomever you want, the lack of effort 
 to create more graphically diverse npc's, and some annoying interface glitches. 
  
  If you're looking for something like Oblivion, this aint in the same league. If you just want to 
 do some whoring and dungeon bashing without thinking too much, you may enjoy "the witcher" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFurious78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Once you get past the somewhat silly title, this game is actually a lot of fun, especially for 
 fans of action RPG's. As expected, there is a lot of swordplay, magic and potions that can be used 
 against a wide variety of foes including both humans and some pretty original fantasy genre creatures. 
 The gameplay dynamic seems perfectly suited for the PC, as your success in action sequences is 
 determined by timing your mouse clicks to visual cues on the screen. My favorite aspect of this 
 game though was the main character, Geralt. He could best be described as the Han Solo of the fantasy 
 world. He is a loner and an accomplished fighter, who usually has his own interests in mind, although 
 you can change this using many of the moral decision opportunities that are presented throughout 
 the game. Geralt is also a ladies man. You can choose to develop relationships with many of the 
 female characters in the game, and if you are persistent enough you can even convince them to 'go 
 all the way' with you. As a reward you receive a card with some game art depicting the woman you 
 have 'befriended.' It's a bit sexist, but certainly unprecedented in these types of games, and 
 definitely enjoyable. As Geralt you find yourself in the middle of a human vs. non-human war all 
 while trying to find the sorcerer who killed your mentor and destroyed your home. There are a wide 
 variety of tasks to complete including a large number of side missions. One of the main faults 
 of the game is the repetitiveness of these tasks. By the 4th or 5th act I found myself not even 
 wanting to do them anymore. Another fault can be found in the huge amount of items that you can 
 acquire, much of them consist of ingredients for potions that you can create by combining these 
 for various effects. You are given a limited amount of space to carry such items, so you will find 
 yourself spending a great deal of time organizing and managing the item screen (yawn) . Conversely 
 the tree-like leveling up system is quite satisfying and is somewhat similar to the one found in 
 Final Fantasy X. So in conclusion, this title is certainly recommended for any action RPG fan, 
 especially for those who enjoy a somewhat adult twist to their gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  What a great game! From the lengthy intro and throughout the game it is obvious just how much work 
 must have been put into the making of The Witcher. The world is extremely detailed, characters 
 go about their daily routine as day turns into night and night turns into day. With or without 
 you, the world is alive and full of problems. You are Geralt of Rivia, a "witcher", monster-killer 
 for hire. Witchers are the product of brutal conditioning, using alchemy to induce mutations that 
 give them superhuman powers. Nothing's for nothing however as you'll find out as you play the game.
 
  
  Since you're playing Geralt you don't have any choice in terms of your gender or "class" (in D&D 
 terminology) . You can extend your sword combo's with additional moves, improve spells, strength, 
 intelligence, gain resistencies and so on. It all works smoothly, though sometimes you wish you'd 
 have the broader D&D choices. On the upside, the character of Geralt is developed a great deal 
 and through lots and lots of voice acting.
  
  This brings me to one of the weaker parts, the voice acting, which ranges from good to rather awful. 
 It's a shame some it is really amateurish, though it seems to get better as the story progresses. 
 Geralt himself is good if a little monotonous. 
  
  At times the pacing is a bit too slow, you're going to do a lot of running back and forth sometimes 
 across significant distances. All-in-all I spent about 60 hours finishing the game, so you better 
 have some free time on your hands...
  
  One of the greatest features of the Witcher is the alchemy system. You can extract ingredients 
 from plants and corpses and use them to make potions, poisons and bombs. Since the effects of potions 
 last a very long time (as much as 24 hours) they are especially useful, since you can easily use 
 them as buffs before fights.
  
  Unfortunately the huge selection of ingredients means your limited inventory space gets filled 
 up with lots and lots of junk and you'll inevitably be fooling around with it more than you should. 
 All this could have been solved with an "ingredient pouch" or something. Shame.
  
  Clearly the Witcher is not without its share of problems and small issues, it's a rough diamond 
 but it's got such a great story to tell that it hardly matters. If you consider yourself an RPG 
 fan, you better play this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero2infinity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I just completed the game and thought to write something so that others might get an idea of what 
 this gaming experience would be like.
  
  First of all this game requires a moderately advanced computer system. You'll need a good VGA card 
 and a lot of RAM. Sadly my system couldn't cope up with the high graphic requirement. But I must 
 say the graphics were superb. The surroundings and people were convincingly realistic.
  
  You play the witcher Geralt (A white haired fellow with really nasty scar on his face) . Just like 
 in Fable you have to complete certain quests. It's up to you whether you want to do them or not. 
 Inside the game world you have much freedom to just wander around the cities and different areas. 
 Since this is a somewhat adult game you get to fornicate with different women in different areas. 
 There are a lot of things to keep you occupied. And there isn't a single boring moment in it.
 
  
  Compared to other RPGs this game has a more in-depth storyline. It's really interesting how the 
 story slowly unfolds. It is said that your actions in the game would largely affect the ending, 
 but I have yet to experience this since I have only played it once. And the characters you meet 
 are interesting and well built. Nearly everyone has a story behind them.
  
  Gameplay was highly entertaining regardless of the somewhat slow start. Leveling up has never been 
 this interesting. And rather than the conventional way of clicking combat, this game has added 
 extra features to make it more realistic. You get to create Potions and Bombs and even experiment 
 in making new formulas. 
  
  On the downside I personally felt the game was a bit too long. Since they created the game to have 
 the replaying ability, I think this comes in the way of that. There was a point in the game where 
 I just felt the need to finish the game as soon as possible. As much as I like to replay the game 
 the longevity discourages me.
  
  And also the fact that it takes a bit of time to load new areas and saved games is really irritating. 
 And there are a few glitches in the game. It sometimes crashes.
  
  But all in all it was a great gaming experience. And the ending of the game would really leave 
 you thinking for a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICE-T_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  This game was overshadow sadly by a lot of great RPG-s like: Oblivion....... This game is just great, every 
 fan of RPG should try this game. Game deserves 9.0/10. It's not 10 cause there is something it misses.... like 
 more people and little faster gameplay and story.... For me this game is better than Mass effect...... maybe 
 cause i don't like sci-fi games...... like crysis.... and that...... This game has great music too......... but 
 atmosphere is just awesome....... that grass.... dust..... little birds.... just awesome!
  
  Again:
  This game was overshadow sadly by a lot of great RPG-s like: Oblivion....... This game 
 is just great, every fan of RPG should try this game. Game deserves 9.0/10. It's not 10 cause there 
 is something it misses.... like more people and little faster gameplay and story.... For me this 
 game is better than Mass effect...... maybe cause i don't like sci-fi games...... like crysis.... and 
 that...... This game has great music too......... but atmosphere is just awesome....... that grass.... dust..... little 
 birds.... just awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  (Heres how my reviews work: Final Thoughts at the very end is a quick summary, so scroll down if 
 you want my paragraph about the game. I do part by part, details and examples from the game on 
 my way there so the choice is yours.)
  
  First off I have to acknowledge the 3 GLARING flaws it has. Once you get past those, the Witcher 
 is actually a very, VERY, good, mature, and engrossing RPG. Easily one of my favorites. However 
 it is totally understandable if you dislike the game because of these 3 things. The great, mature 
 story can compensate for these shortfalls but if youre looking for that next big thing thats well 
 rounded and good at everything... like Oblivion, then you're more than likely going to be disappointed.
 
  
  *Tutorials to... anything in the game* 0/10
  
  Honestly the tutorials, especially for the combat system, are just down right useless. Honestly 
 I point and click to attack... REALLY!!!??? I would have never thought that. What about the rhythm 
 and timing needed to pull off the sick combos and killing strokes... oh lets not acknowledge those 
 parts. Even alchemy is poorly introduced and I just figured it out last night. Its actually very 
 simple, but yet no tutorial tells you how to do it. ERR so frustrating I can understand why this 
 game got an 8.5 and not a 9-10 for its superb, mature storyline.
  
  *Voice acting* - 6/10
  
  Seriously there are flashes of just great funny voice acting and dialogue. 
 But most of the time the translations of the dialogue just make very little sense. The books and 
 author this game is based on is European or something like that. Then when Geralt, the main character 
 aka the Witcher, tries to make a sarcastic remark about something and someone detects his sarcastic 
 insult, they will say "what"... but the voice acting is just so terrible his tone of voice doesnt 
 make any of it make sense. UGH so cheesy and bad.
  
  *Character, Quest Menu* - 10/10... Inventory Menu... not so much - 0/10
  
  The interface for 
 quests, identifying monsters is very simple, detailed, and straight to the point, and very good 
 to say the least. However the inventory system is sooooo small. The only way to look at what you 
 are carrying is to scroll over more than 60 items that have very tiny avatars representing what 
 they are and you have to read a very small dialogue briefing you on what they are. So trying to 
 find an item in your inventory is more than a pain in the a**.
  
  *NOW for the great stuff the Witcher has to offer.*
  
  First off the storyline. 10+++++++/10
 
  
  The story is by far one of my favorites and the more I play the more its becoming my favorite. 
 It is one of the most gritty, dark, and moral storylines you will play. It acknowledges things 
 like racism, bigotry, alcoholism, sexual relations, and many more things. Its not a Knights of 
 the Old Republic where it has great plot twists (although I haven't encountered any) , or like KOTOR 
 where you can make choices that make you either bad or good. Thats where the Witcher separates 
 itself from the RPG pack. There is no good or bad, or black and white, in the Witcher. The Witcher 
 really shows that "Gray Line" in decision making. One choice in the game is this:
  
  Choice 1: Help the guilty people who rape women, kill their family members, and traffic children 
 to be slaves. All you have to do is kill an innocent outcast.... sounds easy right?
  
  or
  
  Choice 2: Help a persecuted female who is persecuted by the people mentioned above.... One problem. 
 Those are all well respected individuals and have many INNOCENT followers in their city.... So now 
 you have to slaughter the innocents too.... children, and women included...
  
  Jigsaw - "Live or die, make your choice... Oh yes... there will be blood..." (sorry movie reference)
 
  
  I really enjoy how the Witcher really makes you view the consequence and the choice at hand. The 
 bad guys won't like you more, nor will the good guys like you more. Someone gets hurt and someone 
 doesnt... very true to critical decisions in real life. The amount of mature humor in the game is 
 great too. For example you encounter a damsel in distress. A group of thugs are threatening to 
 mug her and rape her, and you can either say forget you my job is to hunt monsters or you can help 
 her home... and have sex with her... seeing the maturity? So because Witchers are sterile and infertile 
 (they can't have kids for all you that failed High School Health) (I'll get into Witcher infertility 
 later) the group of thugs make fun of you and start calling you a freak. So here is where the GREAT 
 dialogue comes in. You can either be a total p*ssy and say "okay my mistake" and leave, or you 
 can say "keep talking shorty and YOU are going to lose YOUR nuts."... seriously I couldn't stop 
 laughing. Geralt has some moments of great one-line insults.
  
  *Combat* 9/10
  
  The combat system isn't revolutionary, but it is very simple and hella cool if you can time it 
 right. You have to click at precise times in order to chain together combos. It eliminates mindless 
 button mashing clicking, and makes you pay more attention to what is going on around you. You have 
 a chance of stunning an opponent which leads to a very gruesome and awesome looking finishing/killing 
 stroke such as stabbing them in the gut then doing a 360 spin and decapitating them, sending their 
 head flying through the air.
  
  *Graphics* 9.5/10
  
  Probably just the half-tier down from Oblivion, and Assassins Creed. Nevertheless they look very 
 good. The Witcher has some of the best character models i've ever seen. Geralt's other Witcher 
 friends look very realistic. In my opinion the Witcher models look far better than those in Crysis... I 
 know you're probably laughing at me. Even though the Witcher starts off with some very basic looking 
 environments you get to see much better stuff than in the first few levels.
  
  The Witchers
  
  Not everyone is a Witcher. In order to become a Witcher you must take the three 
 step program. Step 1: pass a series of strength, dexterity, and intelligence tests. Step 2: survive 
 a series of combat quests. Step 3: kinda funny only like 3 out of 10 people live through this one. 
 Survive a series of mutating drugs, such as steroids (ah ha infertility) , and other physical enhancements. 
 Now you're a genetically modified monster killing machine that doesn't have any fear of impregnating 
 a female. Sweet now you can slay the monster, and get laid... Isn't that the life you've always 
 wanted...?!!!
  
  *Final Thoughts*
  
  It is really a shame that this game got held back. The tutorials are in the game but have no purpose 
 at all. They are down right USELESS, and uninformative. The voice acting is down right TERRIBLE 
 at times, but does have flashes of good, but 6 out of 10 times totally bad, 2 out of 10 times average, 
 and 2 out of 10 times good. Not to mention the frustrating inventory menu. Every now and then the 
 game will get VERY, VERY HARD like in the second boss fight... ugh took me a long time to beat it.
 
  
  Other than that the Witcher packs a very easy to use interface for quests, and formulas for potions 
 and all your other RPG goodies, as well as a more intuitive, rhythm, and timing combat system. 
 The mature storyline will keep you hooked, and with different choices, you're bound to replay the 
 game.
  
  The Witcher offers a superb, mature story, but the lack of tutorials to its features and HORRIBLE 
 voice acting, is hard to say the Witcher is "REALLY GOOD", when really it should have been good. 
 You can't have a "masterpiece" RPG game without the dialogue to compensate the story and choices. 
 A great story, which the Witcher has, is just bottlenecked by terrible voice acting. This game 
 should have been great and certainly had the tools to do so, but its a shame it didn't. It's completely 
 understandable that people were turned away from this game because of the lack of tutorials and 
 voice acting. The story is one of the best, but this game never got to show off it's true potential.
 
  
  *Story* - 10+++++++++/10
  *Combat* - 9/10
  *Tutorials to... anything in the game* - 0/10
  *Voice acting* - 6/10
  *Graphics* - 9.5/10
 
  *Character, Quest Menu* - 10/10
  *Inventory Menu* - 0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rackax
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  The witcher is incredibly addictive and immersive role playing game, it seems to tick all the right 
 boxes which make this game standout from the pack. Offering something different, i haven't encountered 
 in RPG. The adult content of the game plays very nicely and fits in well with the storyline, its 
 almost comes across that computer games have grown up and are no longer for young teens. This is 
 very much an adult game, from its constant dialogue containing expletives to the fact that is not 
 merely a hack and slash as the player spends most of the time completing side quests, which younger 
 players will not appreciate as much. I highly recommend the witcher, this game clearly shows how 
 the genre as developed and matures since the days of Diablo. The only fault i can mention is the 
 amount of running round the player has to do, not only in the main quest but the side quests as 
 well. Hopefully the developers will rectify this in the sequel, as when the credits role your left 
 wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I guess I just missed the boat on this one, because aside from semi-decent graphics I found no 
 redeeming qualities at all in this game.
  
  Graphics  Again, best part of this game but nothing groundbreaking here at all. And it was really 
 oddapparently many of the characters were related and shared the same clothing because some looked 
 exactly alikenot just similar, but the same npc, the same voice, and the same movements. that 
 is called taking a short cut and lazy game development.
  
  Storyline  All over the board and incredibly cheesy. I'm sorry, but the white haired fighter thing 
 was a little overdone after FF5. And "The Salamandra?" somehow it just doesn't invoke fear when 
 I think of a salamander. Lets seea drinking game? Or gambling with dice? Or how about the dynamic 
 choice of whether I should take the local waitress out back for a quickie? Hearing someone say 
 "my balls itch" somehow just made me feel like I was supposed to giggle and feel cool because I 
 am playing a game where NPC's swear. 
  
  Gameplay  I read reviews about this innovative combat? Any game that I can play with just a mouse 
 and have to time my clicks to fight is just a bit to lame. Sure the maps were expansive, and they 
 did a nice job of noting points on the map, but come on with the running around and around trying 
 to talk to the next guy. Run all the way across town, up stairs, down ramps, go in door (with a 
 load time) talk to an NPC, run all the way back to another spot, do the same thingover and over. 
 Playing message boy got old real quick. And so did the load times and autosaves when entering each 
 doormade me think twice about checking out a room because I didn't want to sit and wait for it 
 to load when entering and exiting. The quests were equally as lame, and I never once felt a sense 
 of accomplishment after completing one.
  
  After a good 10-12 hours of this game I soon found that I had more compelling things to do, like 
 do laundry or clean out the stove. For me, this game just didn't cut it, and fell far short of 
 my expectations based on the reviews that I read.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmime777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I'll preface this review by saying this isn't an in depth review, merely some initial impressions 
 after having gotten almost to the end of book 2.
  
  The story is definitely engaging, with characters that surprise you almost every chance they get. 
 Definitely get into it when you play, as it's the best way to enjoy this game. The music is atmospheric 
 and as such sucks you in making getting into the game very easy. The graphics are great, though 
 they of course have some requirements to run them on max settings (all AA, all AF) . It looks AWESOME 
 with everything turned up, mostly because everything is so carefully designed. I only have a Pentium 
 D with a 9600gt, and I can run it on everything max but AF, which I turn off.
  
  Those are the pros. The few cons for me start with some overtly cheesy acting (but granted it is 
 a stylized fantasy world) and many needless pickups with almost every main woman in the storyline. 
 Of course you can opt out of this, but when you're like me and feel the need to accomplish every 
 part of everything in the game this feels slightly out of place.
  
  Also, the load times range from annoying to ridiculous depending on your computer and hard drive. 
 The latter was the biggest con for me, as there's no quick saving. But to the game's credit, it 
 autosaves most of the time there's a dangerous encounter in a building you enter.
  
  Even after these complaints, what comes out is a very solid game; the rich experience is only slightly 
 diluted with load times. The combat is decent, but ultimately not the focus of the game. Its trademark 
 maturity and dark atmosphere is mostly channeled into multitudinous quality stories with problems 
 the developers obviously put a lot of time into. If you're an RPG player with lots of time and 
 a decent computer who is looking for this type of adventure, by all means pick up a copy of The 
 Witcher.
  
  Separate note to my fellow cheapskates: MSI is giving free copies of this game away with their 
 graphics card, which only cost about 150 if you get a 9600gt. This is how I got my copy, so kill 
 two birds with one stone and save 50 bucks if you're looking for a graphics upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Polish game, understand a little, but the game WAS GREAT!
  I played it more than 30 hours! I finished it three times, and I will play it at least once more.
 
  Kaer Morhen is a nice place to stay, it's bad that they didn't even concentrated their story on 
 it. The main quest is to find the stolen equipment from there, but once you get out of there, there 
 is no comming back. Kinda miss the place...
  Arranged great, getting the Bronze, Silver and Golden points was made very good! The leveling up 
 was not hard. Just finish some side quests and you'll get every skill you need.
  Skinning animals, gathering plants, making potions, oil and bombs was very intresting part of the 
 game, with one word - Alchemy! I liked it!
  The meditation, the tuning-up medallion, playing dice and fist fighting were the things that I 
 liked. But the most I wanted to see from an RPG game, to be the most like myself, I found it here. 
 Making the desicion, choosing the path, leading yourself to the very ends of one's life! Women 
 were good too, cannot complain from them. Got many sex cards in the last game :D
  
  All and all, I liked the game very much! If we didn't noticed a bug, it would be a real masterpiece! 
 
  Innovative - other RPG companies should try to get several elements from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1615
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  The good - a nice world that has the protagonist live in it rather then having the world revolve 
 around him. Rich and developed story line for the world as a whole. Character decisions go beyond 
 the basic good/evil choices. Plenty of side quests. 
  
  The Bad - unimaginative game-play. Think Titan Quest or Diablo II but not as fluid. Main story 
 line tries to be mature but often falls into immaturity. Lots of load screens. Too many linear 
 paths in "open" zones. Quick enemy re-spawns. The main story often leaves you wondering why am 
 I going to this location or who is this person I am looking for? I'm sure fans of the books would 
 not have these questions but for those people who have not read them, I'm sure such questions arise. 
 
  
  The Ugly - The voice acting and dialog run anywhere from bad to dread-full. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdeeth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I've played in a while. The gameplay is addictive and the world 
 is stunning. I played Eldar Scrolls of Oblivion which I enjoyed, however that game did not compare 
 to this. The Witcher is a much darker world and the choices one makes are very interesting in their 
 effects on the storyline. The combat system is fun and a new spin on your typical "auto-attack" 
 slashing. What really drew me in about the game was how it was so much more immersive than the 
 typical mmo experience. The only complaint I have is that sometimes the dialogue can be a bit lame. 
 As others have said, hearing a fifty year old man refer to the girl combatant as "babe" is just 
 ridiculous. The intimate dialogue between the main character and some of his "conquests" is goofy 
 too, but thats minor. Overall great game, I felt I had to write a review, I recommend to anyone 
 who is looking for a good adventure or story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecatsat123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game has got to be the one of the best RPGs i have ever played. 
  In simple:
  
  The graphics for it are very good
  
  The combat although can be a small amount buggy is awesome 
 
  
  The cinimatics are very very good and you want to watch more of them
  
  And the story line is proberbly the best story ever! 
  
  The dialogue for the game i thorght 
 compared to most games eg Elder Scrolls-Oblivion and Two worlds was really good although some of 
 the dialogue from monsters was quite funny.
  
  This game is one of those games where it will either get a high score or a low score this is because 
 some people dont like the depth of the game or the combat system but i think the combat is a very 
 good feature and also the stories depth keeps you playing and with the abiliy to make your own 
 choices about certain aspects of the story you can play it again and again with it being different 
 every time. 
  
  In conclution you have to buy this game it is well worth it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abraksas666
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Serious RPG fans are picky people. We can tell the difference between an American-made game, a 
 Japanese one, and even a European one. Japanese games often have elaborate stories that can sometimes 
 be tough for American audiences to get into, turn-based tactical combat, and often a slower pace. 
 American varieties often follow hot properties (like Dungeons & Dragons or Star Wars) and often 
 have action-oriented fighting with a little less story and role-playing. Finally, European RPGs 
 are kind of unique. Many of them in days past never actually escaped Europe, but with so few RPGs 
 on the market, there's no point for publishers not to release these titles worldwide. The usual 
 hallmarks of these games are high difficulty and a focus on story with lots of bugs and technical 
 issues often marring an otherwise brilliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  The Witcher, from Poland's CD Projeckt, claims that there is no good and evil - only choices and 
 consequences. With that kind of claim, you would expect some tough and unclear choices that have 
 a deep impact on where you go in the game. However, it doesn't take long to realize that the potential 
 this game had was not fully exploited.
  
  You play as Geralt of Rivia, a Witcher who has lost his memory. Geralt is found unconcious in a 
 forest by two other Witchers who take him to their stronghold, Ker Morhen. At Ker Morhen, other 
 characters explain that Witchers are professional monster slayers and are on the edge of annihilation. 
 Shortly after you arrive Ker Morhen comes under attack from a group known as the Salamandra, who 
 wish to take and use the secrets the Witchers hold in their stronghold. From that point on, you're 
 put at odds with the Salamandra and go on a quest to hunt them down.
  
  Though the summary on the back of the game's case says that there is no good and evil, The Witcher 
 does a poor job of upholding this claim. When you progress through quests in the game, the most 
 ethical and generally "good" choice is obvious. The game doesn't make both choices seem ethical 
 in their own right, but pulls a Fable by making the wrong and right choice clear.
  
  Quests in The Witcher can be gained by talking to people in the world or visiting one of the many 
 sign boards in the game. Quests earn you gold and ocassionally, items. Other quests will have an 
 impact on how the story plays out, or will give you more information on a subject that will be 
 needed for a decision later on.
  
  Combat is done with pushing your mouse button at the right time to perform combos. It works really 
 well for attacking enemies, but you parry and dodge automatically; making it hard for you to avoid 
 or lessen the severity of enemy attacks. Though you can't dodge or block at will, there is three 
 different fighting styles to help finish off enemes as quickly as possible - Power, Speed, and 
 Group. Power is best suited for large, slower enemes, while Speed is meant for the more agile and 
 Group is made for multiple enemies.
  
  Alchemy plays a major role in how well you will perform in The Witcher. Potions can give you the 
 edge you need against a boss or multiple enemies by enhancing your reflexes, regenerating health, 
 and more. Potions can be made by gaining and alcohol base and the ingredients you require. Beware 
 though, you can make failed potions that will harm you.
  
  After gaining a level in the game, you receive Talents. Talents are like points that are separated 
 into Bronze, Silver, and Gold types. The most common is Bronze, which can be used to gain new abilites 
 in the Hero menu. Silver and Gold will appear less often and will allow you to unlock more powerful 
 abilities.
  
  When you go to your world map, you'll notice that the world in The Witcher is quite huge. However, 
 you're confined to a small area of that large world in each segment of the game. Not only that, 
 but there are level barriers everywhere. You will be constantly stopped by water edges, fences, 
 and even bushes - things that your character should be able to easily climb over, jump down to, 
 or easily go through.
  
  When you first start the game, you'll notice that the graphics are seriously underwhelming. Given 
 how much power this game takes to run, you would expect it to look better than it does. Character 
 textures generally look good up close and at a distance, but buildings suffer from blurry textures 
 and a jagged look. Grass and other plants aren't exactly top-notch either. They're usually just 
 a flat, blurry texture that's set to face toward the camera at all times.
  
  Lighting effects and animation are two aspects of the Witcher that really stand out. Lighting is 
 very dynamic and behaves as you would expect across various surfaces - glistening on water and 
 concentrated on buildings during the morning. The position and intensity of each light source will 
 also cast very precise shading effects.
  
  Animation, especially in combat, flows smoothly from one action to the next. However, you will 
 find this impressive when it decides to work with the game world. Recalling that the game limits 
 you as to where you can go and do, it can be a pain to make your character perform a climb by running 
 into a low wall. Sometimes, other characters won't even perform an animation and jump from one 
 location to the next.
  
  When it comes down to sound, the music is quite good. However, voice acting is horrible at almost 
 every turn. There is little personality or flare in what characters say. It's amost like the actors 
 were reading a boring book, rather than voice acting for a major role playing game. Not to mention 
 that some of the dialogue is just silly and out of place.
  
  The Witcher isn't a bad game, but it could have been so much more. With a little more work, this 
 game could have been a huge hit. There are RPGs out there that are more worthy of your time and 
 probably run a lot better. Rent this title if you can, otherwise don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hami619
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  The Witcher V.1.0
  ReadMe File
  September 24, 2007
  ======================================================
  
  ======================================================
 
  Table of Contents
  ======================================================
  
  1. Minimum System Requirements
  2. Recommended System Requirements
  3. Installation
  4. Performance 
 Tips
  5. Known Issues
  6. Copyright and Trademark
  
  ======================================================
  1. Minimum System Requirements
  ======================================================
 
  
  OS (Operating System) : Microsoft Windows XP Service Pack 2, Vista (Operating System must be up 
 to date with the latest fixes)
  Processor: Intel Pentium 4 2.4GHz or AMD Athlon 64 +2800 
  RAM: 1024 MB RAM for Microsoft Windows XP / 1536 MB for Microsoft Windows Vista
  Video: 128 
 MB Video RAM or greater with DirectX9 Vertex Shader/ Pixel Shader 2.0 support (NVIDIA GeForce 6600 
 or ATI Radeon 9800 or better)
  Free HD Space: 8.5 GB available hard drive space
  Sound: DirectX 9.0c compliant soundcard, plus speakers or headphones
  DVD: DVD-Rom
  
  ======================================================
 
  2. Recommended System Requirements
  ======================================================
  
  OS (Operating System) : Microsoft 
 Windows XP Service Pack 2, Vista (Operating System must be up to date with the latest fixes)
 
  Processor: Intel Core 2 Duo (dual core) or equivalent AMD X2 processor or better
  RAM: 2048 MB RAM
  Video: 256 MB Video RAM or greater with DirectX9 Vertex Shader/ Pixel Shader 
 2.0 support (NVIDIA 7900 or faster with 512 MB of memory)
  Free HD Space: 8.5 GB available hard drive space
  Sound: DirectX 9.0c compliant soundcard, plus 
 speakers or headphones
  DVD: DVD-Rom
  
  ======================================================
  3. Installation Instructions
  ======================================================
 
  
  1) Start Windows XP/Vista. 
  2) Exit all other applications. Insert The Witcher disc into your DVD drive.
  3) If AutoPlay 
 is enabled, an installer will start.
  4) If AutoPlay is not enabled, press the Windows logo key + R to open the "Run" dialog. 
  5) 
 Type D:\Autorun and click on OK. Note: If your CD or DVD drive is assigned to a letter other than 
 D, substitute that letter.
  6) Follow the remainder of the on-screen instructions to finish installing The Witcher.
  7) The 
 game will start automatically after installation is finished.
  
  NOTE: You must insert The Witcher disc into your DVD drive in order to play.
  
  8) Installation 
 of DirectX: The Witcher DVD-ROM requires DirectX 9.0c or higher in order to run. If you do not 
 have DirectX 9.0c or higher installed, the installer will install the proper version.
  
  ======================================================
  4. Performance Tips
  ======================================================
 
  
  1) The following video cards should be set to run at 800x600 with Low Detail settings: 
  ATI RADEON 9800 Series, ATI RADEON X700 Series, ATI RADEON X1300/X1550 Series, NVIDIA GeForce 6600 
 GT, NVIDIA GeForce 6600
  
  2) The following video cards should be set to run at 1024x768 with Medium Detail settings: 
  
 ATI RADEON X800 PRO, ATI RADEON X850 XT, ATI RADEON X1600 Series, ATI RADEON X1800 series, ATI 
 RADEON X1950 Pro, ATI RADEON HD 2600 XT, NVIDIA GeForce 7800 GS, NVIDIA GeForce 6800 Series GPU, 
 NVIDIA GeForce 6800 GT, NVIDIA GeForce 7600 GT, NVIDIA GeForce 7800 GS, NVIDIA GeForce 8600 GT
 
  
  3) The following video cards should be set to run at 1024x768 with High Detail settings: 
  ATI 
 RADEON X1950 XTX, ATI RADEON HD 2900 XT, NVIDIA GeForce 7800 GTX, NVIDIA GeForce 7950 GX2, NVIDIA 
 GeForce 8800 GTS, NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GTX
  
  4) NVIDIA advises to download latest (beta) drivers: http://www. nvidia. com/object/windows_vista_hotfixes. html
 
  
  ======================================================
  5. Known Issues
  ======================================================
  
  1) The Witcher may exhaust virtual 
 address space when running on 32-bit Windows Vista. Microsoft has released a hotfix that addresses 
 this problem. Please download the hotfix from the following location when playing the game on 32-bit 
 Windows Vista: http://support. microsoft. com/kb/940105
  2) The following video cards are not currently supported: S3 Colt, S3 S27, S3 S8
  3) The following 
 processors are out of range: AMD Duron Series, AMD Athlon XP 2400+ through 3200+, AMD Sempron 2400+ 
 through 2800+, and the INTEL Celeron Series.
  
  ======================================================
  6. Copyright and Trademark
  ======================================================
 
  
   2007 CD Projekt Sp z. o. o.  2007 Atari Europe. Marketed and distributed by Atari Europe S. A. S. U. 
 Developed by CD Projekt RED Sp. z o. o. The Witcher is a registered trademark of CD Projekt Sp z. o. o. 
 All rights reserved. This Game was created using the BioWare Aurora Engine 1997  2007 BioWare 
 Corp. All rights reserved. BioWare, the BioWare Aurora Engine and the BioWare logo are trademarks 
 of BioWare Corp. All other copyrights and trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 
 NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce and "The Way It's Meant to be Played" logo are registered trademarks 
 and/or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. All rights reserved. 
 Based on the works of Andrzej Sapkowski. The Last Wish by Andrzej Sapkowski, translated by Danusia 
 Stok, published by Victor Gollancz, a member of the Orion Publishing Group. Uses Bink Video. Copyright 
 1997-2007 by RAD Game Tools, Inc. Uses Miles Sound System. Copyright 1991-2005 by RAD Game Tools, 
 Inc. RenderWare is a registered trademark of Canon Inc. Portions of this software are Copyright 
 1998-2003 Criterion Software Ltd. and its Licensors. Portions of this software utilize SpeedTree 
 technology. 2001-2004 Interactive Data Visualization, Inc. All rights reserved. Lua code copyright 
 1994-2007 Lua. org, PUC-Rio. Portions of this software are copyright 1996-2004 The FreeType Project 
 (www. freetype. org) . All rights reserved. Portions of the Loki Library Copyright 2001 by Andrei 
 Alexandrescu.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ab_neo_007
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  when I first started playing the witcher I could not grasp the fighting because it was so different 
 from other games........ I got to know that the fighting was practical but how to do it I didnt 
 know......... then while fighting the first mage I got to know how to fight and then I really got 
 interested in the game........ then I reached the outskirts of vizima when I had the chance to meet 
 the people there......... the graphics are awesome........ sound effects are awesome.......... and 
 the people............ it feels that I am in the real world the village people are no good......... think 
 only about their own interest......... two faced bastards........... the reverend is a religious 
 psycho........ there is a trader who trades with the villagers' enemies........ the guard who is 
 a rapist and another merchant who is a murderer it seems........ all the above are respected poeple 
 in the village......... its not a fairy tale where there is a single villain and a single hero and 
 all others are simple, kind and helping people......... in this story all people care for their 
 own good.......... except a few but I must admit the girls are hot!!! and our dear geralt does get 
 a chance to get laid.......... the language though is a bit cheesy sometimes....... it seems a bit 
 shocking but still bearable.......... since its a role playing game you get to improve your character 
 and I tell you there are loads of improvements that you can do.......... the fighting styles are 
 cool......... you can even earn money by fistfighting or playing dice poker......... dice poker 
 is a nice game I must say........... in all this game is one of the greates creations and I am 
 looking forward to another like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caiocs
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 29, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  First of all: I'm brazillian and my english is not perfect ;)
  
  Ok, the game is good. But there are things that I hate and I'll list it here:
  
  1) Graphics: 
 Well... the characters have excellent textures and movement. The buildings are well done too, but 
 the grass and stuff like that could be much better. Anyone who played Metal Gear Solid 3 know that, 
 and if a playstation2 game can make a better grass than a late 2007 game for PC... not good.
  
  2) Sound: Excellent, i could say perfect.
  
  3) Battle System: Ok, here is thing that I 
 don't like. Click-wait-click-change  instance-click-click. 
 Ok, I think you got it. It's too damn simple for an RPG game. If you are expecting the skills, 
 magic, classes like mages and warriors, don't bother buying (or downloading, I know you download 
 it =D) this game. You just click, wait for the right time and click again. Magic or skills are 
 pretty much useless for combat.
  
  4) Conclusions: If you are one of those guys that like hitting stuff without complications and 
 never liked an RPG before, this is your chance. If you like traditional RPGs try at your friend's 
 PC first. At the end, i could say it doesn't feel that good for me, so it's a 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  The game is the story of a witcher named Geralt. Geralt along with other witchers are living happily 
 in their castle while a group of mages attack their castle and steal their secrets. The game story 
 is based on Geralt experiences in the way of finding the stealer. In his way he encounters good 
 and bad guys, monsters, mages, vampires, ... . Like most of the RPGs the game consists of primary 
 quests and secondary quests. The secondary quests just gives you gold, experience or formulas to 
 make potions but the primary quests guides you through the story to find the stealer of the wither's 
 secrets. 
  
  If you want to find the most similar game to match this game, Never Winter Nights 2 is the best 
 choice. However fighting mechanics is different in The Witcher than other RPGs. In The Witcher 
 you are only a swordman with magical abilities. You have two types of swords. One sword is efficient 
 in killing humans and the other is efficient in killing monsters. Each type of sword can be used 
 with three different modes namely Strong, Fast and Group styles. Each of these styles is good to 
 fight a specific types of enemies. This makes the player concentrate more on the game and use the 
 proper attacking style while fighting.
  
  These swords can also be upgraded using specific stones to do more damages or give a player more 
 chances in critical hit. You can also coat your blade with specific types of oils to upgrade it 
 for a limited time. The potions do the same but it has a limited time for operating and has also 
 a side effect. Potions can be made by Geralt if he knows how to make that potion through reading 
 the books or formulas. These books or formulas can be obtained from the locations in the game or 
 by completing special quests. These potions is very effective in very hard play mode. Without it, 
 surviving the attacks from the big monsters are not guaranteed.
  
  The potions increase your toxicity level and cause side effect if consumed too much. You can rest 
 for some time to decrease the effects which also disable the effect of the potions so you should 
 choose the potions wisely. Along with swords and potions, Geralt has also five magical powers which 
 can be used throughout the game to help him kill the monsters. For example one magic can stun the 
 enemy which Geralt can finish him with a single shot while the other magic can absorb the damages 
 for a limited time while Geralt can drink some potions in the middle of a battle.
  
  Beside the good side of the game, there are times that you get nervous from the Geralt movements. 
 For example you stand just beside the enemy and enemy is hitting you but you can not hit him for 
 no reason and you should just move to another location so you can hit the enemy which in most case 
 you got too many hits before doing that. Another drawback of the game comparing NWN2 is that you 
 are just a sword man, there are no races or special abilities you can choose to have from the start. 
 However you can upgrade your abilities just in swords throughout the game while gaining experiences. 
 In conclusion, aside from the few bad parts, I suggest playing the game who loves RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Distortion_Lane
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The WItcher is one of the best RPG's I have played in a long time. It starts off quite bland in 
 some crappy beat up castle but progresses into some really beautifully crafted environments. The 
 story is actually quite well written and the game throws really interesting side stories. The voice 
 acting isn't the best.... (aside from the main character) but it's not the end of the world. Still, 
 i wish they did a better job voicing the game.... and translating it as well! Some of the lines 
 just make no sense... But despite that I still loved most of the game's dialogue. The graphics 
 are really well done here. Beautiful countrysides, swamps, lakes, forests are just some of the 
 games eye candy. Hard to believe this is the same engine as NWN2.... The gameplay is full of glitches 
 and horrible pathfinding. Yet it still managed to impress me with a stellar leveling system and 
 potion mixing. The battle system is ok, but not very responsive and should have been handled better. 
 Sometimes I clicked on an enemy but Geralt attacked the guy behind him instead of the guy I clicked 
 on. Well enough bickering, here's the overview:
  
  Gameplay:
  +Some of the choices you make affect the game in the long run.
  +Awesome leveling system
  +Great 
 alchemy system filled with interesting potions
  +You can get drunk out of your mind and go on a killing spree!!!
  +TONS of quests and sidequests
 
  +LONG!!!
  -.... maybe too long due to a copious amount of running around on foot back and forth during quests
 
  -needs a potion which makes you run like crazy, or perhaps a horse...?
  -horrible pathfinding
  -sometimes very unresponsive battle
  (originally horrible load times 
 but fixed with patches)
  -The "extra" weapons are completely useless... and the game could have more armor pieces and rings 
 that actually do something
  
  Graphics:
  +Great art
  +Good level design
  +Awesome environments
  +Great enemy design
  -Maybe more texture detail and better effects would 
 have been nice
  
  Sound:
  +Good music
  +Good battle sounds
  -Bad voice acting 
  
  Value:
  +50-80 hours
  +Actually replayable!
  
  If you are an RPG fan, it will do you some 
 good to play this game, it truly is a well told story filled with quests, monsters, dice poker, 
 beating people up, doing girls, getting drunk, and stopping drug trades and racism. Try it out, 
 it ain't Baldur's Gate 2, but it sure as hell beats Oblivion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave-o99
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is a great game whichever way you look at it.
  It has a linear plot, but there are enough things to distract you from that if you are more of 
 a freeform gamer.
  The combat interface is unsual but makes a refreshign change when you get the hang of it.
  Where 
 the game really comes into its own, though, is the adult content.
  Not for many years have i played a game where the protagonist is allowed - even encouraged - to 
 drink heavily, swear and bed any and every wench he can get his hands on.
  The game is aiming heavily at the 18 certificate male player, and if you don't fit that category 
 then steer clear. There are plenty of other games for you.
  But if you love an involved and amoral fantasy then get stuck in (literally!)
  It really is a 
 breath of fresh air to see a game that isn't trying to pander to all age groups and all sensibilities, 
 but ends up satisfying none. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 19, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, I liked the dialog options, and all the cutscenes and dialog was cool and fun to choose 
 from. The gameplay kinda sucked, I didn't like alchemy, and I didn't like the combat. What kept 
 me playing was the storyline, and thats all.
  
  Throughout the game I had a crash or two every hour of gameplay, I had to quicksave constantly. 
 I've never played a game that crashed this much, I kept getting crashes in either 32 bit xp or 
 vista. Performance of this game was poor also... it ran choppy, even though my hardware doubled 
 the recommended requirements.
  
  I hope they make a sequel, I enjoyed the storyline a lot, I liked the main character and how he 
 had to make tough choices at times... and I can see a sequel doing well if they fix the crappy 
 interface, bugs and game performance, including the difficulty settings which are broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magik8
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The discovery of a new game
  I visit often the forums of an it site, which has also a section of games.
  There i read something 
 about a new game called The Witcher. The game catched my interest. At the time the game was already 
 out. I read some reviews and heard good things about it. Then at a certain day i decided to buy 
 the game and that was a good deciscion. The game was flagged as mature and contains things that 
 was never been filled in a rpg before. Interesting. 
  So then installed the game, registered at the site of cdprojekt red and then start playing.
  
 
  A trip through new things
  The first thing i noticed when i started the game that i was right in the middle of a battle, instead 
 of wake up in a prison or in a bed. A nice surprise. 
  The starting location, kaer morhen, looks terrific. Well done. 
  I noticed also an other combat 
 system and other menu and the resting is different. Normally you go search for a bed to rest on 
 it. Here you have to search a campfire to meditate. Great idea. Something new. The same meditation 
 menu is also used to make potions and to level up. You get points for levelling and you can use 
 that for increase your skills. Another thing i noticed was that you have to make deciscions and 
 the deciscion you made has consequences for the story and on how npc's are reacting to you. For 
 example; when you choose to side with the elves (the scoia'tael) the order of the flaming rose 
 will start to hate you and some npc's are not like you either. A nice addition of this game is 
 that you can collect so called sex cards. It was rather funny to see that when i first decided 
 that vesimir can wait after bringing the potion for triss, they deciced to "test" the bed in kaer 
 morhen and after that i received a card. Nice touch. The locations looks great and i really like 
 Vizima. I could spent hours to walk through the city. 
  I also like the mini games, like playing dice, drinking contest and a fighting contest. 
  
 
  the downside
  But next to the good things there are also some things which are not that great. I don't like the 
 constant running through the game. Geralt cannot walk normal, just like you see in most rpg's. 
 For a game like the witcher, which has such an epic story and great locations this is a great loss. 
 I like to just walk through locations, such as the city of Vizima. The constant running gives you 
 the idea of rushing through the game and in fact that is also happening. Too bad. In games like 
 Morrowind and Oblivion running is optional. The game is also a bit too short. You have five acts, 
 an prologue and epilogue. The last two are not that long, the acts are longer. But the game doesn't 
 take that long. With the combination of the running you can finish the game within 20 hours. The 
 combat system works semi- automatic, which is a bit of a loss. All you have to do is hold your 
 left mouse button and you fight. You do not fight your self. And as last point the game is quite 
 lineair. 
  
  Final thoughts
  The Witcher is a great game. It is not a cheap game . The idea's are innovative (like the mini-games, 
 sexcards, meditation, making real deciscions) , the story is epic and sucks you right into the game, 
 the locations are fantastic (especially vizima) and all is well detailled. However, it seems like 
 the game is released too soon and it is actually too short. The constant running make you rushing 
 through the game. The acts aren't that long either. But it is a decent game and i like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I know the big craze is MMOLG but don't pass up this single player beauty! It is truly immersive 
 and addictive! The story line makes sense, the characters are believable and the battle sequences 
 are intense yet playable! Did I mention this game is highly addictive!! Buy it now! Learn the mechanics 
 of the game during the tutorial and you'll remember this game for your lifetime. Don't pass this 
 one up! Their support is excellent and you will not be disappointed with this game! When you complete 
 this game you will remember it for years to come. 
  
  Pros:
  Highly addictive
  Excellent voice acting
  Rated M
  Nice graphics
  Excellent interface
  
  Cons:
  Disk 
 access load times during scene changes
  Forging weapon powerups is not intuitive
  Graphics resolution limited to 1024x768 (but still nice!) Buy it now! 
  
  Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcaldwel
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I know this man, the Witcher. He grew up in my home town and dated my sister. His white hair is 
 a wig and his breath reeks of snot. He snores too. But I shouldn't know that, after all, he is 
 my father. But enought about my father and back to the Witcher. Years later I met the Witcher again 
 at a job I had for about a year and a half. He had cleaned up his act a bit, but he was a snob 
 and thought he was better than me and everyone else in the office for that matter. He wore these 
 khaki pants every day, not just on Mondays or Thursday after a good laundry day, but every day. 
 I am guessing he had 5 pairs, exactly alike and wore one each day of the week and did laundry on 
 Saturday, or maybe Sunday. Then the cycle would start all over again.
  
  One morning, Monday I believe, he came in to the elevator. I said hey to him, cause, well he is 
 the Witcher. He didn't even acknowledge me. He backed right up against me in the elevator where 
 I was pinned between him and the wall. He just stood there, broad shoulders and all. A staired 
 directly at the back of his blue golf shirt. Then I smelled it, yep it was a good old air poo. 
 He blew butt right on me. I looked down at his butt, and their it was, he had a poop stain right 
 in the crack of his khaki pants. I couldn't believe it. Was it fresh, from earlier this morning. 
 It was about half an inch long, lgiht brown and ran the crack of his pants. Well the next day I 
 saw him strutting around and there it was again, the same stain, same pants. Then I realized, he 
 doesn't have 5 pairs of khaki pants. He has one pair, and wears them every day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torque1599
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I bought this game hoping for a lengthy, intense, involving RPG experience and I was not disappointed. 
 The Witcher is a triumph. An engrossing story, fun combat and a flexible character advancement 
 system come together to create a near perfect experience. 
  
  I say near perfect because The Witcher, like all works of human endeavor, has it's flaws. For one, 
 the game can be unintuitive at times. For example, in the first village you are given a quest to 
 recover the brains of waterlogged zombies called Drowners. The problem is, you can't get the brains 
 until you have researched the monster in question. The game neglects to tell you that, in order 
 to research monsters, you must buy books about them from merchants. 
  
  Also, the combat difficulty curve is wonky. Most fights are a stroll down easy street, especially 
 at medium and easy difficulty settings. However, the combat can become an exorcise in keyboard 
 slamming frustration when the game swarms you with a large number of combatants when you are already 
 wounded. Monsters are a bit of a challenge early on. You must research them to learn their respective 
 weaknesses so you can defeat them. However, they become less of a threat once you get your silver 
 sword.
  
  Still, the combat is fun and the difficulty feels just right for the game. Slaughtering monsters 
 and elven terrorists by the dozen and facing down huge monsters never ceases to be satisfying. 
 The fairly pedestrian combat is preferable to having to fight the same boss seventeen times, the 
 frustration mounting each time, just to see where the plot is going, and believe me you will want 
 to know.
  
  The true shining star of this game is the storyline. While it takes a while to pick up, once you 
 get inside the walled city of Vizima, things really get interesting. As you learn more about the 
 main villain, the more you hate him and the more you want to defeat him. Without giving away too 
 much, you are Geralt of Rivia. Geralt is a Witcher, a sort of monster hunter for hire. You arrive 
 at the last stronghold of the Witchers, the fortress of Kaer Moren with now memory of who you are 
 or how you got there. The fortress is attacked by a band of vicious brigands led by a famous outlaw 
 and a powerful, unknown mage. They ransack the castle and steal the Mutagens, the chemicals needed 
 to create new Witchers. You set off after them and soon find youself drawn into a deadly conflict 
 with an organization known as the Salamandra, and a conspiracy that threatens to whole Kingdom 
 of Temeria. The storyline is filled with twists and turns and manages to subvert quite a few fantasy 
 tropes along the way.
  
  The plot is fleshed out by a menagerie of colorful characters with fleshed out personalities and 
 hidden agendas that really are hidden, until you blow the lid off of them.
  
  The best aspect of the storyline is that it truly offers the player complex choices. Rather than 
 a simple, dark side/light side slider like most games, you are offered momentous choices that can 
 have serious consequences down the road. Do you aid elven terrorists or racist knights? Do you 
 side with a amoral witch or the hypocritical villagers who want to burn her? You even get to choose 
 which character the hero falls in love with. Or you can choose not to fall in love at all. It's 
 all up to you.
  
  Still, the game isn't without its issues. The graphics, though gorgeous and a little bit dated. 
 The game manages to use gorgeously detailed textures to compensate for the lack of bump mapping, 
 but it's absence is noticeable. When I was running the Witcher, I noticed some stability issues. 
 The game had an unfortunate tenancy to crash to desktop between cinemas. Fortunately, the problem 
 was easily fixed by rebooting. The Translation was murky at times. Sometimes it could leave you 
 in the dark as to what you were about to say until you actually said it. Then had to reload the 
 mission because it was a bad choice. 
  
  In summation, the Witcher is not without its flaws, but if you like RPGs, get it. You won't be 
 disappointed. If you are tired of games that promise moral dilemmas, but only offer a choice between 
 something sickeningly good and something sickeningly evil, and want truly complicated moral dilemmas 
 in your games, but this game. The Witcher is a worthy addition to the collection of any PC RPG 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kole37
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  OMG! This game is so underrated. It is a rpg with one of the best stories i have ever seen. The voice 
 acting is not so bad as they say. I swear my life on it. It has only a few mistakes not a million 
 like they say. About the only thing i don't like about the game is that you can't travel much and 
 you don't have as many objects as in Oblivion for instance. But The Witcher is a more classic rpg. You 
 are able to make moral decisions and that impacts the result of the game. It does not have a multiplayer 
 because it does not need one. The single player will keep you busy for a long time and because of 
 the games moral decisions you will feel the need to explore all the variables. So it has good replay 
 value. And the most important of all it is really an fun game that suck you in the story. I advise 
 you to play it on some break from school or work because it can seriously suck you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: witex9494
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  ok.... THis game is a very intteresting game becasue of its new elements that you wont usually 
 find in ordinary RPG. 
  
  Graphics: Graphics look great when u have a great graphics card and on full setting it looks amazing!!! 
 Characters look great so are the settings castles and etc.. There are some dodgy textures that 
 kind of look stupid but arest of a game is awesome, looks AMAZING 9.0/10..
  
  Fighting: Well.... WHat to say its something that No one had ever experienced becasue fghting system 
 is not the one that u'd expect it to be. In normal RPG (Oblivion, Fable etc) U just have to keep 
 repeating the mouse/button to keep slicing ur enemys but on Withcer U have to attack only when 
 the sword shines on enemies to make a new move and speed up and etc... its fun but rather confusing 
 at the start so u need to get used to it but overall It is very intteresting and something new 
 to experience, 7/10
  
  Gameplay: U can upgrade ur character in many abilities skills alchemy fighting magic (Sign) and 
 etc... It is very confusing at the start so u again need to get used to it... but its very exciting 
 when u understand it and u get what to do... 9.5/10
  
  Overall. The game kiks majjor asss... its fun story is ingaging and the entertaining well, hot girls 
 and etc (For perves I guess) and amazing engaging enemies and fighting system, and also very lenghty 
 story line.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dafilosafa
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Some things in the game are better than oblivion... for example, alchemy is more realistic, and 
 the battle system is great, different... more blood. Storyline however is complicated; I got fun 
 just by moving the character however.... overall ide say GET IT! The great thing about this game 
 is the graphics- amazing, sound is great, perhaps better than oblivion... storyline as mentioned 
 before-complicated. Realism is perhaps the best part of this game, the way you "meditated" to distributed 
 talents, the way people talk, a love story, sex, violence, politics, philosophy a lot of things 
 in this game.... that you just dont get in oblivion.
  
  Some things in the game are better than oblivion... for example, alchemy is more realistic, and 
 the battle system is great, different... more blood. Storyline however is complicated; I got fun 
 just by moving the character however.... overall ide say GET IT! The great thing about this game 
 is the graphics- amazing, sound is great, perhaps better than oblivion... storyline as mentioned 
 before-complicated. Realism is perhaps the best part of this game, the way you "meditated" to distributed 
 talents, the way people talk, a love story, sex, violence, politics, philosophy a lot of things 
 in this game.... that you just dont get in oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saginadir
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Start with the bad things or good things?
  Ok let's go with the bad things first and finish with the good.. After all it's an OK game.
  
 
  Something i don't get about this game.... why is it so demanding, The game runs on my computer 
 on Medium-low.. while Assassin's Creed with it's all of it beautiful graphic and effects runs on 
 medium smoothly, I really have a feeling like they took a strong engine and designed the game lamely.
 
  
  Next, The game is full of bugs, moving bugs, fighting bugs, All king of bugs.. So when you get 
 this game make sure you download the latest patch but even then don't expect of a bug-less game.
 
  
  Another thing, Camera, Map And control, Sometimes it's really hard to understand where you are 
 and where do you need to go, The map is really confusing sometimes, Furthermore when you are looking 
 for someone it only shows you the general area where this person is... You need to get there and 
 search for this person (could take a while) . The camera and the controls sometimes can be frustrating, 
 The character won't respond like you want etc, Ok done with the bad things ( there are some more 
 annoying things like a bad beginning and sometime annoying dumb humor, But bear with it ) .. now 
 some good stuff to balance.
  
  Shall I stretch it, Or do it quickly?
  Ok i'll just do my best....
  Well there are some fun things in this game, First of all the alchemy 
 is really fun so don't give up on this part, This game also isn't stretching things like on Oblivion 
 (With long books and scrolls and conversations) ,
  If you find a book you just right click it and the character learns everything in the book and 
 adds it to your alchemy formulas, Knowledge, Areas etc..
  Also your characters is a bit restless... so don't expect for a very long conversations with strangers 
 (That's good isn't it?)
  
  Bla bla, This game also has a real good and fun story line, Your character is a Witcher who loses 
 his memory ,Disappears for 5 years and then comes back. [AS A GHOST TO HUNT THE WORLD, HAHAHA (not 
 really) ]
  The quests are smooth and not confusing, They tell you what to do, Where to go, You go and do it.
 
  
  So if i sum everything up then i cannot give it a very high score... look at the good side, I don't 
 think this game is abysmal, You'll have fun playing this game... so if you got some money to spare, 
 Buy it or rent it, Remember don't get frustrated with the game at the beginning, bear with it for 
 a while and you will enjoy it.
  
  Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mognificus
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Ok. I was wrong to be so hard on this game when it was first released. Having now played it through, 
 I have to say that it's one of the most enjoyable RPG's I've played. Mind you, it did need more 
 patches than a second hand tent to sort out the issues I complained about, but once patched (and 
 my computer upgraded to way beyond the recommended spec) the game ran perfectly. Combat was satisfyingly 
 meaty, with great combo moves and neat spell effects. The storyline is mature and your choices 
 can really come back to bite you later in the game. The collision detection remains dodgy to say 
 the least, and the illusion of freedom to roam was quickly dispelled by the fact that each level 
 is fairly limited in the choices available as to where you can actually go as the paths are rigidly 
 set by the game's designers. The inventory system isn't as good as it should have been and creating 
 potions etc seems a little long winded, but all in all this game is pretty good and well worth 
 trying if you like a solid RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argonaut125
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  As I begun to play this game I really had no idea what to expect.
  
  According to Zero Punctuation this was the worst game ever created on the PC.
  
  I soon found 
 out otherwise as my computer failed to load the first scene in over half an hour.
  
  After a visit to Fry's and a memory upgrade, I began to play again.
  
  He is right in saying 
 that the first two Chapters are rather boring, and you do run MMO styled gather (this item) in 
 (this amount) and come back to me. This element never really goes away.
  
  Now the fun part is when, you're protecting a shipment and a bunch of Scoi'tal otherwise known 
 as Squirrel Tails attack a shipment you're defending for money.
  
  You can either let them walk away with the shipment to "treat their wounded and feed themselves" 
 or beat them to a pulp.
  
  This is your first encounter with the Scoi'tal vs The Order of the Flaming Rose in the game, The 
 Squirrel Tails are an organization of Elves and Dwarfs and human sympathizers who consider themselves 
 freedom fighters for social injustice. In reality they are more like Eco Terrorists in how they 
 work
  
  The Order of the Flaming Rose is a knight order that has some non-human tendencies really born 
 out of the hatred already in the city. They restore order and tend to uphold a code of chivalry. 
 All this goes down the drain in the ending chapters as they being to slaughter civilians and non-humans 
 even if they're not squirrel tails.
  
  This choice that you're giving is long and profound and when you have to make the "final" choice 
 of which side to choose your options are based off your previous actions. Which is pretty much 
 Neutral or the side you helped.
  
  During the Climax of the game all of this comes together and actually branches off into 3 endings, 
 in a burning city.
  
  Very fun ending that will leave you wanting more.
  
  Also combat, although boring to play is very fun to watch at later levels as your guy jumps on 
 people's heads and decapitates them.
  
  A bit like an extreme version of Knights of the Old Republic.
  
  Overall very fun but some 
 of the actual gameplay mechanics are lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is a mature RPG from polish developer "CD Projekt". The word "mature" shouldn't go 
 unquestioned, as all characters in the game seem to like swearing too much, and female characters 
 tend to be treated as mere sex objects than interesting or useful people. Everyone seems to like 
 calling it mature though, and I suppose on some level it is. The user interface is quite complicated 
 and advanced, the combat rewards reflex clicking over button mashing, and the environments can 
 be quite gritty and sad, with an equally gritty story behind them. This is different from your 
 typical fantasy-themed RPG, which makes The Witcher feel completely adult-oriented and a welcome 
 change from the norm.
  
  Getting right into the combat - Its unusual, and somewhat confusing at first. A big problem with 
 The Witcher is that it doesn't ease you into the combat very well. You're just put in a battle 
 and are expected to know what to do. Apart from a few unhelpful tutorial sequences on your way 
 around the first area, you have to work most of it out on your own. The trick is to click to attack, 
 and click again right as the little sword on your cursor flashes yellow to do your second attack. 
 As you upgrade your character in typical RPG fashion, you can gain more powerful attacks and they 
 become harder to perform. It might sound simple, and it really is, but the game doesn't do a good 
 job of showing you how to pull all this off. The combat, though simplistic, is again quite different, 
 and is another welcome entry to The Witcher's innovations.
  
  You might consider The Witcher misogynistic. You can sex pretty much every woman you meet in the 
 game, and if the physics were more realistic they would all fall over from the weight of their 
 breasts. As if we didn't have enough games already where all women look like models with the soul-purpose 
 of being drooled upon. To make matters worse, each time you do this you 'collect' a card with a 
 provocative picture of the girl on it. The game even seems to encourage you to collect all of them. 
 So women aren't just sex objects, they are now a collectable card game. Gotta catch 'em all!
  
  This wouldn't be so bad if the main female characters played any kind of prominent role. But 
 they really don't. Triss, the redhead sorceress who you see a few times during the game, is the 
 closest we have to a female character who moves the story along, but even she exists mostly to 
 be pretty and to be sexed. Then there is Shani, a woman who you see most frequently during the 
 game and develop an intimate relationship with, she doesn't really play any major part to the story 
 though, and it would have flowed just as well without her. It's kind of an eye-opener of how the 
 The Witcher views women when you can finish having dirty random sex with three women you've known 
 for 5 minutes, and a hooker you paid to finish the job, and then go home and do it all again with 
 a woman who you are supposedly falling in love with. You certainly don't have to do any of this, 
 but the game almost encourages it.
  
  The story in The Witcher stands out above the rest of the game. It's completely gripping from start 
 to finish, and in recent memory, no game has kept me coming back for more like The Witcher has. 
 You have to make some very interesting moral choices throughout the game - and there is no particular 
 good or bad, you decide good and bad for yourself as the game progresses, and the game shapes depending 
 on your opinions and actions. Although the ending is the same no matter what you do, when the credits 
 roll you will genuinely feel like you made your own path through the game. This elevates The Witcher 
 above other games of its type, because it feels like it gives you a unique experience shaped to 
 your own preferences.
  
  In the visual sense, The Witcher isn't the greatest looking game around, but at its best it can 
 look quite stunning. The environments can be beautiful, character models are very detailed and 
 the textures are of high quality. Some characters can seem a little cartoony and too fantasy themed, 
 complete with silly voices and actions, and this doesn't fit with the rest of the games tone at 
 all. But mostly the whole game looks very crisp and believable. Another gripe is that although 
 The Witcher gives the impression of open-ended areas at first, it's always a set path, and you 
 usually can't stray off that path even onto the grass or to explore.
  
  The Witcher has a knack of grabbing you and not letting go. I found myself playing this sometimes 
 for 5 hours at a time and not knowing where all those hours went. It's so easy to get swept up 
 into the world and just wanting to see what happens next Then what happens after that How about 
 if I just go to this area and do this and then I'll stop playing Wait... Ohhhh this quest is fun, 
 I'll play for another half an hour... What? Its 6am already?...
  
  The Witcher has very long loading times, mostly while loading outdoor areas, and this problem presents 
 itself many times during the game. Sometimes you can wait for an area to load and literally spend 
 more time waiting for it than you are going to spend in it. This was very annoying for me and detracted 
 from the overall experience.
  
  Voice acting is mostly good, but sometimes translation from the original polish is a little poor. 
 Conversations can be awkward and weird, and not make a lot of sense. Most of the time it flows 
 fluently, but now and then something is said that just seems totally out of place. Characters also 
 cuss a lot for no reason, "Abso-f*cking-lutely!" which doesn't fit with the style of the game at 
 all.
  
  You can't go back and roam around the world once you've finished the story, but you won't really 
 want to anyway, as you will have seen most of what the game has to offer once it's over.
  
  Another thing to note, is the game was very stable for me throughout the whole experience (no crashes, 
 no bugs, no problems) until right near the end of the game, I needed a certain armor, and due to 
 a bug I was unable to get the armor if I wanted to continue to the final chapter of the game. So 
 I had to finish the final chapter without this special armor. The ending is surprisingly easy, 
 so it wasn't too difficult (this, on its own, might be a problem for people who want a challenging 
 ending.. It really isn't.) To be fair, I wasn't patched to the latest version of the game so it 
 could something they have already fixed.
  
  I feel that the good significantly outweighs the bad in The Witcher. It does have its problems, 
 and a bit of tackiness here and there, but you will forget most of this once you get drawn up in 
 the story. It effortlessly carries you through around 40 hours of game play and still leaves you 
 wanting more. This game has the potential to be a classic, and if it had spent a little longer 
 in development, it might have been.
  
  As it is, The Witcher is advanced, gripping, and very "grown-up." If you can look past its few 
 problems and questionable design ideas, you will enjoy this immensely, and definitely come back 
 for a second play-through in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  It's hard to write an objective review for something you're a huge fan of. Andrzej Sapkowski is 
 one of the best ( if not the best ) Polish fantasy writers to date and considering the fact that 
 it was the Polish company (CD-PROJECT) who created this game ( published with great ATARI's help) 
 after buying the rights from the creator of WITCHER you would expect a solid conversion of the 
 silver haired monster slayer. And indeed it worked!
  
  They created a superb RPG. It's innovative in a very good way, it has perfect and engaging story, 
 great graphics, magnificent audio (one of the best audio I have ever heard in a game) , great and 
 mature dialogs, plenty of moral dillema and very good and addictive gameplay.
  
  You start as the above mentioned WITCHER. Your profession? Monster killer. You're the Hitman of the 
 past ages in that instead of killing people, you're earning money for killing different monsters. But 
 don't think that this is what the game is only about as the story is much more complicated than 
 it first seems. You wake up in the Witchers' citadel called Kaer Morhen without actually knowing 
 how you got there. You don't remember what you were doing the last couple of years and you don't 
 recognize people who obviously know you very well. After an organized attack on the citadel by a 
 powerful mage and a group of his minions you split with your companions and embark on a mission 
 that will change your fate completely. What started as a revenge mission will end up as a noncontrollable 
 plot where  and happiness play the main part in the malicious 
 world where only the best of the best and the most skilled survive.
  
  The first thing that caught my senses was this magnificent intro to the game. I think I watched 
 it at least 15 times. It's just brilliant. Every time I'm watching it I keep wondering: 'how come 
 there are people with such an enormous talent'? It's simply put the best intro I have ever seen 
 in a game and my playing experience goes back to the Atari 130XE and Commodorre 64 era. I'm just 
 lacking words.....
  
  The graphics are top quality. There are of course couple of exceptions like witcher's face for example. The 
 face from the intro and the face from the game barely match. In fact witcher's face in the game 
 looks like he had some ironing done on it but in overall the hero's model looks neat and pretty 
 solid. As for the other NPC's there's a lack of variety in their faces and models. It looks like 
 somebody created couple of model types and multiplied it by 100. Many times you will come across 
 the same guy you just fought with in a tavern while visiting the streets. He looks the same but 
 his name is different. There's just to many clones of the same people running around as if someone 
 was to lazy to sacrifice more days to improve the variety of people you meet. When it comes to 
 monsters, environments everything looks great and realistic. The day/night schedule looks realistic 
 as well. The sunrise and the sunset looks perfect. Except those facial inconcistencies there isin't 
 anything that irritates or is dissapointing in any way.
  
  The music is brilliant both in the game and in the main menu. As this is subject to further conversation 
 ( some people like techno, some others love music from sezame street) I won't continue any further. You 
 will either love it or you will say: Eh... nothing worth bragging about'. It all depends on everybody's 
 taste.
  
  The gameplay itself is very good though the fighting takes some time getting used to. It's innovative 
 in that it isn't a simple ' click your mouse button as hard and as long as you can' but instead 
 clicking the button requires some timing. You won't finish the guy with a nice 3,4 or even 5 stage 
 combo if you won't have the timing to click the button in the right moment.
  
  With regards to all the weaponry and armory in the game... you won't have to much to choose from. You 
 will only be able to wield either the steel sword or the silver sword. Steel sword is meant to kill 
 people while the silver one is destined to banish all the monsters and ghosts out of this world. You 
 can also equip an axe or a dagger but they aren't of to much use as you basically need both swords 
 to finish the game. Axes and daggers don't make any diffference in combat. You can only have 2 suits 
 of armor. It is irritating a little bit because you would expect from an ambitious game like this 
 to offer much more. This is RPG after all and the brilliance of rpg's is also measured by the amount 
 of weapons, armor, and other misc items you can equip or create.
  
  In this game the success in a combat is dependant more on the hero's statistics and... alchemy. A 
 witcher wouldn't be a witcher without his potions. That's another innovation. In many other games 
 potions are used mostly in case you need to restore your health or mana. Other functions are omitted 
 mainly because it takes to much time to create one or because our hero can beat the s.... t out 
 of anyone without their help.
  In this game though you won't survive without any endurance or night vision potions.
  
  With 
 regards to statistics. You gain experience the usuall way. By killing monsters or completing quest. Then 
 after reaching the next level instead of distributing skill points you distribute ' talents'. You 
 have to be carefull when distributing those as you are never gonna expand all of your skills which 
 makes you think about the path you wanna take. Do I expand fighter's or magician's skills? It's up 
 to you.
  
  The story is very engaging and complex. All your actions have consequences so choose carefully who 
 you ally with or who are you making your worst enemy.
  
  You can finish the game in many different ways. It has couple of different endings so the replay 
 value is pretty huge.
  
  The Good:
  
  
  
  The Bad : Occasionally lagging ( 
 depends on the hardware I guess) , veryyy looong loading times ( the patch 1.2 fixed that though, at 
 least in some way) , lack of variety in npc's models, fighting system to confusing at first. Lack 
 of weapons and armor.
  
  In overall it's a superb game that will catch you of guard. It's very different from Oblivion and 
 similar to Gothic yet something very different from those two. I play it for the second time and 
 still love it.
  
  Every rpg fan should have it as it is plainly the best rpg since gothic in 2001.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoeCrusher
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is a great game. I think it has one of the most refreshing takes on a classic genre 
 and essentially breathes new life into fantasy RPGs. The story and world are truly compelling and 
 you can almost forget where you are and what you are doing at the moment. 
  
  The Environment
  The Witcher is set in a harsh medieval setting where poverty, jealousy, bigotry 
 are everywhere and people are eeking out a living while at the same time being plagued by horrible 
 monsters. I was not initially sold on the concept of a "gritty" world beset by many of the ills 
 of our current one. Mostly because whenever, games, tv or film head in this direction, it is usually 
 because of a lack of creativity so they go for shock value instead. The Witcher is an exception 
 where the "grittiness" was just one more element of the story. Many other reviewers talk about 
 how alive the environment seems. I will certainly confess a degree of shock when I noticed someone 
 taking a leak on the street. 
  
  The Story
  You are Geralt who has to find his way amongst all sorts of rivalries, plots and unclear choices 
 to track down those who have attacked the Witchers. It is the first time in my memory where a game 
 has managed to truly integrate character choices into the plot line. Save someone now and they 
 will murder someone later on etc. The story and the desire to follow it where it leads was what 
 kept me at the computer for hours on end.
  
  The Books
  I am now very interested in reading the English translation of the Polish author behind the Witcher. 
 It is my understanding that they will come out this summer. Hopefully the translation will do them 
 justice.
  
  The Combat
  This was arguably the weakest part of the game. While on the surface it was a refreshing mix of 
 combat/magic styles, it instead turned into a rather boring click fest. There were periods where 
 I would find myself sighing as I slaughtered x of y in order to advance the plot. I will confess 
 that I did greatly enjoy the finishing moves (randomly selected by the computer) whenever I attacked 
 an opponent whom I had knocked down. I am not sure what to say about this beyond that as I think 
 PC gaming need a new control interface before combat will evolve from a clickfest or stats based 
 system like never winters.
  
  My Take
  If you are looking for something new and refreshing and like a good story line in your RPG then 
 the Witcher is absolutely for you. Just don't ask it to be the most challenging combat system ever. 
 This is well worth your money and CD Projekt is a developer to keep an eye on.
  
  Enjoy,
  Foe
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejavuman22
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  [SPOILER WARNING-I may refer to certain missions and plot points in my review, so if you do not 
 want anything given away, do not read this.]
  
  I review games based on how they are out of the box. I do not install any mods, add-ons, updates 
 or patches the first time through playing a game.
  
  I'll start off with the issues I have with this game, not because they are particularly irritating 
 or problematic, but because I feel if this game had recieved another few months to polish the progam, 
 I would be giving it a perfect score. The first thing I will mention are the crashes. Others have 
 mentioned them as well, but they did not occur that often for me, and it didn't bother me. It still 
 has a better track record than Oblivion, which crashes every time I close the game. These crashes 
 also seemed to occur most often during load times. Don't know if it means anything, but thought 
 I should mention it. Also, this game has the longest load times I have ever seen. I have a very 
 new machine, and yet some of the waits were so long I started reading a book. I also agree with 
 other reviewers that there is a LOT of legwork for Geralt in this game. However, I do not feel 
 this is a huge detraction because being in combat every second of the game would get very boring 
 VERY fast. Something I do feel they might have thought through a little more before putting it 
 in is the sex cards. It didn't feel like it added a whole lot to the game other than adding some 
 pictures of women barely covered or looking very freaky. I was personally a little grossed out 
 by the vampire card (if you play this, you'll know what I mean) . I also agree that some lines and 
 character models have been severely overused. After you hear the old beggar woman say "I'm dying!" 
 ten billion times, you really do wish the she Would die already so you don't have to hear that 
 line again! I also saw some minor technical glitches as well. For instance, occasionally the game 
 wouldn't let Geralt rest because it thought he was still in combat when he wasn't. I got past this 
 by drawing and sheathing the sword. Sometimes the arrow on the map would disappear and you would 
 have to activate the tracking system again. I don't consider these or some of the other glitches 
 I have not mentioned to be a major issue though, and didn't seriously detract from the gameplay.
 
  
  After all that, you may wonder what I have to say that's good. To start with, I loved the story 
 line. It's right in the vein of the classic RPG's with even more plot twists. It feels like a medeival 
 mystery novel (in a good way) . Despite what others think, I thought the graphics looked great. 
 Geralt moved fairly realistically, the world was drenched in atmoshphere, and to see him fight 
 was a treat, especially with the finishing moves. I never got tired of seeing Geralt jumping on 
 top of an opponent and shoving his sword through the top of his head. By the way, this game has 
 lots of spraying blood, but not too many flying limbs, which to me is a good thing. If the game 
 was all gore, that means it is flaunting its M rating a little too much. This has enough violence 
 to merit the M rating and to be appropriate for the title, but not so much that you wonder if this 
 is a game or a Freddie Kruger clip. Some gamers have complained about the simplified fighting system 
 (you left click to use the sword and right click to use signs) but I liked that is was simplified. 
 It gave me a chance to watch all the great finishing moves and seeing the signs work so effeciently. 
 Also, I loved seeing the signs in action. My personal favorite was the fire sign (by the way, keep 
 the manual near by because the names given in the game can be a little confusing at first) because 
 you could set multiple enemies on fire, making a fight against 6 or 7 enemies a little less daunting. 
 I would also like to mention is the side quests. The problems the NPC's ask you to solve don't 
 feel redundant or pointless. They have good reason for needing your assistance, and most would 
 never talk to you unless they needed help. It is also the best source of income, which makes sense, 
 since the witcher is a mercenary, not a junk hawker. I particularly liked the dwarven dentist who 
 collects teeth. I thought it particularly entertaining when the dwarf finishes off the offer by 
 adding, "by the way, the teeth don't have to be from monsters." The last thing I would like to 
 mention is the idea of consequences. This is what the game hinges on, and if you don't get into 
 the game, you will miss out on the magnitude of the decisions you must make. Some of the decisions 
 you make may seem very minor at the time, but what you did (or didn't) do may return to haunt you. 
 Without giving too much away, the characters involved and how they act in the game make the game 
 decisions much harder than just choosing "good choice-bad choice." What you thought was a good 
 choice then may come back on you and you may regret your choice. It was really fun to see how my 
 choices affected the game, and it really did affect the game. Overall, the game has some flaws, 
 but I had so much fun, it is worth the slight annoyances. This is one game that will be around 
 for a very, VERY long time. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexpka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has its pros and cons, First lets started off with the graphics
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, their aren't intense or crappy, The game had alot alot of models 
 designed in it, Alot of characters and ect.
  
  Sound: The music matches with the games theme the sound quality is great (not like people even 
 care for sound)
  
  Control: I really dont like the controls, the camera control is clumsy, it moves slowly from one 
 play to another, and the only way to turn is by moving the mouse all the way on one side of the 
 screen and waiting 10 seconds to get 180 degress around, but I eventually got used to it, (still 
 not happy about the controls)
  
  Gameplay: The game has a big interesting story, You a Witcher and you have to retrieve an item 
 a powerful mage stole from your castle. While suffering from amnesia you how to go figure out your 
 identity build your character customize it, get custom weapons, and have different sorts of magics, 
 and all of the magic looks different after every level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately I did not get far enough into the game to give it the full review that most hard 
 core players expect.
  
  The game sounded interesting when I hear about it, and a friend recommended it after he picked 
 it up. Then after seeing the reviews decided it sounded like a good game.
  
  Unfortunately I didn't even get more than 2 hours into the game before the annoying controls, dizzying 
 interface, and agonizingly slow story did in my progress.
  
  Visually the game looks cool, but I wouldn't give a dead rats ass for a crappy game with the best 
 graphics in the world. As pretty as the world is, it was largely devoid of anything interactive. 
 Not much in the way of crates or other such things that you might find cools stuff to use.
  
  The voice actors were really good, but the story was so inane that I just didn't care about 
 any of the characters, much less the character you play.
  
  One thing that seemed really cool was the ability to choose what part of a story you would participate 
 in. So you get an in game cinematic showing you a situation, in this case the castle is being attacked 
 and some evil wizard has already got inside, and you have to decide if you are going to stay outside 
 and defend the outside of the castle or go inside to chase down the evil wizard. 
  
  I could imagine a player who really loves hard core Roll Playing and being patient enough to navigate 
 the confusing interface screens would really get into this game. Sadly that is not me and so I 
 can not recommend this game.
  
  I realize this is not the best review, but its all the time I plan of dedicating to a game of this 
 quality.
  
  Final Score: 5.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LanDC77
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher goes back to the old syle CRPG form, but with a lot of new stuff thrown in to mix things 
 up. The Witcher is made from an unknown Polish software company CD Project Red, and on there 1st 
 game they have made an all-time classic.
  
  One of the best thing about The Witcher is it setting, the world of The Witcher is set in the realm 
 of best selling fantasy saga by the same title by Andrzej Sapkowski, that they call Temeria. And 
 its so full of life, its one of the best settings I have ever seen, every think looks so real and 
 lived in. From Vizima capital city to the country Inn, there is a lot to see and do in The Witcher.
 
  
  The story is all so very well done, its up there in my top five best storys. You play as a Witcher 
 called Geralt, a witcher is a mutant with supernatural abilities, who receive special training 
 and preparation in order to become professional monster slayers for hire. As you go along in the 
 story your actions will redefine the way it plays out, there are alot of ways your actions change 
 the story. As you go along your are given the chance to side with the Elves or the Order or if 
 you want you can go neutral, each one has a different story.
  
  The game can be played from either an over the shoulder (OTS) or one of two isometric perspectives, 
 isometric is like the one you find in old CRPG, and its the one I used for about 90% of the game, 
 but its up to you to pick the one you like best. Alchemy plays a big part in the game, you can 
 create lots of potions that increase health or endurance, you can also create oils and bombs, all 
 help out a lot when you have a big fight on your hands. There are alot quests in this game that 
 you can get from people, there are also lots of mini games like a game of dice or fist fighting 
 in the inns. If you want to do every think in the game it will take you well over 100 hours of 
 gameplay, the main story is about 40 hours long, so its a very big game.
  
  The games soundtrack is very well done, and fits in with the game very well. The graphics are very 
 good as well, the games runs on the Aurora Engine the same Engine as Neverwinter Nights did, but 
 I tell you CD Project did a very good job with it, and as I said befor the game has a very lived 
 in feel to it, as if it was real.
  
  All in all The Witcher is an all-time classic RPG, with great characters and story, nice soundtrack 
 and graphics. If you are fan of CRPG you owe your self to buy this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  On the plus side:
  
  - Generally originally story, environments and gameplay... things that RPG games usually fail spectacularly 
 at and deliver the same old stuff that's been done a million times before.
  
  - The graphics are attractive - cutscenes in particular look gorgeous - without being too punishing 
 on the system requirements.
  
  - Sound is great - combat sounds crisp, music is pleasant and really sets the mood, and most of 
 the voice actors are fantastic (if you can overlook the fact that they sometimes have to read utterly 
 retarded dialogue) . Geralt in particular is convincing as a gravelly-voiced antihero.
  
  - Combat mechanics are simple, but feel fun and still require a basic degree of strategy. Combat 
 never feels tedious or drawn out.
  
  - I honestly thought the 'sex cards' were a fun collector's item in a game made for adults, as 
 opposed to the usual scavenger hunts games throw at us gamers just to upset our latent OCD: y'know, 
 the sort of things which aren't fun, but we do anything just because we want to play the game thoroughly. 
 
  
  Cons:
  
  - Combat is too easy once you get the hang of it. My suggestion: play for an hour or so on normal 
 difficulty, then switch over to hard, which makes you pay more attention in combat and rely more 
 heavily on potions.
  
  - The game's length is inflated by pointless fetching and running back and forth. The Witcher would 
 have been vastly more fun if it was half the length.
  
  - Inventory management and looting systems are horrible and click intensive to achieve the same 
 mechanical tasks.
  
  - I didn't like the Aurora Engine when it was used for Neverwinter Nights 2, and I like it even 
 less with the Witcher. The game WILL crash with enough regularity that you will plan accordingly.
 
  
  - The Quicksave button generates a NEW save file every time you press it. These save files will 
 become 20+MB in size. Your save directory WILL hit gigabytes in size and the load screen WILL take 
 30 seconds to appear if you do not regularly delete the majority of the contents of the save directory.
 
  
  - The writing was clearly done by someone who spoke English as a second language... which completely 
 ruins any Geralt's potentially philosophical moments and makes attempts at humour seem puerile. 
 Would it really cost that much money to hire someone who actually speaks English to punch up the 
 dialogue before publishing it?
  
  - The bad translation also makes it harder to follow the details of the story. In places, it feels 
 like there IS no story, and you end up repeating the following steps: 1) click through your quest 
 log until you get an arrow on your mini-map, 2) go to the arrow, and 3) kill, pick up or talk to 
 the item indicated by the arrow until 4) you get a new quest and return to 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmg1276
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game just rocks! if there isn't an expansion pack in development that is just a crime. This 
 game is so good I went and bought the book that the game is based on. I am a little disappointed 
 that they are doing a redo on the original rather than an expansion but if we're lucky we'll get 
 both. The game does crash on saves in vista but the game content and play has allowed me to overlook 
 that. I have the same problems with the game as everyone else but story and game play allow me 
 to overlook that. Some funny parts in the game as well. Overall I would say if your an RPG junkie 
 than play this game. I would say for me it is 2nd to Diablo 2 and better than Titan Quest. I can't 
 see how this game got poor ratings from some people but to each his own I guess. Bootom line is 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  I'm sure there are many factors that make "The Witcher" best RPG of last year : new combat style, 
 innovative skill system and so on. But the most impressive thing this game offers is the storyline 
 with lively characters. Take the main character as an example. From the beginning of the game he 
 has a blank mental portraits because he lost his memory. And through out the game, with the help 
 of his lovers and friends, he gradually regain his true character with many opinions of life and 
 society including the "famous witchers' neutrality". And finally in the end of the game, he becomes 
 quite confident of himself when fighting his arch-enemy. The cut-screen before the last fight is 
 pretty cool: While Gerard proves so sure of his actions, the grandmaster keeps talking, which shows 
 that he's trying to deceive himself. Besides prefect characters building, the game also allows 
 players to makes choice that affect many events through out the story. That's not a new feature 
 of RPG these days but I like the way this game execute this "multiple choices" and judge the players's 
 choice through the comment of some NPCs. For example, in the prelude if u choose to fight the frightener 
 then Gerard will blame himself after that. Finally I'm sure you guys can find many interesting 
 factors of the storyline in the best RPG of 2007. That's not amazing after all because this game 
 is based on a best seller novel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greywolfe615
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I originally downloaded this game when it came out back in October, only to be disappointed by 
 seemingly endless load times that made the game rather clunky to play. However, since installing 
 the 1.2 version I have really had a ball with this game.
  
  The best part of the game is the ability to make choices that truly change the game experience. 
 This plays like a kind of choose your own adventure novel. But unlike rpgs like KOTOR where you 
 have obvious "good" and "evil" choices, this game makes you choose among shades of grey. It's also 
 impossible to know ahead of time all the potential ramifications of your choices. 
  
  The combat is more active than many other rpgs I have played, but doesn't make you feel like you 
 need the reflexes of a FPS either. There also seems to be a good balance between combat and plot 
 development.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wljohnso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is as solid of an RPG that has come out in a while. 
  
  As with many Euro based RPG's your character is more focused (re pregenerated) and there is a railroading 
 feel to character development. You will get all the same talents and skills (for the most part) 
 it is just a matter of time and sequence. To the American role player this is a turn off, but the 
 story is so solid and focused on Geralt that what I normally find as a flaw is largely rendered 
 moot. 
  
  There is certainly a great deal of moral ambuguity in the game and the role playing angle is perhaps 
 a little more nuanced than some other RPG's. There are big decisions to be made, but also some 
 small and amusing ones. Try inviting Carmen to the get together for old friends and you will see. 
 
  
  Combat is different, it almost plays out like a rythum game than a click fest or click once model. 
 There are three attack styles (fast, group and strong) each with associated skills to make Geralt 
 more deadly. Additionally combat against humans and monsters are also different styles, so skills 
 are split amongst six styles. Attacks start small and build up with chained attacks. When the swords 
 starts burning you need to click in a timely manner or the chain is broken. As you gain in levels 
 and get used to the timing combat can be impressive and rewarding.
  
  Skills are all nearly combat related (spells and weaposn) anything else is done by buying, stealing 
 or earning books. Which in terms of direct game play equate to potion ingredients, potions and 
 quests. You will be perpetually nickled and dimed buying books to gain knowledge to complete quests 
 to get money for buying books. But don't expect Geralt to be a thief or a bard. He is a randy killing 
 machine it is mostly an issue of what kind.
  
  Quests are a mixed bag. While there seems to be a lot of them, many are related and dove tail together. 
 There might be an initial panic. but for the most part explore, talk and read carefully and it 
 is less daunting. 
  
  The interface has some issues and it is mostly an annoyance. but in combat sometimes it is not 
 quite as reactive to clicks as I would like. Also the inventory system is horrendous. it is literally 
 a four bins of stuff and there are some stacking issues. Luckily there is not a ton of loot to 
 get in the game, but you will be goign to the inn to drop stuff off or to a merchant to sell stuff 
 fairly often. 
  
  Luckily a lot of inventory is taken up by potion components. Potions (especially on harder levels) 
 are critical to the game and give Geralt an edge. There are only so many to take however as potions 
 are toxic. Potions are more effects over time than instant gratification. While this is completely 
 an homage to Ultima IV, making potions is simple. Potions you can make are listed and if you have 
 the ingredients the game choses the herbs or monster parts. 
  
  The Wicther is an adult fantasy. While the US version is slightyl sanitized (i. e. no nudity) the 
 Euro version is not. I would recommend the Europ version, because even self censoring for the uS 
 market is a bit of a slippery slope. Gerald likes the ladies, but witchers are sterile and immune 
 to discease... so why not have a bit of fun? But beyond the sexual nature of the setting, the plot 
 is morally ambiguous and you will have to make soem unpleasant decisions. You do have to chose 
 sides and sometimes that side is the one who is less evil. 
  
  Good:
  A very solid plot and a world that feels lived in
  An adult fantasy story (more so for the uncensored 
 version)
  Solid graphics, especially combat animations
  Reasonable system reqs
  A different and rewarding combat system
  Greed is largely mitigated in the game
  
  Bad
 
  Repediitve NPC graphics, very few character models
  Uneven voice talent
  Some interface issues (ie click and the game does not respond)
  An inventory system that would 
 be archaic ten years ago.
  Limited character building choices
  Not a ton of loot 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdragan
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  In general The Witcher seems like an overall good game, however, I am unable to give it a rating 
 as such. I did not complete the game because of the annoyingly simple combat style. I just couldn't 
 get myself to like the gameplay. I did enjoy the voice acting and cutscenes fully. If the combat 
 were more fun I would give this game a near perfect rating. The combat only consists of a sequence 
 of precisely timed mouse clicks. Besides switching targets or doing special abilities you really 
 just click the mouse several times to swing the sword, I found it somewhat hard and even when I 
 did it correctly it was still lackluster. On top of all that, the camera control was very limited 
 and did not satisfy my needs. It is very sad that such a potentially great game could have such 
 a simple downside. I would suggest you buy this game if you like roleplaying games and a great 
 storyline with superb cutscenes with great voice acting, but if your looking for a fun exiting 
 game that plays well please choose another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_hawk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Its a really good game yet is lacks a sense of freedom. It is a true RPG, which involves good fighting, 
 good puzzles and a great story. It would be off the chart had it invested more in diversity of 
 weapons, armor etc... and if it were to give you the freedom of oblivion. I need say nothing about 
 the graphics which are stunning if you have a good graphics card. In easy mode you'll find it quite 
 accessible, though that doesn't mean you can let your guard down. You'll notice it's not your typical 
 hack and slash, there is a lot more interactivity, you're obligated to click at the right moment 
 and you have to think your way through the tougher battles. It's not a game for the younger players 
 due to the decision making (The righteous path isn't always the bast path) , the sex and the violence 
 . All in all it a must have for anyone who loves RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodo008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Very nice game, with a lot of features like the old one Diablo. The graphics are over average but 
 the physics missing. The game should be tried by all the role player fans but I don't know if they 
 will want to play until finish. The story is good but not captivating, with a lot of parallel missions 
 witch are not very nice. The weapons are simple and the combat is average. The speed of the game 
 is average.
  The graphics are good and the recommended system is not the really the high end. After the patch 
 the loading of levels has been improved.
  There are some wanting times when your character comes back from the current action. 
  When I 
 have started this game with the default camera view I was really disappointed. Then I see in the 
 option that is possible to change the current view which made the game much more attractive. The 
 story of the first chapter was good.
  Although, this game can be a point in history but I am looking forward for better role player games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martzel94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I know that my review might not be 100% unbiased but still you must read it.
  
  Plot:
  The game is based on a book by Andrzej Sapkowski a Polish fantasy writer. We are Geralt, a witcher, 
 who lost his memory in an accident and now tries to get it back. Basically our main task is to 
 get rid of a mysterious wizard who attacked the witcher's hideout and stole few very important 
 mutation genes, but on the way we encounter many, many more adventurous tasks, characters and different 
 places/cities.
  
  Game play:
  The Witcher has an ultimate new fighting system which works perfectly and features a great magic 
 management. 
  
  Sound: 
  Background sounds are just right, but the translation could be made a little bit better as, some 
 character's voices can sometimes be annoying.
  
  Conclusion:
  The Witcher is a really fun, revolutionary game that will suck you in for days. The game is well 
 thought over and for me it is one of the best RPG's ever. With its 'humorous' characters and ideas, 
 realistic and dark world, Witcher is a must-buy for any real game fan.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkarthik
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  the game is simply mind blowing... the game reminds me of "Fable the lost chapterswithcher is 
 some what similar to this.. hats of to the creators.... also the game is too big but doesn't matter 
 because i enjoyed wasting my time to play this game... the graphics is fantastic.. and the concept 
 of the games is totally innovative... the game is scary too even when we play in the day.. there 
 are few flaws dont want to mention it... inclusion of girls and hookers in the game is good idea.. this 
 makes the player feel relaxed a little bit... as of now i am not seeing any problem with the game... atast 
 its a very good creativity from atari... i dont know where they get this talent from.. i love this 
 game... but thing is too many monsters and talent acquirance is very less sometime... armor for the 
 hero is very less too.. and dodging from the attacks is diffcult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  At first I wasn't buying this game. I played the demo and thought it was a poor console port. My 
 wife bought me the game when she saw it on an older 'wish-list' of mine. I'm glad she did. 
  
  LIKES: 
  
  1. The combat system now, although when I first played the game I detested it. 
 Once learned it seemed to be a natural and helped the flow of the game. 
  2. Graphics. VERY well done, especially the 'maidens'. Very few areas where my game stutters with 
 all settings on high/highest.
  3. Outstanding sound and music score. One of the very few games of anyh genre where I have kept 
 the music playing. Normally in any game I have played in the past the music got very repetitive 
 very fast.
  4. The game world FEELS lived in. NPC's go about their business of the day and of you stop and 
 listen to some of the conversations its kind of amusing.
  5. The storeline is fresh and original. I love D&D, but that universe has a lot of mileage. The 
 one that Witcher takes place has its own rich history that really add to the lived-in feel of the 
 world.
  6. Over-all the voice-acting is excellent.
  
  DISLIKES:
  1. Some of the conversations are more frustrating then they should be. There seem to be some missing 
 threads or dialogues.
  2. The voices can be annoying with many of the unimportant NPC's.
  3. Some of the cut-scenes don't really add to the game.
  4. If you want to rest, you should be 
 able to. In houses you need to speak with someone to then select the rest button. That's silly. 
 There are many abandoned houses with fireplaces. I would have liked to have the ability to use 
 or take one over as a base of operations.
  
  I would highly recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masakiumai
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  *All scores are out of 10, with individual scores for game-play/controls, storyline, graphics, 
 re-playability, and an overall score. Yes, quite unoriginal... so sue me
  *This PC title was run with a Pentium D 2.66 gHz processor, Nvidia Geforce 8500 GT, 2 GB RAM, and 
 Windows XP
  
  Ah, The Witcher... probably one of the weirdest sounding titles of the year. So what is this so 
 called "Witcher" that us PC gamers have heard so much about? I shall attempt to answer this question 
 with little to no spoilers. If I had to use one word to describe a Witcher, I'd use "pimp-badass." 
 That's one word, right? Anyway, all of this talk of "Witchers" leads me to the first review section:
 
  
  
  If you love role playing games where choices actually affect game play, The Witcher will be right 
 up your alley in the story department. Elves, dwarves, wizards, kings... this game has it all. It 
 is based on a series of Novels by famed Polish fantasy author, Andrzej Sapkowski. While I've never 
 personally read any of them yet (only 1 or 2 are currently available in English) , the word on the 
 street is that it follows the theme of the novels perfectly. 
  You play as Geralt (thats a G-sound, not a J-sound) , a Witcher who has suffered amnesia and does 
 not remember anything about his life before the start of the adventure. So, back to what I was 
 saying before, a "Witcher" is basically an unholy mix of a warlock, a wizard, and alchemist, and 
 a swordsman. You may want to add "pimp" to that concoction, but I'll get to that later. Geralt 
 has been pumped with so many mutagens that he is infertile, invulnerable to disease, has white 
 hair, and has a yellow tint to his eyes. He is also a total player when it comes to the ladies... In 
 fact, out of all the available ladies in the game, there are only two that the player can choose 
 to have a relationship with... I suppose the infertility and immunity to disease went straight to 
 his head.
  The world that Geralt exists in is basic Medieval England setting. This means plagues, assassins, 
 magic, feudal government system, medieval-sounding soundtrack (which is excellent by the way) , 
 knights, and, of course, rotten-toothed wenches. There are literally hundreds of books of Lore 
 about the world in-game, but most players won't have the patience to read them. 
  It is true that the "main" storyline of The Witcher is not terribly strong, but the HUNDREDS of 
 side-stories is more than enough to make up for that, and these side-stories are what the game 
 is all about anyway. Trust me, if you breeze through the game without doing any side-quests, you 
 are missing out. For storyline, I grant The Witcher 9.3/10
  
  
  First of all, I will clarify that there are THREE ways to play The Witcher: over-the-shoulder, 
 close isometric, and long isometric. I played through the game twice using the over-the-shoulder 
 view, so that is how I will be reviewing it.
  At a quick glance, it seems that this title is a basic "get quest/do quest/get paid" formula... and 
 you would probably be right in thinking that, but there is really more to the game than this simple 
 criteria. Lots of the game involves in-depth discussions with NPCs (all of which are voice acted... no 
 reading here) . If you are patient enough to listen to these conversations, they will definitely 
 keep you entertained. 
  Perhaps the most controversial aspect of the game, and the nightmare of soccer moms everywhere, 
 is the sexual content... This is purely voluntary in the game, but come on... who is actually not 
 gonna go for it when the chance arises? Every time the player makes Geralt "score," a new postcard-style 
 semi-nude card is added to the collection. These are censored in the American version, as I suppose 
 the publishers figured us feeble-minded Americans couldn't handle the nudity.
  Two of the more in-depth aspects of the game play are the level-up system and the alchemy system, 
 both of which are very complex.
  Controls are the only aspect of the game that suffers, but the damage is not too deep. Moving around 
 involves the basic WASD keys. Unfortunately, combat is not quite so simple. Geralt has three stances 
 and two swords, all of which are used to fight in different situations. The silver sword is used 
 for monsters, and the steel sword is used for humans (or, as Geralt says, "They're both for monsters."... oooohhh 
 social satire) The three stances are Strong (used for buff things) , Fast (used for quick things) , 
 and Group (used for..... groups) . So all together there are 6 possible fighting combinations that 
 the player has seconds to decide on before the enemies strike. 
  Combat itself is extremely simple though, and involves simply clicking, but with a slight twist. 
 Right-clicking activates magic abilities, and left clicking is used for sword fighting. There is 
 a rhythm of left clicking that strings together cool, and occasionally messy, combos ---this rhythm 
 is shown by the cursor changing colors when the time is right, so combat is more evolved than simply 
 button-mashing.
  So overall the game play may have a few problems, but if you really think about it, these "problems" 
 are more like a "style." Once the player is used to the game, its all good. The game play aspect 
 of The Witcher gets an 8.8/10
  
  
  On my mid-end rig (specs listed at the top) , I was able to play through the game on mid to high 
 settings, and the only slowdown I had was in the swamp (which I heard through the grapevine that 
 they fixed on the latest patch) . This was CDProjekt's first big release, which is quite impressive 
 considering how great the graphics are. Occasionally I had to move the camera around just to take 
 a look at the beautiful landscapes. 
  Now, this is no Oblivion, but it definitely doesn't disappoint. The only graphical qualm I have 
 is that the same character design is used for MANY different characters... as if the world is full 
 of clones of the same 20 people... creepy. For graphics, I give The Witcher 8.2/10
  
  
  While other games boast of their "Choices" system (*cough*Fable*cough*) , The Witcher is the only 
 game I've played where choices the player makes actually affect the rest of the game (I know... I 
 was shocked too) . This aspect of the game alone will tempt the player into multiple play-through 
 sessions. From choices on who to start a relationship with (or even if you will start one) , to 
 choices on which factions to support (if any) , to choices on whether to kill this person or not 
 (what!?! killing or sparing someone affects the rest of the game?!?!) ... You certainly will have 
 your hands full with decisions.
  I never thought a game would be worthy of this, but for replayability, I deem The Witcher worthy 
 of a 10/10
  
  
  *Not an Average, you math people...
  Overall I thoroughly enjoyed The Witcher both times I played through it. Without spoiling anything, 
 the ending was incredible, and really left me pondering what transpired. The Witcher is full of 
 points that are still very applicable today such as racism, sexism, terrorism, and corrupt government. 
 Even people who don't usually play RPGs will definitely find something they like about the game. 
 Excellent on the first play-through, even better the second time. I award The Witcher 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PenthiusX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  The game diddent appeal to me at first ,but as i gradually went playing (cause i diddent have any 
 game at that time that i havent played) the game kinda started to grow on me and although the game 
 wasent perfect ..... i still managed to end the game 
  
  The game consisted of good and of bad but ,, and for me it had more bad than good .........
  
 
  i dont kno about people who rate the game highly but i really demand the best in games ,, as most 
 of the gamers kno games come out dam good these days 
  and competetion is up, so making a game thats good at the base story adventure rpg thing, but bad 
 at the place where the game development by th developers takes place ........... is sad 
  
  not one the developers have really crapped up a decent game 
  
  Long loading time plenty of 
 bugs , a god dam clone wars going down here most of the NPC look the same the fighting system is 
 craap (i personally like a little more control in an RPG ) i hated the mindless clicking system 
 
  and the spells and spell casting system is crap with only bout 5 spells and all of em diddent come 
 as much in handy in combat as it shoul have ..
  
  
  the games very restrictive as i diddent find th game anything similar to a free open world roaming 
 game ,, with restrictions every step off the way...................
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Thye good thing wus that the game seemed to have a decent , (, not totally orignal ,, buy that i mean 
 the story wassent gripping as many gamesive played have somewhat same kinda stories ) not so bad 
 a story line that managed to go its distance 
  
  and the game had a fair amount of NPC interaction with plenty of side quests to get exp and money 
 
  
  the game wus adult too (personally it diddent matter, wasent up to the mark )
  
  IN the end it kinda gave me its value in money and i herd there gona make an improved version of 
 the game and distribute free to previous owners ..
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: futs22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  It's basically a solo adventure and unlike most RPGs wherein you take control of more than 1 player. 
 The battle mechanics are sort of new in the sense that incessant clicking will get you killed. 
 The battle system takes just a short while to get used to but integrating melee combat with alchemy 
 takes a bit of cerebral work to fully be an effective swordsman. No bows and arrows here people.
 
  
  IMO, the graphics and battle mechanics are second only to the story. The protaganist, Geralt, influences 
 how your own experience of the story turns out as choices you make will permanently change the 
 story arc as you go. So in a way, the game isn't completely linear, just somewhat linear since 
 whacking the bad guy at the end is inevitable for all the alternate paths. The dialogue may not 
 be perfect, but the way the game makes you choose between paths that are not exactly choosing just 
 between what is right or wrong, or good or bad, is a very enjoyable way of imparting your own biases 
 into the game and this in itself is really part of the whole immersion experience into the game. 
 
  
  Overall, the game is very good, but could have been better if the almost-game-breaking glitches 
 were ironed out and if the translation was done better. But those small nuisances are really a 
 small part of the game and sometimes are not even encountered at all by some which makes the overall 
 experience extremely enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game. I'll get the things I didn't like about it out of the way and then explain 
 why I still like it so much. 
  
  So first of all I have a dual boot machine with Windows Vista and XP. When I tried this game on 
 Vista it would always crash every ten minutes or so. So I went to the website and downloaded the 
 patch and some stupid Microsoft update and tried it again and IT STILL CRASHED every ten minutes 
 or so. Luckily all I had to do to fix this was play it in Windows XP. It still crashes every once 
 in a while but not enough to make me upset.
  
  And yes it's a little buggy and the English translation is not exactly perfect.
  
  But neither 
 of these issues are enough to make me think this is one of the best games of the year. The graphics 
 are amazing. The story line is awesome and I really appreciated the open ended aspects of the game, 
 especially the ones in the 2nd chapter. The gameplay itself is also exactly what I was looking 
 for.
  
  Long story short I loved playing this game and hope the developers decide to spend their time making 
 the sequel instead of remaking this one to fix some of the minor issues that the naysayers out 
 there seem to be crying about.
  
  I can't wait for the next chapter in this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_dorian
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The first game of the unknown Polish software company CD Project Red goes over the top without 
 any hesitation. The Witcher is the game that narks a new era for CPRPG genre ,a matched equal to 
 Oblivion and high above Neverwinter Nights 2 plus its expansion. The reason is that those guys 
 from Poland used as basis the work of a highly known Polish fantasy writer at home and blend it 
 with their capability, fantasy and innovation, gave their souls to produce a world with a memorable 
 scent, a world that truly exists. A world beyond good and evil with a lot of grey areas compared 
 to our reality that homes a new digital antihero right out from the pages of the book. It is a 
 mature feeling that governs the game without denying its exoticism. The magic is out there waiting 
 to be harvested. There are not the usual stereotypes of similar games nor the fairytale atmosphere 
 one can find playing this game. It is a heavy dose of adrenaline that overcomes the player.
  The game mechanics are not difficult to master wandering in its wonderful world. The sound is above 
 great ,the voice acting is fairly good, the cinematics are a masterpiece and the unfolding story 
 is many levels above those of its contemporaries. 
  Playing this game is an experience that must be known to every devoted fan of this genre ,or every 
 one that needs to taste a large piece of good gaming.
  There are minor bugs, ofcourse , but they do not shadow its playability for any degree. The mood 
 ,the feel of this experience is something superbly undescribable, it is something that should be 
 witnessed.
  The world of the Witcher awaits..........
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andro0kael
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  I love this game.. its the first game i've played were u collect pictures of the women you've been 
 with (and i love theyr attitudes) , the graphic is good ,to little interaction with the enviorment, 
 nice idea to combine sorcery and alchemy with swordsmanship (i personally like the idea, but i kind 
 of liked to have a bow too) ... the werewolf could of loocked better.... , and personaly i like 
 the story... XD .... you are a witcher that lost his memory, and now you are fighting and questing 
 to find your memory and to retrieve your fellow witcher's stuff..... in your adventures u find the 
 love of your life, kill the salamandras and this is my favorite part...... u kill your so called 
 adopted son (that nobody knows were and when he teleported... and in the vision u don't even speak 
 with him.... unlike all the characters u see, his the only one u don't talk to XD (at least that is 
 what i think) ) , this game reminds me of the first movie Beowolf. And personaly i was hopeing Geralt 
 would die in the end :P . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The game was very different from most RPG games I have played. I liked the fact that you had to 
 make choices that had an effect on the game. But I did have crash problems after a few hours of 
 playing the game and video issues (tears, people with parts missing, large areas of loss of picture 
 on screen, and strange things like rectangles of color. I read other people had the same issues. 
 I thought I had a bad video card as I just bought an ATI 3850 but it worked great on the other 
 new games I got for Xmas.
  
  I liked the open areas but was getting frustrated in the city as some of the quests seemed petty. 
 I did enjoy the NPs but some seemed like they would play a greater role than they did. The new 
 combat was fun once I had the hang of it. I did not like the potion making either until later in 
 the game. I thought the cut seens were great and made the story progress but many questions went 
 unanswered. I think there will be a Witcher 2 as many have discussed in the forums who finished 
 the game. It is worth playing. So on to Hellgate: London 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't much to say that is bad about the Witcher, it is well acted, the story is brilliant, 
 there is a chance of a sequel, there is no lousy cliff hanger ending, boss battles are fun, quests 
 are great, combat is innovative and awesome, graphics are very well done and the decision and consequence 
 based story means that the over used good vs. bad, pick one, scenario is discarded, with plenty 
 of re-play value, as it has three different endings, main characters are different and have great 
 personalities.
  
  The only problems is that the final boss is to easy, providing you get the Raven armour, some basic 
 character models are overused, voices on basic NPC's are overused. There are so many fantastic 
 places mentioned that you cannot reach, and many bosses can be quite easy to beat.
  
  I can't say more, if you haven't played it you won't get it, so play it NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyflyfish
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  I think it lack a couple of things like the way the character fights. is that only me who thinks 
 so ? I think that it would be better if he would fight the style in the game Gothic III now that 
 is a way easier or in Olivion. Is there some one out there that thinks the same way ? I do like 
 the potion making but it is a little complicated otherwise the game is great . Now the best part 
 of the game is that it is so many side quests and you can get girls in love with you and have some 
 yeehaa and that makes things interesting allso barfights whith money on the line is realy cool 
 not to mention the little games that can get your reputation up and earn money on the side. The 
 same goes for barfights you begin as an aprentice and move youre self up to pro and so on to earn 
 trust ,exp, money and so on GREAT GAME.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil-minded
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I'll be brief and to the point... I like games like Fallout, Elder Scroll, Gothic, Neverwiner Nights 
 and so on... all classics as you can see - they are all in my personal collection.
  Well The Witcher will be one of the new additions to my collection - and a well deserved one! the 
 game has a very unique feeling to it.. it sucks you in and it does not let you go :)
  It has great graphics and sound but thats not really important in that type of games - the world 
 is very believable and rich - you can do things that you cant in most games and i its a mature 
 game - something rare and appreciated by gamers.
  
  Just Buy the game and enjoy - i am sure you will.
  Its one of the games that must have a sequel 
 - lets keep our fingers crossed.. shall we.... oh and
  thats my first review... I just felt that this game deserves the attention - and I am also hopping
 
  that enough people buy the game so that the company decides to do a sequel :)
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v2580s
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Witcher a great RPG and one of the best I've seen.
  
  It has excellent graphics that create a mysterious and addictive atmosphere throughout the game 
 which is significantly enhanced by the music. Its plot is very well designed with enough twists 
 and turns which make it very addictive.
  The strongest part of the game, in my humble opinion, is the innovative battle system. Even though 
 it could be hard to master it gives depth in battle and demands the strategic use and combination 
 of fighting styles, weapons, magic and potions (especially at higher levels of difficulty) in order 
 to effectively defeat your enemies.
  
  What I didn't like was its linearity. You cannot really do what you want ,go and explore where you 
 want and talk to whoever you want. You are just stranded to a specific location until you finish 
 your main mission there and move to the next...
  
  Great title, great minigames, great plot, great graphics but not free... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoothornrollo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  "The Witcher" is simply one of the best PC games I have ever played. It has superb graphics and 
 is very easy to pick up - the combat system is fine, contrary to what some say. 
  
  It introduces a element of choice which is stronger than any other game of its kind I have ever 
 played. 
  
  It features a story-line which is not just your standard RPG plot but is something much more mature 
 and adult. There are themes of racism and prejudice and bias which reflect modern life but at the 
 same time it has a definite sense of self-deprecating humour which shows that the makers have an 
 external perspective that others lack.
  
  There are some downsides that prevents me awarding a perfect 10- it took me ages to get it to play 
 on Vista but after I visited http://alfred. co. in/how-to/witcher-vista-crash-fix-how-to/ all was 
 well - and there are too few models of people so you keep meeting the same looking person. But 
 these are minor quibbles. 
  
  I thought Oblivion would be hard to beat but this game comfortably does that. Get out there and 
 buy it now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inzahouse13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Outstanding game , was even better that i expected to be . its sad there are so few games of this 
 kind/genre + the sound and the music is perfect, the action keeps you binded to the pc for hours 
 and makes you do all the quests from 1st one to the last one and never skip one , solid action 
 and role-playing elements outstanding presentation makes the game exciting to see and listen to 
 . All the atari games kinda sucked till now.. so who knows in the future what the`ll come up with 
 :) ofcource the game has few bad sides but are so far from the good sides that you can even ignore 
 them :) I heard some people that said this games freezed up on them.. never happened to yet so.. 
 and for closure i will quote someone here: is an imaginative game that's got enough remarkable 
 , unique moments in it to make it shine .Anyway i hope they`ll make a sequel :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is a game which sets new standards in how an RPG should be made. And it doesn't do 
 it with fancy graphics (although the graphics are pretty good) , a lot of items or great interface. 
 It do it with it's STORY.
  
  Unlike most of the RPG's which usually comes out at the market, in The Witcher you do not play 
 the "Hero destined to save the world/princess/long lost sibling". Because Geralt (the name of the 
 hero in Witcher) is everything else but this. He likes to drink, seduce women, and do everything 
 for a price. 
  
  The world of Witcher is nothing compared to the other fantasy worlds we usually meet in RPG's. 
 It is very close to what you will see in a real world even know. Politics, intrigues, terrorists, 
 racism - almost all of the nastiest things our society has to offer. And you cannot get a "shiny 
 angel halo" over your head and save everyone. Most of the choices you have to made are forced over 
 your head and the only things you can do is try to chose the "lesser evil". Because in Witcher 
 there isn't a single (major) character which can be called "Good" in the way we know it. In every 
 step you meet bandits, thieves and terrorists. 
  
  Exactly those choices is what makes the game so great. You can can see the consequences of your 
 actions. You can ruin or save people's lives. And the decisions are hard... Because The Witcher 
 swallows you in his world. You stop to think for the NPC's in the game as just a characters in 
 the game. You begin to thing to them as a people. And it is really hard to chose who to let live 
 and who not. Will you help a Royal Knight force his sister to marry someone she does not like or 
 will let her became a vampire whore as she desires? Will you side with the oppressed non-humans, 
 which acts like terrorists killing innocent and burning villages, or with the HOLY Order which 
 treats non-humans like animals? Will you help the arrogant elf or the good knight? 
  
  There is many many more decisions like this in the game. Even the simplest thing you do may have 
 big impact 3 chapters later. So be careful and made you choices wisely.
  
  The combat system is very simple and intuitive. All the combos are made with one button click and 
 a good timing. It may take a while for you to get accustomed to it, but after that Geralt (The 
 Hero) becomes like a real Jedi Master :) . The leveling system is almost perfect. It allows you 
 to chose which skills to level up fast while the others you can level up later without harming 
 your main combat path. The only exceptions are the highest level skills which you have to chose 
 carefully. The magics signs you can you are only 5. I have used only 2 of them (AARD and IGNI) 
 but I have seen other players play with all of the signs.
  
  The alchemy is the other original thing in The Witcher. Instead of buying potions like in other 
 games, you have to brew them yourself. And believe me at Hard you will need potions to survive. 
 There is like 20 different potions in the game which augment different aspects of your hero and 
 have different setbacks. Also some of the ingredients are very rare and hard to obtain and you 
 have to be careful what you take and what you throw out.
  
  The inventory screen is perhaps the worst thing in the game. The inventory is very large and there 
 isn't an option to be sorted out or something like this. With all the alchemical ingredients you 
 will carry during the game it is really hard sometimes to find what you need there. Also unlike 
 many games, the Gold in The Witcher is rare and you will have to chose carefully what you take 
 with you and what you throw out.
  
  Of course The Witcher is not the perfect game. It has tremendous recommended system requirements 
 although I have managed to play the game with a NVidia 7300GT at High details with AA on, which 
 i haven't been able to do even in games with much lower requirements. The biggest problem are the 
 loading times. And there is a LOT of places you will need to wait at the loading screen. Even entering 
 a small house is doing via a loading screen. But the problem is when you go outside of the house 
 and you have to load the big city. With Dual Core E4300 the loading times weren't much of a nuisance 
 but with lower end PC's they may be troublesome. Patch 1.2 reduce the loading times a bit but they 
 are still long.
  Also prepare a lot of spare hard disk space or delete your save games often, because a save in 
 Witcher is like 20mb and if you complete the game without deleting saves you will have like 130-180 
 Saves at the end (Each quick save is a new slot + auto saves) witch is like 3-4GB. 
  
  There is a lot of other small things which makes this game so great. And if you manage to overcome 
 some minor technical issues and became part of the world of The Witcher, you will enjoy the best 
 RPG which has come at the market for the last 10 or even more years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Geralt of Rivia is far from your standard RPG hero. He's a drunk, a womanizer, and a swordsman 
 for hire who doesn't like to take sides, and is always looking out for himself. But, Geralt's world 
 isn't populate with savory types either, in the game's first act alone you'll come across quite 
 a number of rapists, murderers, kidnappers, and thieves. Occasionally Geralt will be forced to 
 take a side, and when this happens, the choices are always difficult, since you either have a choice 
 of siding with  or  Ultimately, 
 this is what's most memorable about The Witcher. Most other RPG's have you playing a good-hearted 
 "chosen-one" type, who, of course, is a good guy that stands against the forces of evil, but almost 
 every character in The Witcher, including your own, has low morals.
  
  Geralt is one of the few remaining witchers (mutant monster hunters for hire) who learns of a nefarious 
 group known as Salamandra, who played a key part in wiping out his people, and thus, he seeks to 
 claim revenge. But, things do end up getting a bit more complicated than that, and Geralt's past 
 isn't so simple either. You will quest through 5 acts trying to accomplish your main goal of ending 
 Salamandra, but each of these acts also has smaller plots that also play key roles in your main 
 objective.
  
  Of course, Geralt will need to be armed to the teeth to survive the brutal world, and people around 
 him. And armed to the teeth he will be; you can collect up to four different weapons that each 
 handle differently, and serve different purposes in battle. In the beginning of the game, you'll 
 only have access to one or two weapons, and two spells, and in that instance, combat is a repetitive 
 click-fest. But, once you start accessing more magic abilities, and fill all four weapon slots, 
 the combat has a lot more depth to it. You'll have to think about your situation, and quickly decide 
 which of your weapons and power would be most useful against your foes. The combat is a bit different 
 than your standard click-the-enemy-until-it-dies affair, as you'll have to cleverly time attacks 
 in order to pull off devastating combos. Once you get the hang of the combat system, and start 
 to collect more abilities for use in combat, the fighting mechanics really start to shine.
  
  But, the game is an RPG after all, so you can expect plenty ordinary features like boosting 
 your character's stats, item collection, and inventory management. But, there are a few things 
 that step outside of the ordinary. The first is the emphasis on doing the side-quests. Money is 
 hard to come by while just doing the main quests, and assuming the title profession of witcher, 
 you'll be approached often to kill various monsters. Unlike most RPG's, these side quests are actually 
 pretty entertaining, not only because the combat is fun and you can earn quite a bit of cash, but 
 they also add a certain amount of depth to the world through interacting with the characters and 
 battling it out with the monsters. The other unordinary feature is that of Alchemy. After learning 
 the ways of the alchemist, you can make potions that will give you various buffs in battle. But, 
 don't go thinking that it'll be easy to cook up these potions, you'll first have to find ingredients, 
 which could mean gathering plants, looting various items from the corpses of your enemies, or purchasing 
 bases from your local merchant. You'll also often interact with other characters. The dialogue 
 options are simple, used mostly for inquiry or to accept or decline offers, but when you have to 
 make important decisions, choosing will be tough, because matters can get quite complicated.
  
  The production values in The Witcher are great. Even if you have a mediocre computer (like 
 me) you'll be able to run the game fairly well. The models all look great, the environments are 
 expansive, and beautiful, and the lighting is awesome, too. I did experience slow-downs, but that 
 could probably be remedied if you have a better gaming PC, there are lots of fairly long (20-30 
 second) loading screens, and considering the game is running an engine used way back for the first 
 Neverwinter Nights, the graphics aren't exactly state of the art in the first place. The music 
 is magnificent, and all of the sound effects are perfectly fine. The voice-overs are, for the most 
 part, pretty good, but some of the dialogue seems to have been lost in translation from the original 
 Polish writing.
  
  The game is fairly long, ranging from 50-70 hours or so depending on how many side quests you do. 
 Certain moments of the game are worth seeing again just to see the outcomes of different decisions, 
 but these are better accessed by loading saves before you make your decisions rather than warranting 
 another play-through.
  
  The Witcher is a game you will not easily forget just due to the memorable world that you are placed 
 in, and your interactions with the characters there-in. But, that isn't the only thing the game 
 has got going for it, it also features a great combat system that relies more on strategy and timing 
 than fast clicking, and overall the production values are pretty good considering the game's old 
 engine. Though the game has some problems, such as the frequent loading screens, and some odd dialogue, 
 the game is a great debut for newbie developer CD Projekt, and is sure to please anyone who enjoys 
 RPG's.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fstephan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game I felt more like a beta tester/Q. A. employee than a gamer. I'm not sure what 
 happened. If they ran out of budget or there wasn't a Q. A department but this is embarrasing. I've 
 never played a game with so many bugs and problems. Personally I believe someone had to cut the 
 dev time short because I don't know why a company would make such an awesome game so painful to 
 play. I mean when a patch includes fixes such as "for Alina not being at her home when she should" 
 and "Fixes for usable doors.." is just silly. The game doesn't even do a good job of running on 
 state of the art hardware. My pc runs Crysis and Oblivion at full settings without much hitch and 
 I have to run this game at medium to low for the same frames.
  I love the art, the gameplay was on it's way, the characters are fun and the story is as good as 
 I've ever seen. I read a poll one time that the average age of pc gamers is early 30's and it's 
 nice to see a game finally get some b&lls and make a game more for mature in other ways than just 
 violence. 
  If your reading this review because your thinking about buying the game, my suggestion to you is 
 to wait for more patches to fix existing problems so you can enjoy the game the way the designers 
 meant for you to enjoy it. Not to mention by that time it will be in the 20$ bin instead of paying 
 49.99$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaryad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  If you want to take the best experience from The Witcher you will need to activate your "open-minded" 
 cerebral function. Let's be pessimistic at first and say that the camera is annoying and that our 
 character doesn't move fluidly, and that the combat system is completely senseless. All this can 
 happen to you until you get the big picture. I mean, while on combat you can manage time, where 
 you can make a chain full of berserker combos that will drive your foes to your unstoppable list 
 of cruelty. This is nice, because you don't have a linear system of combat like in Dungeon Siege, 
 Diablo and similar games, but you'll have to learn how to swing your sword and click in the right 
 instant (yes, that's easy) to testify the incredible battle moves our character has to offer. 
 
  What you get with The Witcher and Geralt is a world constantly in motion, full of the arcane RPG 
 fantasy and the pitiless pictures of modern society. No hope, no clean-bright-shiny-pretty figures 
 of Final Fantasy series, but a depiction of social misery, in the face of rapists, murderers, child 
 molesters, fanatics, terrorists, whores, and other sweet and gentle guys that cross Geralt's path 
 (and sword) . Very mature, with priceless humor, specially the sarcastic tone of some dialogue lines. 
 
  The storyline is very far from linear. The player is always confronted with necessary choices that 
 will influence the rest of the intrigue. And, this time, you don't have the good side or bad side 
 choice (sometimes you do, tough) and some decisions touch the line between good and bad, right 
 and wrong, and all that you choose will knock at your door later. Like in real life, The Witcher 
 is a world of choices and your choices rule your fate. You need a strategy to succeed, not only 
 on combat, but also on intelligence. Make sure you are strong enough to defeat your foes, prepare 
 yourself, not only your sword, to the next quest. 
  Your character is a witcher, a mythical creature that belongs to a lineage of very few like them, 
 and fulfills several jobs related to killing and justice (how nice) . Geralt, as a clich anti-hero, 
 doesn't have any snob relation with life. He only wants to do his job, to survive, and to get is 
 memory back. He also has some existential allure about being alive and feeling that others know 
 more about him than he knows, being a factor that he's starting to live with, but not without leaving 
 him with this sense of discomfort that we (for other philosophical reasons) feel with ourselves.
 
  Having some powers beyond human reach, Geralt can combine the power of two types of swords (steel 
 and silver) with his physical attributes (strength, endurance, agility, etc) with the power of 
 the signs and the help of alchemy. 
  When you raise a level you have three talents to distribute on a huge tree of skills. Geralt has 
 a limited inventory for weapons; I used only swords because witchers are masters of swordsmanship. 
 You have to manage your space for all kind of items (alchemy, ingredients, potions, gifts for ladies, 
 etc.) . Gold is relatively easy to find, but sometimes you need to spend some big money on books 
 to activate some quests. Geralt also can get into a poker career and break some ladies hearts, 
 go to bed with them or hire the secular services of a whore.
  The Witcher's history has been adapted from "The Last Wish" written by polish Andrzej Sapkowski. 
 Looking for the mysteries behind a group called Salamanders, unveiling megalomaniac dreams of a 
 mage, will guide Geralt to a world full of merciless scum. Relationships with ladies are usually 
 deprived of any kind of seduction or any kind of  
 even if it never lasts forever. There's sex for sex's sake and you're even rewarded with a useless 
 card. F*ck as many girls as you can and you get a nice pack of cards with semi-naked women. A kitsch 
 calendar of year 2008 would be more useful than this.
  But if you are a RPG fan, if you are interested in great (almost real and with a bit of fantasy) 
 open stories, if you like great graphics and creepy environments, if you like suspense and can 
 stand for your actions and choices, this is the game for you. Give an opportunity to The Witcher 
 and you'll be one step ahead of the future of RPGs. Now I can only expect a lot better than this, 
 even more adult, especially more mature situations to play (and live) with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffkretz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  With job and wife in tow, I don't have as many gaming beans to spend as I used to. And coming from 
 a classic CRPG background (Ultima, Baldur's Gate, etc) I expect a lot from a CRPG.
  
  Some people have complained that being forced into one character limits you too much. That's a 
 personal preference, I guess, but it didn't bother me in the slightest bit. And the fact that your 
 character had a fully-fleshed out backstory made up for it in my book, as many other characters 
 in the story knew Geralt long before the game begins -- their dialog is more interesting as a result.
 
  
  It took me about 4 hours to get used to the combat system, and about 12 hours to get really proficient 
 at it. Once you are able level up a bit and unlock better combat style options, this new system 
 really begins to shine.
  
  Having read many reviews and knowing that the choices presented in the game were all difficult 
 ones with no right answer was somewhat liberating. Instead of trying to second-guess what the best 
 choice would be, was able to just play from the gut.
  
  The locations were varied and excellently crafted (I hesitate to say beautiful, because the world 
 of the Witcher is rather seedy and run down, but this works perfectly for the setting) . The characters 
 and animations were excellent.
  
  The English voice acting left a bit to be desired -- not as bad a cheesy translation of Japanese 
 anime -- but it could have been better.
  
  All in all it was a fantastic game and I look forward to future offerings from this developer.
 
  
  JK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrvineCrystal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  The WItcher is a Adventure/RPG game set during Medieval times in a fictional world.
  
  The game itself plays very well. The storyline jumps around a lot, depending on the decisions your 
 character makes. It utilizes a new style of combat, different fighting styles for different situations, 
 but after a while it feels just like point and click. Gets tedious after a while. The voice acting 
 is the only thing that brings this game down. Sometimes it's just awkward to hear the way they 
 talk and see that their voice does not match the actual characters mood or facial expressions.
 
  
  There is plenty of side quests and the decision making alone make the game worth playing over again. 
 Makes a lot of situations interesting, and they usually look back and say something to the extent 
 of, "If you would've said this, you think it'd be different?" Fun storyline, concept, and great 
 layout of the maps. Makes the good outweigh the bad. 
  
  I'd suggest getting this game if you like adventure games. The Hero Configuration isn't as good 
 and as customizable as they make it seem. But it's still a good game. Worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsleeper
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  I LOVE the game, the awesome "styles" and actions that "The Witcher" acts outs, the movie-style 
 dialogs, the background sounds, the attention to incredible detail in scenary, objects, buildings, 
 etc. There are background activities going on that only add to the game "feel". The story and books 
 only add more depth and actually make you pay attention (for once) . This is a game to play twice 
 at least so you can try different routes (see how the story evolves making different decisions) .
 
  
  The few items that do ruin it is:
  
    The witcher has to try and have sex with every woman. It's so pathetic that you feel as if some 
 15 yo boy was heavily involved with with dialog and interactions with each woman. It's REALLY stupid 
 and is the one thing that serious dampens the game.
  
    A couple of the dialogs and sound effects are TERRIBLE. Take the werewolf that you run into and 
 have a dlalog with. He talks then growls - not like a werewolf would "growl" - but like someone 
 in an office space would mimic a growl in casual coversation, trying not to attract attention to 
 themselves for trying to sound real. Very, very lame.
  
    The non-stop swearing. Again, that 15yo boy was thrown into the scripting. Pathetic and not realistic. 
 You have a wonderful game with a great flowing drama them "F** this, S*** that, blaa blaa" - leaving 
 you wondering "where the hell did that come from?" Just ruins it.
  
    The continual "force you to get drunk" times. Someone needs to beat that 15yo boy they let loose 
 with the scripting...
  
    Every other person looks identical. BAH! This REALLY hurts it. ALL the models are stunning beautiful, 
 the chairs, the water, the monsters, the armor, the buildings, etc -even the people look great. 
 Too bad they are all the same people. GRRR! WHY didn't they top off a GREAT look with at LEAST 
 making the people look different? You have to go back to find person X to talk to them but person 
 Y is standing about where they were before - but it's not the same person - but it LOOKS like the 
 same person as you were suppose to talk to - NOT - just looks the same. Stupid stupid stupid decision 
 to make so many look the same.
  
  Now that the rant is out of the way - 
  
  The game is frickin awesome otherwise. If ONLY they had NOT put in those few drawbacks this would 
 EASILY have been game of the year...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jglorioso71
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  The game is highly recommended to all you RPG fans like me. First it was Mass Effect (360) and 
 then The Witcher (PC) . I just can't seem to get enough out of this genre. The level of maturity 
 is awesome... language pretty direct that it was like talking to a foul mouth colleague of mine 
 at the office (lol) .
  
  Don't listen to some critics who gave it a poor review on other sites. Well actually you would 
 too if you are into 'hacking' your way or 'shooting' (FPS) from beginning to end of any game. If 
 this is what turns you on... then this game is definitely not for you. My personal opinion... FPS 
 critcs should not even begin to attempt in reviewing any RPG games and vice versa. 
  
  The desire to please an average RPG gamer was definitely there... And boy did it deliver! It pains 
 me to see this game is not getting the full attention it deserves.
  
  I have always been into this kind of gaming... from King's Quest series, Hero's Quest serires... etc... of 
 the 80's) , etc. to Baldur's Gate, Oblivion, Mass Effect, and the rest of the must buy new titles 
 - RPG Genre.
  
  Latest patch fixed 99% of the initial bugs I had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher introduced a new formula into the RPG genre: choice. Not just "good" or "evil" choice, 
 but whether you choose to take one path or another path; the type of choosing that changes the 
 plot, and ultimately who you become acquanted with. The combat system was real-time for an RPG, 
 desirable, yet the controlling was ultimately flawed as the learning curve required about 30 minutes 
 of patience.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The Witcher's gameplay was alright. You weren't allowed to approach each task as you see fit - 
 there was only one way to settle any type of dispute, and that was to take out your (silver or 
 steel) swords. While the developers boasted a free-form gam with many choices, they delivered only 
 half of that promise. I was surprised to see portions of the game world blocked off like some old 
 Nintendo 64 platform game - there were huge portions of the world completely shut off; this suggests 
 the designers wanted the player to focus on one thing: the quests. There was no room for exploration, 
 which I believe, is essential for al RPGs. Not only that, but whenever the game crashed (and it 
 DID) I felt a sense of seperation; like I didn't want to keep playing. No game should even remotely 
 think of aspiring to this. 
  
  STORY
  The stroy in The Witcher is very detailed. After all, the game was based on the author Andrzej 
 Sapkowski's world. This universe encompassed around 10+ novels, so there was a lot for the game 
 developers to draw upon. Although the game encouraged the player to make choices which ultimately 
 change the course of the story, it was all linear and predictable. While the twist at the end of 
 the game was somewhat non-shocking, it was satisfying. When I say linear, however, I mean "You 
 must choose this or that. Then you have these advantages and these disadvantages because of that 
 choice." There was also a point in the game (around Ch. IV) when I didn't want to do sidequests 
 anymore because it was too hard t find the monsters and all these "contracts" only asked the same 
 things. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  While the landscapes and certain areas of the game like Lakeside province, Murky Waters, and the 
 Druid Circle were indeed impressive to look at, for an RPG boasting new-age visuals, The Witcher 
 didn't deliver. For game coming years after Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, The Witcher looked somewhat 
 lackluster. However, when coupled with the amazing animation and impressive fight sequences, this 
 game demands a second glance. I encountered to visual bugs or issues, which was also a pro. 
  
  SOUND
  The music was repetitive, what can I say? The dialogue was poorly translated an awkward 
 at times, and the AI said stupid things. I would stand next to a merchant or hooker and they'd 
 say something in a soft and quiet voice, but when I clicked on them to open a dialogue box, their 
 voice would almost completely change. The sound effects were also quite dull, and stuttered whenever 
 I was in an intense combat situation with screen-rate falling below 15fps.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bcrankshaw
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  This game is the one of the top two RPGS I've ever played .The other being Oblivion. Okay about 
 game .Firstly its mature adult theme is something I really appreciated .Constantly during the game 
 you have to make moral decisions and actually consider what the consequences will be .Gone is the 
 standard RPG world ofkill the dragon and save the princess. Now you have to consider introspectively 
if I kill the dragon the princess may actually turn out to be the evil sorceress who enslaves 
 the villagers. Its a brilliant concept .Then the combat this is absolutely revolutionary .This 
 game has turned the whole world of RPG combat on it's head .When you progress in levels you really 
 need to decide what style of combat you want to utilize .Also in battles you have to think constantly 
 against difficult opponents on what skills and what combination of skills to use . I hope this 
 changes the standard RPG combat mode which ultimately evolves to justright clicking many times 
 and using healing potions ". The story is also really captivating .The plot nuances and the people 
 you meet have compelling quests and information that keep you thinking about future chapters and 
who that person could be .. And why are they doing it ". The graphics are superlative... The whole 
 world is beautifully done, the monsters fearsome and the women beautiful and seductive .The only 
 thing that doesn't make this game better than Oblivion is the admiration I have for the huge world 
 of Oblivion where you can go anywhere and do anything at your convenience .The Witcher is a chapter 
 driven game and once certain chapters are finished you can't go back to some areas. Finally the 
 stability of the game .I loaded the latest patch and had only about 15 crashes in the 80 hours 
 of the game... so that is more than acceptable in my view. I recommend this game to all lovers of 
 Fantasy RPG... it's a must buy. You wont be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 4, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  As much as I wanted this game to rock, not just for my sake, but for Atari as well, I gradually 
 began to hate this game much like a girlfriend who starts out beautiful and endearing but ends 
 up freaking annoying! The loot system sucks, period. Weapons that drop off your enemies cannot 
 be put into inventory, they can only be equipped meaning you have to drop your good sword and hope 
 its still there when you come back, MEANING, there is little means to farm for gold to buy the 
 scant, and I meant scant inventory of cool loot. Your inventory is set up so that you can only 
 put herbs and potions and quest items in one square at a time. You'll be over-paying for books 
 that identify herbs so you can pick them and make useless potions. Somewhere around the 15th hour 
 of picking herbs I said, "Enough." The quest system is bugged, meaning that if you kill all the 
 creatures before you start the "kill 5 such-and-such" monsters, then after you trigger the quest, 
 well, you've already killed the monsters which don't respawn for your quest. What makes it even 
 more frustrating is, by the time you needed a certain item from the monsters you killed, you probably 
 already used those items to make an unneccesary potion. Most potions are unneccesary because if 
 you can right click your mouse well enough then potions become obsolete. You have three attacking 
 styles, Strong, Quick, and Group. Two weapons but for some stupid reason you have four weapon slots, 
 which two will always remain useless because it will say, "This weapon cannot be used with any 
 Witcher combat." Really? Then why put stuff in a game that I can't use if I'm the freaking Witcher!!!! 
 This game is a real bore. I enjoyed getting the girls and collecting these useless cards depicting 
 half-naked women, but it has no bearing on the game, at all. Sure, some would say it does depending 
 on whose favor you court during the game, but like most sucky RPG'S this game falls into the rut 
 of all roads lead into one. Fun. I know. Fetch quests are boring. All I can say about this game 
 is that the sound is good, voice acting is mostly out of character much of the game, and the graphics 
 can be appealling. What made me buy this game in the first place was the promise of loot, none 
 came, and the deep non-linear story about a monster hunter. Apart from the opening sequence, this 
 game will have you picking herbs until your eye's bleed with boredom. As much as I tried to appreciate 
 this game, it seems, Atari did it's best to make sure there was an insult waiting around every 
 corner to dash your hopes of the game getting any better, or rising above the stigma of being, 
 "The Gardner." Please don't buy this. I sold mine on Ebay before the stench escaped and was pleased 
 to get $33 of my $50 back. That could be the second only good thing I can say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is a story driven RPG in a similar vein to Never winter nights. While I have never 
 really been a fan of the RPG genre, The Witcher is certainly worth owning. The story is immersive 
 and keeps you hooked. Graphics are superb. Sound is equally as good with convincing voice acting. 
 Unfortunately, the cut screens which are very good , do play too frequently and are too long.
 
  
  My only criticisms of this game are the movement controls which can be a bit awkward and the combat 
 system which takes some getting used to, which detracts from the gameplay. If it hadn't been for 
 these annoying flaws, this would be an almost perfect game. That said , this is the best RPG of 
 this type I have ever played. Buy it !
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  Stability 10
  Gameplay 7.5
  Value for money 10
  
  Overall 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  
  What's to like:
  - Freedom of killing or letting live other characters
  - Fun mini-poker game
  - Good graphics for an action RPG
  - Good romance / sensual elements
 
  - Good atmosphere
  - Great voice-overs
  - Great character development
  - Great ending
  - Superb story
  
  What you may not like:
  - Slow start
  - Inventory management
  - Potion 
 making
  - Character gets stuck sometimes
  
  Story - In the middle of a war
  There is a war going on. Humans vs non-humans, and you will have to choose a side.
  
  Choosing 
 a side will grant you access to different subquests, zones and characters. 
  
  
  Game - Sharp steel and tongue
  
  During your journey, you will be mostly killing paranormal 
 monsters and humans, or talking to them.
  
  The killing part can be resumed to this:
  
  You have 2 swords on you:
  - 1 vs humans (steel)
  - 1 vs monsters (silver)
  
  Once you've 
 selected the right sword, you need to choose the right sword style: 
  - fast (for unarmored enemies)
  - slow (for armored enemies) 
  - group (for multiple enemies)
 
  
  After that, you start swinging and once you see a trailing fire you can attack again to start a 
 combo.
  
  You will also learn magic skills. In combination with your sword skills, you can do some very cool 
 tricks (burn them, knock them down to mention a few) and finish them off (like a fatality move) 
 with your sword.
  
  Potions are also important in this game as they can turn a tough fight into an easy one.
  
 
  The talking part 
  
  Many events in the game will depend on your behavior and responses to the NPCs. So always be careful 
 on the choices you make.
  
  During a conversation, sometimes you will be able to give gifts or get them drunk or more -- whatever 
 to get the job done.
  
  
  Conclusion - A must have
  Action-RPGs are a bit of a new Genre and no other game out there is as successful and enjoyable 
 as this one. The RPG elements are rich and the combat is very satisfying.
  
  You will finish this game and immediately want to try the other side, it's just that good.
  
 
  9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kabouki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I bought The Witcher because I like RPGs and Gamespot rated it as the best RPG in 2007. The decision 
 wasn't immediate, Gamespot rated it at 8.5 which compared to other ratings made me think twice. 
 I'm glad I decided to go ahead because this game is awesome.
  
  It features a non-linear story, linked through the prologue, five chapters and epilogue in a way 
 that you hardly get on a non recoverable situation, regardless of what you chose to do, and yes 
 this is a game where you can freely choose through many possible solutions to problems you are 
 faced with. For instance the main plot of the game takes place in a world where there is a fight 
 between two sides, throughout the game you can choose to side with one, the other or stay neutral, 
 the game evolves from the decisions you make and the storyline also evolves from those choices.
 
  
  Another refreshing feature is the combat system. You don't rely on fast fingers to win fights, 
 you rather have to weave your attacks through a succession os clicks in a timely fashion if you 
 click too fast you interrupt your attacks making it very difficult to kill tough opponents. For 
 those who played Final Fantasy games, this system is somewhat familiar.
  
  The story itself is immersive, being a game based on novels from Andrzej Sapkowski, that isn't 
 too surprising, so prepare to enjoy a "real" story, with real violence, morality and sex, not your 
 usual epic hero mambo jambo. Oh and once again, there is no "right" way to solve quests, it's the 
 way you choose.
  
  Graphically speaking the game is beautiful and it is very well made. The music is also right for 
 the type of game. The voice acting is just adequate, there are many titles with better voice acting.
 
  
  The main complaints are technically related and they are two. First the load times between areas 
 of the world are way too big, the patches made it more tolerable but it remains annoying. In second 
 place the camera control and responsiveness of some click controls, though this problem is not 
 that big, since you don't rely on heavy clicking to fight, there are some situations where the 
 camera positions itself in a way that wherever you click nothing happens.
  
  My recommendation: if you like RPGs go out and buy it right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catsi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I've been reading quite a few reviews for the Witcher. The professional reviewers like to sit on 
 the fence and give it an adequate rating. Many gamers like to crucify it, while a few others like 
 to give it good reviews. In essence, you either love it, or you hate it. Regardless of whether 
 you're an RPG fan or not.
  I've been a long time RPG fanatic and I must say, the Witcher isn't perfect, but it's only a few 
 design flaws that are a preventing it from becoming a truly amazing game.
  
  You play Geralt, an albino monster-killer armed with a steel sword for humans and a silver one 
 for monsters. I won't get into the details of the story, but it is very long. A lot of complaints 
 have arrisen due to the length of the game. You're not going to finish this one anytime soon. The 
 Witcher is played over several acts, each performed in different locations. There is a lot of conversation 
 to get through and a huge number of quests, which, and this is important, you don't have to do. 
 Many complaints have been voiced against the huge number of fetching quests, but that is the point! 
 You play a monster slayers, how else are you to make a living and pay for your lifestyle if you 
 don't kill monsters and bring back proof? Others have voiced issue with the use of books to learn 
 how to extract items from the monsters you kill. Well it's not that easy to skin or dissect an 
 animal, as I'm sure many of us learnt from science class. A little home study isn't such a bad 
 thing.
  
  I'd like to get the real issues with the game out of the way first, so then I can cover how unique 
 and really engaging this game is.
  
  The inventory is a mess. It's unintuitive, it's messy and a constant headache. This is really going 
 mess up your gameplay, as you'll be fighting with this a lot. Also, the alchemy system needs work. 
 While I understand going out and finding the ingrediants for my potions, it WOULD be advantageousto 
 be able to break down these ingrediants into workable elements, allowing the gamer to carry enough 
 with them. It's difficult to work out what you need, unless you painstakingly find all the ingrediants 
 and make sure the elements match up correctly. As it happens, half of your already nightmarish 
 inventory is going to be clogged up with miscellaneous ingrediants and bases for your potions, 
 sword grease and bombs.
  
  The skill tree is interesting, though a little disappointing. You're not going to notice much of 
 a difference between the different levels, other than certain skills changing Geralt's combat style, 
 which many have labelled as boring. The combat is based off a system of timed clicks. I personally 
 think that it's a way of keeping the gamer attentive and engaged. It's better than constantly pressing 
 the left mouse button until the enemy falls over. You actually have to get the timing right in 
 order to succeed. Plus some of the animations are fun to watch, especially once you've got the 
 styles sorted out. There are three styles Strong, Fast and Group. Strong against big and slow opponents, 
 fast against the little guys and Group against many. Group is especially fun, particularly when 
 you see the awesome damage you're going to deal out to everyone around you. The game does get quite 
 graphic at times during combat, but nothing over the top or gratuitous.
  
  The story is the interesting part of the Witcher. Many games promise you consequences for the decisions 
 you make. Only the Witcher has delivered. Consequences will arise from decisions you made during 
 the Introduction. Sometimes the consequence won't occur until the next act, or two acts onwards. 
 Even Fable managed to muddle it's Light or Dark system into a kind of grey. The Witcher will constantly 
 make you think, what will this do, what will the consequences be? Do I want this to happen?
  
  The Graphics of the Witcher are good, a little limited in it's range (get used to brown, green 
 and black) but when you're outside, in a field perhaps, then you start to appreciate how alive 
 the world looks. Some of the cutscenes, generally the ones depicting the consequences of your actions, 
 are done in artistic stills with a voiceover done by Geralt, and they do an excellent job of setting 
 the tone and adding to the feeling, especially if you've just caused a massive shift in the game 
 world.
  
  The sound work is decent, not top notch, just the usual sounds that go with this genre, but you're 
 not going to be complaining much. Some of the voice work is atrocious, but anything that will have 
 you cringing will be short. I still have no idea why dwarves are constantly being given Scottish 
 accents, it's simply a mystery. I haven't met many short Scotsmen, so the connection isn't there.
 
  
  While I do understand how the Witcher is a game that you will either hate or love, I must stress 
 that it's a game that's worth some time. It gets there in the end, and after it's done, you'll 
 be thinking about what would happen if you had chosen differently. As I see it, there are three 
 different paths to take, two main ones in particular. The differences are quite noticeable, and 
 will change, not the outcome, but the way in which you play the game, and what will occur. Many 
 have accused the Witcher of being misogynist, as (in the European versions) there is a card collecting 
 mini-quest where you receive a card for each woman you have sex with (which is quite easy to do 
 apparently) . I'm not saying it's not a little contravertial, but there really is nothing wrong 
 with it, it's just a little fun. At least all the women aren't portrayed as thin blonds with big 
 breasts and skimpy clothes like they are in quite a few games. This seems to be one of the few 
 games that has considered the possibility of the main character having sex with a woman who ISN'T 
 half naked.
  
  So in conclusion, the Witcher fired, but didn't quite hit the bullseye. It's definitely worth time 
 and effort, just to see how the consequences of your actions effect the world around you. It is 
 actual role-playing, with a large portion of the decision making left up to the players (while 
 still controlling the threads of the main story) . It's not the perfect RPG, but it's ambitious 
 and it's a worthy attempt. Just another case where small design flaws can mar the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a8qlsypp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Fantasy games come in many shapes and sizes, but most of them strictly follow the code of featuring 
 the great, the good and the virtuous fending off the bad, the corrupted and the green-skinned.
 
  
  Sex is generally confined to a pretty elf wearing a chain mail bra, and political comment never 
 strays much further than a Greenpeace quest in which raw magic has infected some wandering hedgehog 
 creatures and not only rendered them mad, but also significantly upped their armour stats.
  
  The Witcher, then, enters our midst as somewhat of a game of our times. The authorities in 
 and around the plague-ridden city of Vizima perpetuate a culture of fear and suspicion - freedom 
 fighters could just as easily be called terrorists and racial segregation is rife. Moral values 
 aren't so much blurred as smudged about the place by a recently-licked thumb - even those who might 
 openly oppose the oppressors are seeking some kind of capitol gain, the undead have a conscience, 
 drug use is a major issue and individuals will use whatever means necessary to get their way - 
 by telling porkies, by betrayal, or by allowing you pump them for information. And by that I mean 
 with sex.
  
  Characters doing the nasty are often hidden behind layered and blurred sequences, and you don't 
 get to see much drug abuse (thankfully, since it appears the offending material must be applied 
 to one's bell end) but with mention of rape, suicide and revenge, the world of The Witcher makes 
 Azeroth et al look like Balamory.
  
  The story focuses on you, Witcher 'White Wolf' Geralt, one of a roving band of mercenary monster 
 hunters. The crumbling fortress of their once revered clan has been attacked and the secrets behind 
 your mutation abilities are stolen. It's your job to find a way to recover the secrets before they 
 are put to nefarious use, all whilst finding out about your past and that of your dwindling clan. 
 It's perhaps not the most exciting premise, but the presentation and pacing of the story is excellent 
 throughout, from the lengthy opening cinematic even to the hand-drawn screens that guard the transitions 
 as new areas load into memory. Most noteworthy are the cutscenes, which have been storyboarded 
 and edited with real cinematic flair and, together with the voiceovers and script, make The Witcher 
 one of the best examples of interactive fiction I've enjoyed.
  
  Those who like to spend hours rolling characters and selecting facial furniture might be upset 
 to hear that you get what you're given. Geralt is square-jawed, with cat-like eyes, white hair 
 and a face that's endured more stitches than a Bangladeshi Tshirt factory. You can't even 
 change his name. Customisation comes later, with experience points turned into coin, that can be 
 spent on new and upgraded skills. There are no character classes to speak of. The Witcher is a 
 master swordsman, with disciplines that vary from heavy-hitting armour **** (our term) , to fast 
 attack and dealing with groups. You spend your bronze, silver and gold experience coins on specialising 
 in these, either using your normal Witcher's sword, or your silver one.
  
  As you learn (or, rather, relearn, since you seem to be forever recovering from amnesia) , spells 
 in the form of 'signs' become available, which can be upgraded in the same way as your fighting 
 and attribute skills. And as you find and read books and scrolls, your in-game info repository 
 allows you new abilities and to take on new missions.
  
  The game's structure is a series of chapters, with some quests spanning and evolving across a number 
 of acts, and of course a fair number of side-quests that require you to go somewhere and slice 
 up a specified number of monsters and bring back evidence of the massacre to secure a reward. In 
 this area, perhaps there is little that is startlingly original, but that doesn't detract from 
 the essential fun of visiting new areas, slaying new monsters or meeting new characters. Yes it 
 can get repetitive going from one area of the city to another to complete a mission, but then so 
 was Grand Theft Auto, and so was Oblivion, and as with these games the world of The Witcher is 
 one you always feel a part of and that alone compels you to explore every corner.
  
  Much has been made of the game's combat system, which allows you to chain together attacks, so 
 long as you time your mouse-clicks correctly. In fact, at higher experience levels you can link 
 together enough leaps and devastating blows to secure an honorary degree from the Jedi Academy. 
 In practise, whilst the combat isn't quite as dumb as your usual action-based RPG, it's no Street 
 Fighter II. But the combat is an enjoyable diversion from the main course of weaving your way through 
 40-plus hours of cracking storyline.
  
  If I had to gripe about anything it would be that in open areas the illusion of freedom is diminished 
 somewhat by impassable fences that in reality would splinter on a windy day. There is far too much 
 repetition of character avatars as well, with some NPCs looking identical, even in the same areas 
 of the game. Other problems are more ones of personal taste.
  
  I found the supposedly tactical zoomed out view to be overly-cumbersome considering you control 
 only one character - the over-the-shoulder view is just so much more immersive. And finally, the 
 world of The Witcher is primarily a man's one, and whilst there are female characters with strong 
 roles, they are primarily there to be conquered sex-wise or otherwise.
  
  To be fair though, it's something of a novelty to have room available in a list of negatives to 
 be able to castigate a game's misogynist overtones - because in every other department The Witcher 
 is an intelligent, adult and thoroughly compelling adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgx3
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Interesting, this game is nothing if not interesting. In so many ways the game is just enough different 
 from all the rest of the RPGs to be considered quite good, in other ways interesting is quite odd 
 indeed. 
  The combat system is initially engaging, and at first you really feel that they (the devs) are 
 on to something and this may be a fun ride overall. Unfortunately while the choices of how to spend 
 your points in level ups appears to be varied and 'interesting', things just don't pan out that 
 way. Character development and level ups are linked here. The level up choices turn out to be nearly 
 as linear as the story, but while a linear story can be saved by having varied character development 
 allowing different tact's to victory the Witcher is a one horse race, or more specifically a 2 
 sword race. Combat is about the two Witchers swords and his limited attack styles of Fast Strong 
 and Group. Bizzarely you can pick up other weapons but they serve no purpose, in fact you have 
 various slots for them (not many) and they seem to be for show at best, while providing a bit of 
 coin.
  The visuals and graphics are fabulous, very much on the level of Oblivion, perhaps better in that 
 there seems to be much more loving detail in the world. I used the Over The Shoulder (OTS) view 
 and it worked well, the first cave I went into, which was a huge natural cavern looked incredible 
 and the bats flying by made me duck more than once. Very Cool. This is the engine that runs NWN2 
 and we can only wish that NWN2 looked half as good.
  Next we have the story, wherein you are a monster slayer (Witcher) who has amnesia. This is an 
 acceptable plot device as it explains why you know so many people, yet don't know them at the same 
 time. It gives you a sense of establishment with the world but allows you to be your own person, 
 more or less (more less than more actually) . In this story Witchers seem to be on the decline 
 and the reason appears to be that evil has embraced moral relativism, or maybe it was humans had 
 done so and then evil followed, whatever they are getting at there, evil thrives while Witchers 
 fade. I found the modern relativistic morality to be completely out of place in my fantasy RPG, 
 and I did not appreciate the heavy handed liberal morality messages. As a side note, racism is 
 dealt with in the game along with other modern 'issues'. Apparently humans are the culprits and 
 the non-humans are the victims, I found that to be a rather transparent indictment all in all. 
 Anyway, is it racism if the 'oppressed' aren't actually one of the human races? Are elves a race 
 or a species? Confused by all this? So was I. Speaking of confused, the dialogue was plenty confused 
 at times. On the plus side the voice acting is panned by many reviewers but I actually liked it. 
 The accents were a real plus for me, and though some have called them cheesey I have no idea why 
 as they seem to be genuine to me, so how is that cheesey? I realize that Scottish dwarves and eastern 
 European merchants might not be everyone's cup of tea but those are the accents we have in this 
 world aren't they, and so they'll do for atmosphere for me. I liked them. However, the dialogue 
 trees are obtuse at times (most times) , and even with giving the developers a pass for some translation 
 oddities I found many of the conversations to be more than strange. This includes some rather uncomfortable 
 moralizing by various characters, to include, much to my dismay, my own character! I sat dumbfounded 
 as my character spouted more sophomoric inanity than a high school debate team mainlining hormones. 
 Why was I saying these things? Why was a dwarf listening? Why do I shag everything in sight but 
 I'm also concerned with such moral questions as racism? Apparently I can be a sexist pig, but a 
 racist pig is just right out. It was all very strange really.
  The quest system was a nice touch; although it included a lot of backtracking it really gave some 
 twists and turns. None of the quests was a simple, go kill this, type. Well, some were, but not 
 the majority and the chapter system and leveling of monsters did not seem to interfere with the 
 whole affair. In other words I felt challenged but not overwhelmed and seemed to be appropriately 
 leveled for most missions.
  Overall there were some very strange moments in the game, some odd character dialogue and extemporaneous 
 moralizing but as I said in the beginning it was all interesting enough to keep me playing. Unfortunately, 
 there is zero reason to play again. You can make a few key choices to change the ending, but you 
 can't develop your character in any meaningful way which would make you want to try again. Good 
 game, it's worth the money but it's not a great game.
  Epilogue - I just finished this game, I wrote the above about 2/3 of the way through. I'm glad 
 I'm done with it, as it got worse as it went along. For the last 1/3 of the game money is useless, 
 that was annoying. The moralizing was laid on even thicker, and I had to laugh when 'global climate 
 change' was included. And what happened to the love interest, that completely fell off the map. 
 I finally found something I liked in the 2 minute high graphics quality cut scene at the end. But 
 it sure was a lot of mediocre gaming just to get to that, I dropped the rating .5 for the dismal 
 last 1/3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladecutter56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first played "The Witcher", I thought to myself, "Wow, I'm going to hate this game." Ah, 
 but I was wrong.
  
  My reasons for thinking this? Well, in order to play it without any graphical hiccups I thought 
 I had to reduce all of the graphics to null. This made the game look horrible. That and the Vista 
 crashes that occured frequently. But then I wised up, got bored one day, pulled the game out of 
 the case and played it. I sucked it up and put everything to max but turned off Anti Aliasing, 
 since I saw no reason for it, and played. I played the game all day for the next week and beat 
 it twice in that week because I got so in to it and the storyline.
  
  The story itself doesn't really get going untill the second chapter. The Prologue is to introduce 
 you to the game and Geralt himself, and the first chapter seemed to be intended to introduce you 
 to a few characters and how the game itself will play out from then on. I loved this story, as 
 it had plenty of unexpected twists. There are multiple endings from what I hear, based on your 
 choices in the game, most of which are the "lesser of the two evils" choices, which can be hard 
 to make at times. Help a woman who sold poison to a woman so she can kill herself, or let the village 
 of rapists and murderers burn her? You get choices like that several times throughout the game.
 
  
  The graphics are superb, using Bioware's 2007 Aurora engine. You don't really see much of it unless 
 you play in the Over-the-shoulder camera mode, which I personally prefer. In this mode, you can 
 see the sky, watch the sun set, see the sun reflecting off the water as it sets, then see the moon 
 rise gloriously, and get up-close and personal to the various baddies you'll be smacking around. 
 Said baddies are very detailed which makes them satisfying to slap around a bit. When it rains, 
 you can watch the clouds accumulate in the sky, then see lightning flash in the clouds as rain 
 pours down, accompanied by the occasional crack of thunder... Easy to lose yourself in.
  
  The controls are a bit iffy, in my opinion. If there is a big enemy behind you while your trying 
 to smack one around in front of you, it'll use your next attack on him instead, which gets really 
 annoying in some fights. Other than this, no problem with it, really. The 180 turn key for the 
 OTS camera is useful, you can use the keyboard and/or mouse to move... General controls, pretty 
 much.
  
  The sound is grand. You get thunder, grunts from your character and the people around you in fights, 
 swords slicing through the air and in to flesh and armor, ambient sounds of people going about 
 their daily routines, birds chirping... The music is excellent as well, easily award winning and 
 original.
  
  The gameplay is good, you get an innovative timed click attack system with three different attack 
 modes split between two types of swords, steel and silver. Each attack mode is different for each 
 sword and you need to get used to the timing in order to be effective. You can increase the power 
 of the combos and the length of the combos through the level-up system, which uses bronze, silver 
 and gold talents to work your way up. You get bronze for the first ten levels, then bronze and 
 silver for the next five, eventually only silver, then silver and gold when you reach level 20 
 or 30, etcetera. You also get "signs", magical abilities that become quite useful. A couple of 
 them seemed useless to me, and the only one I used regularly was Aard, prized for it's knockdown 
 effect, and, eventually, it's stun and disarm effects stacked on top of all the bonus effects at 
 later levels. You get potions to help you in fights, the most important of which are the Tawny 
 Owl, Swallow, Blizzard potions, which regenerate lost endurance, hit points, and increase your 
 reflex time, respectively. There are other potions that can help in the right situations, and, 
 in addition, you get bombs and oils. Bombs are only useful at certain times and oils add damage 
 to certain enemies or additional effects, so they become quite handy to have just in case. Ah, 
 and, I almost forgot to mention the hound that Geralt is. You can flirt and have sex with most 
 any woman in the game and have a card in your journal to boot.
  
  Overall, this game is a must-have, if not for the story then for the action. I fully expect a sequel, 
 and it will be, I'm sure, just as good, if not better, than The Witcher.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b623
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Great story, great characters, it is simple, you get addicted to the story, my girlfriend has buy 
 the book . Fight system in 3rd person is fine, you play as you were in 1st person. You must choose 
 to help people, your dicisions are crucial, it has an impact later in the game. The first thing 
 I did when I finished the game is to play again and try different thing. You must know your world 
 to take the best decision. The game is not perfect, you must run to point A to B and then from 
 B to A, you turn around to resolve quest. You spend a lot of time running. There are fews bug in 
 control system. You can't jump. But even with all these minor problem, you get addicted because 
 the story is just great. Everything is well explained to get into the story. Another good thing 
 is that you can stop to play after you finish the game, it is not a never-ending game like elder's 
 scroll, so you don't waste your time to level-up your character, you just play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  With many of the recent RPGs lacking in a quality storyline or involving gameplay The Witcher was 
 a refreshing change of pace. I have been playing computer RPGs since the beginning and there have 
 been many great games to fall into the genre. Unfortunately in recent years the number of great 
 RPGs has waned. After anxiously awaiting this game I was not disappointed. When you first start 
 the game your eyes are met with fantastically rendered cut scenes giving you a brief back story 
 on your character, Geralt. Geralt is a Witcher a monster hunter whose body has been mutated and 
 enhanced by alchemy into the perfect monster killing machine. Through years of training he was 
 forged into a sword master few would rival. With limited magical abilities, granted by siphoning 
 energies from standing stones, and his compliment of alchemical potions he is a force to be reckoned 
 with. The Witcher offers three different views to play the game from starting with the classic 
 isometric view. The next view is a closer isometric and the third and final view is an over the 
 shoulder third person view. Each view offers a different style of play for you to choose from. 
 The isometric view gives you the ability to point and click for movement, combat and interaction 
 with the environment. The second view allows you to use the "wasd" keys to move as well as the 
 point and click movement. In the third person view you use the "wasd" keys for all of your movement. 
 The graphics are very nicely rendered and work well with the game in general. For the most part 
 the storyline for the game is well written and alters based on your choices in game. The voice 
 acting lends nicely to the overall feel of the game and immersion into the storyline. However there 
 are times when the voice acting falls a bit flat. The NPCs in the game are colorful and are a great 
 source of information, even those you would least suspect. The combat is interesting if not a bit 
 confusing at first. You click on the person or creature you wish to attack and then follow up with 
 consecutive mouse clicks to move on to more powerful attacks in combination. The combat system 
 takes some time to get the hang of but once you do it is relatively simple. Character development 
 is a definite must in the game since the way you configure your skills helps determine how good 
 you are at various types of combat as well as how well you regenerate, take damage, use a skill, 
 or any number of things. On thing that can become a stumbling block is inventory management so 
 be careful to keep at least part of your inventory open for new items at all times. In my opinion 
 The Witcher is the best fantasy RPG that has come along in years and is well worth playing. I could 
 go on and on about the game but the only way for you to truly enjoy it is to go out and get a copy 
 for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black-Magic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is a refreshing take on the PC RPG. You've probably heard about the active fighting 
 and alchemy systems. But what these reviews don't dwell on is the Witcher's strongest attribute 
 it's story and characters. 
  
  The Witcher excels at two long-lost strengths of PC gaming. Fantasy and role-playing.
  
  The 
 world might not be as large as other fantasy RPGs. This size difference allows every area of the 
 world to explore feel alive. You can interact (in more way than one) with much of the townsfolk. 
 With the large amount of quests you will get lost in which is required and which are not. It really 
 is an immersive world with a well-told story that you can enjoy.
  
  What makes the game unique is its complex lead character. Geralt is posed with difficult decisions 
 throughout his journey. These choices can be hard as they have actual consequences within the game.
 
  
  The most overlooked aspect of the game is its dry humor. Unlike the painfully forced comedy in 
 Neverwinter Nights, Geralt provides dry remarks that much a regular human being would respond. 
 This game might have the realistically "cool" main character - breaking fantasy stereotypes of 
 the 18-year-old no name to save the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_csa
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  The best rpg I've ever played. An amazing world and storyline. The bad is that it's not working 
 correct on Windows Vista. Every 30 minutes the game crashes. So I was frustrate that i can't play 
 The Witcher because that was terrible so for me. Than I took the picture to 1024768 and the detail 
 to medium. So the game crashes just every 3 hours. It's not much better but it is better. I've 
 just finish the game and I'm very happy about it. I hope that I could help other people with the 
 same problem. The Witcher is a really good game but the loading times are very long (the patch 
 makes it better but not much) .
  
  The Witcher is an amazing game!!!
  
  (Sorry i know that this is a short review but i hope it's enough. And sorry for my bad English 
 too :P.) :) :) :) :D :D :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Night
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  I started my cRPG adventure some 10 years ago, in the days when Black Isle reigned supreme - it 
 was their games with their great stories that got me hooked to that genre. 
  As years passed however cRPG were getting more and more alike - shorter, because many ppl could 
 get bored with a game that take some 40+h to complete, and they wouldn't sell the sequel, easier 
 - not to discourage new-to-the-game, more politically correct to broaden the target group and so 
 on. In the end i didn't even bother playing Oblivion, perfectly knowing what to expect.
  And then came The Witcher - to be honest i didn't expect anything unusually - i know and really 
 enjoyed Sapkowski's novels but many times before I've seen good books / movies totally messed up 
 when made into games, so...
  Getting back to the witcher - i'm playing the game on 4 y/o laptop with ancient PIV 2.8GHz, 1 gig 
 of RAM and Radeon 9600 video card, and still, even on the low settings game looks very good and 
 runs smoothly (except for several urban spots during daytime maybe) . Over the 30-40 hours i spent 
 playing it crashed no more than 3 times.
  The best part of the game however is the dark, realistic story and the world it's taking place 
 in - from the start player can tell the world's not just rotating around him, but he's just a small 
 part of it. People living their lives, plotting their intrigues, small and great ones - making 
 some excellent quests, which, if you decide to take part in them will require making hard choices 
 and may have no happy ending whatever you decide to do.
  Main quest has also everything what it takes to keep player interested for long hours, unveiling 
 its mysteries slowly and keeping the best for the grand finale.
  The Witcher introduces new combat system which may be a bit controversial, but makes an interesting 
 change from the H&S-type button mashing.
  
  The thing that flaws this excellent game are location loading times. Loading some areas can take 
 up to 2-3 minutes ... partially for sure because of my old system, but from what i heard on new 
 machines it's not much better.
  
  One way or another - the Witcher is a great game, worth playing and recommending to every RPG fan! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBear7130
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  I was hooked on this game shortly after the start. Once the story began to unfold I could not wait 
 to see what was next. The quality of this game set a new level, I hope this balance of game play 
 and story create a new system of games. I am sure it doesn't hurt that a great author wrote the 
 story to the game. I liked KOTOR, but this blew that storyline out of the water. This reminded 
 me of one of those old choose you own adventure books, I felt the impact of my decisions.
  
  I just can't say enough about this game, try the demo and experience the richness of this world.
 
  
  The only downside I can see is, I have a pretty beefy computer and with the beautiful graphics 
 it took a lot of power to run, well worth it though, so if you have to turn down your settings, 
 the story will and game play will make up for it.
  
  Wow whats up Atari, you need to make more like this. I don't know where this came from, but learn 
 from it and make more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denethor0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Last game I played that made me put down this much time was the first Baldur 's Gate. Someone on 
 the net made the comment I just cant forget, "a mix between Diablo and Baldur's Gate with a Similar 
 combat system of Summoner". While it was quite a while since I played either of these good games 
 games I felt the description fit pretty well. While I seen descriptions like that in other games 
 that almost always made those game into clones, I felt that the this description was very positive 
 for the game as it hadnt "ripped off" of other games to fit them into a single bad one. Rather 
 it was a game that stands very well of it own and in my oppinion has elements that reminds me of 
 those good games but in no way copied or ripped-off parts to fit in.
  
  The only negative thing with this game was that it crashed a little too often, but in my case these 
 crashes was rather predictable when transfering between area's giving me ample oppertunity to save 
 before moving to a new map/area.
  So, as Im confident the crash issues will be dealt with I think this game in story/plot, graphic, 
 sound and enjoyment earns its Score of 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajbshadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  It has been years since I played a game of this caliber. The graphics are awesome and sound effects 
 make you turn up the volume. The game play is such that it allows you to make choices that have 
 genuine consequences during play. There are moral and ethical issues the player must make. When 
 I first played the game I felt overwhelmed with all the action and abilities of the character. 
 I suggest you read the instruction booklet first and download the manual on-line. The game play 
 action is fast and furious. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes playing RPG style. 
 It is designed for mature audiences as it contains adult content. The five quests keep the action 
 flowing and will keep you up late into the night . The way the game ends, leave the player to imagine 
 a sequel coming soon. If so I will be first in line to buy the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeterna789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The first time I encountered "The Witcher" was with a friend of mine who says there was a new game 
 with a really fantastic combat system. I really had no interest in it until I actually bought the 
 game and played it myself. My first impressions when I saw its combat system was "Cool" specially 
 when you unlock your tier 2 skills via level up. The game features different and seriously complicated 
 combat maneuvers using different swords all on the click of a button. The camera view offers 3 
 different perspectives which can be set upon user's preference. The Story follows a liner path 
 but offers interesting side quests and a much more interesting primary quest. Like every RPG game, 
 it features decision making but "The Witcher" twist the outcome of those decisions by placing rewards 
 and consequences for your actions. Ok now I'll talk about the cons. Long loading and saving times. 
 Quick save, makes a new save file rather than overwriting the previews file thus spamming you with 
 a long list of save files. Encountered a very hard boss battle that occurred right after a very 
 long in game cinematic, never gave me time to save. Combat system needs time getting used to, very 
 long dialogs (though I don't complain about it) . Well thats it, I recommend this game to people 
 who likes hack and slash games as well as RPG fans. The plot will keep you occupied most of the 
 time and is definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eizenstahl
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I was very sceptic when I installed The Witcher. I thought that here is another carbon-copy of 
 all other RPG's ever created, only slight worse. A new total letdown that will get un-installed 
 after 10 minutes of dread, and money down the drain. Boy was I wrong.
  
  The steering or handing of the character (Geralt) or whatever I should call it, felt very awquard 
 at the beginning and I had my doubts as if this game would last the 10 minute mark, as did melee 
 fighting, and if there is a 'weak point' in the game it is the melee, the rest is very good. I 
 would advice all new players to use the OTS view (over the shoulder) .
  
  After about an hour or two the story got me hooked and I thought to myself: Damn, this is a new 
 star on the nowadays rather pathetic PC game heaven. (Is it just me, or has the overall quality 
 of PC games sunk to.... stinking low levels?)
  
  I've played about 40 hours now, taking my time, struggling with the increasing difficulty of the 
 encounters, but I must say, if Oblivion had been half this good with this amount of humour, quests, 
 intrigues and cheer brutality, I still would be playing that. As the chapters unfold, you travel 
 to new places and experience new landscapes, towns, villages, lakes, islands, forests, swamps, 
 fields, crypts, you name it. The attention to detail is amazing, so are the diversity of sidequests 
 and NPC's. I have no clue about the guys n gals that made the game, but they must be fans of RPG's 
 thats for sure, and it shines through.
  
  If you are a fan of RPG's you would want to play this. A great story, a huge amount of content. 
 And if you can take the not so steep learning curve at the beginning, and let the story really 
 unfold, this game is a killer. Best game I have played in a very very long time. A game that late 
 at night makes me go 'Just 15 more minutes.. then I go to bed' only to have me seated for atleast 
 3 times that time..
  
  
  
  Pros: Everything except the Melee combat (it doesnt stink, it just isn't on par with the rest)
 
  
  Cons: Melee combat could have been better... and loss of sleep ;)
  
  
  
  Final words: I wish more companies could put this much effort and...'love' for a lack of a better 
 word, into their games. Last year was a terrible PC-game year imho, this game excluded. I dont 
 know how long it took to create this game, but to me, Halflife Episode 2 (for example) with a playing 
 time of what, 4-5 hours??, just isn't worth the money (and is one major reason why people are pirating 
 just about every PC-game out there imho) .
  This game made me a PC-game believer again...
  
  .... there might just be light at the end of the pitch black tunnel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerrev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game is great, at first I didnt really like the new battle concepts, I found it a bit frustrating 
 in the first couple levels, but once you get used to that, The game gets very addictive. Great story 
 and the dungeons and quests are a lot of fun. The music in the game is good, but after a while 
 it gets very old. There are a couple things I wish they had done a bit differently, 1st) you cant 
 rest just anywhere, you are forced to search for a campfire alone your travels or you need to find 
 a pub or ask certain NPC's to allow you to rest in their homes.2nd) was definitly and completely 
 unnessesary, (having prostitutes in the game) the addition of sex to this game or any game is completely 
 ridiculous, but overall it still is a very fun game. if you are an RPG fan which likes games like 
 Diablo, this will be right up your alley, just keep the kiddies far far away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome for people that loved Oblivion, because its more like it. We have cities, 
 and NPCs walking around the city, we have lot of side-quests that put more gameplay hours.
  
  The first thing that i liked is that we can make out with ladies NPCs! LOL... you guys gonna 
 love it! =P
  
  The history is very good, very detailed and lot of surprises in the middle of it.
  
  The graphics 
 is very beautiful, detailed, even using DX9.
  
  When you gain level, you gain points that you can distribute in a tree of skills like Diablo II. 
 The combat movement is very good, because you can make combo attacks and acrobatic as well.
  
  The alchemy in this game is very important, because you use it in all time to make potions 
 of all kinds, like health regeneration, endurance, etc. You can get the reagents from plants and 
 dead monster. You need herbalist and bestiary knowledge that you can get by reading books, and 
 the books buying from a bookseller. And to mix the reagents you need a base potion like strong 
 alcohol.
  
  This game worth buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  The witcher seemed to come out of nowhere and at first glimpse gives you nothing special. It's 
 isn't the games appearance that takes the player by surprise. Everything bubbling underneath the 
 pixels stands up. 
  There is no fancy character creation, you are just dropped off to the game with very little. It's 
 frustrateing to try figure out the tricks and means. Then the story suddenly starts to unfold and 
 you can only be stunned by the ammount of choises you are allowed to make, and the outcomes of 
 those choises? OU BOY! it's magnificent. It's never been done before, when a game developer tells 
 you that your character effects the story with his actions, it usually means he gains a level by 
 being nice to the beggars on the streets. Not in Witcher, sometimes you don't even notice you are 
 makeing a choise. Half a day later the effects of that choise came haunting back to you and there 
 is no way you can anymore make difference. 
  All I want to say this game brings story to life for the first time ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamhuin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  I finally got my hands on The Witcher for the pc and must say that I have not enjoyed a game as 
 much as I have this one in quite some time. The technical specs are a bit on the high side, so 
 I had to play the game on the lowest settings, but it still looked great. I'll cover the usual 
 things first and quickly; the story was good, the voice acting ranged from amazing to mediocre, 
 the characters were well done for the most part, the combat was highly challenging on medium difficult 
 and relatively easy, with some challenge on easy difficulty. The game left me reminded of the fun 
 I used to have playing the Baldur's Gate series or Planescape Torment style of games just with 
 one character rather than a party.
  
  Where this game truly shines is in the many choices you are forced to make throughout the story. 
 You are faced with many choices that impact the story of the game in very major ways. And the thing 
 that is so different and outstanding is that none of the choices are black & white good vs. evil 
 such as most games that give you "moral choices". I pined away over decisions I had to make, because 
 none of the options were really what I would call good. Most of the enemies, nor allies, were clear 
 cut. Do you help the law abiding knights who seek order and justice or do you side with their enemies, 
 freedom fighters who want nothing more than equal rights for their people? And depending on what 
 you do, the outcome of the story and the entire game later on will vary. Another person playing 
 the game may find themselves fighting alongside the people I spent the last chapters of the game 
 plowing through with my swords. There are many moments where you must choose who you believe, though 
 you lack enough facts to truly know who is in the right, and this will impact you later on - who 
 are you kind to, who do you show faith in, though you lack definite knowledge that they are worth 
 of it. All of this is taken into account and evolves the story. This system also makes for a high 
 level of re-playability in the game.
  
  My one and only complaint is the sex scenes. The game has a number of opportunities for the main 
 character to get it on with the ladies you meet throughout the game. You don't see anything, just 
 blurry images of flesh & movement obscured by cards with portraits of the nearly nude women involved 
 covered by sheets or other bits of cloth. This wouldn't be so bad if it wasn't for the frequency 
 that such opportunities occur or worse, by how tacky it lies there amongst this otherwise masterpiece 
 of a story and game.
  
  So, tacky sex scenes aside, it's a really great game and the story-altering choices and moral dilemmas 
 presented make this a definite must play, and play again and maybe one more time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roguetrp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Lets start at the beginning, loading this game and wathing the intro makes you look at the game 
 in awe. It leaves you wanting to get your fingers ready to have a 6 hour session and suffer from 
 sleep deprevation.
  
  The gameplay is super smooth and the characters are well thought out, inluding the main character 
 and his story. Its like having more than one story or plot in one game. The battles are good the 
 attacks get some getting used to but the learning curve is good. The tarrot card thing is really 
 something else, nough said about that ..
  
  all in all the game is sound and without a doubt the best RPG on the market, even though GS did 
 not think so, but the users did. 
  
  Fighting in the bar is fun, messing around with spells and things are good. I think the thing that 
 makes this game so well made is the fact that a FPS player can play this and not feel wanting something 
 more or smething differant. 
  
  All in all, it realy playes well and makes for some good entertainment, however, it lacks the one 
 thing that makes these type of game the best ever....... GS liked that bit... NOT.... it is and 
 in many oppinion will be one of the bes RPG's for years to come. 
  
  Get it guys, its woth every penny, I mainly play FPS and this one got me hooked instantly.
  
 
  PS: if this game could be a MP as well, it will rock the earth we walk on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alistervk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher
  
  Well let me start off to say that I love RPG . Diablo , Two Worlds , Oblivion and so on . The witcher 
 is also a great RPG . Great graphics and great sound . The combat is also ok except is also just 
 clicking like Diablo but at the exact time to complete the combo . Now my problems with the game 
 :
  
  1: The inventory is so simple . You cannot pick up more than 3 weapons . I played the whole game 
 with the same 2 swords ? This is not RPG . 
  2 : The quests get boring . Go there , Find this , and talk talk talk to everyone over and over 
 again . Man it gets boring .
  3: I click for Gerlt to open something and he just stands there .
  4: So this is what it feels 
 like to work for Fed_ex
  5: The fighting is the same over and over and over again.
  6: Spells don't do much.
  
  I tell you one thing is the sex is great , I think Geralt has had 
 sex about 10 times so far and the cut scenes are great . You also get a sexy pic of the chick in 
 your inventory so you can check all the chicks that you have shagged . One thing guys , there is 
 a great chick in the wizards garden ( full frontal nude and she is so hot. Ok she is green but 
 still hot. Oh yes you shag her and also get the card )
  
  Review 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zznn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  You see, every single aspect of this game is amazing, you can tell how much passion and quality 
 care has been taken for making the game.
  
  Cutscenes are emotional, brutal combat is very fun, characters and monsters realistically behave 
 at night and at day, realistic prblems and quests.. Graphics own. Voice acting and character development 
 STRONGLY IMPACT WHO YOU ARE!. Many endings. Big replay value. Very non- linear gameplay. Hundreds 
 of hours of gameplay. Smart controls.  surprisingly sexy 
 in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Truly amazing story line
  Your actions have consequences
  Very long
  Amazing graphics
  Great AI
  
  Cons:
  Can get slightly confusing
  Not very sandboxy, you 
 cant go where you want (maybe they will in the second one which they better do!)
  
  
  Well, i finally finished this game, took me about 30 hours to do so, but whatever, it was realyl 
 worth it. As soon as you are plunged into the game you realise you are going to be taken on a rollercoaster 
 ride through the story. The story is so air tight, more so than most RPG's mainly due to the fact 
 that The Witcher is a real story someone has written. Saying that, some parts can be a little confusing 
 if you dont pay attention.
  
  The game uses the Aurora Engine, but if you have used it before, it's very different. The textures 
 are that much smoother, and the weather effects are great. The AI in the game is awesome, i would 
 say it is better than Oblivion in most ways. When it rains the people hide under cover and mutter 
 things about the rain, they make snide remarks when you walk past. The enemies will work together 
 to take you out.
  
  The game isn't all fun slashing and hacking and potion making. It also stands up against real world 
 problems, rape, murder, racism and terrorism to name a few. Very few game companies dare to do 
 this anymore, and its refreshing that some are still prepared to break down the wall of the moderators!
 
  
  Some people give the game bad reviews because of the "pornographic content" yeah it contains it 
 but in small quite resolution cards. I dont see the big deal, and especially once you have seen 
 it, it's gone. And it even has a impact on the story. The story is affected by your actions, you 
 get different opertunities to join the three different factions, the Order, the nonhumans or just 
 neutral (I was neutral, Triss is hot!) . If you choose one it has an affect on the others.
  
  If you are expecting this to be like Oblivion, where you can run around killing as you will. 
 Well you cant, which is dissapointing, but not a big deal. They may add a more open ended feel 
 in the next game, they will be making one, they have to!
  
  Anyway, yeah a long review but its a good game! An amazing game. This game is for anyone who has 
 liked RPG's. Or any gamer really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.5/10  brilliant graphics 
  
  Bugs: 9/10  a few crashes and glitches such as not being able to easily maneuver around characters
 
  
  Immersive: (draws you in and you become a part of the world in the game) : 9/10 due to less clicking 
 a felt like the game was more about timely clicking and felt less in control of the character
 
  
  Controls: 9/10  decent although a few annoying movement issues such as not being able to navigate 
 around enemies while in combat (applies to non-combat too)
  
  Gameplay (how it all falls into place to create smooth gameplay) : 9/10. An objection that I would 
 have as to regards to choosing what you will say next, sometimes it takes as much as saying 'hi' 
 or something really ambiguous and you lose control of the game and can have sex with a character 
 which does get to be a bit too boring. Also, sometimes you don't really know what to do next and 
 you don't understand a point of a dialogue but the tracking system more or less remedies this issue.
 
  
  Voices: 10/10  the version I played had excellent translation and excellent voices although the 
 plot was sometimes a bit hard to understand. The voices do repeat but there are too many characters 
 to do a voice for each one. It is a bit cheesy but I like it. 
  
  Sounds: 10/10 nature sounds or any other sounds not relating to voices or the music are very well 
 done
  
  Storyline: 10/10 - brilliant storyline that goes in many different directions and shows you how 
 difficult it is to stay neutral. All in all, you've got conspiracies and all that, but you can; t 
 have a game without it, it's the part in the middle that gets you to the end that counts and it's 
 absolutely brilliant.
  
  Length: 10/10 To be honest, the game could have been shorter and it could have been longer and 
 I still would have been happy with it. If you take away the loading times, I played this game for 
 6 straight days which is a lot of value for your money and the game is excellent so a lot of value 
 for your time. In the beginning I thought the game would not be that good and wanted it to end 
 sooner, but it drew me in and now I could play another 10 levels although the same missions of 
 playing run back and forth like an errand boy have become tiring and so the game ends appropriately. 
 
  
  Music: 9/10 Generally, excellent music and I really liked some of the period pieces. Sometimes 
 I didn't like the music or I thought it inappropriate but rarely. 
  
  Difficulty: 9/10 I would have given it 7/10 but I did use the cheats to unlock all the character 
 enchancements so most of the game was easy. I expected the end to be a bit harder forcing you to 
 upgrade your sword with the meteorite stones or runes or to get the armour and use potions, but 
 in the end I ended up using just a few potions throughout the game and not upgrading my sword at 
 all. Forcing you to get a bit more interest into these would have drawn the player that bit further 
 into the game. Also, I wish the gold could have been spent somewhere since I ended up with 25.000 
 orens with nothing to buy. 
  
  Overall: 9.5/10  excellent game  absolutely legendary with so many different things to do and 
 different characters. However, I do feel they could have done more on the side quests, ie: they 
 could have done more of them but varying ones, not just killing monsters and loading new environments 
 all the time in order to 'play' the game longer whereas you're in fact just waiting for your screen 
 to load up. It is very immersive, but does not completely get there, like for instance GTA games 
 do. Naturally, this is a different setting and everything but I feel that the game could have achieved 
 that extra more to get it to 10. You choose your path every step of the way and what you choose 
 will most certainly have at least a small effect on a future mission. This truly does take a lot 
 of time to think of and implement and I applaud the CD Projekt Red team for everything they've 
 done. You might wonder how come most of the points that I gave were 9/10 and now I give it 9.5 
 out of 10  well those things are individually separated but when you put them all together you 
 get an amazing experience and I feel I could play another 10 levels of this game if only some innovations 
 were brought in to break the repetitiveness.
  
  
  Innovative Points: For me this was an unusual way of fighting which I did get used to but would 
 have preferred to be able to choose if I wished to click all the time or just at every fourth or 
 so hit. The different fighting styles are truly worth admiring and the two sword system slows the 
 game down a bit but it is still a welcome innovation. Also, you can choose between three different 
 camera views so the whole experience can change from that point of view too. Dice poker is also 
 interesting although very unrealistic and fist fighting is a nice touch although choosing for what 
 amount to fight and the end of the fight ruin the experience a bit. 
  
  The Bad: Really really really long loading times. I do have 2 GB of RAM which is not too much but 
 loading really takes it out of the game, as well as saving. I deleted half of my saved games and 
 the remaining are over 5GB large, yes that's 5 GIGA bytes. Don't get put off, because when I say 
 long loading times I mean about 30 seconds each for my machine which is a pretty good one at highest 
 settings. So it is just bearable, but there is too much of going back and forth so plenty of loading 
 to annoy you. Secondly, sometimes the cutscenes are really awkward and you talk to someone, then 
 the game is loaded and you walk for literally a couple of meters and the cutscenes starts again 
 so it has to be loaded again which wastes time. Also, when the cutscenes end and the game loads, 
 by the time you get the picture on the screen you are already being attacked without a chance of 
 drawing your sword. Swapping between swords is also awkward but the game is not too difficult so 
 it doesn't cause too many annoyances. 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game. 
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Well when I started playing witcher the game was awful until I installed the latest patch and it 
 got a little more decent the save and load times were better and some issues were resolved and 
 such so If you want to play the game update it...
  
  The graphics are really good it is the engine that was used for Neverwinter Nights 2 and it got 
 way way better. The atmosphere is incredible, while you walk in the city the crowd is there the 
 salers are there little children that play on the streets are there, hell even the hookers are 
 there :D 
  
  But when you start tallking to them it gets a little... awkward... There are a lot of characters 
 that initiate a dialog but their voices are... Off like the voice actors were tired of doing this 
 and they just want to get it done get paid and go home... The characters are the real fun here... 
 While you talk they start to make funny movements and dances!! I mean who would dance in the middle 
 of a conversation...
  
  The fighting part of the game is quite good the movements are flowing especially the fast fighting 
 style is a joy to watch...
  
  The story line is pretty deep so you need to focus a lot to get the quests done and you need to 
 listen to conversations very carefully cause the language of the game is a little weak... And there 
 are a lot of swearing too :D well if you are older then 18 it is no problem :D
  
  So all in all it is a fun and enjoyable game if you are into RPG's it is worth a look... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarsheAliev
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I've played plenty of RPGs similar to the Witcher, most of which had something going for them. 
 Some had amazing combat systems, others had great voice acting and scenery, still others thrived 
 at Storyline and made me want to continue playing. The Witcher has none of those qualities in stock. 
 But having read the reviews, I figured even though the beginning made me twitch that the game would 
 pick up and prove to be worth its rating. I couldn't have been more wrong. 
  
  The Combat System is perhaps the most boring, useless, and unnecessarily overcomplicated trash 
 i've ever had the displeasure of using. Just what exactly is the point of making all these various 
 "styles" that you constantly have to switch between every time you turn your attention to the next 
 enemy. It's as if the Developers just figured they didn't have enough features going for the game 
 so why not add a bit of rock papers scissors to make sure nobody falls asleep from relentless clicking 
 and timing. 
  
  The stale, slow-paced combat itself is enough of a turnoff, but perhaps even worse is the voice 
 acting and storyline. It's possible that the cast was entirely comprised of a bunch of kids and 
 an old hippie that calls girls 'babe'. Every time the animation started that opened the characters 
 mouths to let those pre-pubescent voices out I just wanted to turn the game off. 
  
  Storyline is fairly linear and drab, with just enough excitement going on to make you wish you 
 could go rogue and kill everyone and everything in the game. As I was playing this game I actually 
 thought to myself where else i've felt so sick before, and it occured to me it was when I was watching 
 Uwe Boll's "The legacy of Kain". Playing this game is like watching that movie. It'll turn your 
 stomach. 
  
  To be fair, there does appear to have been a lot of effort placed into the game. The Graphics are 
 great and there's plenty of stuff to do if you can stomach it. Over-all however, save your money.. 
 there's got to be way better RPG's to spend it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Once every now and then a game comes along that reminds me why I have been a gamer for 24+ years 
 of my life...
  
  If you, like myself are a fan of REAL Roleplaying games and have become increasingly dis-illusioned 
 with the trend we have been seeing of late of dumbed down RPG elements to cater to the casual gaming 
 market *cough* Elder Scrolls *cough* you may at last breath a sigh of relief. All is not lost!
 
  
  This game is simply put, a godsend and a serious reality check for modern day RPG gamers and developers. 
 Now I could go on and on about this game, but instead I am just going to briefly touch on why this 
 is the single most important single player RPG of our time. Seriously, believe the hype (or lack 
 there of) and just download the Demo and see for yourself.
  
  Pro's
  
  + "Mature" game setting and content. (make sure you get the UK version)
  + Simply, yet strangely 
 compelling and innovative combat
  + Motion captured!
  + Good use of the engine used to power NWN. (Obsidian take note!)
  + Good Story, main character 
 and your decisions really do impact upon the game! (something many games claim but rarely follow 
 through with)
  + Nice Sound effects Fatality's and Gore.
  + Huge campaign begging multiple play throughs
  + Good and stable performance on a decent PC.
 
  
  Cons
  
  (Not listing common complaints fixed in the 1.2 patch such as load times)
  
  - Cheesy Voice acting
  - Camera and control difficulties
  - Somewhat annoying interface
 
  - Some motion capture looks a little awkward.
  
  But none of these con's are enough to tarnish the positives previously mentioned. No game, after 
 all can be perfect. But if you are a true RPG nut. The Witcher comes pretty damn close.
  
  (Actually if you dont like it, you need a chromosone reconstruction, its that good)
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranthon007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Finally, someone got and RPG right! Moral decisions, limited magic/gold, interlocking stories, 
 interesting characters, great cut-scenes, great voice acting, interesting setting, and a very cool 
 story. This game includes everything I wanted in an RPG that Two-Worlds and Oblivion did not include. 
 It is fun from the beginning and I cannot wait until the expansion or second game comes out. CD 
 Project should be held in high esteem in the gaming world for this excellent example of an RPG 
 is and should be. If you don't own it buy it for real.
  
  You do not have choice in class but keep in mind that this is adapted from a graphic novel out 
 of Poland. If you do not like swords then you may be somewhat disappointed with the combat. But 
 you can use alchemy and magic so you do have some wiggle room. It is open ended as far as which 
 quests you can pursue and the like but the physical world is not open like Oblivion and Two Worlds. 
 I think that this actually adds to the depth of the game since what area there is is filled with 
 a lot of interaction.
  
  Things that could be better or improved on in the future:
  
  Load times.
  Better inventory system.
  Combat could be improved, but it does work good enough 
 once you get use to it.
  
  That's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endril03
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I've never enjoyed a game as much as this one. The story unfolds depending on your choices when 
 it comes to politics and sex. Nearly every time you talk to a character you're making a decision 
 that will change everything. I don't know how the programmers did it, but it's an amazing game. 
 When I'm playing I loose all track of time. You have to buy this game now.
  
  The combat system is completely new. It's not just point, click and kill. There are 2 different 
 main weapons and 2 alternate weapons. There are 3 combat styles for each weapon. Depending on how 
 you spend your points you can have longer attack combos. You can't use potions and magic too, choose 
 what you want to master.
  
  At many points in the game you'll have met many people then have to choose who is right, or who's 
 committed such a horrible act that they need to be cut down where they stand. Do you stop the town 
 from killing a girl that they think is a witch? Or do you kill her along with the town? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsikki
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  The witcher seemed to come out of nowhere and at first glimpse gives you nothing special. It's 
 isn't the games appearance that takes the player by surprise. Everything bubbling underneath the 
 pixels stands up. 
  There is no fancy character creation, you are just dropped off to the game with very little. It's 
 frustrateing to try figure out the tricks and means. Then the story suddenly starts to unfold and 
 you can only be stunned by the ammount of choises you are allowed to make, and the outcomes of 
 those choises? OU BOY! it's magnificent. It's never been done before, when a game developer tells 
 you that your character effects the story with his actions, it usually means he gains a level by 
 being nice to the beggars on the streets. Not in Witcher, sometimes you don't even notice you are 
 makeing a choise. Half a day later the effects of that choise came haunting back to you and there 
 is no way you can anymore make difference. 
  All I want to say this game brings story to life for the first time ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaiKhulud
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I know, i know. In USA and some European countries we have eng. versions of the game translated 
 by ATARI. I need to say, they are totally trashsome. Mistranslating, killed jokes, un proper names... 
 Even Russian publisher done a lot smarter job than this guys. Why i`m starting from that point? 
 That`s all because of Sapkowski book. Because the word is just like the sword in that game. Sharp, 
 swift and solid. The script is very important in that game, it just make the game so real. And 
 character voices too (in ATARI version voiceovered pretty badly) ... Oh, yeah, Script and dialogs 
 are brilliant. No black or white, only gray guided by the fate. 
  
  Battle system is very... Very... Err... Unusual. Don`t know, but i love it very much. All this 
 click`on`demand things just do more adrenaline stuff than half of slow D&D-like games. 
  
  Visuals in the game are so pretty. Witcher is one of the best optimized RPG in few past years. 
 Picture looks so good, beautiful and shiny, but it very fast too and require not too much from 
 the PC. 
  
  Music and sound is perfect, Adam Scorupa is the man, definitely.
  
  And of course the feeling of the game. Witcher is real, interesting and very addictive. I love 
 that game and think this is the best based-on-book game ever made in game history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  The list just goes on an on with this game. Many RPGs have lost what it takes to be a good RPG. 
 I think this is because of the advent of MMORPG. All MMOs are based on racing through quests and 
 PvP. They have lost the simple elements that make RPGs great. Character development, an incredible 
 story with actual game altering choices and cool side features like alchemy, dice, even drinking 
 and pulling chicks is what makes this game ... enthralling. The combat in this game is fantastic 
 as it takes some element of finesse and paying attention. You don't just hit auto attack, or hit 
 your mouse as fast as you can. You have to use the proper fighting styles for certain opponents 
 and dodge and use elements of the environment to your advantage. 
  If tyou like RPGs you should get this game and play it and thoroughly enjoy it. If you miss this 
 one, you are just missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  It was long after Oblivion and I would never thought another RPG can attract me as much but The 
 Witcher proved me wrong.
  First of all the storyline is a masterpiece that you can't get off your computer easily . As the 
 story goes on you are to find your lost identity. You become surrounded by Evil and the lesser 
 evil, while the destiny calls upon you.
  The graphics and sounds are also great. Lovely fields, old towns and cities, terrifying monsters 
 and sexy girls. Did i say sexy? that is one more advantage.
  As The Witcher would become a M-rated game for its violence and hard language, it doesn't hurt 
 to add some partial nudity to it. And then trying to screw all the girls you see and overcoming 
 huge monsters just for a card to reveal, makes the game more real. Not to forget the great combat 
 styles which can be improved surprisingly through the game play. I only hoped there was more armor 
 and swords in the game, which would make it perfect as hell!
  Overall, if you want to taste mastering your own fate while fighting the death, do not hesitate. 
 Start playing NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  In The Witcher you play as Geralt, a human mutant who slays monsters, set out to recover the secrets 
 of the Witchers. The Witcher is a great Role playing game and it doesn't have hundreds of weapons 
 and armor, it doesn't have a insane amounts of random loot to collect. What it does do is let you 
 play a role, that role is to choose a path that the story should follow. Choose who to kill, who 
 to accuse and who to trust. These aspects are carefully played out through a series of quests and 
 at various points you are called to decide on two or three mini branches of the story. These branches 
 may result in a battle further in consists of different enemies, or characters changing their opinions 
 of you. The resulting flashback images at key story moments will be presented in a very rich and 
 detailed way of the events you previously completed.
  
  The Witcher does contain a lot of action, there are two main ways of fighting, one with axes or 
 clubs and other weapons, the other with Witcher fighting styles that use swords. These styles can 
 be improved in the character screen, they give you access to extra hits, more damage when you get 
 the correct timing for your attacks and other critical effects like bleeding, stun that can provide 
 you with better attacks. There are three main stances: strong, fast and group. Strong is for larger 
 creatures / armoured units, Fast for quick nimble guys and group for those who like to attack 10 
 monsters at once, in fact group stance is sometimes overpowered should you get enough enemies around 
 you. You also have two sword types, silver and steel, silver is more useful against monsters. These 
 swords can be forged using meteorites or runes or upgraded using polishing items. The combat can 
 be a bit clumsy at time, but there is some great fighting animation. Unfortunately some combat 
 occurs directly after a long cutscene giving you little time to really prepare. Along with your 
 melee skills are a range of signs, these are basically magic type skills and there are five: fire, 
 air (knock/stun) , trap, shield and hex (turn monsters) , they are simple yet they are all quite 
 varied and perform different roles. Although I didn't use shield and hex that much, it does depend 
 on how many tokens you place into the various sign skill trees as to how potent they can be, I 
 found great use for the other three. 
  
  Aside from these basic combat and magic styles, you have a broad range of alchemy formulas. These 
 formulas create 3 main groups, potions, bombs and oils. Potions range from giving you health, slowing 
 time to increase your reflexes or increasing damage. Bombs are area effect type devices you throw 
 on the ground, that can scare enemies, although I didn't use these much and there aren't many of 
 them. Oils are bonuses that you can apply to your weapons, they provide damage boosts to certain 
 creatures and last for a day in game These are incredibly useful when you go on a side quest to 
 deal with a specific type of enemy. All formulas are made using a range of ingredients with base 
 materials and an alcohol base. Some with unique ingredients from boss monsters. To learn potions 
 you can read books or scrolls most of them can be bought from traders, or you can make up your 
 own and hope that you don't poison yourself. You gather most ingredients from either dead monsters 
 or plants. To gather these items you must have the monster or plant recorded in your detailed journal, 
 letting you extract the required items from plant or creature, again this information is mostly 
 gained from books.
  
  The game world continues to live around you, there is a day night cycle, in general nighttime is 
 unsafe when you are outside and monsters can popup out of nowhere, although some roam, many you 
 face will spawn from the ground or area around you. You can run away from many of them, at which 
 point they give up the chase. Some creatures come out at night, like vampires, so if you require 
 something from them you have to pick the right time of day. NPCs in the game world will go about 
 their tasks, take shelter when it rains and make somewhat rude comments about Witchers. Some characters 
 will have a daily job cycle and you need to be aware of it to find where they are at that time. 
 Alternatively you can find any fireplace and meditate to a set time of day, meditation is used 
 to distribute tokens and also to make potions, and you gain health during this time. It's similar 
 to sleeping in Oblivion where you can skip hours in a few seconds.
  
  Quests range from collecting items from creatures including taking the heads off the more unique 
 ones. Collecting plant materials, saving sisters by releasing their souls, fighting an uprising, 
 interrupting a bank robbery. There is a great range of quests and aside from side quests they don't 
 often feel tiring apart from some treks later in the game. It's worth mentioning how solid and 
 consistent the art style is, it can be a very good looking game in places, character and monster 
 design is very good. Sound wise its relatively good. There are some issues with the sound levels 
 from during dialogue sequences and some translation mistakes but overall its solid. More impressive 
 is the wonderfully orchestral music score that will journey into your ears while playing.
  
  The game draws similarities from a few games, Deus Ex, Vampire: Bloodlines and Diablo. The 
 game presents a similar setting to Diablo, crypts and dungeons along with some good monster design 
 and weapon/art. Geralt like JC Denton is a badass character that can choose rewards from quests 
 and engage in conversation in a few different ways as you progress through a story. Also like Bloodlines 
 where you have main hubs and different factions to ally yourself with during the game. The Witcher 
 story is a linear progression but with a series of choices that alter situations, characters and 
 flashback storyboards, each chapter usually means a new main area is unlocked and possibly more 
 combat areas. Chapters 2, 3 and 4 are the longest and the best in terms of content and quest range. 
 Characters will often continue through the story just as you do, or reappear further down the track, 
 and most are fairly well developed and memorable. The game doesn't fizzle away thankfully; it maintains 
 the high quality of story telling, and even increases your decisions during the later chapters. 
 It ends quite concisely, but with many good mysteries remaining, finally giving you another epic 
 cutscene just like the intro to finish with a bang.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Way back when i first saw the trailers for The Witcher i was worried that the fighting will be 
 a click and point affair. Traditional RPG style but it proved to be nothing like it. In fact you 
 don't have to be click crazy but rather time your mouse game interaction. A difficult system to 
 learn but once understood its easy. Also use your magic along side your sword swinging to make 
 it easier to defeat your enemies.
  
  Also the camera options you have are very nice, comparing it to Oblivion i liked the first person 
 view in Oblivion but it never worked well or convincingly for me. I kept it on low isometric view 
 same as The Witcher.
  
  The story is amazing and even though it is not a game that has good or evil according to the designers 
 one cannot help but feel sometimes that it does have that good evil feel to it. No matter what 
 decisions you make the story just evolves around them or so it seems.
  
  I have not seen any bad graphic anomalies or any bad coding so far and that is to be amended. Granted 
 i did install the first patch. Just installed patch no 2 and running fine. Graphically the game 
 rocks hard and with a AMD dual Core and Geforce 7600GT it looks amazing. It does stutter a bit 
 in certain areas in the cities and swamp.
  
  This game definitely has my stamp of approval and should be bought without thinking about it. Please 
 also make sure that you are old enough to play it because its definitely a mature only game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rusty587
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good, awesome graphics, storyline, characters and settings along with the choice 
 of being good or bad in your actions. I also like the fact that you have a vast array of quests 
 and side-quests to do which makes you always having something to do. Some bad things are the loading 
 times that get me crazy, the way of moving sometimes and the time it takes to get used to the game. 
 But this aside, its a very entertaining game. 
  The story itself is good and fresh since I have'nt heard of any witcher related game around. The 
 Setting is appropiate for the game and the interaction with it is quite big, since you can pick 
 up and go in lots of things and places. Also the game provides diffrent types of weapons and jewelery 
 to kill or bribe, along with potions and herbs, to drink or make. Overall having said all this, 
 the game is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fattire357
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is kind of like that kid you knew that was cool, but lazy.
  
  
  For all of you who enjoyed playing in the RPG genre, but always felt the games were a bit lame, 
 this is the water to fill the scorched earth. The storyline - and I'm not just talking about plot-twisters 
 or metaphors - but rather the identity, word choice, and perspective of the storyline adds a uniques 
 that propels The Witcher to reach 8.5/10 scores.
  
  Be forewarned - there a couple frustrating moments. On several occasions, you may find yourself 
 traversing back and forth between NPC's in a poorly executed manner. You may also hit a snag in 
 the main quest, such that you almost give up playing. This happened three times for me. On other 
 occasions, you may say, how the *@ ( was I supposed to know that without a walkthrough. All these 
 flaws could really be fixed if the developers just put a little more time into it.
  
  This explains the hesitance of corporate reviewers to give it above a 8.5/10, but the devoted fan 
 gathering hailing its inception. In truth, Gamespot can't give it a high score if it has frustrating 
 bugs. But there are several of us, myself included, who put up with the bugs to grab onto a game 
 that is just much cooler than the others. If you find yourself only listening to studio albums, 
 go with WoW. If you find yourself listening to live music, go with The Witcher. It is really a 
 shame that this game was not polished.
  
  
  Another note - This game is based off an aging engine. The graphics are beautiful and adapted to 
 modern technology. But the mechanics, the physics of the objects in the game - are bad. Do not 
 expect innovation in this specialization. Be prepared to run into things and come to a screeching 
 halt, as was common in 2002. This is not Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. Especially the storyline which keeps me going. Not only that but the choices 
 you make in the game, do have an impact to what is going to happen next! This game gives you choices! 
 That's a nice touch!
  
  Combat system is something new, in the sense that it acts according to how you click on your mouse! 
 The attack will eventually leads to combo attacks if you could successfully hit the mouse button 
 with the timing correct. There aren't many choices of magic in this game. It depends more on Alchemy! 
 Mixing of your own potions to give you extra magical powers or even strengths & healings. That 
 adds to the interesting part of the game. Gathering herbs, animal parts, monster parts to mix into 
 a potion to your likings. Though you have to learn it first through books or upgrading your character. 
 
  
  The graphics though, isn't that powerful enough. You will expect to see duplications of NPCs faces. 
 Not the main characters in the story. The music & sound are pleasant to the ears. 
  
  This is a great game for people who enjoys the story part of it. Don't expect more out of character 
 building & stuffs. Its a simple, nice story & choices making game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulik1112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll get the review breaked down into clear sections:
  
  Graphics - 8/10 - Good. Actually better than The Elder Scroll 4 - Oblivion (minus those facial 
 expression) . There are lots of glitchs but is insignificant. The game seems to have little models 
 for NPC also. So all the whores here are carbon-copy copies, and you'll see lots of Mr. A walking 
 around here and there, and Ms. B's too. Luckily no one look like Geralt! Did I mention that gore 
 & sexy scenes are all here?
  
  Music - 9/10 - Superb. In combat, you'll have combat music. In non-combat, you'll have non-combat 
 music. And they're beautiful.
  
  Sounds - 8/10 - Good. The only complain is the voices of some NPC, as they don't appropriately 
 convey the emotion.
  
  Character buildings - 8/10 - Good. The protagonist Geralt is likeable actually, with a very impressive 
 face.
  
  Story - 9/10 - Superb. Like gamespot said, you're choosing the lesser evil.
  
  Gameplay - 8/10 - Good. There are some annoyances here and there, like Geralt cannot jump; normally 
 passable areas are impassable (e. g. Geralt cannot walk on a 50-cm high wooden stair, or jump through 
 a 1m-tall fence) ; conversations are slow and must always happen among standing people; combat is 
 not exactly satisfying, especially when you're fighting multiple enemies at once; Geralt can slay 
 mythological monsters, but cannot make the camp-fire by himself; Geralt's inventory do not automatically 
 soft although there are lots of small items; In this real-like world you can walk into anybody's 
 house at any time taking anything and get no complain at all; a lot of time must be used in walking 
 around; gathering herbs must be performed by 2-clicks; most corpses appears like a small pile of 
 blood and bones; it's impossible to use the sword/magic in most area (which is a totally let-down, 
 since Oblivion did that really well!) ! One really good feature is you always know what to do and 
 where to go to complete the quest.
  
  And i wonder if really in imperial time those girls exposed their breast that much!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loudovikos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  My occupation with Role Playing Games goes for many years, over a decade. There are many, many good 
 games but the ones that truly stand out are few of course. Bioware and bethesda have published masterpieces (my 
 personal favorite was planescape: torment) but suddenly in 2007 a new company really makes an impressing 
 debut. The witcher is falsely categorized as action rpg, it is not like diablo or dungeon siege or 
 titan quest. At all. It is more like neverwinter nights. It doesn't feature the open world of elder 
 scrolls or gothic series but it doesn't mind. This game has an extremely interesting and deep story 
 and it excels at creating the right atmosphere for you as you go through it. The graphics are wonderful, they 
 are far better than any rpg so far in my opinion. Especially water, weather effects and lighting 
 according to time of day. The music is very good, dynamically changing when enemies are about and 
 the voiceover is great, especially geralt's character, a strong, firm but somehow worried, disorientated, lonely 
 and sad character that he is. The interface is at very high standards while the new fighting system 
 is easy to handle and much more interesting compared to one click hack'n'slash. You have 2 swords, one 
 for human and one for monsters,3 fighting styles for each,5 spells,4 general attributes, each with 
 a skill tree. Each can be powered up by points you get when you level up, with specializations costing 
 more. It's innovative in it's own way, it's easy to understand and it makes you think before you 
 level up. I would love to see more inventory space but it's already very big, it's just me who loves 
 to carry everything. The game doesn't have the hundreds of equipment to buy, you just find one better 
 armor and you upgrade one or more times your swords. So everything else to buy is ingredients for 
 your potions (which are important, not like other games where you just use healing potions) and books. Why 
 books? Well, they describe monsters and if you don't already know about a monster then you don't 
 get stuff of his body which is required for quests and for mixing potions. But let's get to the 
 one thing that the witcher will be remembered for ages. It bears the mature rating and it completely 
 justifies that. Sex is plenty, so plenty that sometimes you are wondering if the guys that created 
 the old 'larry' adventure series are involved in this game! But it is most of the time optional. I 
 don't understand why a lot of people don't take this well. There are thousands of people who play 
 sims, the top-selling game of our times, and all they do is 'mating' people. So, why is sex bad in 
 the witcher? After all, geralt is a true epic hero, and all the aspects of him should be shown. But 
 apart from sex, the whole 'gray' setting is formidable. There are no clearly good or bad guys, they 
 all have their goals and even though it is hard to stay neutral, you still can. The gangs are truly 
 gangs, there is drug dealing, weapon smuggling, prostitute pimps etc. almost like in grand theft auto 
 games, but in a medieval setting. And the most important: Choices you make throughout the game always 
 have impact, but you don't see it immediately, it is hidden until a point. You help someone in a chapter 
 and later on he helps you. There are many, many such choices and all of them lead the story differently. So, the 
 replay value is huge. Not like a lot of other games, where you just take a choice in the very end 
 and you get a different ending. This game has this every single moment. The quests are really inspired, not 
 the usual, kill x monster or bring x items. And a lot of time you deal with conversation type quests 
 which is better in my opinion. i can't really describe how good is the witcher in storytelling without 
 giving spoilers so i will stop here. Another thing i liked was the day-night cycle, which is performed 
 better than ever before i think, with people living and working realistically. They even run for 
 shelter when it starts raining! What more to say? If you are a fan of rpg's, then you may have already 
 played the witcher. If you haven't or even if you don't like rpg's, don't miss it. It is more than 
 a good game. It is one of the best games ever released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lagoonate
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  "Honestly, who wouldn't just love a character that carry two two-handed swords on he's back like 
 it was a big bad scissor, slay mythical creatures for a living and get aehhintimated with almost 
 every female character in the story." I lest that was what I thought of the game before playing 
 it. And with the awesome starting presentation I got even more eager. Then the game starts, the 
 introduction to the story succeeds well in get you interesting in the world you'll be playing in. 
 But the first part of the game just feels like another promising RPG that seemed much, but doesn't 
 quite measure to other, already successful titles. Luckily that felling disappear rather quickly 
 when I got involved more and more in the story and the in game's combat system, which is great, 
 by the way, and it remind me of the one used in Vagrant Story.
  And when I discover that alchemy is very, VERY, useful, specially in the higher difficult level, 
 and potions, oils and bombs are fun to create and toy around, I like it even more. I also enjoy 
 combining combat styles with signs to try to create news and exiting combat strategies.
  
  Summing up, if you want a fresh, new and existing solo RPG, with a dark atmosphere, tons of quests 
 and monsters to slay, nice looking graphics and a very cool and interesting main character, The 
 Witcher is the way to go. I almost want to read the original work from Andrzej Sapkowskiw. (Just 
 kidding, I do read novels)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vacuitysbane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Just play the damned game already.
  
  
  
  
  
  .. or you could be wasting your time reading this:
  'This game builds on solid fantasy and rpg 
 fixtures and creates a compelling and personal world which constantly expands and draws you in 
 further. The combat seems bland at first, but I quickly found myself looking for greater challenges 
 in order to invent strategy and master the system. At times this game has brought me to the same 
 wonderful sense of anticipatory frustration as a good Zelda dungeon. If you like RPGs and are looking 
 for a new solo pc game to get hooked on, I recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glaukus
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  First of all let me tell you whenever there's hype and crazy ad for a game unless it's Blizzard 
 I don't believe it :)
  
  Secondly I am telling you play this game.
  
  The controls are not new as specified in this particular Gamespot critic. Have been seen again 
 somewhat, the swordplay reminds of an evolved Gothic 3, and rest of controls are plain good, innovative 
 in a "borrowing all different good elements" sense, which of course is not bad at all.
  
  I haven't played it yet on my 360 to know how it plays out on a console but on the pc it kept me 
 from playing the NWN2 expansion and I haven't played WoW for a month. (Along with Bioshock, Crysis, 
 and Naruto Rise of a Ninja (360) is a good detox game for wow addicts.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggdog1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  First off I should inform you that I don't play RPGs all that often. I tried Oblivion and was bored 
 to tears within a few hours. That being said The Witcher was one of the most enjoyable game experiences 
 I've ever had. The only other games that I enjoyed as much would be the original Zelda, Ninja Gaiden, 
 and maybe Super Mario bros. The story was well done, and respectfully told through the medium of 
 a game. If this game has perked your interest in any way you should buy it and play it. Support 
 the team that wrote this game, because they are not one of the big teams, but they hit like one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndra_vika
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  okay, first time i saw this game, i think this is just another RPG Game...
  And then, the first time i play this game, i think this is another great RPG Game... But now, i 
 realize that i'm wrong.. This is the BEST RPG ever!!!
  
  Okay, i will mention a reason for why this game is called the best RPG ever:
  
  First, is a 
 unique story.
  This game have an absolutely great story... and you know what? every step you take will make the 
 ending different... whoa... great
  
  Second, is a brand-new battle system.
  An exciting totally brand-new battle system... It's new.. but you won't take a long time to master 
 it..
  
  Third, is an NPC.
  There are a lot lot of NPC.. But, the NPC have their own business.. it's really different from the 
 other RPG game... and it's really realistic
  
  Fourth, is a quest.
  A lot of quest, so you won't boring when you play.. and the quest is really really unique...
  
 
  Fifth, it will suck you in
  Yea... you will think that you are geralt!!! It's great!
  
  
  There are many more reason.. but i can't mention all of it..... play this game.. you'll never 
 regret it!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veritys
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  I really like the lore and story behind "The Witcher". It made me actually care what was going 
 on and I have a bad habit of flying through story lines to just complete RPG's. Which I know defeats 
 the purpose. I found it was over-all easy on medium, with some jumps in challenge with the later 
 boss characters. Possibly a little to much as I never had to use potions or strategy much until 
 the end game. Which left me feeling like a newb and seeing why I should of learned the system more.
 
  
  Anyhow I love the graphic engine, the game has a ton of atmosphere. As the gamespot review states 
 it does feel "lived in". I liked the world feel much better then Oblivion, although I did at some 
 times feel I couldn't roam about the country side, which made it feel more linear.
  
  The skill system is cool also, plenty of level ups and points on medium so your always improving 
 something. I did think however the skill system lacked enough information on each skill set though. 
 Expecially on signs, I wasn't sure what some of the skill increases actually did.
  
  I wish there were more weapons and armor, infact if the game allowed more customization on the 
 armor front with more stuff to find and make your character unique it would of added a ton of fun 
 factor. 
  
  Overall don't miss out on this if you like RPG's, its a must play title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaWeitzel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  The variety of choices possible in Witcher made me play it three times in a row - just to see what 
 happens and how dialogues and actions change with each step I took. Although based on a rather 
 old gameplay engine you don't feel limited whilst playing. The way Witcher is divided into sub-acts 
 is logical and you feel rewarded for reaching each certain level in the game. 
  
  The good and innovative aspects are:
  - groovy storyline, there are no 'good' or 'bad' choices, 
 world of Temeria is a sad and nostalgic place with a certain destiny. Your actions never bring 
 a real disaster or a complete freedom and joy to the inhabitans (although you can wrack or save 
 a life of a few)
  - great mix of fight and magic - it's not possible on higher difficulty levels to rely on a single 
 fight tactics (which was possible for example in Elder Scrolls or Gothic series)
  - the character you play has got a very strong and weird personality - Geralt's opinion on many 
 things is highly ironical, his comments can be aggresive, full of dark humor and sexist
  - this is a game for adults! drinking, whoring, gambling and taunting you will find in abundance
 
  
  The bad and frustrating:
  - it sometimes takes dying and then loading a saved game for a few times to find out a way to fight 
 through certain bosses
  - the story nicely culminates but the climax itself - the explanation for all the evil happening 
 in Temeria - can be a bit disappointing (even though it is one of the kind you will not find in 
 any other RPG) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blades7558
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  all in all a decent game. althought the small stuff brings it down. like you can't just go freewheeling 
 through the bush... it stops you... elderscrolls any one... some slight inclines you cannot walk 
 up you have to go around... you can only draw your wepon in the daytime if there is something attacking 
 you. he puts hiswepon away eventually. the developers made every character look the same and every 
 other charactor has the same voice.... and thats about it on my bad list. otherwise it has a great 
 fighting system.. a nice change and if you fight more than one monster it gives you a matrix neo 
 kick @ss feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-leya-s
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I will be honest from the beggining - I am quite a fan of Sapkowski and his works, especially saga 
 of the Witcher guy. It certainly impacts my perception of the game. Raising the expectations on 
 one side, but pre-giving it climate, story context and some addiction.
  
  Witcher the game is a good game. Good combination of moderate 3rd person action play with extensive 
 but still swallowable RPG. And I like it for it too. A the beggining I felt a bit limited with 
 the mechanics of gameplay, I used "wsad" move keys and mouse clicking to get styles and swords 
 to the proper action, it took some time to adapt myself for the lack of thoughtless clicking.
 
  
  I love character building, trees of characteristics, styles and signs. You can see what you can 
 get, it makes the planning easier. A minor flaw was that some perks/actions were available for 
 several times, but no addition could be obtained - I understand authors wish for balancing the 
 gameplay, but somehow I feel it could be worked out in some other, better manner.
  
  Graphics were fine. Likeable, tasty, engaging - dark whenever necessary.
  
  Musics and sounds 
 nice too - oh yes, I played the Polish/original version - it means I skipped the weak translation 
 work. I heard dialogs in English version were rather sad. Which is quite opposite to Polish one, 
 dialogs just rules there.
  
  At the end, glory for the Polish team! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelgen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Long time I searched for a game that give me so much pleasure.
  
  The hero has a good story that you will see in the start, he is a powerful witcher that after one 
 of his battles was injured and forget his passed. The game start that you in a castel whit his 
 witcher brothers, that was attacked by powerful mage and mobs that call them self salamandra. You 
 try to help them but they succeeded in stilling what they wanted. From here you spread and you 
 try to find a answers about those people and to try to kill them.
  
  The graphics of the game is pretty good but not the best. I will give for that category 85/100.
 
  The sound of the game is perfect for the era of the game and when the combat start you will hear 
 a faster music, for that category i will give 95/100.
  The story of the game is very good if you don't like the RPG games i really think u will still 
 like the game because of the story. for that category i will give 100/100.
  The combat system is pretty hard and it good you will need to do more then only hit on bottom on 
 the keyboard you need to use magic and switch to different combat modes, this category I will give 
 100/100.
  Average score is 95/100.
  
  The only bad think I see is the long first load for the main city but i think is because i have 
 a pretty bad pc ( laptop ) , and becouse of that i dont reduce score for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: octop8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  The game world is immersive and bleak. Even the main character Geralt of Rivia is an anti-hero. 
 NPC characters are all different shades of grey, none good nor evil.
  
  Fighting mechanics, although simple, is good fun and challenging, even exhilarating when you get 
 to the "final" slash finishing off your opponents. The levelling up of your character has an impact 
 on the moves and manner in which you fight your opponents. It is almost brilliang in its simplicity 
 and I really enjoyed the fighting in the game, unlike a lot of other RPGs in recent years.
  
  The story-line is engaging. However, although the much-vaunted strap line for the game is choices 
 and consequences, it is not always clear that the game would have panned out much differently had 
 you made different choices. Nevertheless, there are several so-called decision points that will 
 have you thinking and considering how you want your path to play out. To a certain extent this 
 is absorbing.
  
  The ending itself is good, in my opinion. Not a cliche ending but one which gives the game an aura 
 of depth. I like it, despite some criticism of the ending by certain quarters of the gaming world. 
 All in all, this is a very satisfying game, an exploration of the areas in between good and evil, 
 shades of grey rather than black and white. And this is the mark of game that will appeal to those 
 who want realism, rather than cliches, if only the gaming world wasn't so bleak to the point of 
 almost depressing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alter_Echo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher tells the tale of a monster slayer and all around professional badass by the name of 
 Geralt. User of woman and master of the arcane. Or is it master of women and user of the arcane? 
 I guess thats up to how you play the game. 
  
  Either way, this is a game of choices and consequences. Throughout the roughly 80 hours of gameplay 
 you will repeatedly be given moral choices that are sometimes hard to make. The game however does 
 not usher you down a road of "right and wrong" or "light and dark". You are afforded the budget 
 to mix and match, though a few of the decisions will in fact effect the outcome of the game. 
 
  
  The witcher is extremely quest based and there is virtually no grinding involved while leveling 
 up unless its part of one of the aforementioned quests. This isn't a matter of choice on the players 
 part, grinding is simply made too inefficient by the game mechanics that few people will gain levels 
 by doing it. Unless you are a masochist who enjoys getting what quickly amounts to 1xp at a time 
 you will stick to quests. 
  
  The ultimate flaw with this game mechanic becomes evident at the higher difficulties. A vast and 
 astounding amount of the quests in the game are labeled "side quests". This is all well and good 
 except for the fact that the lack of grindable XP makes them indeed NOT side quests and NOT optional 
 at the harder difficulties. 
  
  
  The mentioned quests are varied to an extent but follow a simple design formula from chapter to 
 chapter. You will routinely gain "contract" quests in each new area that involve you killing X 
 number of a certain monster. There are also game long side quests that involve everything from 
 romancing women to participating in a medieval Fight club of sorts. The quest system is refreshing 
 for the most part and never sticks to one formula for a long enough streak of time to ever wear 
 thin. 
  
  The story based progression of the game is nigh perfectly paced and thanks to dynamic npc scripting 
 from night to day the same people wont be in the same place all the time. This almost guarantees 
 that you will miss something which in turn lends the game a certain amount of default replay value. 
 
  
  The world of Temeria is solidly visioned and has a welcomed variety in its different locations. 
 While looking slightly dated due to its engine, swamps look like swamps and fields look like fields 
 so at the end of the day nobody in their right mind can complain about the aesthetics. 
  
  Sound is additionally top notch from the ambiance to the combat sound queues. The voice acting 
 is arguably terrible. The high and low pitch of voices is often out of place and the characters 
 often do things like stressing the wrong part of a sentence or using an excited tone while talking 
 about something completey mundane. The voices themselves are decently cast and well versed and 
 match the characters they are coming from but they are simply delivered in a laughable fashion 
 most of the time. 
  
  Engrossing quests and a mature and stunningly enthralling storyline that has long since been overdue 
 are sadly marred by a hefty helping of bugs and stability issues. 
  
  Through personal experience and over a hundred hours of time spent with the game, ive experienced 
 crashes to the desktop, lockups and complete system reboots on both 64bit and 32bit versions of 
 both vista and xp. This in my honest opinion is enough to rule out user error or faulty hardware. 
 Given that a majority of them are linked to loading screens in some way i sense this to be a simple 
 coding issue which could and should easily be fixed within a future patch.
  
  Anyone who enjoys the game can overlook these problems as long as you remember to save often and 
 keep multiple current game saves.
  
  In a world of annual sequel rehash titles with slightly updated pieces of the same old thing, a 
 game like The Witcher is a splash of frigid water in the face of slumbering rpg fans the world 
 over.
  
  Given the overall user experience and the patchable nature of the flaws this game comes highly 
 recommended to anyone looking for a solid and mature roleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the most unique rpg's ever developed to date. I have been playing games 
 for approximately 10+ years on the PC. I have only really ever finished (2) rpgs - Neverwinter 
 Nights and Icewindale. I have tried to finish Balder's Gate, but after a while it just did not 
 grab me. I play games of all geners. From FPS, Action RPG, real-time strategy etc. But this game 
 has so many nice features.. It would be hard to cover them all. But a warning for young gamers 
 "it is not for kids..". 
  
  It takes a little getting used to the game machanics in terms of the new fighting controls and 
 how you distribute your experience. And also having to rely on maklng potions as part of your skill 
 takes a little getting used to.. but after you get though the first chapter.. You are instantly 
 hooked..
  
  Go out an buy this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtim6007
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Thus far The Witcher has been doing well in sales and has gotten many good reviews. It is completely 
 deserving of any attention it gets, as this game is another example of how relatively low key European 
 developers can do things better than more popular devs ,on a much smaller budget.
  
  The Witcher is a much more focused RPG than many of the recent offerings such as Oblivion. You 
 are given your character, he is named, his basic appearance is fixed by the game. Many will want 
 to make their character their own, such as in games like Oblivion, but I believe it having a fixed 
 character really adds to the atmosphere, as dialogue is much more believable than in Oblivion, 
 as people mention your name. The voice acting ranges from good to excellent, and I really enjoyed 
 the music in the game.
  
  The gameplay is also very good, combat is based on timed mouse clicks rather than hammering an 
 attack button, to prevent people hammering the button, if you press too quickly, the attack cancels. 
 As you get further and unlock more combos and finishers, the combat variety increases. Thus far, 
 I have seen you have a choice between dagger, your Witchers claymore, and an axe. All of which 
 you see carried on your person if equipped. There are silver variants of weapons for increase monster 
 bashing power. Their is also a variety of armours. The story is somewhat linear, but there are 
 often choices in where to go, and these affect characters around you, a bad direction choice will 
 more than likely result in an important NPC's death, meaning you could miss out on a decent piece 
 of armour or gold.
  
  In graphics, the game is sufficient, characters can look a little waxy, but at the moment this 
 can be true of many high profile titles. The graphics aren't ground breaking, but they are certainly 
 very nice and really immerse you into the world. I bought the game after the 1.2 patch came out, 
 so loading times are quite good, although I believe they could be poor before the patch. There 
 are a few minor glitches, when sword and axe are sheathed, they have a tendency to clip through 
 each other. Similarly, in cut scenes, Geralts hair will go through his neck. These are only minor 
 gripes.
  
  To conclude, I will say this; if you love the more classic style of RPG, with a designated character 
 and less of an action focus, you will enjoy The Witcher greatly, and it deserves a place in and 
 RPG fans collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcf80
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Involving story, quests affecting storyline, pretty nice combat with great visual and audio effects 
 - if you are looking for good not-so hack'n slash cRPG with good story, then you've got it.
  
  Most of choices you can make is somewhat like "lesser evil" - there is no straight good or 
 evil path, nothing so obvious like light and dark side of the Force. And most of your decisions 
 will somehow affect further story - not always instantly, sometimes you will see the effects few 
 days later.
  
  Dialogues and voice acting in polish version are brilliant, so if anyone is disappointed with english 
 translation, try the original version, if able to. Black humour expressed in medieval alike polish 
 language is the essence of this game. Sometimes can feel like reading Sapkowski's book, although 
 it's not exactly the same level - book is book, at the end.
  
  Loading locations lasts too long, but can live with it. Needs modern hardware to run smoothly.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BodomBeachChild
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm not too big of an RPG fan (I play D&D and other RPGs more than game RPGs) even though I'm gettin' 
 more and more into them as I age, and this is one I'll play for a good while. I'm very picky when 
 it comes to storylines in video games, books, and movies. When I first heard of The Witcher and 
 that it was based on a Polish series of books I had to start investigating. I learned what I could 
 about the series inwhich Geralt is in and even though I have yet to actually read the books (due 
 to living in the US) and hearin' of it's praise, I had to check into The Witcher game.
  Lemme get this out first, I'm playin' this game on a laptop. Not some expensive piece of machinery 
 my parents helped pay for to feed my addiction to games. I can run games like S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and 
 Crysis... but when it comes to load times, I'm in the red. I hated that about The Witcher when 
 I first got it. With the lastest patch though, I'm good. I used to be about to make Ramen before 
 a new place was 3/4 loaded but now I don't have time to blow my nose it seems.
  I love the voice acting. Geralt, while supposing to be almost emotionless, conveys a lot of emotion 
 to me. His actor suits the character perfectly and has a strong backing in his voice. I'll be looking 
 for him in other media. Almost every character feels alive to me. Oh sure, there is plenty of cheesy 
 lines in the game. "Oh look, a Witcher. Hide your women!" is said pretty bad. Especially a certain 
 persons werewolf voice. But both sides of the spectrum make me enjoy the game a lot more
  The visuals are awesome. The architexture is beautiful. The landscapes outside of cities to sewers 
 looks and feel so real. I could go on, but just looking at screenshots can tell you more than me. 
 I wish it would rain less often or become hazy after a downpour. To me, it just seems like it rains 
 an aweful lot at times.
  I'm not a point and click adventurer really so I use the OTS view. But combat is so simple. You 
 just click on an enemy and out comes the sword and right into the fight you are. If you have it 
 set on lower difficulties, you click when the sword has fire around it. How hard and clunky is 
 that? Magick is easy to use. Turn towards your foe (s) and right click! Instant hurt enemies. I 
 wish the item icons were easier to understand at times but I can live with it. There's no harm 
 done to me if I have to move my mouse over something.
  And as far as the story goes, it's great. I hate choosing sometimes because I get into a little 
 moral dilema about what I should and shouldn't do and what's best for everyone then me. But thats 
 what makes it shine to me. Good and bad only doesn't seem like a really good moral choices to me. 
 There's more to life than just good or bad. I like trying to find out whats in between them
  All and all, I recommend this to almost anyone as long as their system can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Quite rare it is to stumble upon a game that manages to immerse the player into the virtual world 
 and create a feeling of inner game presence.
  The Witcher, which no one would probably expect to be this good, hit the shelves 3 months ago, 
 and bemused everyone with its unique gameplay and swell graphics. 
  
  Might I note, that games balancing those two qualities are to be seen quite rarely, especially 
 considering all the fussy attention diverted towards DX10 and null attention to actual gameplay. 
 This frivolous trend luckily was eluded by the Witcher developers, and a big respect to them for 
 that.
  
  Now, elaborating further on what makes this game unique, it's simply a crime not mention the incredible 
 music accompanying the game, with the fine medieval tunes or the great Rock tunes hitting the speakers 
 during battles. Did I mention the interesting and movie-looking dialogs that take place in between 
 the characters?
  
  Seriously , The Witcher has had a full length movie and a 2 TV series shot in the last few years, 
 but the game proved to be more cinematic than any of those failed attempts to bring the wonderful 
 world of The Witcher onto the movie screen. Hopefully someone that is truly worth and capable will 
 adapt it to a movie in the nearest future.
  
  Simply speaking, this game is a masterpiece of its kind, and really should serve as an example 
 of how modern games should be made.
  Not buying this game is a crime, so I suggest you run to the nearest store and grab it off the 
 shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  The Witcher starts out just like anyother RPG game, but picks up the pace after your first hour 
 with the game. 
  As a witcher you are gifted with lots of unique powers, thanks to mutation process, by which every 
 witcher apprentice has to undertake, but in return you get a very beautiful or articulated stances 
 for Sword Fights, finishing moves and monster slaying.
  Game world is very convincing with lots of NPC's, Quests and choices with negative or positive 
 aspect , which cant be replayed with simple reload of old saved game.
  Battle mechanics are pretty good with keeping you out of clickfest, and letting you to work out 
 your every sword fight by letting you choose, Strong, Fast or Group stances. It also lets you to 
 dodge your enemies for better vintage point by simple double clicking on open ground while in Isometric 
 view or by tapping WASD while in OTS view (Which gives you the best possible View) .
  Magical Powers are there to help you out in some situations, but I mostly liked the Stun , which 
 lets you do a power move, similar to Mortal Kombat Fatality Moves, but with Swords, while your 
 opponent is stunned or down.
  Story wise, you will be caught in Do's and Dont's , but pretty engaing, as your decisions can be 
 decisive in the course of game, and can really turn the game around , but it also strongly provides 
 the basis of replayabilbity too.
  All in all, The Witcher is a treat to RPG Fans and it should raise the standard slider up for rival 
 RPG Developers to come up with something as good and Engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somnorosu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Amazing storyline that throws you into a broken fantasy world of men, elves and dwarves that fight 
 for power, freedom and for a place in the world. You take the role of a Witcher, a kind of an Alchemist-Warrior-Monster 
 Slayer that struggles to find the ones responsible for the death of a friend and to recover stolen 
 secrets that could lead to the very end of everything that is natural in the world. Fight horrifying 
 monsters, charm beautiful women and lead bands of rebellious outcasts or fight alongside the members 
 of an Order meant to save the world. It is your choice, and also, your destiny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Multiple branching storyline arcs make each choice you make feel like it has true significance. 
 In several cases, it does have true significance with the entire plot of the game changing based 
 on your choice. A stellar dark, grimy feeling setting makes you feel like you're really in a darker 
 world. The game doesn't shy away from mature content. Fun characters make up for some cheesy voice 
 acting and dialog. Innovative combat system is fun to use. Tons of replay value supplements a long 
 main quest. 
  
  The Bad:
  Poor translations in spots. Some cheesy dialog. Characters sometimes have massive departures from 
 the personality the game has established for them up until that point. Some technical issues, particularly 
 around load times.
  
  The Witcher brings a ton of new things to the table in the rpg genre and is one of the top two 
 rpg offerings of the year ending 2007. 
  
  You play the role of Geralt of Rivia, and you are supposed to be dead. Eye witnesses, including 
 several of your best friends, saw you die first hand. You are not fully human but rather a special 
 breed of mutated human called a "Witcher". Witchers are genetic mutations specifically created 
 to combat dark monsters and protect humanity, which more often than not doesn't appreciate them 
 or trust them. Think "X-Men" and you're in the right ballpark. Specifically, Witchers are stronger, 
 faster and much more durable than normal humans. Their enhanced metabolisms make them more or less 
 immune to disease or infection. Sadly, they're also infertile mules.
  
  The story opens when your fellow Witchers find you, lost and alone and in very bad shape, and bring 
 you back to Kaer Morhen, your base of operations, to try and find out a couple of things:
  
  1. How the hell you're still alive when everyone saw you die
  2. Why you have apparently 
 lost all your memories
  
  Sadly, before they really have a chance to do that, Kaer Morhen comes under attack from a mysterious 
 group called the Salamandra. They make off with the potions and scrolls that detail how Witchers 
 are created in the first place. Why the Salamandra wanted these things is a bit of a mystery, but 
 the Witchers vow to get them back. 
  
  You split up to cover more ground in your search and the game begins in earnest. And from there 
 onwards, you are treated to one of the better rpg titles to come along in years. The Witcher has 
 its shortcomings. Developed in Poland, the English translations are a bit clunky in spots. Once 
 in a while the dialog turns a bit cheesy and occasionally the fact you can have sex with just about 
 every significant female character you meet in the game (and quite a few non-significant ones as 
 well) can be a bit gratuitous, but the game makes up for these shortcomings in other areas.
  
  We begin with the setting itself. It is dark and it is cold feeling. Excellent attention to 
 detail wherever you go gives the game its murky, grimy feel. Houses are rundown. Swamps are slimy 
 and dirty. Sound effects seem like they came right out of Halloween music. Everything merges together 
 beautifully to create a thrillingly lifelike setting.
  
  But it doesn't just end at the looks and the sounds. The mature content in the game only adds to 
 the feel of the setting. Rape, racism, child slave trading, genocide, murder, incest, spousal abuse, 
 and more, are included in this dark game. In fact, at times the game gets so dark as to border 
 on being a bit depressing. But overall, it manages to avoid this pitfall with just the right amount 
 of levity and redemption at spots. The game just feels human.
  
  When you get past the setting itself, other things about this game stand out as making it a cut 
 above most of the rest of what is out there. Chief among these things is the story branching that 
 the game offers. The game shows you the impact of your choices earlier on in the game via flashback 
 sequences. During flashback sequences, the game begins a narrative pictorial wherein Geralt thinks 
 back to a decision you, as him, made earlier in the game and describes in detail the unintended 
 consequences of that decision.
  
  These consequences can be truly shocking. The first time you experience a flashback you're likely 
 to be surprised at how a decision that seemed relatively innocuous at the time ended up changing 
 the entire arc of a storyline. Not all decisions do this of course, but enough of them do that 
 you find yourself thinking very carefully about each choice that you make. The Witcher does a better 
 job than any game in years with making you feel like the decisions you make truly have broad and 
 far reaching consequences.
  
  When you aren't making such decisions though, you will be enjoying the new combat system. Unlike 
 in other roleplaying games where the combat is click based (such as Diablo) in The Witcher another 
 layer is added: combos. By timing your clicking correctly, you can continue a combo multiple levels, 
 doing increasing amounts of damage. While this combat would still be considered a bit shallow when 
 compared to some tactical shooters or strategy games, it is nevertheless a distinct advancement 
 for an rpg genre title. 
  
  Despite all the great things that this game has, it isn't without a few wartsand I'm not talking 
 about the warts on the ghouls in the swamp either.
  Chief among these warts is the loading times. The first thing you will want to do if you buy this 
 game is install the 1.2 patch, since it drastically improves the loading times, they are close 
 to unbearable without it. Ironically, the quests aren't nearly as buggy as you might expect them 
 to be with so much story branching. I kept on expecting to run into broken and buggy quests. They 
 game has a couple of them, but more often than not the quest wasn't broken or buggy, it just needed 
 to be completed in a later chapter of the game.
  
  Also annoying are a couple of minor combat glitches. The flashy sword work that Geralt does based 
 on your clicking does hide the fact that, behind the scenes, there are still hidden dice rolls 
 going on for things like damage. You can cancel out of an attack combo in the middle of the sequence 
 and the creature will often continue to take damage as the rest of the dice rolls are completed 
 without your sword swinging to accompany it. In cases where a monster is running away from you, 
 this can mean that it will suddenly drop dead ten feet away as the rest of the damage is added. 
 Similarly, if you sometimes draw the wrong sword, because the combat is turn based behind the curtain 
 Geralt takes a painfully long time to put away the wrong sword and pull out the correct one, particularly 
 considering how fast he moves in other situations.
  
  Another wart is when the characters break character during some of the dialog sequences. Anyone 
 familiar with, for example, table-top roleplaying knows what I mean when I say "break character". 
 When you are roleplaying, you have both "In-character" (IC) dialog and "Out of character" (OOC) 
 dialog. If you were playing a pious, devout, Jesuit monk type character at your local gaming session 
 and then suddenly started swearing like a pirate because someone spilled their beer on you, then 
 that would be an example of breaking character. 
  
  The Witcher seems to do this from time to time with the dialog. It doesn't happen often, but it 
 can be a bit jarring when it does. Characters will, every once in a while, say something that rings 
 out of tune with how they have been portrayed up until that point in the game.
  
  To summarize, this is not a game for everyone. It fully earns its Mature rating, even if you're 
 playing the censored U. S. version of the game (which I don't suggest) . However, if you don't mind 
 playing a game that gives you a straight on look at the fact that life isn't always full of bright, 
 vibrant shiny colors and fifteen year old heroes saving the world, then this is the rpg for you. 
 More games like this please!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metamorfoza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  I will admit, first few minutes of a game and I was somehow unimpressed with the Witcher. As if 
 developers deliberately decided to put worst cuts scenes & voice acting from the game in the opening 
 scenes. Using words as "babe" from a 50yr old (as he is some kind of pimp) , and a documentary 
 style witnessing (camera focusing on each individual while he is standing still ) from towns folk 
 when the gate was breached made me feel like a want to spit on all reviews that I've had read before.
 
  However all that changed after the first hour of gameplay, when all of the Witcher greatness start 
 to kick in.
  The World (a. k. a. game atmosphere) is beautiful. Its alive and dynamic. When you enter the inn 
 you feel like you are inside an medieval post apocalyptic inn. 
  Gamblers, slutty waitresses and sound of brawl fights are all around you. You can drink, gamble 
 or flirt with a waitress. That being said, sometimes it gets annoying (in that "overdone" kind 
 a of way) when Gerald tries to hit on every women that he talks to. I understand that he was 'dead' 
 for some time, but he acts like a adolescent in a night club, trying to be all macho and adult 
 (consequence of the wicther being mature game) . But that suited me fine, as I understood he's position 
 of not having sex for ages.
  This amoral atmosphere is more intensified when you enter Chapter II, which is full of whores, 
 thugs, gangs and gamblers and in which you actually get a feel of the world you are playing in. 
 This kind of environment suits Gerald character perfectly. Apart from his sexual overdrive he's 
 sometimes pessimistic and looks disconnected (even if you chose to get involved) from the plague, 
 war, and other problems that are worrying common folk. But it suits the story fine and actually 
 brings 'the witchers" character to life.
  That being said, choices you made during the game will in some sense refine your character. Not 
 in that good or evil kind of way, but more like "I give damn" or "I dong give a damn". It will 
 not affect the overall story as much (at the end of each chapter you'll have a 'summary') , but 
 it will for certain affect the quests you are doing and it will affect the relationships you have 
 with the NPCs. So, eventually you can find yourself thinking really hard should you give a damn 
 or not. Once you've decided there is no turning back.
  Combat system is innovative and different form your standard hack & slash. Besides of making fights 
 visually appealing, with finishing moves ala Mortal Combat , it also forces you to give a little 
 more attention to a fight. You have three combat styles - strong, fast and group. And as names 
 are somehow implying - they are used in different situations. 
  Potions are not your standard "drink as much as you can" potions, they actually toxicate you and 
 affect your performance . So, drinking to much potions is not always a good idea. In other words 
 - you have to chose which potions to drink and when. Same applies and for oils you make in order 
 to enhance your weapons. Different enemies - different weaknesses. 
  Choosing your difficulty level will affect the use of said alchemy (potions & oils) . So if you 
 like to mix potions and use them almost in every fight chose the hardest one as this will force 
 you to use alchemy more often. And this is where Witcher differs from the rest of the herd.
  
  In order to find out weaknesses of monsters and in order to loot their inventory (take advantage 
 of the alchemy ingredients they provide - a. k. a. skin them) you have to have an entry in "Bestiality 
 journal" which is basically provides info about the monstera. But in order to have an entry in 
 a journal you either have to read it from the book (that you acquire by looting or buying) , or 
 you have to talk to the NPCs. This , imo, gives the witcher RPG element you cannot see in other 
 RPGs. It literally forces you to get involved with the world around you. Its in your best interest 
 to loot every house and bookshelf you find, to tolk to every annoying lady and give them gifts 
 in exchange for a story, or if you are to lazy - pay gold (orens) for them. That being said there 
 is not much gold going around, so again you have to chose wisely. As soon as you read the books 
 sell them or toss em away, as it will take unnecessary space to your inventory
  
  The Inventory. This is one of the small annoyances you'll have in a game because Inventory sucks. 
 Almost immediately you will find yourself staring at the inventory trying to figure out what is 
 what - because everything looks similar. You cant' orginize it, and sometime stacking doesn't work 
 . However, eventually you'll pick up some hints and major differences between oils, potions, alchohol 
 and alchemical ingredients. But still its hard as copulation :) 
  
  Weapons - Witchers swords (silver & steel) - these are your primary weapons, and the only weapons 
 you have for that matter. One is for the monsters other is for non-monsters. Not that they are 
 no other weapons available, but Withcer swords are the only one that you can use effectively with 
 combat styles. Other weapons (axes, clubs, knifes) are, apart from some situations and visuals, 
 totally useless. But thats not a necessary a bad thing, you are a Witcher after all. Not a dwarf 
 or an elf. So, actually fighting with swords suits your character and the story.
  Ah the story. As much as its good it also sometimes as bad. You have to love it and hate it at 
 same time. Try to miss some quest or finishing the major ones by skipping side ones and suddenly 
 you'll will find yourself in the WTF ?!? situation, Try to take a different path from he one the 
 developers intended to and you will find yourself in WTF land. with NPCs 'assuming' that you have 
 been here and there and done this and that. This makes dialogs as if they are out of context & 
 story, with you trying to grasp what a hell happened and why these guys are talking about stuff 
 that didnt happened. Sometimes Gerald, your hero, a. k. a. you, suddenly figured out everything without 
 telling you, or NPCs are acting in strange way leaving you without a clue why is that.
  However, these annoyances are rare and you'll pick up dynamics eventually focusing on importance 
 of the quests, glossary, and overall story.
  
  Overall, if you are into whores, gambling, brawl fights , flirting with women and getting drunk 
 without reason while at the same time you are trying to figure out who you are, why you are here, 
 fighting monsters and wtf dwarfes are into Paul Sartre? - than this is the game for you. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScIFiNerd83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  I've played through this twice already and even though I got to the same end I took 2 totally different 
 approaches to get there. Your style of play can be almost limitless. My first time through I focused 
 primarily on melee combat while my second time through I threw a lot more points into my magics 
 and had just as good a time. This game had a lot of promising attributes.
  
  I did find the controls a little clunky and got stuck on a lot of ledges that should not have been 
 a problem had the physics been properly applied to the game. Such as walking on a ledge but not 
 being able to jump to the level below it even though it is a 2 foot drop in the game. Or during 
 fist fights throwing an uppercut into someone and they fall through your fist down on to the ground 
 in front of you. Just weird little nit-picky stuff.
  
  Overall I really enjoyed the game and it is something that I expect to see more of that will make 
 game more and more fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  The witcher is exactly what most rpg's should strive to be, it has an excellent story, great characters, 
 a good sense of adventure and open ended gameplay, a good combat system, great upgrades and overall 
 a very memorable and innovative experience. The story is suitably dark and pulls away from the 
 cliched good vs evil battle and comes out being something so much better and its battle and potion 
 system is equally great and enjoyable.
  
  That said it isnt without its problems, the loading times can be overly long, some sections are 
 a little slow and for some reason alot of cutscenes lag for no apparent reason.
  
  This isnt going to stop you from appreciating this game though if you are an rpg fan, it just stops 
 it from reaching perfection but if that doesnt bother you, the witcher is a must have for rpg fans 
 and easily the best rpg in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Let me start with my only gripe about this game: loading times. I think you lose brain cells staring 
 at a loading screen... if this is the case, then my IQ is most certainly lower for playing The Witcher. 
 
  
  Now to the good. I would say that "Gameplay Options" is the biggest strength of The Witcher. Combat 
 stances, timing, weapons, oils, bombs, potions, herbalism, magic and character statistics all play 
 an important part in the game. There is enough to mentally mull over to keep this game from being 
 one dimensional. 
  
  Secondly, the graphics/art/music/sound effects are very well done. The game is simply beautiful 
 and atmospheric. It's fun to look at, and the great level designs make exploration rewarding for 
 it's own sake. 
  
  Thirdly, the story is great. Your decisions do in fact influence the game and you will find yourself 
 wanting to replay the game just to see what other paths you could have taken. There is a cast of 
 very memorable characters, all with really good voice acting and dialogue. Finally, tons of side 
 quests are offered which are very well done and intriguing in their own rite. 
  
  This game is outstanding and a great accomplishment that the developers ought to feel very proud 
 of. It has personality; it is quirky, original and evokes a certain mood in the player that is 
 hard to explain. For those who appreciate more complex and nuanced games, this is the game for 
 you. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrowhip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  That is right, I said it. The Witcher is the best RPG of the year. This game does so much right 
 that I can't even begin to explain everything, however, I will try to anyway.
  
  Moral Choices-
  The Witcher does moral choices better than any game in recent history. The player 
 is forced to make difficult decisions that will greatly effect the game's outcome. One early example 
 of such a moral choice is near the end of Act I (the game has five acts) .
  
  A character you meet and talk with earlier in the game is accused of being a witch and terrorizing 
 the town by summoning demons upon it. You now have to make a choice, save her or give her to the 
 town. She says that she did not do it, and all the evidence you have seen up to that point show 
 her innocence. However, villagers that you have done quests for and met come forward with stories 
 about her terrible deeds. You are then faced with conflicting information and some tough decisions. 
 On one side, the villagers may be lying and pinning their own mistakes on this person to lessen 
 their own guilt. On the other hand, you notice certain coincidences that incriminate the accused. 
 It is then up to you to make a decision. Because it isn't clearly good or bad but possibly a combination 
 of both, you really need to think about it. That moral ambiguity is rare in games these days and 
 I greatly appreciated that.
  
  Combat - 
  Fantastic combat system. Not really a whole lot to say other than it is extremely streamlined, 
 fun and tactical. Different weapons are better against different enemies and different stances 
 are also more effective in certain situations. This makes the combat engaging and addictive. The 
 overall design is intuitive and works very well once you understand it.
  
  Story-
  Absolutely fantastic story. The plot will keep you interested for a very long time and every character 
 you meet is interesting. The overall story is just fantastic and definitely one of the best in 
 a long time. The novel's story was very well adapted to the game.
  
  The only really weak point was the load times. However, the newest patch fixes that and now I find 
 it hard to say anything bad. Some of the translation is iffy but you still understand the meaning 
 of everything said. The combat can get frustrating at times. But overall, the game is a must own 
 game and a fantastic experience. It is my personal Game of the Year, trumping Crysis, Bioshock, 
 Call of Duty 4, STALKER, World in Conflict, Orange Box and Supreme Commander. And that is saying 
 a lot because all of those games were fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmanxmk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is one of the best RPG ever!!!
  If u ever played Gothic (and loved) then this is perfect game for you.
  This game deserves 10 
 (if u asking me) but of course there are few "bad" things which everyone can swallow em easy... they 
 don't affect a the gameplay but will be thorn in eye trough the whole game..
  I`ll count few... at least those few that i noticed...
  
  - There is long (depends from your 
 PC) loading whenever u enter or exit through any door
  - From time to time u can notice some bugs... but there isn't any bug that can destroy your game.... the 
 worst that can happen to you is to reload the last saved position and that fix every problem
  - The other thing that will annoy u (or some of u) all the time, is that the the people u will 
 meet through the whole game look same (for example: if u walk through a village u will meet 7-8 
 characters that look completely same the only thing that will be different is the name and their 
 behavior)
  
  Maybe there are few more bad things but i cant remember all at the moment..
  
  The good things.... i can't count em.. there are million good things in the game that make it 
 unique..
  I will tell u just this: the best thing is that the game have non linear story line... even the 
 main quests aren't linear and same... everything depends from the choices u make and interaction 
 with the NPCs..
  
  There are too much things that make the game perfect... i hope that this short review will help 
 u in your choice... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavouras13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is the answer to the big studios that have no clue what a true, great Rpg is about. 
 
  
  It has a TRULY interesting story that evolves in just the right pace. The combat system is a breath 
 of fresh air in this world of shooters. It's unique, great to watch and not too difficult to learn. 
 
  
  This game does everything right (or very close to right) . From the difficulty to character interaction 
 and from graphics to combat mechanics. Everything is smooth and perfectly integrated resulting 
 in a game thats much more than the sum of its parts.
  
  The somewhat long loading times have been solved with the 1.2 patch.
  
  But above all, what 
 differentiates The Witches from any other rpg that you have played in recent years is exactly the 
 same thing that makes the main character so interesting: TONS OF CHARACTER!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imortal986201
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Overall I would say this game was well done. I did not know of the book before the game and had 
 no trouble playing through the story.
  
  Pros: This game has a deep, choose-your-own-destiny type, storyline. I actually took the time to 
 play through it a couple different ways and there are differences depending on the choices you 
 make. Between the graphics, superb musical score, and deep story this is one of the most immersive 
 games I've played in a while. It brings back memories of old-school games based off books (Betrayal 
 at Krondor, ...) . The level of maturity of this game is a bit high, but adds a good color to the 
 game. The combat and character advancement in this game are decent and enjoyable. The combat itself 
 leaves a bit to be desired, but is still quite fun. There are a few quality and well-placed cut-scenes 
 and cinematics.
  
  Cons: I was depressed at the amount of loading screens and the length of them. They detract from 
 the overall affect of the game. I also think that you need a decent rig to do justice to this game. 
 A low end computer probably won't be able to handle the eye-candy and weather effects which give 
 the game a great atmosphere. There is not a wide selection of spells, but the "5" they give you 
 are quite customizable. 
  
  My final Judgment: If you have a decent computer and enjoy deep complicated RPGs give this game 
 a shot. This game has many intriguing features, and many ways to play through it. Despite the many 
 loading screens I found this game to be enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fast_Eddie2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is apparently based on a series of stories by a Polish SF/Fantasy writer, and definitely 
 has an European feel to it. The story so far is excellent, and has a more adult feel to it than 
 many RPG's. There are shades of gray, and your choices have consequences, both good and bad. 
 
  
  The game play is good overall, although the combat system does have a bit of a learning curve. 
 It basically consists of triggering combinations by left-clicking at the right times, using a variety 
 of signs (simple spells) , and dodging at the right time. Combat is difficult enough that you have 
 to pay attention, but not so difficult as to be overwhelming.
  
  The artwork is gritty and realistic, making great use of the BioWare Aurora engine. The facial 
 effects, etc., should be familiar to anyone who has played Knights of the Old Republic, which made 
 similar use of the BioWare engine.
  
  I would have to rate this with Gothic II as one of my favorite single-player RPG's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahimbd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  Lets play a game. I'll say a genre and you have to say the game that comes to your mind first of 
 that genre.
  RTS?
  Starcraft
  Action?
  Doom
  Strategy?
  CnC
  RPG?
  Diablo
  
  But Im pretty sure after playing this game you will have The Witcher in your mind for RPG (Ok 
 may be both Diablo and Witchers name will come to ur mind at a time)
  
  CDProject brings you your favourite proffessional monster slayer... the Witcher. This Polish based 
 company has earned respect in my book for sure. This game is truly unique. Well you might say ive 
 heard that one before. Well so have I. But now I know that this game is TRULY an UNIQUE one. I 
 dont know how many other games this company has created but this is something even they can't beat 
 (i think) .
  
  We have all been to that pure hack n slash/destroy your mouse by clicking feverishly type in the 
 previous RPGs. but if you try to apply that here, you are in for a big surprize buddy. Because 
 timing and choosing the right sword AND choosing the right technique is crucial to your survival. 
 Yes you might have heard that Geralt can perform parry and block on his own. But trust me if you 
 dont choose the right method to fight the right enemy, your auto parry and auto block skills are 
 worthless. 
  
  Potions is a great option for a smoother fight. Though you can cut through your enemy with your 
 sword but if you use the right potion you can easily smooth things up a bit. And you should use 
 potions cuz resting has a trade off. This one time I rested a bit long and the girl who was waiting 
 for me to.... ahem! ahem!.... was tired of waiting and left. And I couldnt find her anymore and so 
 I couldnt do that... ahem! ahem!.. you know what I mean.
  
  The game does have one major lackings. The loading time is just too much. The game loads and erases 
 every time you enter or exit a place  But the audio is sooo much 
 tantalizing and satisfying that you might not notice that in the first place, youll just hear one 
 of the greatest track youve ever heard. Ive also heard that there is a patch coming up to fix this 
 problem of loading time (around christmas) .
  
  I cannot believe that the AURORA engine was capable of delivering this graphics. You can say that 
 its not THAT cool. But it is really cool for an RPG. Its like a 60 year old doing a 20 year old's 
 job. Pheuuu...
  
  The inventory system is ingenious. You can keep a limited amount of "items" in your inventory. 
 But you cannot keep more than 4 weapons at a time (2 witcher sword, 1 small weapon and 1large weapon) . 
 This gives you a limitation to choose and loot whateve your heart desires. 
  
  There are many other things I can speak about Witcher. But i just want to say that this game has 
 a story. Such story has never been seen before in any RPG. Suspence, thrillar, action, surprise, 
 backstabbing, you name it and it'll give that to you. Charecters help you in times and in ways 
 you cannot foretell. But I dont want to spoil much. If any of you there is an RPG fan and is bored 
 of the "been there done that" ones, plz try this one out. It will be worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aravind_1979
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  In my original review I gave it a bad rating. but kudos to the devs, the new updated game is a 
 lot more fun, no more crashes and long loading times. The combat is fast paced, good story line 
 and lot of choices to make. The inventory system is much better now in that it is more organised. 
 The most important thing is no more random crashes. The graphics are good and the sound track is 
 amazing. The combat system has a small learning cure in that you need to time your mouse presses 
 correctly to get the bonus damage and bonus combos. The great thing about this game is the potions 
 and you can make a lot of them. but the downside of drinking too much of them it they poison you, 
 but you can also brew less toxic versions of the same potion thus allowing you to consume more 
 and get super human abilities. It is a great game to buy and play. You can enjoy long hours playing 
 out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claudyu1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game is definitely one of the best RPGs ever made. My first estimation about 
 The Witcher was that this game isn't so great, because the camera is like in Warcraft and the mouse 
 control. But after I've played it all my bad estimations turned into good.
  
  This game has a great storyline. It's sucks you in and it's becoming a little obsession that you 
 can't escape until you finish the game.
  
  The graphics are great and a thing that surprised me was the small system requirements. I've tried 
 the game on my INTEL C2D E6600 (stock frequency) ,2 GB RAM, 2 different VGA cards : my old ATI X1300 
 - 512 MB,128 bit and ASUS 8800 GTS 640 MB 320 bit. I've played this game on my both VGA Cards and 
 the difference was relatively small at this game (about 8 fps) . A dissapointing thing at the graphics 
 is the moving of the mouth (when the characters speaks) .
  
  The sounds are also great.
  
  I recommend The Witcher for any gamer. It's great, try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lead_healer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  
  It's about time a solid single player RPG has come out. The storyline is excellent, the graphics 
 are impressive, and the game play is innovative. The guys at CD project got it right, about a lot 
 of things. 
  The storyline will instantly suck you in as learn more about the protagonist, Geralt and his enigmatic 
 past. Geralt is not your typical hero. He's gruff. He drinks. He fights. He kills. He womanizes 
 and he doesn't care! The storyline is not always as simple as pick option A to be good and option 
 B to be bad. There are many consequences to each choice in the game. Each decision you make does 
 not simply equate to "good" or "bad." The lines are blurred. Perhaps you help one "good" party 
 who turns out to be a rapist. You then help another "bad" person who turns out to be fighting for 
 something altruistic. Sometimes there is no best-case scenario and you end up with no clear winners 
 and losers.
  The combat is a new take on your typical hack and slash. It's not a frantic left-click-fest to 
 slaughter all your enemies. It's a slightly more subtle, timed attack (clicking) system. The combat 
 animations are awesome. To see Geralt flinging his sword around and blood flying everywhere is 
 truly a sight to see. The blood effects are very good and you will see blood dripping off his sword 
 and getting flung onto the ground as the battles rage on. Then, depending on how the battle goes, 
 Geralt might do one of a number of fatalities to his immobilized opponents. It's a very satisfying 
 experience to see your toon decapitate that irritating little assassin who's been following you. 
 
  Graphically it's a beautiful thing based of the Neverwinter Nights 2 engine. Graphics are nice 
 candy, but game play and storyline have always been paramount in my world so I won't spend much 
 time on graphics. Needless to say, it is a very pretty game to behold and the pre-rendered video 
 sequences are fantastic. Overall, this is well worth your time and money.
  
  PROS: Great story, intriguing characters, new combat engine
  
  CONS: Some dialogue is clunky 
 or forced, GUI is a little awkward
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  After so many RPGs that have tried to appeal to every category of player from 10 year old children 
 to adults of either gender, it's very refreshing to have a game aimed right at the adults. I'm 
 not only talking about the swearing or sex, but the atmosphere of the Witcher is unique because 
 of it.
  
  The combat system is innovative, developing with the character to provide new moves and the 'right' 
 style for a given fight. You can really feel when you're in the wrong style. For example, you fight 
 a mixed group of human bandits. Some die quickly with the fast style, some with the strong style. 
 There is no twitch-clicking during fights in this game. Timing is everything.
  
  The magic system too in different. Brewing up unique potions, blade oils and bombs depending on 
 experimentation and knowledge of formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko_be
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  hey people , i can easily say that game is awesome. I have played
  crysis and cod4 but in my opinion this game is the BEST.
  
  Maybe it is untrue to compare a 
 rpg game witcher to
  crysis or cod4 though i haven't had a a taste of a game
  like this before.
  
  now i will tell why i liked this game :
  
  1- There is a lively environment 
 , all people do their
  jobs also you are able to talk to them , see events
  those affect their life.
  
  2- gerald's hair , this killed me man , it is all whitey
  as 
 poor boys and girls said moreover swinging
  his hair is so realistic.
  
  3- gerald's voice and also other characters
  
  4- swords sound 
  
  5- girls ...
  ........
 
  
  1- program errors 
  you can correct them using vcredist installation
  then deleting isable autosave = 1 line in player. ini in system folder (in witcher directory)
  
 
  2- loading times (everybody complains about this much
  but this is not a big problem if you see excitements
  of the game i counted.
  
  thats all
 
  
  have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-Day1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  Best RPG i've played all year, theres nothing bad at all except for some annoying load times. The 
 quests are fun and the main storyline is really exciting and you cant wait for whats going to happen 
 next. Im on Chapter 2 ( theres 5 chapters) and each chapter seems to get better and better. The 
 graphics are good but i have to turn it down a bit, i have 2gb of ram so it runs smoothly. Only 
 problem is the grass is very unrealistic and looks like an overgrown dump but can be easily turned 
 off. Its a very nice piece of work the combat, with finishign moves and timing based combos, the 
 signs and potions all add up make it very interesting and in-depth. It fits well with the story 
 and quests.
  Overall im gonna give it a 9.0 as it does almost every well but not perfect. A good buy for only 
 &pound;18. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertafox
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Good undertaking of its kind. A mix of Mature content, fantasy story in a RPG format.
  Some things will take time to learn and patience will help. Which can hurt the flow of the game 
 in some tough spots, where you can find yourself spending more time loading the game than fighting 
 a hard battle.
  
  Audio portion is above average, some very good and some very poor voice acting. I think it may 
 just be the way the sentences are carried from one to another, like recorded on different days 
 without the context that it would have been spoken in. Some voices actually sound different from 
 one sentence to another. But over all because of the design it works a lot better than reading 
 a page a text every person you meet.
  
  Graphics are not the top of the line but everything sets well. No weird things/ colors/ objects. 
 Everything is scaled well. The game may tax some systems.
  
  Combat system is kinda new and will require more than just a couple hours to get the full hang 
 of it. It will require the use of the mouse to target, perform melee combination attacks or straight 
 magic while the cursor stays on the target, also in combination with using the keyboard to move, 
 switch weapons, weapon styles, magic and potions. It can be tough at times depending on skill set. 
 Also has a couple instances were I could not hit npc's and had to move to get swinging.
  
  potion making can be daunting at the start. But after getting the right books to gather herbs, 
 make potions, bombs and oils you can read them to understand the basics. The potions themselves 
 are useful but also tend to be a burden with carrying so many types around.
  
  Skill system is not the greatest. It works but some of the skills when selected seem to have very 
 little effect in the way of being noticeable. So it can be a hard to pick what is really worth 
 the investment.
  
  Overall It is a great game that will have you cursing like a brawler at times but will entice you 
 to reload just that one more time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Another game I had high hopes for. The graphics looked amazing, as did the story and setting. As 
 it turned out, the graphics don't seem to do that much for me. They are pretty, but nothing really 
 wowed me. Anyway, they are ok. The score is very good but not intrusive. It fits the dark setting. 
 The story is also pretty interesting, but there are parts where I get the feeling that I did something 
 in the wrong order or forgot something, because it doesn't always make sense. The plot and cutscenes 
 do a great job making you feel like you made mistakes and your efforts may be impotent. The gameplay 
 is ok, but frustrating at times. I hate games with lots of stun effects, because you end up staring 
 at your toon getting pwned and mashing your keyboard. The plot is, despite the claims, very linear. 
 So is the character progression. You only have a few magic skills and a handful of fighting styles. 
 You end up upgrading (almost) everything with the leveling system, so there is very little character 
 customization. This is the main reason I lost interest in the game. I feel very little attachment 
 to the character. I feel like I'm just going through the story. Given that your decisions in game 
 All seem to yield disappointing results, I just kind of lost interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thurmus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: awesome - beautiful - awe inspiring some of the best outdoor environ's I've seen (until 
 "project offset" comes out ;p)
  Voice / Character acting: Great - funny - smooth - sometimes a bit clunky but overall, pulled off 
 pretty damn well
  Story: Excellent / Mature
  Music: Great Swearing / fornicating / drinking / gambling / fighting is what I would do if I was 
 stuck in such a drab sh*thole of a world... The mature and crass content rips it's realistic and 
 the first time I've seen it used to this extent in a fantasy setting The mini games are a blast. 
 They are all fun and provide a good break from questing. Overall, I f'n dig this game. Combat is 
 different. It took me a little while to get used to but now I really like it! Alchemy is cool because 
 it is complex like one would think it is.
  Many side quests just add to the vastness of the game (much like Oblivion)
  Load times are not 
 an issue for me??? 5-7 seconds in and out of houses. I wonder why some gamers (systems) are having 
 such a problem?
  Over the shoulder camera is friggin awesome! One thing that kind of bummed me out you can't jump. 
 I like to jump off stuff It runs well on my comp approx. 45 fps all on high settings (1024 x768 
  2xAA / 16xAF)
  AMD athlon 64 X2 3800 @ 2.0Ghz
  2 Gbs RAM
  2 7600GT XFX in SLI 7200 rpm Maxtor HD (SATA)
  
  my favorite games: Half-Life series / Oblivion 
 / Doom 3 / COD4 / STALKER / the witcher
  
  Great job and thanks to all the commerades at CDProjekt!!! High five! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinotenshi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Finally a great RPG. This game is everything that oblivion should have been but wasn't. First off 
 this game boost real honest to goodness character development. There will be hard choices to make 
 as you can't learn close to everything. Second, the combat system is amazing, no spam clicking 
 here, the combat is deep , rewarding precision and timing over speed. The storyline is very good, 
 and the game delivers pretty much what is promises of being beyond good and evil, the world of 
 the witcher is very grey.
  
  There is a lot of sex and violence so if those things offend you in a game then you need to look 
 elsewhere. The voice acting on the whole is very good, and contrary to what other publications 
 have said, the graphics are excellent, there is nothing really lacking, the game doesnt look like 
 crysis or gears of war, but honestly it's irrelevent.
  
  In short if you though like I did oblivion sucked, shallowness personified, or were annoyed by 
 Gothic 3's overly simple spamfest combat system, then pick up the witcher.
  
  In short by far the best RPG released this year full release or expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fozzy309
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  Dont no how i found out about this game tho i seen the reviews and thought well why get the demo 
 and give it a go. The demo gives you a good idea of what the game is all about and i found that 
 it was the best rpg ive played in a long time. I downloaded the game off the website, and have 
 been been playing constantly. It Offers alot of gameplay action, and a really cool story line. 
 Its not a game but a movie and will keep you hooked on it for hours on end! Down side if you want 
 to run the game to its full you do need a good pc! i have the settings set to medium and am still 
 enjoying the sexy graphics and HD movies within the game. My pc spec is intel core 2 duo 2.8ghz
 
  2gb Ram
  Abit radion x1300
  
  I know how hard it is to find out if your game will support this tho i think its always best to 
 compare to other peoples systems specs. I would recommend this game to anyone who wants to play 
 a RPG this year cause its by far the best ive played in a while! ive even halted playing COD4 for 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spudacus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  I knew things were headed south when a 60-year-old NPC, in a medieval fantasy setting, started 
 referring to his female counterpart as \ babe.\ This game includes some of the worst dialogue and 
 ridiculous voice acting I\'ve ever experienced in a game. If your a 12-year-old boy, you might 
 find it entertaining to hear every other character say fu... and c... nt but it pulled me out of 
 the setting and story every time. Hell, if your a 12-year-old boy, you may of provided some of 
 the voices used here - truly awful. Throw in load times of 1-2 minutes everytime you enter or leave 
 a house, room, store, or level and you have The Witcher. Save yourself the drive to the store and 
 just flush the $50 bucks down the toilet. The result will be the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xymith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Loved the game and still do love it, but I found myself losing more and more interest on the game 
 because of the load times. The game has lots of good points to it, graphics, story, characters, 
 weapons etc, but the one bad point is so awfully crippling that later in the game the load times 
 start getting to your nerves and if you are anything like me you'll do the same I did: uninstall 
 the game and wait for the some patch which may never come. Sure that sounds like a waist but I 
 really don't have the time to be playing 10 minutes for every 20 minutes of loads. And I do have 
 a powerful machine. And one load takes me around 20 seconds, but with almost every load there is 
 a save game that takes another 20 seconds and for every city you go to you get some 20 loads just 
 to get one story type quest done. Of course you do have quest that are monster killing based but 
 the majority in the game are story type (get something, give something, talk to someone) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysticalsock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I have seen quite a few people compare The Witcher to Oblivion but in my mind The Witcher simply 
 blows Oblivion, and for that matter, any recent RPG out of the water. The world is lush and alive 
 with lots of attention to detail. There are a huge number of optional side quests and exploring 
 can be interesting for its own sake. While Oblivion was huge it was also extremely shallow, after 
 going through the 100th identical cave, or meeting yet another bandit with pants worth more than 
 whole town trying to rob me of 25 gold, the experience started to wear thin. The Witcher, while 
 more linear then Oblivion more than makes up for it with a story which is interesting and immersive 
 and by providing the player with a great number of choices that all exist in the moral grey scale. 
 Rather than siding with the paragon of virtue or with a baby eating monster, The Witcher will actually 
 have you using your gut instinct when it comes to making decisions. Add to this the fact that the 
 consequences of those decisions can come back much later in the game in unexpected ways and you 
 have a lot of replay value built right in. The combat is fluid and the main character looks very 
 graceful as he attacks and parries; the whole time leaving complex trails of blood on the ground 
 which corresponds to his swings. The combo mechanic is easy to use and keeps the combat from being 
 completely based on number crunching but also avoids the other extreme of having so much clicking 
 the game becomes a gore desktop. Basically, if you have any sort of interest in deep, interesting, 
 and complex RPG's you owe it to yourself to pick this up. As a final note for those still on the 
 fence: you can level up your ability to get drunk and fight people in bars, if this doesn&amp;#8217; t 
 get you excited then you have no soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Since Blade of Darkness, no Rpg game could bring such quality and realism to the action itself. 
 by action I mean the slicing, cutting, hacking part of the game.
  
  All rpg games in the market from oblivion to the witcher are a one button mashing in time or not 
 in time, with bad hitting effects.
  
  If the action itself is boring, why would one play an rpg? for better equipment? for sight seeing?
 
  
  Car Racing games are very strict on the action itself wich is driving, so why can't rpg game concentrate 
 more on the moves, weapon use, and hitting realism a little more???
  
  Blade of Darkness has no rpg element, no dialogs, not even a descent story, BUT, the action itself 
 was brillant, and supported by the atmosphere? The Witcher promises a lot about the action, offering 
 nothing. Animations are all bad, and boring, while the story itself is too Alienating. Yes, we 
 can see that they are trying a more original way to tell a story, but it didnt work.
  
  Instead of that, the graphics are quiet good, but better play crysis, if you are here for the look. 
 Most of the time you stare at a Loading Sequence JPG because of the too frequent loading times.
 
  
  The only thing good about this game is the sound and musical score.
  
  a game which tried to combine diablo and oblivion, and drowned itself between both... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleduckie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is a thoroughly recommendable game for fans of the role-playing genre. The game puts 
 you in the shoes of Geralt, the White Wolf, one of the last few remaining witchers in this fantasy 
 game world. Although the game is based on the corresponding novels, it is entirely possible to 
 play and enjoy this game without having read them, as Geralt starts the game suffering from amnesia. 
 You then slowly regain your former combat abilities and power over the course of the game, as well 
 as slowly regain your identity. The combat system in the game, while classifiable as the action 
 RPG style, is rather unique. However, it differs from mainstream action RPGs in that combat does 
 not boil down to a click-fest. Instead, each mouse click will send Geralt into starting to execute 
 one of six sword styles, and subsequent properly timed clicks will allow Geralt to chain his attacks 
 for much higher damage. In addition to sword play, Witchers are able to use signs in combat, which 
 are essentially the game's magic component. These signs have effects such as knocking down enemies, 
 immolating them, erecting a temporary protective shield around you, or even turning your weaker-willed 
 foes over to your side. In addition, some of the signs have some functions outside of combat in 
 the explorative components of the game. You're also able to double-tap direction keys to make Geralt 
 dodge in that particular direction. Overall, the combat system is satisfying and largely engaging; 
 the swordplay of Geralt is often nothing short of spectacular (especially once you have unlocked 
 all his moves) and the assortment of finishing moves (some of which are executed only under more 
 obscure conditions - which is a pity as they're sometimes more spectacular than the more common 
 coup de grace performed on a knocked down foe such a drowner) are all pretty impressive. It must 
 be noted however, that one isn't able to break out of the animation for finishing moves, and Geralt 
 will be completely vulnerable to enemy attacks in this period. Under such conditions, it sometimes 
 feel illogical that Geralt would spend so much time performing an elaborate execution move whilst 
 under heavy attack.
  
  The story and role-playing elements of the game provides an immersive experience. The world Geralt 
 is in feels very real and believable  from the little kids skipping around or playing catch in 
 the outskirts, to the nobleman and noblewomen dancing or otherwise appreciating a performance by 
 a band of performers in the streets of the Trade Quarter. These non player characters generally 
 behave realistically  they have a daily routine that they adhere to  you'll find the common peasant 
 in their houses having a meal around noon and evening, and wandering the streets for most of the 
 afternoon. You will stumble across others that will clean their houses at certain hours, while 
 one of the Vizema crimelords spends most of his daytime sleeping but can be found hanging out in 
 the grimly tavern at midnight. Also noteworthy I think, is how citizens wandering about the streets 
 of the city will automatically seek shelter in the event of a rainstorm. It is little details like 
 this delight you when you notice it, and they greatly contribute to the realism of the world. There 
 are plentiful of quests for you to embark on, and most, save for the Witcher contracts, are generally 
 more involving than the typical kill x number of y creatures type of quests. There is also a surprising 
 amount of moral ambiguity in the choices that a good number of the quests force you to make. This 
 is in deep contrast to the standard role-playing game where the choice between good and evil is 
 plainly obvious; in The Witcher, you constantly find yourself opting for the lesser of two evils. 
 Most of the choices will also have delayed consequences, that manifest themselves in repercussions 
 often much later on in the game. In such moments, the game will show cutscene where Geralt will 
 muse about his reasons for making the choice that led to present consequences. Character development 
 wise, Geralt will gain talent points as he levels up. There are three tiers of talent points, and 
 you are able to spend these points choosing talents from a massive talent tree. This system of 
 character development works rather well, and the sheer variety of talent choices makes the levelling 
 up process rather engaging. However, it is not without its flaws. The manner, and the amount, of 
 points that are given across the three tiers will essentially force Geralt to diversify in both 
 swordplay and signs  you are not quite able to focus exclusively down any path early in the game. 
 There are no direct character statistics (such as strength, spirit, etc.) gained from levelling 
 too  any such improvements will come from the talent choices. As for the inventory system, Geralt 
 is able to carry up to 80 stacks of items in his bags. The inventory actually fills up very quickly 
 however, as there are so many different types of items in the game  food and drink, monster parts 
 for alchemical purposes, herbs from the wilderness, scrolls, books, treasures, gifts (mainly for 
 the ladies) and the like. Geralt is however only allowed to carry up to four weapons at any one 
 time the witcher silver sword and his main two-handed weapon (both of which he will sling at his 
 back) , and 2 other secondary weapons (which he will hang by his side) . Any enemies that you see 
 wielding a weapon will actually drop the weapon (except bows) in the game, and when you loot them, 
 they actually show up on Geralt. Unfortunately, only two handed swords are able to be used with 
 Witcher combat styles, hence making the other weapons largely useless, from a combat point of view. 
 It should however be noted that some of the decapitation moves and the gold talent of the Silver 
 Group sword style appears to utilise the offhand secondary weapon. Also, being able to carry only 
 so many weapons makes for increased realism.
  
  A toxicity system prevents potion abuse (something commonly seen in Diablo II) and pretty much 
 makes more sense than arbitrary potion cooldowns. The crafting system is also pretty well implemented 
 and interesting. For the most part, Geralt needs to learn recipes by reading tomes and scrolls. 
 There are recipes for potions, weapon oils and bombs, though Geralt will require the corresponding 
 talent point before he can start making bombs. In addition, the game does allow the player to experiment 
 with mixing ingredients to discover new types of items. To obtain the ingredients for the potions, 
 Geralt will need to gather them either from herbs in the wilderness, or by collecting valuable 
 monster parts. Recognising the alchemical properties of such herbs and monster parts require that 
 he first read books that describe the item, or otherwise be told about them by NPCs. Once he has 
 gained new knowledge, an entry will appear in the appropriate pane (there are Glossary, Bestiary, 
 Characters and Locations, Formulas and Ingredients panes) . Most of the entries contain a rather 
 detailed write-up, and together with the rather slick, elaborate interface art, they contribute 
 greatly to the immersion factor of the game.
  
  Graphically, while the game may be developed based on the Aurora Engine, it has been tweaked to 
 such an extent that it surpasses anything seen in Neverwinter Nights. That's not to say the graphics 
 look extremely realistic or fantastic, but it definitely portrays the various places very nicely. 
 Individual grass strands sway in the wind, and there are segments (such as in the prologue) where 
 the lighting work strikes one as being really impressive. Alas, it must be noted that it takes 
 quite a good rig to run the game at the higher quality graphics settings. By and large, character 
 models are also quite detailed (even at the lowest graphical settings) . This is especially so for 
 your fellow Witchers in Kaer Morhen  they look appropriately skilled and deadly, with appropriate 
 budging muscles (not overdone) as well as battle scars. The music score is sufficiently varied, 
 enjoyable and always suitable. Voiceover work for the most part are appropriate  dwarven characters 
 do sound like dwarves, old hags like old hags, etc., though it isn't exceptional. There is also 
 voiceover for everything the various NPCs might say in the game, and the chatter you overhear from 
 the NPCs when you run past them all sound really great and real. I particularly find the cries 
 of Honor from the guard captains in the Trade District to be extremely memorable  you are even 
 able to hear them make that distinctive cry when indoors, although it is considerably and expectedly 
 muted then.
  
  All these said, there are also quite a number of areas which could probably have been done better. 
 Firstly would be the translation work. There are parts of the game where you can't help but feel 
 that there is something not quite right with the writing, where speech elements appear to be quaint 
 and disconnected. This never gets so bad to the extent that you lose track of the story however, 
 but one just can't help but feel it could have probably been done better. The conversation system 
 also appears to have some particularities... it seems that the system requires NPCs to say some 
 things before Geralt is allowed to make a choice, and this can result in a few rather odd situations. 
 Each party in the conversation also appears to be allowed to say a whole block of words at a go, 
 and as such it is sometimes quite striking when either Geralt or the NPC makes a long, three sentence 
 response. While there are quite a fair bit of character models in the game, there is also a considerably 
 noticeable amount that is being reused. Perhaps the most notable example is that of Granny of the 
 Temple District and Vasha of the brick makers - particularly since many players would probably 
 have gone nearly crazy trying to get past Granny in order to visit Shani at her house. This does 
 have a great effect in breaking the immersion factor of the game. Many of the NPCs also move slightly, 
 or twitch, when talking or otherwise waiting for you to react (in contrast, NPCs in Knights of 
 the Old Republic or Neverwinter Nights generally stand still while waiting for you to react) . While 
 it may seem extremely appropriate the first few times you see it (such as the squirrels in Act 
 I when waiting for you to make a choice about allowing them access to some cargo) , seeing the exact 
 same twitch across quite a number of the other NPCs kind of work against this feature.. it is almost 
 as though they are suffering from some form of attention deficient disorder. Perhaps a greater 
 variety would help. Something many people will also notice is the load times. You're tossed into 
 a loading screen whenever you transit between areas, and also when transiting between indoors and 
 outdoors. Unless you're running at least 2GB of ram, load times can be very considerable (upwards 
 of 30 seconds at least) and this can greatly detract from the experience, while also greatly discouraging 
 you from exploring all the explorable houses in the outskirts and the cities. On the other hand, 
 unlike say, Neverwinter Nights 2, there is usually no loading screen involved when transiting between 
 different levels or sub areas of a particular place (e. g. the cellar and ground floor of a house) . 
 Part of what contributes to the time you spend in transition between indoors and outdoors is the 
 autosave feature, which, while nice, currently cannot be disabled to speed things up for people 
 who feel they can do without it.
  
  Other flaws that detract from the experience would include how Geralt is able to go about looting 
 everything in the game with impunity, right in front of the house owners or city guards without 
 there ever being any consequences. Also, one can't help but wish that the monster quests, where 
 you would collect the heads of named monsters as personal trophies and turn it in for bounty, were 
 a little more memorable. This is particularly so for the Chapter IV and Chapter V monsters, but 
 especially Chapter V, where there is nothing seemingly extraordinary about the special monster 
 you were tasked to hunt, beyond them having a unique name that is. There isn't any special reason 
 as to why these monsters are there, nor are they really that much more difficult than the normal 
 monsters, and in the instance of Chapter V, you'll quite probably stumble across both of these 
 monsters and slay them both before you realise that they're the special, deadly, menacing monsters 
 that the Royal Huntsman is paying a great sum of coin for. Consequently, while Geralt does feel 
 to be a very skilled witcher towards the end, with incredible mastery of swordsmanship, these special 
 bounty monsters feel beneath the skill of a witcher such as him. In another words, there hardly 
 seem to be anything to be proud of from carrying and displaying the monster head as a trophy around 
 for. If only these monsters were a bit more special and challenging, ala the Koshchey and the Zeugl, 
 would the monster bounty quests feel more meaningful.
  
  Finally, the inventory system as it stands now is a bit of a mess. It can be pretty challenging 
 to find items, particularly potions for use in the midst of battles, or as gifts. This is because 
 all items are represented by their (tiny) icons, and having to look through 80 of these icons in 
 search for an item in particular is more painful than it should.
  
  Overall though, while The WItcher is not without its flaws, its many strengths, and innovation 
 with regards to the combat mechanics as well as the system of delayed consequence, makes this a 
 must-play for the fans of the RPG genre.
  
  Final Rating: 8.9/10 (due to various flaws and imperfections, particularly potentially nasty loading 
 time and poor translations) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nabeel200
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first installed this game I dint have a lot of expectations form it, but when I played the 
 first stage of the game I was completely smitten by it .it begins in a haphazard manner but a the 
 game goes along it all makes sense, it's slowly falls into place. The best part is the intro movie 
 its quiet a long intro, and you are going to enjoy it. At first I thought it to be the same RPG 
 as any other, but it's nothing like that, I had played elders scroll oblivion and I expected this 
 game to be the same but it turned out to be quite different .The combat system is the best I have 
 ever seen in any game, with all the combo and the defense techniques .As you progress along the 
 game your level increase so does your combat system evolves. As you play a witcher geralt you even 
 have magical power to help in your quest .you have four basic magic skills but not all are available 
 at the start you have to attain them as the game progress, I will not get in to detail about the 
 magic and all the stuff, you can figure it out as you play the game. You can make portions for 
 making bombs and other stuff. The locations in the game a magnificent and not to forget creepy 
 swamps and the crypts. The background score gives the game the right fell. The voice acting of 
 geralt is superb but sometimes the voice acting of other characters falls flat, it's probably due 
 to the conversion of the game from polish to English. The game has replay vale as the choices you 
 make in the game alter the destiny of your character. The good thing about the game is that the 
 choices you make have consequences which are shown as flash back later on in the game, telling 
 you often if you are right or wrong. And to sum up my experience about the game I suggest all the 
 RPG fans that it's a must play for all of you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiling_bull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Its a long time since good RPG game surfaces. Its indeed a long wait before such an interesting 
 one arrives.
  
  It not only have a good RPG story line, it also incorporates in actions. Instead of the standard 
 button smashing games so popular nowadays, it allows variation by having timing attacks that rewards 
 the player exciting \ killing move\ .
  
  This is definitely very interesting. The story line is also very well done, having the mystery 
 component here and there and allowing high replay values. The cause and effect lets the player 
 feels the consequences of his actions and also allow decision making more fun.
  
  The only complain i may have are some minor characters uses the same skin and models.
  
  Overall, 
 i guess RPG players will definitely enjoy this refreshing game that is both fun and entertaining. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davito
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Alright, in a wrap up: Pros: Wonderful musical score; Rich story line; Excellent Main Protagonist, 
 (Geralt) ; Combat system adds some speed and tactics to gameplay; Magic feels natural when used 
 with melee; Some memorable, if somewhat lack-luster side characters; Beautiful visuals; Day-to-Night 
 cycles provide a change in music and environmental npcs; Mostly good voice acting; Alchemy provides 
 a unique selection of items; Has a classic RPG feel to it; Mini-Games are fun ways to break up 
 combat.
  
  Cons: Some poor animation, especially lip movement; Some poor voice acting; Certain areas between 
 in-game events crash regularly; CPU hog; A few translation issues, (Polish-English) ; Very linier 
 with area restrictions; Long load times in some cases; Very limited interaction, (usually two options 
 when choices occur) .
  
  Summed up: The Witcher provides a dark, eerie, and believable setting with an excellent and long 
 story to boot. Unfortunately, it has its fair share of technical issues and is far more linier 
 than it advertises. Is it worth getting? Undeniably, yes. The Witcher has the makings of a masterpeice, 
 and with another patch or two and maybe some mods, it may reach its potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  ... some problems with the inventory and upgrading of weapons are quite annoying. Anyway despite 
 of that the witcher is a fantastic game in many ways. The Witcher's story is not the usual one. 
 The world is dark and rain is often poring down. It's full of fear, disease, religious zealotry, 
 and political manoeuvring. In short, it's tries to expose some of the issues that we deal with 
 today, like racism and stigmatization. 
  Some criticise it for being sexist and no sense for gender issues and I could agree to some of 
 that criticism but to not a degree that I downgrade it and I do think its important to look a at 
 the whole story and its character before you judge it.
  The game itself is highly addictive and very rewarding. With a bleak situation in a world filled 
 with monsters, combat its not optional and levelling up give you new talents that make the combat 
 look great. It works much better than I expected. 
  Finally I highly recommend this game for any adult RPG fan. Note that I wrote adult because of 
 the bad language (used from time to time) and nudity together with sex scenes. It's not a good 
 game it's a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sysguru
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I am pulled between the good and the bad. This game offers both. I think the graphics of 
 the game are wonderful. The combat style is not as bad as some people make it out to be either.
 
  
  Here is what I think is good about the game:
  Graphics
  Soundtrack
  Story line
  Sex, Drugs and Rock and Roll (well, not really rock and roll)
  
  Here is what i think is bad 
 about the game:
  Animated dialog for EVERYTHING
  Characters mostly look the same with different clothes
  
  Things that could be improved upon:
 
  Weapon upgrades
  Cheaper armor (maybe I just can't find the gold to purchase it)
  Ability to hold a torch and a dagger
  Give characters a bit more personality versus keeping the 
 same character voice and toon for practially every npc in the game.
  
  I like the game, I like to play it. I would recommend it to others. I am not sure if it was worth 
 the price though.
  
  Happy playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcelloz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is a unique game in terms of combat and interactivity. Its engine is based upon the 
 Neverwinter nights game engine, so it is not a free roaming world and keeps you focus on the job 
 in the neightbourhood.
  
  The Good : The story is wonderful dark en sinister, the characters (NPC) are believable albeit 
 often twins of another, the graphics are wonderful, the combat is great and the animations are 
 good. Mature content is refreshing.
  
  The Bad: Slow pace of the story (at points you have nothing to do but wait) , long loading times, 
 not much cool loot, inventory is small, world is 'fenced' (you cannot go anywhere you like) . 
 
  
  In the end i just love to play the witcher as it keeps me coming back for more. Especially the 
 more mature content and dark setting gives the game a less fairy-tale feeling. When seeing a drunkard 
 piss of when getting drunk you just have to enjoy the realities of life coming to your screen.
 
  
  Finally, as non-native English speaker I don't have a clue what the editors are talking about when 
 talking about cheesy language. It all sound good to me, for once without the American tongue fall 
 or dialect! :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  In many ways this game comes close to all time greatness, but it's many little niggles just scupper 
 it's chances of being an Oblivion beater (itself not immune to little niggles) . Somewhat flawed? 
 Yes. But still one of the best RPGs in years? Definitely yes.
  
  In time honoured tradition I shall start with the bad, don't let all this put you off, it really 
 is a damned good game. Firstly, the acting is, how shall I put it, uneven. Some voices are quite 
 good, some are not. At all. Geralt himself veers from "Man with No Name" to "Phoned in his lines", 
 and some of the Fable-esque "comedy" accents undermine the adultness of the game -also, I don't 
 know if it's me, but overtly American accents don't work in fantasy games (Oblivion's orc women 
 are still the worst in recent memory, though) . Secondly, performance. The game is a serious spec 
 eater! Plenty of eye candy that comes at a price; the game still looks great at lower settings, 
 though. Also the load times can be huuuuuge, depending on the size of the area you're entering; 
 a house is quite quick, but when entering an open area, you can go away and make a sandwich and 
 grab a beer and still come back in time. The final technical issue is the save game files are enormous; 
 regular pruning is required if you don't want to lose massive chunks of your hard drive. The next 
 misgiving is regarding the combat, mostly I like it, but its all to easy to get Geralt stuck in 
 a bit of scenery or between 2 foes, at which point he just stands there like a particularly dim-witted 
 lemon, getting pulverised. Fine if you could avoid fights, but this brings me to my final, and 
 most serious problem. For an RPG, there's very little room for invention, you're given the character, 
 and you're given the fighting/playing style - there's no option to be an archer, or a sneak, you're 
 a swordsman, and stuck with it, which means that there's often no option but to go in with sword 
 flailing. It undermines the whole ethos of the RPG when your playing style is dictated to you.
 
  
  Right, now that's out the way, by golly does the game look and sound fantastic! Palpable gothic 
 fantasy atmosphere, and a cracking soundtrack - even when you're just wandering and waiting, you 
 soak up the mood. Not only are the graphics technically great, but they are so beautifully designed, 
 too; I often just stand and look around at the scenery. The combat is mostly good, based on timing 
 and matching styles to opponents rather than button mashing. The pacing of the game is nice, too; 
 you can spend plenty of time on side quests. What really sets the game apart, is the whole moral 
 ambiguity; there are no real good guys, plenty of bad guys, but everybody is corrupt to a degree, 
 you really have to think who you want to form allegiances with. This has a knock on effect on your 
 side quests you have with opposing factions. You get the feeling that the core of the game is around 
 you moral choices rather than the fighting. You can even woo the ladies, winning a delightfully 
 naff and tacky 70s soft-core "card" for each sexual conquest!
  
  All in all, this a great RPG, its flaws can sometimes make you swear in frustration at the computer, 
 but are well worth persevering with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omarsimpson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  At first I had too take a step back and relearn the old mechanics of 1990's game play. This is 
 a well written fun game to play, lots of twists and turns without the a fully linear approach. 
 Much like Oblvion, you can decide the character of your character by your choices. The games is 
 long and at times a bit drawn out. Action is not lacking, skill with a blade, potion prep - use, 
 adds the elements necessary to make this game work. I have a cutting edge PC, and still there are 
 glitches in the gameplay at times. More than a few pesky crashes in Vista 32 ultimate, none in 
 XP Sp2. I am sure the devs are working to get the bugs out. Graphics are ok, but nothing to rave 
 about. Basically this is a nicely well rounded game with a good main story and lots of secondary 
 quests to keep you busy for many hours. 
  
  I recommend this as a must play for RPG fans. Even if your muscle it in between Crysis, Bioshock 
 and UT3 ( hey a gamers just gotta frag a few friends now and again, right !) . Get the game, struggle 
 past the first few hours and you will begin to get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dykunas
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Firstly i want mention that this game starts of pretty unimpressive but don't make hasty decisions, 
 because it gets better and better after that.
  
  The Witcher is based on books by Andrzej Sapkowski, so the story is solid and immersive. Their 
 is plenty of violence, racism and other social conflicts like you would expect it to be in a medieval-fantasy 
 world. Most characters are very interesting and you rarely want to skip the dialogue. You will 
 have to make many decisions in this game. These decision are not in the game just for the rpg aspect, 
 they really impact the gameplay. And since most of these decisions will be apparent only after 
 some time, you never know what to expect (which is great) . 
  
  Since the game is heavily story driven you can only play as Geralt The Witcher, but that's not 
 a problem because Geralt is one badass character. Throughout the game you will be able to raise 
 many of Geralt's different abilities such as magic signs, alchemy and sword combat, but since the 
 game only gives you a limited amount of points to spend you should reconsider before making a jack 
 of all trades. Many people tend to complain about the combat, but in my opinion the combat in this 
 game is very good. You cannot mindlessly hack everything you see, because you have to actually 
 time your attacks and the witcher does the rest and because of that it actually looks like you 
 know what you're doing :) . When you get used to it it's pretty fun and those nasty finishing moves 
 are pretty amazing. 
  
  The graphics are nothing revolutionary, but the artistic style of the game more than makes up for 
 that. Most of the surroundings are very well done and every place has a distinctive atmosphere 
 to it. Also if you only have 1 gb of ram don't expect the game to run well, because it's a beast 
 when it comes to ram (this may be fixed in the 1.2 patch)
  
  I could write on and on about this game, but to make it short - buy this game!!! This game is just 
 a breath of fresh air after the past few years of lackluster RPGs 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Anonymous-
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  This game simply had me hooked from the moment I first played it. Whether you are looking at the 
 gameplay, voice acting, graphics, music, or story, this game tops all of my lists. I've just finished 
 the game and am itching to replay it as soon as possible, simply to see what different choices 
 do to the storyline and characters. 
  As far as your choices go, without revealing too much, lets simply say that you must differentiate 
 between shades of gray. The cut and dry black and white choices in this game are nearly non existent, 
 and seemingly small decisions you make can lead to huge events later on. 
  The ONLY complaint i can put forward is that I found the normal setting to be relatively easy to 
 play. You can bet I'll be playing the next time through on hard.
  Anyone.... and I mean ANYONE.... that plays RPG's needs to give this a very solid consideration, 
 if not add it to their collection immediately. I simply haven't played a game this engaging in 
 years.
  I hope that the people at CD Projekt Red and Atari are very proud of this title and do well for 
 themselves with it. Primarily because I'll be looking for any future titles they release.
  Overall The Witcher plays like a well written novel that the author could be very proud of. I'm 
 eager for any further games in this storyline, and awaiting my next chance to play as Geralt of 
 Rivia, Witcher.
  
  Cheers,
  Anonymous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Witcher is a RPG/Action game where you play a "Witcher" or monster slayer with good ol' fashioned 
 morals (drinking, killing, wenching, gambling) . A must-have for all families! Unfortunately the 
 North American version censored the game and covered up all nudity (topless females) in the game 
 because as we all know North Americans are incapable of handling such material (i. e. order the 
 UK version online) . The game was difficult to get into at first because the fighting system is 
 a bit odd. You really don't have too much control over your fighting moves, you choose the fighting 
 style to match the monster and you click once and character does series of moves, you click again 
 etc... I was trying to block or side-step or click repeatedly and it interferes with the pre-set 
 moves. I was disappointed at this feature but I'm used to it now. The game has a bit too many cut-scenes. 
 Especially early on and that got annoying although to be fair the graphics and story are second 
 to non so you do get into it. The game picks up as you get along with more fighting and upgrades 
 available as you level up. You use a combination of swords and limited spell casting and potions 
 for your monster-killing pleasure and pretty much try to sleep with every female character in the 
 game. The game sound is excellent, the visuals are some of the best I've seen, and the story is 
 engaging. One of the better games last year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loggens
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The game:
  The game has a lvls of alcemy and all atyles of swords and magic... you have to meditate to gain 
 the skills and make potions for greater destruction, protection and more usefull... you can gather 
 herbs and ingredients in wild and monsters and you can gain 5 magic spells that you can easily 
 use in combat.
  In the story you play as witcher ho is almoust last of her kind and he searches her brother but 
 theres other quest you can do to earn money and skills. the game has 3 different views but the most 
 common is ots... you can play dice in the came and will gain rank in that too and earn money, and 
 with fist fithing in inn s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silver_brow
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  What I liked: Interesting new combat system. Mature content. Skill system is fresh. Environments 
 and music are terrific.
  
  What I disliked: Uber long load times. "Quick Save" and "Quick Load" are NOT QUICK! They function 
 the same as pressing ESC and Loading or Saving. Inventory is not large enough to hold all the junk 
 I MIGHT need later on. Dialogue could have been SOOO much better making this game SOOO much more 
 interesting to watch. Next time, contract the script and dialogue scenes for editing to BioWare 
 : (, or anyone with a degree in english. You hear a lot of voice acting done by a handful of the 
 same people. Combat system, although fresh, feels really buggy/unresponsive at times. Maybe I just 
 suck, but I found certain combat situations (on easy mode) unwinnable unless I tried them over 
 and over again (try killing an Echinthrop or big plant thingy in the swamp on your first go at 
 level 13, ha!) .
  
  And lastly, how come every time I sleep with a woman I see a playing card shaped portrait, making 
 me feel as though it's a trophy to look at later, but yet I can't access my scandelous selection 
 later through a menu of some sort?
  
  Sadly, I will probably continue to play this game and try certain unwinnable situations over and 
 over again, giving myself over to the horriffic load times (sometimes as long as 4 minutes) due 
 to this game being so unique and at certain moments gratifying... but it'll take me a very long 
 long time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polonos1313
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  Simply Magical !!!!! Awesome graphics and a fantastic story that will hold you down playing for 
 hours. One of the best games i ever played..... ........ .................. ........ ............ 
 ........ .......... .......... ....... ........ .... ..... ... ....... ......... ...
  .. .......... ...... ...... ........ ........... ........ .... ....... .... .......... ....... 
 ............. .. ...... ........... ... ..... ... ... ... .... The only game that kept me down playing 
 for 9 hours continusly.
  The graphics, fantastic...
  The music, fantastic...
  The quests, fantastic...
  The landscape, fantastic....
  The towns, fantastic...
  Everything 
 in this game is just...... fantastic !!!!!!
  You should try it !!!!!!!!!!
  ............. . .......................... ........... ............. ............ .......... .......... 
 ....... ....... ....... .......... ......... ...... ........ ..... .......... ....... ....... .......... 
 ....... ........... .... ......... .......... . .......... ....... .......... ....... ...... ...... 
 ........ ...... ....... .... ........ ....... ..... .... ..... ........ .... ....... ... ......... 
 ....... .... ............... ............. ....... .......... ........ ..... ......... ....... 
 ......... ... ......... ...... ..... ...... .. ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimrhurst
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. To be perfectly fair, I was in love with the idea of this game before it ever 
 hit Gamestop shelves, but now I have it and my enthusiasm has not diminished. 
  
  The promise I saw in this game and that it delivers on is gaming for grown-ups. I don't mean "adult" 
 in the sense most American media means it, although there is a certain amount of content that heads 
 in that direction. What I mean instead is that the world feels true and interesting in a way that 
 those of us in the crowd who can now legally drink and therefore do less of it are not at all accustomed 
 to. We see much hand-wringing about ratings on games and the effect this has on children. And side-by-side 
 we see those in the industry shouting back in vain "gaming is not just for kids anymore!" Well 
 this is the game that takes that message to heart and carries it out as a banner.
  
  The complicated decisions the developers plug so reliably have not been over-sold. I found myself 
 repeatedly caught in places where I was deeply conflicted. More than once I took a break from the 
 game for an hour or a day just to postpone and mull over a tough decision for my character. And 
 just as advertised, you will not see the results for many game-hours, making each decision all 
 the more weighty. No quick-save and reload here. The key decisions are placed about 2 per Act of 
 which there are seven (including the prologue and epilogue) . This feels just right to me as its 
 common enough to hit home but not so over-used as to feel gimmicky or cheapen the effect. They 
 also server to greatly enhance replayability since you'll want to see the results of all the paths 
 not traveled.
  
  The dialog, while a bit choppy in places due to translation, is mostly well delivered and feels 
 right. The characters are three-dimensional and talk believably. They have a mixture of motives, 
 strengths and failings. The tone is cynical, pragmatic, and dark much of the time. Throughout it 
 all dirty bandits come across as the scum they are, poor people on the street issue lines and sound 
 like urchins in the gutters, and knights sound educated and pompous. The graphics complement well 
 with the artistic style feeling gritty and lived-in. While its technical quality won't cause retinal 
 bleeding like Crysis, it looks more than good enough and performance is stable once you get your 
 settings tweaked to match your system.
  
  I should say something about the gameplay. The combat takes about 30-60 minutes to really get the 
 hang of, but it again performs as advertised. It keeps you engaged because you have to time your 
 clicks to keep that combo rolling. I found myself much more "in-the-moment" than with NWN2 because 
 of the close OTS view (one of three camera options) and the active combat. Still, I'm not a shooter 
 or action player by anyone's estimation and I rarely found myself unable to manage the necessary 
 dexterity to complete my intended butt-kicking. Its worth mentioning that an additional reward 
 for proper handling of the system is to watch the smooth, visceral art of swordplay demonstrated 
 by our hero, Geralt. All those hours in the mo-cap chamber paid dividends here.
  
  The caveats are by now well-reported. Many players experience unacceptable loading times that seem 
 to defy clear explanation in terms of hardware or configuration. Still, the first patch helped 
 a bit and the second one is promising a very serious attempt to address it. I myself have had annoying 
 but not devastating load times swapping between areas as a rule. The inventory system is confining 
 by design. Its not meant to be a loot gathering game, period. But that also means that you have 
 to spend a certain amount of time shuffling around the tiny icons in your inventory and making 
 hard decisions about what to carry around. (I myself loved the potion and bomb-making system and 
 so I found my inventory crammed with alchemical ingredients and a virtual Swiss Army knife of concoctions 
 for every occasion.) As mentioned above there are also a handful of nonsensical conversations to 
 be found as well as more than a few where you feel detail is somehow missing. All in all I find 
 this to be a modest loss to what is top-notch writing. 15% loss of great content still beats the 
 standard fare hands-down, in this author's opinion. The talent system is novel and the effects 
 of most improvements can be readily seen at next use. Still, the way the game is designed and the 
 fact that 60% of all talents are available by game's end means that at any given level your Geralt 
 will probably look a fair bit like mine.
  
  This is hands-down the best RPG I have played in years, warts and all. I find it all the more unbelievable 
 that it has come to us from a first time developer in Eastern Europe where quality standards have 
 not historically been particularly exacting. I encourage anyone who might like to dig into a serious 
 role-playing game aimed at the mature gamer to give this one a spin. We vote with our dollars and 
 I want my dollars to send the message that real grown-up games with real decisions to complement 
 their tight gameplay are worth the effort to create. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marxxus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I was very surprised that this game is as addicting as it is. I expected what I had read from other 
 reviews and I expected long load times and some glitches, maybe a crash or 2 and some decent but 
 cheesy voice acting. Yep, some of that was there, but the story and the playability of this game 
 make you quickly forgive any and all flaws. 
  
  I believe what keeps me playing is that there is ALWAYS something to do, and the story changes 
 constantly. You think you have made the right decision and 15 mins later (without consequence) , 
 you find something to thicken the plot. This keeps me playing, after all I want to see what is 
 going to happen around the corner. The game is predictably unpredictable.
  
  My only advice is to keep playing through the somewhat slow and tedious beginning, and read every 
 word of the text, the story is fantastic. Oh yeah, save often, I have found that sometimes the 
 game will autosave leaving an area and sometimes it won't. So if you are going to talk to someone 
 you "might" have a confrontation with, save before finding them.
  
  I gave it a 9.0 instead of a 10 ONLY because of the forgivable flaws, which if fixed would make 
 this game perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberdimi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game with a very good storyline, but it 's not perfect. Ur pretty much bunded 
 to a story and more freedom would be nicer, just like oblivion. Don't get me wrong, u can still 
 do many things yourself and u can make alot of choises. the graphs are good and the sound and music 
 realy fit in well. I think it's a shame that there isn't a first person view like oblivion, but 
 the "over the shoulder" view is playable. The game action and fightingparts are good but sometimes 
 things don't go really like it should go, but i like it when u blast them on the ground and than 
 finish them of with 1 hit, those animations are the coolest.
  
  in overll a VERY good game with many good things, but not perfect. anyways just buy the game, u'll 
 enjoy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrugalett
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  For me "Oblivion" set the bar for roleplaying games and "Witcher" comes as close as you can get. 
 Yes, there are also similarities with "Fable" and "Star Wars: KOTOR," but neither of the latter 
 come close to the plot depth of "Witcher." Besides the typical side mission quests to kill monsters 
 and find loot there are some mission quests that span the length of the game using political intrigue, 
 spying and asking the right questions of the right people. And these people are not always home 
 or where they are supposed to be at a certain times, adding to the reality of this fantasy realm. 
 
  
  A lot has been made of the fighting style, but after weeks of playing I've become used to it and 
 as I develop my character I have learned to increase certain fighting styles, which beats hack 
 and slash anytime.
  
  On the negative side, I am not happy with the potion aspects of "Witcher." I do prefer the simplicity 
 of finding health and mana vials. In "Witcher" you have to harvest ingredients that you mix to 
 make various potions. I find myself doing this less and less preferring to utilize "campfires" 
 to regain health etc.
  
  Another small problem is the inventory. You are limited in the number of weapons you can carry, 
 so grabbing weapons to sell becomes almost useless. And the cost of weapons and armor is much too 
 expensive for the amounts of money you find on quests.
  
  Needless to say, "Witcher" is highly addictive.
  
  Still, the positives definitely outweigh 
 the negatives. If you haven't bought "Witcher" yet, it might be worth a spot on your xmas list. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ercan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Great RPG I think one of the best I have ever played. I don't have a fast machine and it takes 
 almost forever the loadings when you move between places, and sometimes it gets boring too. The 
 beasts aren't there when you need them :) and you have a lot of walking to do. When I summarize, 
 maybe more than 60% of my game play goes to loadings and walking :)
  
  But despite everything it's one of a kind, especially the story, the jokes, characters, music, 
 beautifully designed outdoors. The most enjoyable thing is that you have to think your every move 
 before you decide something or some merchants, people, fractions won't deal with you. Especially 
 you have to be careful around woman if you want to impress them and get them to sleep with you 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codyw32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  The Witcher was a surprisingly fantastic game. The RPG elements are all there, magic, swords, character 
 development... etc. The one thing that really draws you in are the characters. A wide variety of 
 main characters, peasants and such on the street use the same model, which does take a little away 
 from the experience, but not much. The story is also great, a relief from all the lackluster stories 
 and cliche stories in RPG's. 
  
  The Loading times are very very long. Usually i wouldn't mind, but nothing is more frustrating 
 than the game taking 5 minutes to enter a house and then go back outside. It does take a little 
 away from the experience. I had a few bugs, but all was fixed via the patch.
  
  The Witcher is a sort of fresh idea and CD Projekt completes the formula. Great RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher
  
  Dated November 27th 2007
  
  As gamers, we tend to look at certain games, and stand in awe of their power, sometimes even before 
 they reach the shelves. This is because, as gamers, these days we're often liable to providing 
 for a game, a single, generally awe-inspiring attribute. An attribute, in fact, that we feel justifies 
 the game, or is the defining reason behind owning that game. For many, this often takes the form 
 of a graphics engine, wherein many gamers tout that graphically powerful game as a 'must own'. 
 However, as we often seem to find out, a single attribute cannot make a game great. 
  
  "Lair", for instance, was loved well prior to its release, for its 'beauty'; and I'm certain many 
 gamers pre-ordered it, because that single, solitary attribute of beauty, as we often think, must 
 also translate into a great game. Well, in Lair's case, that didn't seem to happen. I admittedly 
 fell into that trap myself with the woeful yet beautiful title that was Madden '07 for the Xbox 
 360. I was wowed by the graphics... by their 'innovation' that I was blinded to the truth, purchased 
 it, and found its gameplay to be sorely lacking; the worst of any experience of football I've had 
 in a long while. The point here is that no single attribute can make a game, just as no single 
 word, makes an argument, and no single point, and makes a good essay. The truth is, games are based 
 upon a plethora of attributes; much like a movie, much like a book. Although games have to run 
 far deeper. Not only must they provide an engaging form of entertainment, they must also prove 
 to be somewhat intellectually stimulating, easy to pick up and play (for the most part) , challenging, 
 visually decent, as well as, at the very least, decently pleasing to the ear. Truth be told then, 
 games are nothing like books, which may be able to rely on plot alone, even if the style is lacking, 
 nor are they similar to movies, which may rake in the cash for stunning CG animation, or a high 
 amount of gore, or scare factor, without owning up to much else. No, in my view, the best games 
 must run the table of the senses of entertainment in EVERY way, to be successful; and the biggest 
 part of that success (although ALL must be held in high regard, [such being the quandary of a video 
 game,] ) is Gameplay.
  
  With that said, and you'll forgive my digression, I hope, The Witcher has been touted as a game 
 with a tremendously engrossing story and I'll give it its due, but as I have found in so many 
 other cases: 
  
  The Witcher, in spite of its credentials, misses the most important mark to be successful Gameplay
 
  
  Indeed, inserting the game into my machine, and pressing play, I was greeted by a tremendous, almost 
 film-worthy opening movie that seemed to last a stunning ten minutes of beautifully rendered computer 
 graphics animation, and a budding musical score, and though the movie lacked the same clout in 
 its off-ish voice over; I was still in awe.
  
  Upon getting into the game however, I cannot express how disappointed I was and believe me, I 
 really, really sought out to like this game (citing that it was on my Christmas list this year 
 before I even played it, as the details of a tremendously engaging 40-60 hour, top-notch dark medieval 
 RPG caused me to salivate greatly) but in areas of controlling the character, in voice-over work, 
 in system demands, and yes, and even in combatYes, all told, in gameplay, The Witcher fails mightily.
 
  
  In fact, I can scarcely say that I have been privy to play a game which held such an undesirable 
 control scheme. When using WASD to run, and the mouse to turn Geralt, I have never felt more disconnected 
 to what was happening on the screen. Because, as said, one must move the mouse to turn, while holding 
 W almost exclusively, in addition to the fact that Geralt always runs, I felt that I was more trying 
 to successfully navigate hallways without bumping into things, than I was a enjoying a medieval 
 world, supposedly teeming with realism. 
  
  What's more, considering that the controls are certainly lack-lustre, one may think that combat 
 would suffer, and it does as a result, but upon its own systematic demerits, it also fails to deliver. 
 The system of combat, in fact, just like the player control, also 'succeeds' in ruining ones immersion. 
 To sum it up in brief, one must navigate the game in say, an over the shoulder perspective, run 
 towards a prospective enemy, highlight them with the mouse and click. Having clicked, Geralt will 
 step forward, and enter a swinging animation, which seems to always be repeated the same way; a 
 swing to the head, and a swing to the body; the difference here than with other games, is that 
 after the first hit and while ending the second, the player must attempt to click their left-mouse 
 button in a timely manner as indicated by a flaming sword (or, on hard, which I played, an orange 
 swathe of light) , to engage in an even deadlier combo, likely killing the enemy outright. Granted, 
 this combat style is a nice thought, but it didn't work for me, because in my attempts to land 
 the perfectly timed combination blow (which I rarely did) I lost my immersion into the game. Instead 
 of a vast medieval world, teeming with life, I reduced it to staring at the sword, and waiting 
 for that perfect click, that perfect attack. For me, the combat became so mechanical, that nothing 
 else could save it.
  
  The beautiful graphics and amazing story that the Witcher provides, fail to resurrect a game for 
 which I had high-hopes, that manages a less engaging combat than Baldur's Gate, or Neverwinter 
 Nights and that's saying somethingsomething that isn't a compliment.
  
  Indeed, from shoddy voice work, to a mechanical movement AND combat control scheme, in a game which 
 is Justas much about exploring and battling as it is about the narrative; The Witcher falls flat 
 and I mean flat, on its face.
  
  Thus, as further proof that no game can stand upon one leg and be great, the story of the Witcher 
 fails to save its horribly robotic combat, and inhuman movement.
  
  In that vein, I am unfortunately unable to recommend The Witcher as a must own, or must play title. 
 What it holds in an engaging narrative on paper set in a dark and dreary, chilling-to-the-bone 
 and fresh-to the senses world, fails to make a great video game. A game, in fact, that is marred 
 by an a terribly systematic series of clicks and timing, a horribly unnatural set of 'running' 
 controls (I can't call it movement, because all that Geralt does is run there seems to be no option 
 here) , and graphics which are muddled by steep system requirements and somewhat longer load times, 
 I cannot give it more than a 6.0 out of 10.
  
  For what it's worth, as a lover of narrative, it has a great story, and further, I have no doubt 
 that it would make a great movie, or a great book (as they already exist) It's just too bad that 
 CD Project Red didn't originate the concept, or they'd at least earn SOME of the little praise 
 that is to go around for this overly mechanical and derivative gaming experience.
  
  6.0/10  Disappointing.
  
  - Alexander "Desalbert" Jackson 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Thus far, (and I will come back and edit this subsequent to finishing the game) , I am gobsmacked 
 - in the most delightful way, by this work of art.
  
  It's not just a game - it's a story that you feel like you are actually IN. It has a lead character 
 (Geralt) and many side-characters that are totally believable. In fact, the whole world is so believable 
 it's unbelievable! From the graphical rendering, which is extremely close to photorealistic, to 
 the actions and lives of the NPCs, this game is more realistic and absorbing than most books and 
 movies I've experienced. 
  
  I find the story much better than Oblivion, a common RPG yardstick. The graphics are not quite 
 as "gorgeous", but they are in fact perfectly suited to the gritty dark plot. The smaller details 
 of the world make it feel more alive than Oblivion, as the developers have packed every nook and 
 cranny of the environment with 'stuff'.
  
  The only reason I am not giving it a 10 is due to an annoyingly long load/save system, and a slightly 
 clunky quest system that makes it difficult in particular to track SIDE quests and identify related 
 items to them in your inventory. PRIMARY quests don't suffer this problem as they have a separate 
 inventory pouch. The only other thing I can fault in the game is the cutscene system - it becomes 
 a bit repetitive and disjointed at times and looks a bit awkward sometimes, but definately not 
 an enjoyment killer. Again comparing it to Oblivions NPC dialogue scenes, I feel The Witcher actually 
 betters it with more realistic (read - less plastic) models, and also more choices in how you respond 
 to them. This game is heavily about choice, something Oblivion lacked.
  
  At the end of the day, you cannot judge a book by it's cover, and nor can you judge The Witcher 
 purely on the number of polygons it can handle - in other words don't rate it lower than Crysis 
 just due to graphics. Hidden beneath the non-award winning, yet extremely impressive presentation, 
 is an absolute gem of a story set in a diamond of a world. And I'm only up to Chapter III....
 
  
  9/10 CDProjektRED you guys are rocking my fantasy world and this game prettymuch guarantees a pre-order 
 of anything else you make!
  
  (ps the artbook in the collectors edition is hands-down the best thing I've ever seen in a collectors 
 edition of any game) .
  (ps2 almost finished chapter IV and the plot is so absorbing it's very hard to log off at night. 
 Now I know why I quit WoW for this.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rburnett123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I was fortunate enough to play the European (uncensored) version of The Witcher -- digital boobies 
 for the win. The strongest component of The Witcher is easily the storyline. The characters are 
 complex and most decisions do not have a simple "good/evil" choice a la Bioware games. More often 
 than not, you are deciding between lesser evils or do the ends justify the means. Dark, gritty, 
 with a very reliastic feel (if that can be applied to a fantasty game) .
  
  I have never been a fan of the Diablo clickfest and am glad that the developers of The Witcher 
 have come up with a slightly improved system where timing is important and you will not end up 
 with Carpal Tunnel Syndrome completing the game. The best way I can sum up The Witcher is a Bioware 
 caliber story (although very adult in the European version) , decent customer customization, and 
 a splash of Diablo-like action.
  
  Best standalone RPG I have played in the past few years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Every year or two, a highly ambitious RPG comes along that is aimed at hardcore PC and role-playing 
 fans. Games like Arcanum, Boiling Point, Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines, and Gothic 3 offer 
 wholly unique experiences, but at a cost. They can be very fun, but often, their lack of polish 
 exceeds their ambition level. How many games from small developers like Troika and Pirhanna Bytes 
 could have been Game of the Year candidates if they had only been free of bugs or if they had operated 
 smoothly? Having to settle for well-conceived but buggy games is a frustrating tradeoff, and that 
 is why The Witcher is such a refreshing and outstanding game. It has gorgeous environments, an 
 interesting setting, a unique cinematic combat system, a beautiful soundtrack, and a lot of gameplay 
 choices. Best of all though, it is an excellent role-playing experience that arrives without the 
 usual slough of annoying glitches and nuisances that accompany this type of game.
  
  The package isn't perfect by any means. The dialog will have you scratching your head at times, 
 thanks to spotty writing and translations. Voice acting is inconsistent. Loading times are too 
 long and way too frequent. Poor animations during conversations take some of the luster off of 
 the dialog. Too many quests involve item collection or monster killing. The combat is better than 
 what is found in most action RPG's, but it is not as deep as you would hope. Most of these problems, 
 however, are minor and easy to overlook. The one exception is loading times, which can be an enjoyment 
 killer. For the most part though, The Witcher is not one of those games where you have to hold 
 your nose while you play parts of it so that you can enjoy the rest.
  
  Rookie developer CD Projekt appears to have built The Witcher without any modern conventional wisdom 
 about RPG's in mind, and it excels for it. Gone is the conventional fantasy story about saving 
 the world from a great evil, and along with it, simple good-evil dichotomous choices. The game 
 takes the training wheels off and allows you to get slaughtered if you encounter an enemy that 
 you cannot yet defeat. There is no level scaling here. Money is relatively scarce, so you won't 
 end up the game overloaded with money and nothing to buy. Potion toxicity keeps you from spamming 
 healing potions to cheese your way through a tough fight. It can be frustrating at times, but it 
 makes the game more satisfying in the end. Choices have consequences. The Witcher feels, in every 
 way, like a labor of love, and not a product of marketing or focus group testing.
  
  At first glance, the game appears to be just another generic fantasy game with the same Tolkienesque 
 clichs as dozens of other generic RPG's where you slay hordes of orcs and goblins. Once you get 
 into the game though, you will find that The Witcher brings its own story and brand of fantasy 
 into the picture. The game world feels more like Gothic and Fallout than Dungeons and Dragons. 
 The Witcher is based upon a series of Polish fantasy novels, and the fiction seems heavily inspired 
 by 20th Century Eastern European history. The world is full of plague, racial strife, war, and 
 misery. The kingdom of Temeria could easily be Yugoslavia.
  
  The Witcher fiction is heavily ingrained in the game, so much that every nook and cranny of the 
 game world feels like a real world. The characters and the cities all have believable back stories. 
 The journal system is excellent. Every plant, every monster, and every area have some kind of explanation 
 if you want to read it. Every time that you read a book or talk to a new character, it fills in 
 some good background material. When you converse with the major NPC's for the game, you get the 
 feeling that they have been alive for decades, not that they are paper dolls created just for you 
 to get quests from or kill. The environments feel truly alive. Like the Gothic series, the NPC's 
 go about their daily routines, doing whatever it is they do during the day and then sleeping at 
 night. Minor details abound, like packs of small birds that will scatter when you walk near them. 
 Very few RPG's can achieve this level of life. It makes just exploring the world and reading about 
 its history interesting.
  
  Exploring the world is also made easy by the game's impressive graphics. The Witcher is not a graphical 
 masterpiece, but it is still very easy on the eyes. The environments, in particular, are gorgeous. 
 The lighting is superb and it changes with the game's dynamic day and night cycle. The game sports 
 many breathtaking areas. One moment, you will be walking through rows of crops waving in the wind. 
 The next moment, you will be in a forested swamp with brightly colored trees. Textures and character 
 skins are sharp and highly detailed on the best settings, so much that you can see little details 
 like all of Geralt's scars and the veins in characters' biceps. Visually, this game shows no evidence 
 that it was built upon the same engine as 2002's Neverwinter Nights. Combat is truly impressive, 
 as the main character (Geralt) can show off all sorts of dazzling motion captured animations and 
 moves during sword fighting. Geralt twirls his blade, dodges with somersaults, and performs all 
 sorts of spins and finishing moves that are practically straight from The Matrix.
  
  The only major flaw in the game's graphics is that the conversations do not look good, thanks to 
 stiff animations and blank stares on all of the characters. This problem wouldn't amount to much 
 normally, but since all of the dialog occurs up close, it takes some of the luster off of the conversations 
 when the characters just stand there without emoting or looking at each other. Other minor problems, 
 such as beards that clip through clothing, are somewhat common.
  
  The beauty in the presentation isn't just limited to the game's graphics. The Witcher is also endowed 
 with a hauntingly beautiful soundtrack  the best RPG soundtrack in years. Every musical selection 
 is perfect for the situation, like subtle moody tones at night or at dangerous areas, and percussion-filled 
 action music that kicks in during combat. Combat sounds as visceral as it looks, with all sorts 
 of swishes, clangs, and grunts from the combatants. The voice acting for Geralt, the main character, 
 does a satisfying job. He sounds a lot like JC Denton or Max Payne and generally sounds like a 
 gruff hero without looking apathetic or disconnected. The rest of the voice performances are okay, 
 but some spotty writing and translations make some of the minor characters sound bad.
  
  If your system isn't good enough to handle the graphics, or if you just don't care very much about 
 the soundtrack, then you still have a lot to look forward to. The Witcher may look like a Diablo 
 clone in its screenshots, but it is not. It borrows a little from a lot of sources, but the package 
 is totally unique and very well put-together. Combat has more skill and depth involved than a typical 
 action RPG. You left click on enemies to attack them, and then left click again at the right time 
 to string together a combination. You can select from two major weapons (steel and silver) and 
 three different fighting styles (strong, fast, and group) . The combat looks amazing and it is an 
 asset to the game, even though it leaves a lot of potential on the table. You cannot choose when 
 to parry, and choosing what style to use does not take a lot of thought. It is a lot like the combat 
 in Jade Empire in that it is a visual spectacle that is still fun despite being rather shallow.
 
  
  When you aren't slicing up enemies, you are often exploring the countryside or cities talking with 
 folks, accepting quests, resting to brew potions or enhance abilities, or shopping  the staples 
 of PC RPGs. What separates The Witcher is their implementation. The main story quests are interesting, 
 and the cast of characters that play them out are extraordinary. The game emphasizes trade-offs 
 and choices, and it forces you to think about what you are doing before you do it. Inventory space 
 is rather limited, so you cannot carry a lot of junk with you. Some NPC's will get offended and 
 stop talking to you if you pick the wrong dialog choice. Best of all, there are some major choices 
 in the game that drastically affect how those portions of the game play out. It can mean the difference 
 between befriending some major NPC's and killing them.
  
  One flaw in the quests is that many of them are mundane. Most of the non-story quests are of the 
 "collect 10 plants" or "kill five monsters" variety. It is easy to overlook this problem, but one 
 major issue is with the frequent loading screens that you will have to endure to complete many 
 of them. Loading screens are, by far, the game's biggest problem. Outdoor areas are big, but you 
 encounter a loading screen when you enter any building, and usually when you go up and down stairs. 
 The game can bog down when you are backtracking to complete a quest and you have to cross three 
 or four zones, some of which take 30 or 45 seconds to load.
  
  An underappreciated area of success in this game is the interface, which is attractive and highly 
 efficient, allowing you to access your skill points, journal, inventory, or map with just a key 
 stroke. You can set the camera overhead for a more strategic view, or 3rd person for a more action-oriented 
 view. Both cameras work well, but the overhead view ultimately works best. The HUD and menus have 
 been designed so that you can easily figure out what you need to do to accomplish simple tasks. 
 Tooltips abound, in case you cannot. So many RPG's have inexcusably bad interfaces that a game 
 like The Witcher deserves praise for making a good one. Especially since it delivers so well on 
 the core features that make a good role-playing game. It is because of this solid design that The 
 Witcher is a great pick-up-and-play game. All of the your efforts are spent where they should be: 
 making choices, fighting monsters, and allocating resources, not fumbling through menu screens.
 
  
  The interface is a fine example of how The Witcher is a game that gets the important details right. 
 A 50-hour game with good dialog options, a unique setting, and character development is nice, but 
 something that offers those features without a bunch of nuisances is extraordinary. So many niche-targeted 
 games fall victim to sloppy implementation, bad frame rates, or other glitches. The Witcher is 
 the first effort from Polish develop CD Projekt, and it is a resounding success. They have put 
 together a game that is incredibly ambitious, surprisingly polished, and best of all, fun. A few 
 nagging problems keep it from being an outright masterpiece, but it is still easily the finest 
 PC RPG in years. A better engine that reduces loading times and more variety in combat tactics 
 are areas for improvement for a sequel. Hopefully, we will see one of those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I'd just like to say, because I've seen the "poor translation" demerit in the official review, 
 a couple of things about the voice acting and dialogue in the original (polish) version. 
  
  Well, to make a long story short, it's simply great. I think the demerit was given, because 
 there are some expressions in the game, which simply cannot be translated into english and keep 
 the same meaning as the original. In the polish version the voice acting is absolutely amazing. 
 The characters sound really true, without giving you that feeling, that it's only a game. Personally, 
 I think it's a lot more than just a game, but that's a whole different story. Now, one thing that 
 makes this game difficult to translate is that the english language lacks the amount of profanities. 
 In the polish language there is a real load of them, can't be easily replaced by just the F-word 
 and the S-word. Take this character, Talar, for example. Every second word he says is a profanity, 
 that's what makes him distinguishable from the others. And he uses words, that just can't be translated.
 
  
  There is a lot of emotion in the original voice acting. It's really one of the best things about 
 this game, that all the dialogue sounds so real. It was probably written by Sapkowski himself, 
 at least it sounds like it was, because the conversation are really similar to the ones in the 
 Witcher books. One of my first reactions after playing for a while was something like "don't buy 
 your kid this game if you don't want them to learn how to cuss". It's beautiful, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbiggy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing in original (Polish) version and I must admit that it's the best RPG I have 
 ever played. It's way beyond what Oblivion had to offer, though I spend many hours playing Oblivion 
 on my PS3.
  
  The reasons why this game impressed me so much is not the graphics, as I am spoiled with PS3 with 
 large screen and surround, but
  - Realism: You cannot carry 4 armors, 7 swords and 200 potions (as it was in my beloved Oblivion) , 
 you cannot produce potions for sale. The Witcher doesn't have a lot of money and you have to carefully 
 choose what you would like to buy. Killing monsters (Witcher's core business) is not a key revenue 
 driver. You have to fight in bars for money, play dices and sometimes being a dog hunter  
 everything to get this small extra money you can spend on bloody expensive goodies. You also cannot 
 drink 5 potions in the row to improve your hero  most of them are highly toxic and overdosing 
 is harmful for health.
  - Combat: my key reference here would be Ninja Gaiden Sigma. The Witcher is not as complex as NGS, 
 but still he can do beautiful things with the sword. For sure it looks better than Oblivions 4 
 ways to kill with the sword. You will have 6 fighting styles to choose from, each of them good 
 for different purposes and trained separately. Combined with very basic magic skills that Witcher 
 has and very strong potions (that can largely influence the result of the fight) there are much 
 more ways to kill than in any other game. And in addition sometimes you have to do some thinking 
 and preparation before you start a combat  otherwise your hero will get killed.
  - Drinking: this is the first RPG, wher you have reason to get drunk with NPC and combat while 
 being drunk is really funny!
  - Sex: lots of opportunities to seduce NPCs, some of them really interested, no pornography.
 
  - Context: I will get the English version to see how this game has been translated, but I agree 
 that cultural context makes this game much more to translate than any other. On the other hand 
 this very context gives me so much joy every day I have time to play it. There are a lot of references 
 to Sapkowski's novels, so normally before playing a game I suggest you to buy a full 5 book cycle 
 and read it. You will find the game even more enjoyable. Of course it's not a must, you can play 
 the game without it.
  - Quests and their consequences: Just to give an example: I allowed Elves to take arms from illegal 
 arm dealer. As the result one important person from the next chapter was killed with this weapon. 
 If I didn't allow them, they would have been betrayed by the arm dealer and killed (you will find 
 out about it eventually) . This means that once you finish the game you can start playing over again 
 to find out what if I did differently.
  
  Now what I didn't like in this game:
  - 1GB and ATI x1600 with Core Duo is not enough. The game doesn't work smoothly on my hardware, 
 loading times are too long. 2GB in my wife's laptop (she's playing this too) makes life a lot easier.
 
  
  Overall I recommend this game to anyone who likes RPGs  in many areas it is a masterpiece. Even 
 if the English translation is far from perfect (I haven't yet played it) it's still something any 
 RPG player must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is a game that is good enough to keep wanting to play despite frustrating elements 
 to it. At times the game is brilliant, others it has you pulling your hair out. The fact you still 
 want to finish it is a testament as to how good it should be and can be with a little more patching, 
 which I believe will happen. 
  
  The story is a rich one, the setting is believable even though fantasy. No problem here, if you 
 enjoy fantasy you will enjoy The Witcher's story. If you enjoyed Neverwinter Nights series and 
 Baldur's Gate type of RPG's you will enjoy that aspect. There is also an action aspect, hack and 
 slash with a twist. I will not get into the combat system but it is better than the simple click 
 fest games like Diablo. The story and combat are great, I give it a 9.5 to that point.
  
  The glaring problem this game has is the long loading times and quicksave times. I use the term 
 "quick" save lightly. They are simply ridiculous, so bad you find yourself not saving as often 
 as you should. These delays severely interfere with the flow of the game in my opinion, something 
 really needs to be done about this if possible. There is no excuse with a years old modified engine 
 that this should happen.
  
  The next thing is the interface, which can be very confusing from the quest log to the inventory. 
 In the quest log you have many entries in no particular order. You can filter side quests from 
 primary quests, but you still need to search every one to find out which one you are currently 
 on, as the names of the quests are so bland they many times do not give it away. For example, there 
 is a quest where you must take out a gang of drug dealers, it is called "Lock and Key", which really 
 gives you no indication of anything having to do with the quest. It can be frustrating, but not 
 a game breaker. The inventory is not a good one either. You will have about 50 different slots 
 and little icons for your items, most of which are not recognizable and easily confused. WHere 
 most RPG's color code potions for quick ID, in this game they all look the same. It is not that 
 big a deal, but I believe could have been done better. Overall the interface is clunky, confusing, 
 and frustrating in my opinion. After playing a while it is not as bad, but even then is still not 
 ideal.
  
  Some of the quests have you running around way too much, coupled with the load times this can be 
 very boresome. Not to mention there is a frustrating time element that makes you meet this person 
 at midnight, then again at noon, etc.. You can meditate to speed time up but only at an inn or 
 campfire, and any weapons upgrades or potions you just used will be gone when you are done. Potions 
 do not come as easily in this game as most, so losing your effects is not a good thing. 
  
  The camera view is a little cumbersome but you get use to it and it is not too bad. You can go 
 top down or over the shoulder, which is a modified FPS/3rd person view, but is preferable. THe 
 pathing is frustrating at times and is not unlike top down RPG's like those already mentioned. 
 Sometimes you feel like you are in an FPS, then when you can not jump a simple fence you are brought 
 back to reality. This game would have been better served to be an open movement FPS style ala Oblivion 
 in my opinion, but it still does well as is. 
  
  The game is deep, which is good, just a deep game such as this does not go well with long load/save 
 times and a clunky interface. It is good enough to keep you playing despite that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowmanKCMO
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, I get bored of playing the Witcher before it even starts. I have to start this review 
 with immediate mention of the load times because, to-date, it has the longest of any game I've 
 played yet. With a good dual core processor and a gig of memory, this shouldn't be an issue, but 
 in my experience with the Witcher so far, it is -the- issue.
  
  The good stuff: Here's a fresh take on the old, tried-and-true RPG model. The atmosphere of the 
 game is really pretty amazing, the locales seem extremely "alive" and realistic, and very dark 
 and claustrophobic at the same time, a perfect blend for this fantasy. The environment and character 
 models are really snazzy, but the character models in particular are repetitive (you will see the 
 same faces many, many times, which can actually get confusing) , but the detail and top-notch animations 
 make this forgivable. This could have been an extremely immersive game, if not for the Aurora Engine, 
 which at once has never looked better, but at the same time, has never felt so oldschool and clunky.
 
  
  The not-so-good stuff: There's a rather steep learning curve when it comes to fighting in this 
 game, but once you get the hang of it, it's fresh and unique. Unfortunately, the designers decided 
 to have your character fight a really tough opponent right off the bat, which means you'll die 
 about a dozen times before you actually figure out -how- to fight. This was really frustrating 
 for a new player trying to get the swing of things. Learning how to fight should have been a vital 
 part of the tutorial, rather than a do-or-die mission from the get-go. Also, as in so many RPGs, 
 the inventory system is a big old mess. It's baffling to me why to date no RPG has been designed 
 with a really -great- inventory system, since so many of these games rely on having all your stuff 
 organized and on-hand for immediate retrieval.
  
  The really bad stuff: 
  
  Loading....
  
  Loading...
  
  Loading...
  
  One thing about the Aurora Engine that makes 
 it feel stuck way back in the original Neverwinter NIghts days are the damn loading screens. If 
 The Witcher was a game played mostly out in the open, without need of entering new buildings, this 
 would not be so much of an issue, but in this regard The Witcher actually makes you run back-and-forth, 
 back-and-forth, between locales which are all separate load screens, MUCH more than other games 
 of its ilk - and here's where the game utterly falls apart for me - the load times are ridiculous. 
 I feel like I am spending more time in this game Loading.... than I am playing, and it just sucks 
 the immersion right out of the experience.
  
  It's your typical RPG fare ... someone gives you an item to go give to someone else, or tasks you 
 with killing X number of monsters and retrieving their parts and returning to them. The actual 
 mission usually only takes a few minutes, but the loading times stretch this out in a big way. 
 On the plus side, the missions themselves are a little deeper than the usual RPG game, and most 
 play into the overall quest in clever ways. You'll have plenty of time to contemplate this during 
 the endless Loading... screens.
  
  There are a few neat new things going on in this RPG, namely, a solid and very dark storyline, 
 a believable main character (it's actually kind of refreshing to play a character who is already 
 a character, rather than starting with a cookie-cutter choice of classes and races) - and you really 
 get to flesh him out as the game progresses with a wide variety of skills and abilities. The fighting 
 mechanism here is unique, too, avoiding the standard click click click click bashing so often seen 
 in these games and replacing it with click (wait... wait... ok NOW) click (wait... wait... wait... 
 ok NOW) click fighting. A slight step up from the normal fare, but still an obvious click fest.
 
  
  The most unfortunate aspect of the game for me, the load times, has made it so that every time 
 I start the game and wait... wait ... wait for it to load, and then enter the game only to find 
 I'm inside a building, so I exit the building and wait... wait .... wait ........ wait ............ 
 wait (I'm gonna go get myself something to drink) wait......... wait......... wait for it to load 
 ... and then AHHH finally I'm outside ... oh NO I forgot I needed to talk to the person in the 
 building I was just inside ARGH!!! You get the gist ... there's just too much loading going on, 
 and it literally kills this game.
  
  As such, I can only reasonably give it about a 7.5.
  
  EDIT:
  
  Well, it's been many months and I retired the game to a shelf, but the recent 
 release of the updated and vastly improved Witcher made me revisit the game. Good thing, too, because 
 now it actually works. The load times have been almost done away with, the game runs much more 
 smoothly in general. Therefore, I've bumped my original score up to 8 because the game without 
 that horrible loading is quite good. Buy the new and improved version, it's a great RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrshivery
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  AhhhhFINALLY!!! A game that had me enveloped in a thick storyline, interesting characters, and 
 wonderful action. First my specs:
  
  Pentium 4 3.0Gz.
  NVIDIA GeForce 7300 GT
  2 Gigs of RAM
  
  For role playing fans such as myself, this is a game you want. As has been 
 described in many other reviews it is on par with Planescape Torment. The story is full of decisions 
 that have consequences later on in the game. And these decisions aren't black and white, it is 
 more what you think is the less (or more) of two evils. 
  
  As you unearth the different plots and intentions of the characters in the game you can't help 
 but feel attached to your character Geralt. The story will have you completely intrigued with the 
 different paths in storyline you can take, all the way until the very end leaving you with a twist 
 and a few questions to think about. Blood, drink, sex, and politics abound. This game will not 
 disappoint.
  
  The action is fantastic. You pull of some amazing moves with your sword, especially deep within 
 your combinations of attacks. Alchemy is very useful, and needed for some battles. 
  
  Now for the very few downsides. One slight downside are the loading times. I have not seen them 
 as bad as others have, it basically comes down to as 5 seconds for small buildings, 30 seconds 
 for large areas, saving times run 20-30 seconds. Really not to bad at least for my somewhat upgraded 
 4 yr old machine. 
  
  There are some bugs in the game, I had gotten stuck a couple of times while in combat that caused 
 my death, no big deal really, and sometimes I would stop attacking while surrounded. Although a 
 pain, I figured out if you quickly change combat styles from the one your using to another, and 
 back again you'll go back to attacking. Annoying? Yes. Game breaking? No. 
  
  The inventory can get clogged and a bit messy, and although the interface is pretty simple, the 
 camera angle at times can have you pulling your hair out of your skull.
  
  The other downfall is the lack of items to equip. It would be nice to have a few more sets of armor 
 and some significance to some of your secondary weapons. 
  
  These negatives are what dropped it from a 10 to a 9.
  
  My advice is if you can get past these 
 simple (and fixable in a patch) negatives, put this brilliant and enthralling game on your Christmas 
 list!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duks
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  
  I simply can't understand why FPS games that can be finished in ONE day (like Crysis) get all the 
 hype and reviews with the average score over 9 and THIS GAME gets reviews with scores about 8. 
 The Witcher is a superb, story-driven, atmospheric game. You can feel that it was in the development 
 for many years. It is not only about graphics, but the world created, characters, side-quests, 
 ambient sounds, music, many petty details. I had been waiting for this game since the first stages 
 of preproduction (2002) and it was worth it. It's one of the best cRPGs. There have been some complains 
 about long loading times and some stability issues. I think that will be fixed with next patches. 
 This game is nothing like 'click-click-click and forget'. The Witcher was made by gamers that love 
 good games for gamers that love good games. And you can feel it all the time. It's a shame that 
 games like that are a dying species and there will only be place for mindless shooters. But even 
 in his world , the witcher is a dying species... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadofett
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is a a superb RPG. Actually it's probably the best thing to along for the PC in awhile. 
 The storyline and the interaction between characters is really indepth. I like the dialogue tree 
 in the way you cant just reload if you make the wrong decision. The reactions sometimes come way 
 down the line. Makes for a nice real life feel. I absolutely find the combat/combat styles great 
 to play. The finishing moves rock.
  
  Overall I really love it, however there are only two flaws, one major, one minor. 
  
  1. The 
 load times. Oh my lord.... it is so annoying to walk in a house (load) then out of the house (load) 
 ugh ugh. Someone please fix this with the next patch... PLEASE! As much as I love this game, I could 
 not or will not go back a second time with load times this long. Very very annoying.
  
  2. Keyboard commands and controls... there is not enough information contained in the book nor 
 the interface screen about this. This is only a minor nuisance. 
  
  I'd give The Witcher a higher score if the load times got fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djball
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher, for many will probably be a 'love-hate' experience. There is enough quality content 
 to keep you interested, but it's going to test your patience.
  
  By now you have probably read some of the reviews, and know that load times are a disaster. Be 
 prepared for A LOT of long waits. This really pulls you away from the game, and often you'll find 
 yourself thinking twice about changing levels. The quick save feature is also very slow, and has 
 to be used frequently because auto saves are few and distant. On a side note, just have a magazine 
 or something nearby when you play. I keep a guitar in my lap ;-)
  
  The control panel is complicated and confusing. The quest menu has no particular order, so it is 
 very easy to become lost and tangled up. As a result, you will inevitably do a lot of back and 
 forth. Unless you are a seasoned RPG player, it's going to take a long time to figure this one 
 out.
  
  Set aside a few downfalls, The Witcher stands up to be fairly impressive. Graphics, sound, and 
 music, are all done quite well. Voice acting is good, usually excellent, but sometimes hysterically 
 dreadful. 
  
  The Witcher world and storyline are top notch. This is where the game excels, and once you get 
 started, you won't be able to put it down. Throw in a unique and very fun combat system, and you've 
 got an awesome game.... deserving at least a 9 out 10. Unfortunately those long load times are 
 killer, so I give it a generous 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Good stuff:
  
  Different camera angles,
  Great story that's incredibly compelling,
  Good dialog,
  Large environments,
  Great graphics and sound effects,
  Lots of character upgrading 
 (not as much as Silverfall) ,
  Drinking games :D,
  Lots of different monsters to fight,
  Side quests aren't always fetch and carry,
  Most of the voice acting is great or good,
  Music 
 is superb,
  Combat mechanics are cool,
  Some replay value in it,
  Combat animations are really good.
  
  Bad stuff:
  
  Long loading times/saving times,
 
  Invisible walls in some of the environments, they are so last decade,
  Camera problems with isometric view,
  Bit of a resource hog,
  Translation can be a little dodgy 
 at times,
  Some voice acting let's it down at times,
  Some quests are really obscure and leave you wandering around talking to everyone to find out where 
 you're supposed to go,
  The tutorials don't explain everything so you have to read the manual and I hate reading manuals,
 
  Bugs such as missing dialogs, crashes etc etc.
  
  When is saw the screenshots of this game I almost fell off my chair, they were that good. Then 
 I saw some videos for it and it just had to go onto my watch list.
  
  The Witcher isn't a typical action RPG like Diablo it's more complex and story driven.
  
  The 
 graphics on The Witcher are amazing just like i'd expected them to be. The detail of the game world 
 makes it look and feel like a real world and because of this the game is so much more immersive.
 
  
  Sound in the game is really good, lots of nice sword clanking, grunts, screams etc. Certain pieces 
 of the music are really good and the overall immersion but others are quite standard. Most of the 
 voice acting is superb but certain actors used need to find new jobs. Thankfully there's only a 
 small percentage of bad voice acting.
  
  Gameplay is a real winner here, it's just really good. There are loads of main and side quests 
 to keep anyone entertained for hours. Unfortunately some of the quest have you searching all over 
 the place for the objective and even the journal provides you with no useful clue as to where to 
 go. These kinds of quests leave you to wander around the game, taking to everybody to find some 
 clue that you may or may not have missed and as you can imagine it can get very annoying.
  
  What can you say about the combat mechanics but wow, they really add to the gameplay and are 
 really well animated. There's really nothing like watching Geralt swinging his sword one second, 
 then next second kicking someone and then kicking someone with both feet while doing a back flip.
 
  The only downside with the combat mechanics is that it appears that only swords can be used with 
 so called "Witcher Styles" so really all other weapons are pretty much useless because you can't 
 use the combos "Witcher Styles".
  
  The biggest problem you'll find with this game is camera control problems. CD Projekt recommends 
 the over the shoulder view, which is fine in most battles but as soon as you get in group battles 
 it pretty much becomes useless. The isometric view has two settings high and low but the difference 
 between them is marginal but even they have problems. The isometric camera can get stuck in built 
 up areas leaving you unable to move the camera. There are also times were the isometric view when 
 the scenery doesn't fade so you're left unable to see the battle you're fighting. Camera problems 
 in any game are frustrating and unforgivable. I could understand is it was a new camera angle but 
 the Isometric view been around a lot of years now so there really shouldn't be any problems.
  
  Another problem that has been reported is long load and save times. Personally I do think the 
 load/save times are far too long but on my PC they aren't two or three minutes like some people 
 are reporting. I guess my PC is just that good! :D :P The save game loading times are quite long 
 as well but I think that's something to do with the copyright protection because the game accesses 
 the DVD and reads data off it before loading the save game.
  
  Overall I think it's a good game but not the great game it could have been which is a shame because 
 it's got most of the ingredients needed to be an absolutely awesome game. Here's hoping that they 
 patch the problems this game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  After playing the witcher for a while now I feel this is more what Fable should have been like, 
 more grey areas in terms of moral choices.
  
  It's been a while since I've played such an atmospheric RPG like this, it would really suit hardcore 
 RPG players more than casual players as there's alot of content that you will miss if you are in 
 a hurry just to beat the game. There is alot of journal entries and lore to read up on, pretty 
 much everything gets recorded from the people you meet to the monsters you kill to the herbs you 
 pick to the history books you read. There's so many quests to do and the whole section on alchemy 
 and potions is very in depth. You can play through the game without the alchemy as to some people 
 it can be a hassle organizing everything.
  
  The graphics are just superb on my 8800 GT, best looking RPG I can think off, the day and night 
 lighting effects, the ripples of the water and the clouds moving across the sky. The sound effects 
 are fairly good as well, with a very haunting music track. There's been some complaints over the 
 dialogue interpretation from polish to english but I honestly didn't really notice it.
  
  The combat is quite different to other rpg's it isn't dice driven and is the result of clicking 
 in sequences to get combos as well as switching styles. Although I found it a reasonable system 
 I can't say I prefer it over the traditional way rpg's are played.
  
  I found the camera system fine as well, best view is probably the over the should cam, usual turn 
 move with keys and look with the mouse, works well so I don't see why there is some complaints 
 about it. 
  
  Even though there was alot I liked about the witcher there was a few points I didn't like.
  
 
  The most glaring problem is there's a severe lack of character models, and they so are repeated 
 alot. It kills the uniquness of the game when you keep meeting the exact same modeled person in 
 another area but with a slight or no alteration it's like a world filled with clones.
  
  Another point is the sex in the game. I picked up the uncensored version and the whole thing just 
 feels forced. You can sleep with close to 15 odd different women in the game. But the problem is 
 that it's just so random, there is basically no romance in this game. I know it probably resembles 
 the witchers mentality since he's sterile and all and really has no interest in romance. You get 
 to sleep with your first female within 30 mins pretty much. Then other times I found myself getting 
 the option to sleep with a woman for no obivous reason but I gave her some item. The game feels 
 oversexed to the point where it's just random and out of place and put it just for the sake of 
 it. I prefer the romance systems of games like Kotor and nwn, the romance took basically the whole 
 game to work out, and was basically with only one other person. The witcher just throws constant 
 sexual encounters at you that after the first few women just seem repeitive and of no point to 
 the story and even times when the option to have sex is totally bizarre and out of place in the 
 dialogue 
  
  
  
  After sleeping with the women you get a card, though it's a tastefully drawn card it just reminds 
 me of a jock who puts notches in his bed for all the women he's scored with.
  
  Another problem is the inventory it's really small and trying to sort through things can be a pain. 
 It also fills up really quick, there's almost too much stuff to collect in this game. I feel the 
 the herbs you pick should take up way less room and be able to be stacked in alot bigger piles 
 .
  
  There is also some random crashes that still have to be fixed, but as it saves often I've found 
 it's not a big deal.
  
  Overall I think the witcher is a definate buy for any rpger out there, it has a few short comings 
 in the story but overall is one of the better rpg's we've seen lately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spraynprey
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I just do not understand game reviews these days and how some games seem to be deemed poor when 
 I completely disagree and how other games are reviewed so highly and I yet again disagree.
  
  This site rated this game a 8.5, and numerous users rated it much higher, but this same site 
 and numerous other users rated Two Worlds so poorly, when I could not disagree more with both positions.
 
  
  Listen, I have been playing video games since Pong. I have played virtually every higlhly rated 
 RPG game since the first Ultima in the early 80s. 
  
  I have a rule of thumb with all games that are played first or third person that has served me 
 very well. It is really simple. If there is NO JUMP ABILITY, then the game sucks. It sounds really 
 stupid at first, but its remarkable how this rule has been 100 percent true for all games that 
 I have played. In addition to no jumping there is also no swimming, so you're essentially coralled 
 by water and 2 foot tall fences, it really disrupts and destroys the immersion factor.
  
  This game does not even compare to Two Worlds on ANY level. People who have reviewed this game 
 have called it non-linear and wide open, yet, with NO JUMP command, this game literally has the 
 player corralled by 2.5 foot tall fences that are everywhere. Again, my no jump = a crappy game 
 holds true once again. If this was not a nuisance enough, the inability to jump has you unncessarrily 
 running into objects that you should easily be able to jump.
  
  Graphics are medium at best. Again, using a Two Worlds comparision, they are not even close. Controls 
 are next to terrible. The 3 camera options are not any that I have ever used in literally hundreds 
 of past game experiences, which makes for an awkard and clunky feeling. Combat is poor. People 
 who say they enjoy the timing aspect of the combos as they dictate more skill than button mashing 
 have a small point, but, it is still a very borish and clunky system. The fact that you really 
 only fight with a sword the whole game SO limits the appeal of the combat system in general.
  
  Story. So many people have claimed that the story is so enthralling and compelling that it 
 influences you to complete each objective to see the game to its completion. I cannot relate whatsoever; 
 the story seems as general as any other RPG I have played.
  
  Customization. this is where the game really sours for me. This is probably a matter of choice, 
 but, for me, I enjoy DnD / traditional medieval styles such as Archer, Melee, Magical, Dual Wield, 
 1H, 2H, or Hybrid. But, this game really only has 2 options. A sword, or a different sword.... 
 oh wait, i guess that is really 1 option. Weak.
  
  Seriously, I just do not understand how so many people ripped on Two Worlds this year (I truly 
 believe it to be the sleeper RPG of the year) yet these same folks love the Witcher. Pray tell 
 me what is so good about this game? 
  
  I swear to God who ever does Triss' voice acting in this game must be sleeping with the decision 
 makers, because she certainly did not get the job due to talent. The voice acting in general is 
 very rushed and piss poorl
  
  I guess the bottom line is, if you prefer DnD / traditional medieval period rpg games then this 
 may not be a game you will overtly enjoy, much like myself, but if you do not mind the linear game 
 style, average graphics, minimal customizationa and combat options, amongst other glaring flaws, 
 and DO enjoy something new and different as far as storyline and and combat mechanics, then this 
 may be a game worthy of your time. It certainly is not worthy of mine.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoulezz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was easilly one of the best for me in the last few years, even better than Oblivion and 
 Neverwinter nights 2 (and exp) . 
  
  Positive:
  
  1. The story of the game is the best one i've met yet in an RPG game so far. The twists in the 
 story are great, and overall it is just awesome. Romance parts are very well written too.
  The choises that you made actually felt hard to do and they actually affect the world.
  
  2. 
 Quests were actually fun to do, compared to oblivion. They meant something. Not like in oblivion: 
 "Gather me 2 of these herbs and you'll receive 20gold". On this part I was positively surprised.
 
  
  3. Combat is unique and works very well when you get the hang of it. Impressing visuals on the 
 combos are a great bonus.
  
  4. The "romantic" parts and some very well hidden jokes in the game made me laugh many times.
 
  For example in the 5th chapter an NPC whistles the Star wars imperial march theme.
  
  5. And finally the dialogue and voice acting. Voice acting was just as good as in other RPG's that 
 have come out recently.
  Dialogue was very entertaining and 
  
  Negative:
  
  1. Bugs, alot of bugs. Many repaired in patches though. I had some frustrating quest bugsm which 
 took me back more than 2hours in gameplay time.
  
  2. The loading times.. Boring.. 60sec load main for area -  15sec load for a shop -  60sec load 
 for the main area
  
  3. The inventory was a mess. You cannot find what you are looking for because the icons are way 
 too small
  
  All these mistakes could be "easilly" fixed and I think that after the 1.2 patch, the game will 
 be worth a 9.5.
  
  Overall:
  All that the game does wrong, is repaid dozens of times trought the progress of the game. The story 
 is VERY good and rewarding. A must buy for anyone who has the will to read reviews like this, and 
 of course very much recommended to anyone else too. 
  
  Thanks. 
  - Zoulezz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exavior_8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is simply an amazing game with a storyline and twists that make you want to keep playing 
 non-stop! The combat is fairly good and the moves are nicely made. The Graphics are excellent and 
 look great! The voice acting is superb and the script is written very well without cheesy lines. 
 The quests are fun and actually make you want to do them rather than do them just for experience 
 points or gold. The characters have lots of depth to them and the conversations are always interesting. 
 The world in The Witcher is well developed and has lots of history behind it. The choices you make 
 in-game actually affect the total outcome eventually. I really like how well they made the choices 
 so they actually make it hard to decide which one and what to choose is a challenge. I highly suggest 
 you purchase this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enver_majid
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  What a great year for games. When I first heard about The Witcher, I thought it looked promising, 
 yet had a feeling it would fall flat on its face. I'm happy to admit that I was completely wrong. 
 The Witcher is my personal sleeper hit of the year. While probably not a GOTY competitor (not when 
 Bioshock's on the same calendar year!) the Witcher delivers a very good story along with a fairly 
 fresh take on the RPG formula (specifically: leveling up and the combat, not to mention a very 
 impressive decision-and-consequence structure) . I never read the novels that this was based on, 
 nor did I ever hear of Geralt of Rivia. The lack of any character customization in the beginning 
 had me miffed at first, but as the story progressed, it dawned upon me that Geralt is a very engrossing 
 character to begin with.... and the lack of customization actually works very well in the end. My 
 score is based mostly because of the story. The camera and the combat took a little getting used 
 to. The game has some minor issues. Yes, the loading times are a huge negative as everyone else 
 has stated. The dialogue is also a little eyebrow-raising at certain parts. To be fair, some lines 
 are actually quite good but a lot of it didn't make the translation very well. They just feel a 
 little forced, out of place and in the end, incongruous with the setting. Its not a challenging 
 RPG combat-wise... kind of reminded me of Fable.... just a fun way of driving a good story forward. 
 It is however much darker than Fable (which is several calibres below the tone of this game) Some 
 of the polish did seem to run out towards the end of the game, but it still has a satisfactory 
 conclusion, and a neon sign pointing towards what will hopefully be a sequel. CD Project Red has 
 definitely impressed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, it gives an idea of next generation of RPG. Althought the next sentence is off 
 topic. I would like Blizzard to produce another DIABLO series in this way. It will awesome if they 
 really are planning for it. Anyway, this game's weakness is really the loading time, i am using 
 hv Geforce go 6600 with 2.79 Ghz to run this game and it is really loading more than fighting. 
 The story is nice and i like the bits where there is no good or bad in the witcher's world. Music 
 is fantastic. Gameplay is accpetable although it takes time to learn. I will give it a 9.5/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sefirat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is the game for which I've waited for over 3 years. I was visiting the CDP Red Studio 
 a lot of times, making interviews with game-makers or designers... And It was good value for time!
 
  
  Now we can see product with good graphic (not HD, yeah, but very nice for your eyes) , marvelous 
 background music, innovation in fight system or with - what is most important - most earth-shattering 
 plot and ending of all the times!
  
  From your movements depends life of citizens of this virtual world! Stupid "yes" said to elven 
 commando can result in one of yours job-givers death. We couldn't cheat with "Quicksave" and "Quickload", 
 if we didn't want to play the same e. g. 15 hours of gameplay again.
  
  Pure ownage, playing this. 
  
  9,5/10 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbart10384
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Despite the noted cheesy voiceovers (mostly in the beginning) and sometimes uneven translation 
 into English, this is the best RPG I've played in quite some time. It far surpasses NWN2 -- if you 
 like RPGs, this is the precious. It is hard to believe this is the Aurora engine, esp. after seeing 
 NWN2. 
  
  It is also rather nice to have a game that doesn't force you to choose between sainthood or outright 
 evil. After this game, I think developers are going to have to put a little more thought into the 
 good/evil dynamic, and that is a good thing. 
  
  Also, get the UK version -- the uncensored is not that bad, just geared toward adults. It is a sad 
 commentary on the US game rating system when a pair of hooters has to be censored so that the game 
 can be sold in Wal-Mart. 
  
  Cons: As above, plus some outrageously long load times. Hopefully, this will be patched soon... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robsmits
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is an impressive RPG & possibly the best since the mighty Oblivion. It has plenty of 
 cliche's that we've seen time & time again, but it throws in a unique combat system that does'nt 
 really impress until you've levelled up a good few times, then you can slay huge groups of enemies 
 with your impressive 'group' style of fighting. There's also strong style for armoured opponents 
 & fast style for agile ones. It all works really well & is a nice change from your standard RPG 
 combat fare. The games graphics are also impressive with beautiful lighting & shadows. Couple this 
 with an above average musical score & the Witcher's world is impressively brought to life. The 
 game however is let down by constant & lengthy load times & sometimes Geralt spends his time going 
 back & forth to complete quests which causes the game to sag. The load times really are a huge 
 letdown in this day & age. I have 2 gig of system ram & I timed some of the load times at over 
 a minute & these are frequent. Also the games dialogue is a little strange for an RPG. The F word 
 is used on occasion but does not seem to fit in a fantasy RPG at all. In summary I would recommend 
 the Witcher. It has a strong story & an interesting lead character but be prepared for frustrating 
 load screens & some annoying back & forth questing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothkin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. the graphics are excellent for an rpg game of this type. the game play 
 system is a lot of fun and easy to handle. the story is interesting and engrossing. the rpg aspect 
 of the game is done excellently. you are given many many choices to make that really do make a 
 difference, tens of fun quests to do, tons of cool people to do, and a really cool and fun alchemy 
 system where you can make oils for your swords, bombs for combat or tons of different potions. 
 overall, reaaally cool. the only real downside is that there are tons of cut scenes (too many) 
 and a lot of loading screens. i know this doesn't sound like a big downside, but it does get irritating 
 quite a bit and draws you out of the game on a not uncommon basis. but still, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goon90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  You will never find yourself bored with this truly amazing game! The time that has gone into it 
 is beyond belief. The witcher for PC has an amazing amount of detail and a completely non-linear 
 campaign. The artwork is great and decorates the load screens and journal. There are countless 
 pieces of information you can collect and read about monsters, locations ect. Alchemy is also a 
 great part of the game enabling you to craft many potions to use; my favourite at the moment being 
 blizzard, which can slow down time with awesome effects. The combat... the combat is action packed 
 and sooo juicy! The blood, the moves. And its not just click and hold, or mindless clicking, it 
 takes skill. The talent tree isn't great but its is anything you would expect in a RPG, less complicated 
 that other games such as NWN and maybe that is a downside. Conversation is fun, one slip of the 
 tongue and you find yourself with consequences. On the graphical side... wow, had to turn the right 
 down on one computer and they were still great! The fire is the best ive seen and its all just 
 really pretty. Animations are super, especially combat; the way spins and flips join up to attacks 
 and coup de grace. Only dodgy animation is climbing up and down a step, often is tricky. Sound 
 is good, but nothing mind blowing. This game is hard, and I suppose that fits the adult theme well 
 (not a good idea for kids to even watch this game) . Cool mini-games include: Dice poker, bar fights 
 and drink-offs. Dice poker doesn't get boring and you can do some quests with it, same for fighting. 
 Drinking with locals can get them to give you information, or make them sing and pass out :P. But 
 in doing so you get rather drunk. This is the best drunk sim in a game I have seen, double and 
 blurred vision, stumbling around and eventually passing out; which leaves you to wake up somewhere 
 random and lose some coin! Overall this game is the grandaddy of all RPG's in my opinion. It has 
 everything you could want and more. Fable fans will adore it, as it is very similar. Adults will 
 love its darker themes. And 40 year old virgins will love to collect partially nude cards of virtual 
 chicks they scored :P.
  
  A game for lovers of entangling story-lines and non-linear RPG action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, a game will come out that extends the boundaries of its genre through multiple 
 facets. Whether through graphics, sound, or just general gameplay and the Polish developers at 
 CD Projekt Red might have done it with their first release, The Witcher. Releasing onto store shelves 
 on October 30th of 2007, The Witcher strives to become something new in a genre that has been somewhat 
 lacking since the days of Baldur's Gate and Might and Magic. Using a heavily modified engine that 
 once created Neverwinter Nights, CD Projekt Red tried to turn the RPG genre on its head with The 
 Witcher. From the beginning, you'll notice that The Witcher is something different from the intro 
 movie that lasts around eight minutes and is superb in every essence.
  
  First, to begin with, you have to somewhat explain the background and concept of how the witcher 
 came together. This is something that CD Projekt Red just created, but they definitely did a superb 
 job translating it to a game setting. Andrzej Sapkowski, a Polish fantasy writer was actually the 
 man behind the world of The Witcher, publishing multiple books about the setting and about his 
 main character Geralt of Rivia, who is also the main character of the game. Now don't get worried 
 that you might not understand the game because you haven't read any of Andrzej Sapkowski's books 
 because frankly, there really hasn't been much in the way of translations of his novels to English. 
 From the beginning of the prologue of the game, you'll be learning about the world that Andrzej 
 created, much the same as Geralt has to because he's just suffered a form of amnesia where he remembers 
 some things and not others. The story is one of the many things that stands out in The Witcher. 
 Not only is the overall story engrossing and engaging from the beginning till the end, but the 
 choices and decisions that you'll have to make between them actually matter in not only you're 
 overall character as a witcher, but also your friends who may accompany and help you along your 
 journey. Lets get one thing straight, Geralt isn't you everyday overly friendly hero that you might 
 be used. He's a hardened witcher, a slayer of monsters and everything evil. You could classify 
 witchers as somewhat human if you wanted to. Their taken at birth and subjected to three tests 
 transforming them into monster slayers through intense training, meditating, and even mutagens 
 to help intensify their quickness, combat abilities, and also to lessen their emotions. They have 
 a superb combat ability and also have the use of signs, which are simply put, sorcerer spells which 
 may help them along their travels, such as the ability to create shields around their bodies, to 
 ignite their enemies, and so on. Without ruining too much of the story, I will say that strange 
 sorcerer has stolen the secrets to creating witchers and plans to create his own race of superumans 
 to rule supreme and Geralt plans to stop them. That's about as simple as you can explain the story 
 element of this game, but everything in between the prologue and epilogue is simply epic. Throughout 
 the game's five chapters, you'll be subjected to a multitude of decisions to make between helping 
 out someone here, while neglecting another there, or even to helping someone find a cure to their 
 husband who suffers from lycanthropy or just to kill the beast. You won't see the end results of 
 these decisions right away though, they'll pop up on their own as the story progresses whenever 
 you see these characters again. And to boost the game's replayability even more, there are three 
 different endings to find to be seen. 
  
  As any role-playing game of its day, you'll have some quests that state kill X, collect Y amount 
 of this, but that's not just it because you won't just be able to collect everything off of monsters 
 of you slay or collect the different types of herbs you come across. First you have to read about 
 them in different books you'll find being sold by the different vendors, and if you don't want 
 to spend the money, ask one of the locals and they might be able to tell you about a certain herb 
 that can be collected from within crypts or caves. This adds another element to the game because 
 it can halt you from doing some quests early on till you find out more about what needs to be collected 
 and it adds a sense of realism to the mix because of having to find out about a herb before you 
 can actually collect it and have it become useful for creating different potions because you don't 
 just collect herbs because the plants are pretty. The Witcher has an alchemy system that is easily 
 superior to all others to this point with the ability to create a vast array of different potions 
 and additives that can help you along the way. Components of these different potions consist of 
 different herbs, monsters body parts and having the main ingredient of alcohol. This isn't your 
 regular fantasy world where dwarves and elves are happy alongside humans, the world of The Witcher 
 is rife with conflict, racism, and sexism. The kingdom of Temeria is full of angry dwarves, also 
 known as semi-humans and hookers who are always looking for another way to earn money. Throughout 
 your adventures, you'll come across many racist statements against each faction of humans and semi-humans 
 as you decide which side to pick, or if you're familiar with the work of Andrzej sapkowski, which 
 side is the lesser evil. There are a couple different mini-games in the game that can be quite 
 entertaining including boxing in the local taverns, a dice game, and another mini-game of being 
 able to sleep with the largest amount of women you can, because as witchers are somewhat human, 
 through their testing process, they become infertile and are immune to most diseases. Lucky them 
 right? Anyway, you can collect different cards of woman you sleep with and in the UK edition, these 
 cards can be viewed as somewhat pornographic, but it's just the style and the world of The Witcher. 
 They're in no way explicit, and they're hand drawn instead of 3D pixilated woman, but it probably 
 would detract you from letting your kids play it unless you have the US edition which has gone 
 through some censorship on its way to the states. Besides the censorship of the cards, the US edition 
 has also cut down on some of the side quests which involve the use of sex, which doesn't take away 
 from the overall story of the game, but if you want the full experience, you might want to have 
 it shipped overseas. All that aside, while the kingdom of Temeria may seem harsh, racist, sexist, 
 etc, it only adds to the setting and atmosphere that CD Projekt Red has created with their rendition 
 of an adventure in Geralt's life.
  
  The character development tree and overall journal has to be given some credit of its own because 
 the developers did a great job in creating it. Although, unlike other RPGs lately where you're 
 able to create you own character and customize your appearance, in The Witcher, you only have Geralt 
 to deal with, and as some might find this as a hindrance, it helps flesh out the overall story 
 and setting of the game. But one cannot go through the game and not marvel at the journal. Each 
 and every herb you might come across, each new and revolting monster you might fight, or any character 
 you might talk to, an entry goes is made in your journal for you to read that fleshes out the world 
 that Andrzej Sapkowski created. Things that had an entry already will periodically get updates 
 to inform you on different characters throughout the game's course to provide you with updates 
 on their moods, ties, and feelings towards Geralt. This journal can be something that you just 
 overlook the entire game, or it can be something where you gain a world full of knowledge about 
 the entire setting that CD Projekt Red wanted to create. 
  
  Another aspect of the gameplay experience would have to be the combat of The Witcher. While a lot 
 of recent role-playing games have gone the way of some form of turn-based combat, games like Neverwinter 
 Nights, Knights of the Old Republic, or even the late and great Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale 
 games, The Witcher is done in full real-time where you have to pay attention if you're looking 
 to succeed in defeating your foes. As a witcher, you have two different swords, one steel and one 
 silver. Steel for humans, and silver for beasts and monsters you'll come upon in your travels. 
 Each of these weapons has three fighting styles including strong, fast, and group style which are 
 pretty much self explanatory. And it does matter which style you're fighting in and which sword 
 you're using when going against different opponents across Temeria. Each of these styles has five 
 stages that you can run through each time you attack an enemy, but you'll have to pay attention 
 when doing so because you'll have to click the mouse button each time a stage ends to begin the 
 next stage and if you don't, it leaves you open for an oncoming attack from your opponent, and 
 you must start your sequence all over again. This form of combat is fresh in a role-playing game 
 experience and can engage you further into the game instead of just repetitively clicking again 
 and again until everything is dead. Besides these fighting styles and two swords, you're also able 
 to carry an alternate medium size weapon and dagger, which can be used against different foes and 
 contribute to 'finishing moves' when dealing with enemies. Although these weapons can't be used 
 with the different fighting styles of the witcher, you can still intersperse them in your own unique 
 fighting style.
  
  Onto the sound of the game which parallels the story in overall greatness. All of the lines within 
 The Witcher are voiced, whether it's yourself Geralt of Rivia or some cocky townsman who tells 
 you, "You mother sucks a dwarf c#*k." The setting of The Witcher has a gritty gray tone to it and 
 the dialogue follows suit. And when in conversations with different locals or mentionable NPCs, 
 you'll be given a different close up view of the just between the two individuals talking which 
 makes the conversations more personal, along the same lines as Knights of the Old Republic. The 
 dialogue spoken is well versed and each person does a great job of voicing their conversations. 
 The sound effects in the game sound great as well with each monster sounding different and the 
 sound of combat and raging mobs having their own voice and sound true to what you'd expect from 
 them. Through a good portion of the beginning of the game, you'll have quite a lot of in-game cinematics 
 to watch that progress the story and game along. As you journey through the game's five chapters 
 and epilogue thereafter, you'll run through more of these sequences which only engage the player 
 even more building the story and decisions that they make with each new sequence. And you can't 
 forget the overall soundtrack of the game which has been done perfectly throughout the different 
 areas and sequences of the game. The game's official soundtrack is something that can be easily 
 listened to over and over again while reading, writing, or any other leisure activity that you're 
 up to. The official soundtrack to The Witcher definitely contributes to the atmosphere and epic 
 feeling of the game with each track and sequence it creates.
  
  Being based off an older graphics engine might have most people believing that The Witcher might 
 look a little dated in 2007, but CD Projekt Red has definitely done some heavy modding to the Aurora 
 Engine, once used for Neverwinter Nights, to make it look superior to even some games of today. 
 Character models, environments, lighting, and animations all look superb in this updated engine 
 and truly add to the atmospheric setting that the developers wanted to create. And through building 
 up the abilities of Geralt, gaining experience and leveling up, the combat animations of the famed 
 witcher will change and you'll find yourself accidentally breaking the sequences because you catch 
 yourself staring at the cool maneuvers that Geralt does to take down his foes. And not only that, 
 when you stun an opponent, you have the ability to do a finishing move which depends on a multitude 
 of things including which weapon you might have equipped at the time or what alternate weapon you 
 might have including a dagger or axe. There are a host of different 'coup de grace' moves including 
 one where Geralt leaps onto his opponent and drives his sword through his enemies throat, or one 
 where he pulls out his dagger and leaps onto his enemies' body on the ground stabbing him repeatedly 
 while blood jerks from the body. These little subtleties really add to the overall approach to 
 violence that the world creates around you. And while traveling through the kingdom of Temeria, 
 you're able to look through three different viewpoints. One is the traditional isometric view from 
 rather far out to remind you of other RPGs such as Baldur's Gate or Fallout while it also has a 
 closer up isometric view which you may spend most of your time in while traveling through the city 
 streets and murky swamps. The third view is the over the shoulder viewpoint where you have a viewpoint 
 over Geralt's right shoulder where you can be apart of the action first hand. Each viewpoint gives 
 a different playing experience and you're able to switch between the viewpoints on the fly with 
 your F1, F2, and F3 buttons.
  
  Although this may be one of the better role-playing games to be released in the recent past, The 
 Witcher still has some flaws that come with it. One of the largest problems it has is the load 
 times, or better yet, the time it takes to save when it auto-saves after a quest has been updated 
 and you enter a new area. This can lead to a few longer moments of frustration when you're doing 
 multiple quests in the city of Vizima which entail going in and out of multiple houses and warehouses 
 throughout town, with updates being given to quests everytime you enter a building, thus causing 
 the game to autosave when you exit the building. Reading across multiple forums, I've found this 
 annoyance to deter some people from completing certain quests because of not wanting to deal with 
 the load times, but I implore you to not be dissuaded by this somewhat lengthy annoyance. You're 
 going to be missing out on a lot of great gameplay and soon enough, you'll get used to the this 
 loading and saving, but don't worry, CD Projekt Red has already stated that they're looking into 
 the matter and are working on a way to shorten these loading and saving times, so you know a fix 
 is on the way. One other little flaw that you're subjected to throughout the game is it seems that 
 some of the dialogue is missing. Now, if you're only somewhat paying attention to the storyline, 
 which this reviewer things would be a crime, you might not be affected by it, but if you're delving 
 into the setting wanting to learn and know everything you can, it seems as if some of the dialogue 
 and info was lost in the translation from Polish to English. While this doesn't take away too much, 
 it does seem to leave little gaps in the storyline along the way from prologue to epilogue. One 
 thing that might take away from some of the atmosphere of the game would be the amount of similar 
 NPCs that you see throughout the game. While the character models look really well done, there 
 are a lot of doubles throughout the cities that you'll come across while traveling the kingdom 
 of Temeria. Townswomen and men and different merchants will be doubled around the world to create 
 more population throughout the locales.
  
  Overall, The Witcher is something special. It has great gameplay, graphics, sound, and an overall 
 epic story that matches those of superb RPGs past like Fallout or Baldur's Gate. Yes, it does have 
 some flaws, but flaws that can and probably will be fixed soon enough by a determined developer 
 who wants to make their name well known in the role-playing game genre. Those of you looking for 
 an engrossing role-playing game that will not only give you hours of entertainment on your first 
 playthrough, but the availability of replayability because of decisions throughout the game's engaging 
 storyline playing the character that 'you' want to play. Making the choices you want to make, to 
 take a quest, or not to take a quest. To play the darker tone hero who wants money for each that 
 he does or be the hero that offers to help when needed free of charge, it's your choice. It's all 
 your choice, but remember, the choices you make will bring consequences later on.
  
  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9
  Story/Plot 10
  Replay Value 10
  Stability 8
  Overall 
 Score 9.28
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this year of 2007 hasn't seen many good RPGs. We've had Two Worlds EsIV expansion, Blue Dragon 
 and some other crap games. But at the end of the year, a true gift is given to PC gamers, The Witcher.
 
  
  Pros: Great Medieval atmosphere, Amazing story with excellent cut scenes, Great gameplay that always 
 has you fighting differently, Alchemy and Magic system is the best yet, the story goes into sync 
 perfectly with the game making you want more and more.
  
  Cons: You have to constantly make potions for combat, Character figures can get very common, If 
 you dont have potions you will die against a hard boss, Linear gameplay can sometimes make you 
 wish it was a little more open worlded, Loading and saving times are tedious, Frame rates can drop 
 ALOT in fighting with an average PC.
  
  
  Dont let the Cons fool you, most of them are very little problems. Now for other thoughts, This 
 game is so bad a$$ the fighting animations are incredible. For instance, this one time I beat a 
 boss, I had the choice of killing him or letting him go. Of course I killed him, but Geralt (the 
 main character) swung down cutoff his lower legs from his knees, turned him around and beheaded 
 him. I was so Impressed, It was the coolest thing I've ever seen, and there's alot of those moments 
 in the game.
  
  This game's biggest problem is the loading/saving, sometimes you feel like half the time of playing 
 the game is from waiting, yet this game will compete greatly with Mass Effect for GOTY, excellent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webrider
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  I have played most of the RPGs for 20 years this is the most fun I have had in a RPG game ever. 
 It has interface flaws, loading flaws, etc. 
  
  As far as story, gameplay and fun I give it a 11 out of 10. It has I bet 2 hours of movie in game 
 that makes the story very easy to get into, which is why I liked the game so much. Of course it 
 has to be good story, so I guess it is kind of like rating a movie and a game. IF you don't like 
 the story you won't like the game. To me the story makes the game, other wise it is like chasing 
 bag guy X who is going to destroy the world. Who wants to save a village or kingdom when you can 
 save the world. 
  
  
  I played it on a big screen 1920 x 1080 with a geforce 7800 gtx so It was a bit of a stretch for 
 the video card but it did fine, overall. Of course I played with everything maxed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I was going to write a detailed review of The Witcher a few days ago, overwhelmed by how immersive 
 and just plain *fun* this game was. For the first time in ages, here was a game I was thinking 
 of on my way to work... at work... on my way home from work... that I wanted to play instead of going 
 to work.
  
  If I had reviewed it then, when I was still working my way through the prologue and first chapter, 
 I would have given The Witcher a 9, or even a 9.5... but as I progressed into chapter two, the things 
 I considered minor annoyances grew to become major pains in the butt. Some of it can be patched 
 (and in fact is announced in the upcoming 1.2 patch) , and some of it will likely be patched in 
 future... but it's enough that right now, me enjoyment of this great game has fround to a very, 
 very sudden halt.
  
  It's not the game itself; the story so far is really compelling, and although some of the dialogue 
 is a little... weird (you've no doubt read about the F-bombs in the game) , most of it is spot-on, 
 and well acted. Geralt especially has, for the most part, just the right mix of "Yeah, I'm a badass" 
 and "Yeah, I'm THE badass" in his voice. It's not the story, it's not the truly beautiful music 
 or the really FUN combat or the well-conceived alchemy component of the game. 
  
  Nope, my gripes are (in this order) ; Interface and Camera. Someone should have told the developers, 
 CDProject, that it's ok to keep *some* elements of other RPGs, especially when they work. The game's 
 hotbar runs along the left side of the screen, top to bottom. It works, it's not too complicated... it's 
 just not in the right place for me, and it means I have to look away from what's going on onscreen 
 to make sure I have, in fact, selected the right weapon and the right combat stance. Although the 
 manual says there are 3 potion slots for hotkey access, I have only found one... and having to pause 
 the game, open the inventory, right click a potion and then close all that and resume the game 
 is a pain. And the inventory, oh the inventory.....
  
  It's too small. Things don't stay where you put them. It doesn't autosort. And friends, for a game 
 that has such a vast selection of items- food, drink, alchemy components and other odds and ends- 
 that's a big, big, HUGE problem. Dragging an item from storage (you can leave things you don't 
 want to carry around with you with the local Inkeeper, who acts as a sort of bank) and dropping 
 it into the bottom part of my inventory, which I had decided was my "food" section, only to see 
 it move up into the top of the inventory- just because that's where the first free slot was -becomes 
 a pain. The same goes for the Innkeeper; you can drop something in the bottom part of the storage 
 area, but everything just snaps upwards into the first available slot, making the whole inventory/storage 
 system a big, disorganized mess. It's looking like this will be patched in the next patch, but 
 right now, the endless hunt-and-peck really hurts the game.
  
  The camera? For the most part, it works; it's not customizable, so you have to settle for 3 different 
 3rd person views; close-up "over the shoulder", which looks great but doesn't really work well 
 at all in combat... or 2 variations of "from above and behind", each a little further up and behind. 
 Again, they work.... but not fluidly or cleanly enough for me to be happy. If you happen to be attacked 
 form behind, you have to move the camera by putting the mouse cursor to the edge of the screen 
 in order to turn; the W-A-S-D keys are used to move Geralt Forward/Back/and *strafe*, not turn. 
 I tried finding a way to reassign this in the Control options, but came away with nothing.
  
  The end result is that I find myself spending, literally, just as much time in the inventory 
 screen and futzing with the camera as I do fighting, questing, and moving. Once both issues are 
 patched- and I am sure they will be -I'm positive that I'll be spending weeks and weeks playing 
 this game. It's well-written, beautiful to look at, deep, and I love the characters and music. 
 It's F-U-N.... except that it's hard to actually *get* to that fun when I have to keep nudging the 
 screen left and right so I can take a swipe at the stupid Drowner who came up behind me.
  
  EDIT: I just came across another problem which I had not experienced yet, but which I read about 
 on The Witcher's offical boards. During a fight in the city of Vizima (hey, I was attacked by a 
 Ghoul!!!!) I received the "help" of a half-dozen NPCs... without asking for it. Unfortunately, I 
 hit one of them during the fight. Well, he.. his buddies... and every guard and even the Knights 
 of the Order in the city then proceeded to hunt me down and kill me. I don't know if that's a bug 
 but I'm hoping it is, because if not it's just really awful game design. I'd been running around 
 just reading notice boards and advertisements.. so there's an hour of gameplay wasted. Sadly, it 
 just sours my opinion of the game even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tskviper2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  First the bad: The game has serious bugs. So don't get this as your only game for 2007 as you might 
 not even get it to run. Also the loading times are horrible if you don't have 2 or more GB of RAM 
 (I upgraded from 1 to 3 mid game and what a difference it made) . The fighting is a bit confusing 
 at first but after a while you figure it out and its quite fun as it's slightly interactive with 
 timing mouse clicks to chain attacks. 
  
  (The Good :) In short this is a fairly average game but what makes it special is the story. It 
 starts out slow but mid game you are entangled in a web that ends with a climax, only to continue 
 and build up for the finale again. It all ends with a twist hinting at many things that have lead 
 to discussions on the official forum without leaving the player with a cliff hanger (no need for 
 a sequel but I want more anyway) .
  
  In fact my entire score is due to the story as the rest is average at best and still it gets a 
 solid 8.0.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  O. k, this'll be short and sweet, me thinks...
  
  Graphics - I have them set to low (I don't have a powerhouse machine) , and they're STILL awesome.
 
  
  Sound - Atmospheric, orchestal music, and competent voice work. A+
  
  Gameplay - I LOVE the balance of alchemy/magic/sword play. It all works very well together. And 
 the different swords for different enemy types (accesible on the fly) and the three different fighting 
 styles - which mange to feel very different and very useful - are brilliant. I play with the over 
 the shoulder perspective, and it makes it feel like an aciton games a lot the time, but I can go 
 to Isometric should I feel like it, and it changes the whole feel of the game. It works really 
 well. And GREAT finishing moves. 
  
  Story - Very good. I like the characters, play your cards right and you get laid a lot (with very 
 attractively rendered women) . Plus, the fact that it's adult (violence and sex and booze, oh my!) 
 is really great. The violence is not overdone, the swearing isn't used in every sentence, so it 
 doesn't feel out of place or overused, and the sex is portrayed quite nicely (not demeaning to 
 women in any way) . Very dark, very intriguing. They manage to the make the"hero has amnesia" stuff 
 feel fresh (er than usual) .
  
  Flaws - LOAD TIMES. Holy cow, man, how long does loading an outside or city environment take! I 
 know I don't have the best computer in the world, but I don't have any frame rate issues or anything, 
 and loading times are frequent, and if they were half as long, I'd still be getting irritated. 
 Totally ruins the flow of the game. If not for the load times, I'd be giving this a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgonggr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  Bad points :
  - The load times are pretty excessive, but that only gets annoying if you have to hop into and 
 out off a lot of houses. The game just drops everything outside from memory when you go inside. 
 I just read a study book during the 5-40 second loads. On the plus side, when the huge outside 
 is loaded you can roam around it for hours without loading.
  - The inventory system is rather unwieldy, but that can be managed by just selling or using anything 
 you don't need. You have one infinite sized 'bank vault' in inns where you can store anything you 
 want. You can retrieve anything stored in an inn in any other inn. There are several handy things, 
 like color markers at the ingredients to compensate a bit for the lack of a decent inventory manager.
 
  - Sometimes the storyline takes rather haphazard jumps and you go WTF ?, but in general it's very 
 good.
  - Very occasionally there is some sloppy Polish-English translation. This is very rare.
  - There 
 are a limited number of NPC templates, which can get confusing at times (is this the merchant dude 
 or the traveler dude ?) .
  - If you speak with an NPC character again he will usually (unless it's quest related) have forgotten 
 your previous replies so you can insult them and come back later.
  - You can't jump over anything.
  - You can't store weapons at your 'bank vault'. This isn't so 
 bad really as you will almost always use the sword anyway.
  
  Plus points :
  - Gerald is cool beyond belief (in a brilliant B-actor kinda way like Ash from Evil Dead) . You 
 really start to identify with him. The put a lot of work into him and it really pays off in the 
 little things, like the way his cat's eye pupils reflect the light from a fire at night.
  - The dialogues are very well done and all speech. In general the characters are very believable 
 and original.
  - I love the fight system, it's very dynamic and exciting and so cool looking, but you can still 
 micromanage (by pausing the game) if things get really hairy. The magic-melee combination works 
 very well. Select a power and just right-click during combat to use it. Select a fighting style 
 and just left-click on an enemy to use it. For example, use a telekinetic power to knock down half 
 you enemies when you are surrounded and then wade it into the other half using the group-fighting 
 style while the rest is getting back up. It feels very natural. They made the excellent decision 
 to make a fight system with gives a lot of options, but is incredibly easy to use. I rarely pause 
 during battles and you feel very immersed in the combat. They put a lot of work into Geralt's animations 
 when he is fighting and it looks great.
  - I actually managed to get killed playing the tutorial (on hard) ! A game that is so brutal that 
 it actually kills you in its tutorial. I love it !
  - The world looks amazing. It's a reworked version of the old Aurora engine of NN, but the attention 
 to detail is excellent. It's 50 times better looking than NN easily. The little details are brilliant, 
 like flocks of birds that fly away when you approach, the weather, that sorta thing. The background 
 characters act very naturally, sleeping, eating, working and sheltering from rain. It is all incredibly 
 immersive.
  - The sound is brilliant. When you're being pursued by hell hounds and you can hear the howling 
 coming closer the sweat really starts to break out. Again, a lot of attention to detail here, with 
 very good sounds effects for basically anything and good background music.
  - It's such a cool RPG experience. The choices are very realistic and have consequences. Not the 
 general good vs evil choices, but often evil vs evil choices. Often you are left in indecision 
 on what course to take (Are the elves terrorists or freedom fighters ? Should I interfere with 
 this mob of racists harassing a dwarf ?) . I personally really start to play as a Witcher should 
 (I'll help you, for a price) . The great thing is, it comes very naturally due to the excellent 
 world background and story.
  - The potion system seems a bit wierd at first, but after a while it comes very handy and interesting. 
 Basically, you can 'power up' with potions you find/buy/make yourself, but use too much and you 
 might overdose.
  - The magic system works very well. You basically have up to five combat-related magic powers which 
 (like all the three fighting styles) can be upgraded as the game progresses.
  - Due to the games background (Polish) a lot of monsters are very original instead of the standard 
 trolls and orcs. Even standard classes like mages can look anything like a tribal shaman from Siberia 
 to a a shrouded mad max bad guy. Have I mentioned that they look great ?
  - The journal system works excellently, and especially the quest system works extremely well. The 
 ability to 'track quests' on the map is very useful.
  - I haven't had a single crash yet (but a friend of mine has had several) .
  - The game keeps 
 managing to surprise you. Just when I thought I was home free a bunch of wizard assassins sets 
 me on fire before an evil-looking armored pitbull rips my flaming body to shreds.
  
  Final verdict :
  Finally ! A worthy successor to Baldur's Gate and Fallout ! Now if they could 
 just get the load times down with a patch which caches the outside world in memory it would be 
 flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whocares9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  CDPROJEKT presents The Witcher to gamers. This game is fantastic and lived up to all the hype. 
 The eerie crafted world instills emotions and creates a dark atmosphere not seen since the very 
 first Legacy of Kain. The character is an oddball but very memorable. The story is fantastic and 
 the choices you make effect the gameplay, they are still not perfect but it is the best I have 
 seen thus far. The fighting system works well and gets really addictive. The leveling system is 
 really deep and the quests are fun to do. Also worthy of notice is the music that is extremely 
 well composed and fits the game perfectly. So of course onto the only negatives of the game and 
 one being that the character models in the game often repeat. The loading times are pathetically 
 long and there are some technical issues that need to be patched such as the game crashing after 
 a few minutes or hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norwegicus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I love the way you are forced to make choices through out the game.
  Its no good or evil, you will just have to follow your own idea of what is right or wrong.
  And 
 some choices might be hard to make, and though you made them in the best intentions you might find 
 that the consequences are far from what you wanted
  
  The fighting is fast and furious and you have to pay attention to what you are doing, there's no 
 waiting for turns to hit each other here.
  Potions is a must, might seem a little confusing on how to make them at first, but it wont take 
 long to figure it out, its quite simple really.
  
  I think the voice acting is quite good and the cutscenes are fantastic, and so is the music.
 
  
  What i didn't like about the game is that i got really sick of running around in the same places 
 all the time, and the lack of freedom of movement.
  Being locked inside the same town for too long gets a little boring.
  And be sure to patch up 
 or else you will be crashing a whole lot, sucks when that happens while you are saving your game.
 
  
  This game is worth playing.
  Didn't blow me away, well some parts of it almost did, but it could have used something more. Seems 
 a little short, and something is missing.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  In The Witcher, the player controls Geralt, the genetically-altered, monster-hunting central character 
 of the Andrzej Sapkowski novels on which the game is based. Initially, Geralt has lost his memory 
 due to some, obviously, unremembered event. His fellow witchers take him in during the game's opening 
 scenes, but their fortress is soon attacked by a rather unfriendly sorcerer and his band of thugs. 
 The witchers' lab is ransacked, and the invaders make off with some important loot. This leads 
 to the monster hunters splitting up in hopes of finding out who has it in for them, and the plot 
 development and surprising twists that ensue from this point are nothing short of enthralling.
 
  
  Graphically, The Witcher is unsurpassed, at least in terms of its genre. Grass, trees, water, dilapidated 
 wooden structures, massive stone castles ---- they range from excellent to photo-real. Creatures 
 and characters are also well-modeled and sport textures that do them justice. The main characters 
 in particular are presented very well. NPCs chatter amongst themselves, work during the day and 
 sleep at night, ala Oblivion. My only complaint in this regard is that some of the models for townspeople 
 and such are recycled a bit too often, which slightly diminishes the otherwise highly dynamic world.
 
  
  The audio is mind-blowing in every regard, from the environmental ambiance to battle sounds to 
 the dark soundtrack underlying everything. Though some of the original Polish has been translated 
 strangely, the voice-acting is very good overall. Geralt's gruff voice fits his role exceptionally 
 well.
  
  Of particular note is the adult nature of the game. The Witcher is decidedly not a PG-13 fantasy 
 experience. Language runs the gamut in terms of profanity, and the decisions presented in dialogue 
 are not the typical black/white/don't-care formula that most RPGs rely on. Rather, the player often 
 has to choose between degrees of evil, which is ultimately subjective and often not even THAT clear-cut. 
 And your decisions matter. This is not a game that offers a load of meaningless choices and ultimately 
 hinges on a single XYZ selection before the final showdown. Here, there are consequences for how 
 you act.
  
  Amusingly, Geralt also has the option of having sex with almost every major female character he 
 encounters, not to mention the abundance of prostitutes. After each intimate foray, the player 
 is awarded with a card displaying the love interest, clothing optional, in a provocative pose. 
 The cards are censored in the cowardly American version of the game, but the European releases 
 have no fear of nudity. This carnal feature is completely gratuitous, but given how witchers are 
 sterile due to the genetic mutations they have undergone, maybe it isn't so far-fetched.
  
  Also, there are side-games the player can engage in to earn money. Most notable are dice poker 
 and fist-fighting. These add yet another dimension to a game that is already brimming with activity.
 
  
  Now don't get me wrong. I love Neverwinter Nights 2, but the employment of the Aurora Engine in 
 The Witcher is something Obsidian Entertainment should take note of. The game is marvelous to behold, 
 and the gameplay tweaks in terms of camera, controls and combat are stellar. From the opening cinematic 
 onward, the lifelike world is one of the most immersive RPG experiences released in years, perhaps 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShafTatsu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  I believe its a revolutionary game with a beautiful story that lets you become one with the character. 
 The secret of a good rpg action game is to focus on the storyline as well as the players feelings 
 as it moves on. The games that you remember are always games that made you feel special through 
 a certain character. In this game not only you feel the characters ups and downs but you make choices 
 for him that you could enjoy or regret. The graphics and gameplay are great although it lack's 
 variety on NPC's, which it wouldn't be a problem if Oblivion never existed. I think many companies 
 will follow the same combination in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackLabel677
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The main draw to the game is how immersive it is. It has been a long time since another game made 
 you feel like you were a part of the game. Everybody has an interpretation of what you are and 
 who you are, and you can change that by doing deeds for them or against them. I have not played 
 long enough to find out about the long-term effects of your actions, but I'm sure they play a role.
 
  
  In the long run, it doesn't really matter, but the small things really increase the immersion. 
 For instance, when its raining, people take shelter under buildings and start discussing the rain. 
 The people in taverns discuss, among each other, what is important to them, not just catch-all 
 conversation topics  not everybody has a name. The number 
 of useless citizens really make the place seem larger than it is, and even though they are useless, 
 they play a part. Children play in the abandoned houses, Peasants are working, guards are guarding 
 (or taking a break and complaining) , and travelers are traveling. Another small, but important 
 addition is idling and body language. Jumpy and excited people tend to bounce a bit, standard conversationalists 
 use very casual body motions, drunk people stumble, etc. Finally, everything is documented. Every 
 potion, quest, character, location, monster, ingredient, EVERYTHING. And not just written down, 
 but described in excruciating detail. These and dozens of other features add to the absolutely 
 stunning level of immersion
  
  Next, the story. I don't know how it ends, or how it progresses really at all, but so far its UNIQUE, 
 which is clutch. Not to mention that it is presented very well. The story dialogue is presented 
 with ALMOST flawless story telling. By almost i mean a few syntax errors and messed up translation 
 can ruin what would be very good voice acting for a game. Storyline characters also seem very real, 
 meaning that you really get a sense of who the person is.
  
  The leveling system is fairly new. While the skill tree isn't completely new, the bronze, silver, 
 gold idea is unique. Your character isn't utterly specialized, but I don't look for that. A nice 
 balance, while keeping your favorite skills a bit above the rest works fine for me.
  
  The battling system is pretty much Gothic meets every action-RPG known to man. It is a lot of clicking, 
 but it is also a lot of timing, which pretty much covers it. However, in a game like this, the 
 battle system isn't really all that important. Or thats the way I see it. Fallout 2, even though 
 it is my favorite game of all time, I would have preferred the battle system in Fallout Tactics, 
 but with a storyline as gripping as that, it really made NO difference.
  
  The magic and alchemy system adds some changes that create a new type of gameplay. You CANNOT live 
 off of magic alone, well maybe you can, but it would be next to impossible. It is more of a precursor 
 attack to make them fall down, be stunned, or get damaged. The alchemy is outstanding, but the 
 learning curve is moderately steep. I ended up just running around with a lot of ingredients. Even 
 though each potion tells you what you need, you don't exactly know what you WILL need or what potions 
 are useful (except for the Swallow, which is essential to have at least one on you at all times) .
 
  
  Graphics are perfect for this type of game. Shadows cast by buildings! Imagine how beautiful Oblivion 
 would be if there were shadows in the game. Hi-res textures are almost obsolete if the lighting 
 isn't good.
  
  All in all, what really should be the hook of this game is the story and intense level of immersion 
 (have I said immersion enough yet?) ... pick up this game and you will be hooked, unless you buy 
 this thinking that its supposed to be like Diablo, because IT ISN'T!
  
  Oh!, and use the OTS cam, there are enough isometric RPGs out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giantsfan22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Now, first of all I have to say I have not finished the game. But if the rest is anything like 
 the beginning, this is a GOTY candidate.
  
  Graphics: Maybe I'm spoiled but the graphics are pretty much what you expect nowadays. GREAT! Lighting 
 is good and really sets a mood. If your looking for a bright game, this is not it.
  
  Gameplay: OK, you've all read about the timing based combat. Believe me, when I watched preview 
 vids, the combat looked kinda boring. Smae thing over and over. Notthing could be farther from 
 the truth. When you actually control Geralt, you really feel like you are fighting, not just watching. 
 The flury of sword play and all the crazy moves you learn are just fun to watch. Then we have the 
 pacing. Do you like more roleplaying than fighting? This game will satisfy you. Do you like killing 
 alot of things with really fun combat? This game has that too. This is much more than an rpg'ers 
 dream, it is a PC gamers dream.
  
  Story: Amazing so far. Although here is where the game gets its first black mark. The story is 
 amazing but you meet so many people that sometimes you get the various quest stories confused and 
 forget how the quest actually got started. In the end, each quest is really well done and the gamer 
 does a good job of tying it all up. Along with story are decisions that really do make a difference. 
 Its got to be incredible hard to program a game with as many decisions as this one has and I'm 
 only in the 2nd chapter.
  
  Sound: After playing Two Worlds, I though euope could not to american voices right..... WRONG!!! 
 The voice acting is amazing. Geralt reminds me of Solid Snake set in a fantasy world. 
  
  Overall: That leads me to the conclusion. Yes their are elves, dwarves etc. All the stuff you see 
 in WOW. THIS IS NOT WOW. The differen t races are just that, different. There is racism, discrimination, 
 and blurry morality (sometimes a little to blurry IMO) but all around really well done. The only 
 downside to the decision making is sometimes you are not really given enough info to really make 
 a decision. I mean its like a game of he said she said and you really have no way and realizing 
 who is right until the end, by which time you've already made the decision. The game definitly 
 lived up to its slogan of no black and white, just gray. In the end, this game seams like it will 
 only get better. How can it not? Great graphics, sound (did I mention the soundtrack is great) , 
 combat, gameplay, and overall depth make this the best RPG I have played since Diablo 2 (although 
 D2 had a weaker story) . If you like RPG's at all, buy the game. Well worth the wait. P. S. I will 
 doa full review upon beating the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKxRaideR666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first few hours of game play, lets say about the first 8 hours, but now I 
 am missing the Diablo like equipment enhancement options, i mean it really gets frustrating to 
 have the same weapons for almost the whole time. You can get better ones when you collect three 
 meteor parts for example, but thats it for the time I am playing it so far, which is about 16 hours, 
 also it is getting really tough in some areas and you have to stick to hit and run tactics to finish 
 off some of the monsters. Some are even so heavy that they can almost one hit you to death. Another 
 thing that is not so well done is the inventory. Every Item takes one space in your inventory, 
 and limits itself to a large variety of ingredients for flasks and potions which you really need 
 in some game situations, but weapon slots are only on your character which gives you one slot for 
 a witch blade one for a silver blade which you can use more effectively on certain enemies. Also 
 available is one slot for a torch or knife and one for a weapon which doesnt allow the usage of 
 one of the different fighting styles you can toggle.
  
  I will continue to play it a little more, maybe also grind a litte more for experience to gain 
 some more level before i proceed to the next areas, but since I am a fan of collecting stuff and 
 enhance my weapons or get happy when i find one which only has 2 damage points more than the predecessor, 
 I am a little disappointed and would have been happier if there would be less herbs and more weapon 
 and armor upgrades.
  
  The graphics are very nice and the day to night changes are well done, voice acting is nice and 
 the music and sounds fit perfectly in the game. The quests arent the same over and over again 
 so you dont get bored. Some are even depending on the right daytime and require you to be on a 
 place at midnight i. e. and another nice idea even if done a little bit to censored is the opportunity 
 to collect cards of the women you had a "relationship" with =)
  
  DarK RaideR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alan_Roller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Witchers are monster hunters, yet disliked by most humans and non-humans. As a Witcher, you won't 
 have many friends but the few you find will most likely be female and interested in an intimate 
 encounter, so things aren't all bad.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Witcher is the first-rate graphics. The intro movie is nicely 
 done and an example of what's to come in the rest of the game. A strong machine will be needed 
 to run the graphic settings on high; luckily, with the mid-settings, things still look pretty darn 
 good and the game action should run at a smooth frame rate on an average machine with a good video 
 card.
  
  There are many little details in the areas, characters and critters that help bring the world to 
 life. Most of the settings are dark and gloomy, but also feel alive. After playing for fifty plus 
 hours I was still dazzled by how good everything looked, especially during the cut-scenes and dialog 
 when the lighting was just right. 
  
  Fifty hours is just a guess, but as with most RPG's, there is plenty of game play and the game 
 will play differently depending on some of the choices that are made during the adventure. Some 
 games claim: "Make your choice and determine the outcome", but how many really live up to that? 
 Well, this game seems to have figured out a way to really make choices mean something later in 
 the game.
  
  Combat  If you have been playing mostly shooters or fast action games lately, you may find the 
 combat a little odd. The reason is because combat is not about fast clicking; instead - it's about 
 timing. 
  
  After Geralt regains a few fighting skills, he can chain together various attacks in spectacular 
 fashion. The trick is to get familiar with Geralt's moves and be ready to click when a sequence 
 finishes, which tells him to execute the next sequence of moves if there are any.
  
  This brings us to character development. If a player stays busy, new levels will be gained quickly. 
 The point system is easy to understand  you get points for everything you do. There will most 
 likely be a few times you will gain two levels before you have the chance to use the new points.
 
  
  When it comes to leveling-up it's not always obvious what you're getting for your money. You see: 
 plus ten percent or plus five, but never really see how it all adds up  you just know that you're 
 getting better and feels good.
  
  The Witcher's Silver and Steel swords will be your main weapons, silver for monsters and steel 
 for humans. There are many other weapons, but they are less powerful and don't work with the special 
 fighting moves, so you probably won't use anything but the Withcher swords in most combat.
  
  Potions and Magic will also determine the outcome of hostile encounters. On normal difficulty, 
 most opponents can be taken down with a sword one-on-one, but when dealing with crowds, you'll 
 need all the help you can get.
  
  The alchemy system is immense and complex, yet easy to use once you get the hang of it. There are 
 tons of ingredients to combine into various potions. It's not something you do on the fly; it takes 
 a campfire and some time to mix up a good brew. Most potions are long lasting and toxic; meaning 
 there are drawbacks to using them and will limit how many are used at a time. 
  
  If you get serious about mixing potions, your inventory will be dominated by the various ingredients 
 you're packing around or you could leave them with the innkeeper and mix most of your potions at 
 the inn. Either way, there are a couple of potions like Cat and Swallow that will be essential 
 to your adventuring arsenal.
  
  The Witcher magic is a nice system and easy to use. Less like magic and more like Jedi powers, 
 the five different signs allow for a variety of tactics. You can knockdown or stun opponents, set 
 them ablaze, make a quick trap, cause fear in people and more. Attacking a stunned opponent causes 
 some really cool finishing blows  Coupes de Grace.
  
  The finishing blows are just the capper to all the cool moves that Garalt has. He can also leap 
 over opponents; dodge by rolling to the side or backward and many others depending on the situation. 
 An understanding of all the available moves makes things easier when surrounded by hostiles or 
 facing overpowering foes.
  
  
  Enough about mechanics  How does it play?
  
  Like all good role playing games  Its fun. The whole game is story driven. There are lots of different 
 characters, most, not only have their own problems, but are usually somehow involved in the main 
 quest as well. As mentioned before, you'll have several places where the decisions you make will 
 determine what happens later and how you are treated by other people as you progress through the 
 story.
  
  The game world is not all that big, but the depth and detail of the environment makes up for any 
 lack in map size. You'll never feel confined while you're running around talking to people or out 
 in the swamp fighting monsters.
  
  Perhaps the only complaint I have is that the load times between areas can seem long and can break 
 the mood; but that's insignificant considering the overall quality of the game.
  
  I found most of the dialog to be entertaining and the voice acting well done. This is a category 
 that is easily picked at by critics, but I think Witcher does a good job of delivering the information 
 needed; being serious when it has to and inserting plenty of jokes and smart-ass remarks when it 
 has the chance  making the dialog fun and entertaining  informative without being stuffy.
  
  One feature I particularly liked was the way it keeps score of all the babes you bag along 
 the way. The game is loaded with info about what is happening. Along with everything else, the 
 character bios are constantly being updated to keep you informed as to where you stand with all 
 the players.
  
  If you like chasing the ladies as much as fighting monsters, then be sure and carry some flowers 
 or other gifts with you at all times. You'd be surprised at how many backwoods wenches are easily 
 wooed by a smooth line and a bouquet of wild flowers.
  
  Sexual encounters are just something else to do, like with the side games  poker and fist fighting. 
 You won't get rich brawling with the locals, but it's still fun. Poker on the other hand can be 
 not only fun but also financially rewarding. The computer is easy to beat and often makes mistakes 
 during play, which means poker is a good way to make some extra coin while taking a break from 
 adventuring.
  
  Because there is so much to do, it's easy to stay on the run night and day. However, the areas 
 you'll send most of your time in has day and night cycles and characters act accordingly. If you 
 really want to live the part, you'll need to slow down and pace yourself. Use the diversions: meditating, 
 fighting, gambling, drinking, talking to hookers or whatever, to fill in some time and follow the 
 routine of the locals.
  
  Some fighting skills only work at night and most people are available during the day, so it makes 
 sense to do your talking during the day and monster hunting at night.
  
  Monster hunting can be frightening, fun and profitable. It's more fun than fighting people and 
 some monsters are special enough that you can loop off a piece to take with you as a trophy and 
 there's always someone willing to pay big bucks for trophy monster parts.
  
  All-in-all the game is just plain fun. Play at your own pace, help craft the story and hunt monsters 
 - what's not to like? If you enjoy a good role playing game or action games with a good story then 
 don't miss this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardanapal88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  It 's been a long time since a good story-driven RPG emerged to my rig. From the first cinematic 
 sequence to the first moral decisions and from the well animated combos to actually having .... 
 sex this title, while not discovering the new world, offers something refreshing in RPG experience.
 
  Using a spectacular version of the Aurora engine (by the mother Bioware) the studio managed to 
 create a living medieval world purged with corruption anywhere you look. It's been a while since 
 we witnessed a complex character like Geralt and that adds a lot to the story multiple curves.
 
  The mechanics of the game works really good with some minor complains about the combat orders 
 that take a lot to complete and to some missing journal entries about secondary quests (like the 
 royal huntsman in the outskirts) . On the other hand the journal is the most fantastic index of everything 
 you meet in the game-truly impressive work.
  The sound while isn't something you remember for years, emphasizes a mood fealing and works well 
 and the environment effects places you right in the spot (at last i felt like i was in real sewers)
 
  The graphics while not achieving the levels of Oblivion or Gothic 3 are very pleasant and are 
 very kind to weaker PC. Bear in mind that the graphics engine is 3 or 4 years old.
  I really enjoyed playing (and i am continuing) and probably i ll start again with different levelling 
 options and different decisions. Try it........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norseking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  After playing The Witcher for a while, it really evolves into a great RPG. At first the quirky 
 lip-syncing and the not that great dialog puts one off. You soon forget all that when you start 
 to figure out the awesome combat system. The old RPG click and strike method is replaced by a motion 
 captured flurry of sword play. This game is not so much about magic as it is about alchemy. You 
 pick ingredients and mix potions, oils and bombs. You later posses the means to use of 5 signs 
 which are almost like Jedi force powers combined with magic. The game is free-roaming but not like 
 Oblivion. You sometimes get the idea that you are playing stages but it is hidden pretty well. 
 On the downside the game seems a bit buggy but nothing too serious.
  
  Before you can effectively mix potions or extract ingredients you need knowledge. You can buy and 
 find a wide range of books that updates you journal with lore on monsters and herbs, characters 
 and locations. You come across many people on your travels the big problem with that is that CD 
 Project Red recycled models. Most inn keepers for example look the same as some thugs roaming the 
 streets. I don't blame the developers since it requires a lot of work creating hundreds of unique 
 models. In my opinion they could at least have made key NPC's look unique to some extent. Still 
 the game offers so much that you can't help but ignore its flaws. Those of you afraid of reading: 
 every line of dialog is dubbed. 
  
  The Witcher uses an upgraded version of Bioware's Aurora engine. This engine was mainly used in 
 the Neverwinter Nights games. Don't let this get you down, or for some, excite you. The Witcher 
 resembles NWN on no level. CD Project Red makes great use of the technology to bring us dated but 
 very "pretty" graphics. It is not to be compared with games such as Hellgate London graphically. 
 The Witcher is built on a solid design instead of focusing only on graphics and hype like the previously 
 mentioned game did. Don't get me wrong there is nothing wrong with the graphics. I play on a Core 
 2 Duo and 2 gigs of RAM with an Asus Geforce 8800 GTS. The graphics settings are maxed out with 
 no drop in frames. 
  
  The loading and saving times are too long. Fighting a boss on the highest difficulty level can 
 become a pain if quick loading feels like it takes forever. I might be exaggerating but when you 
 are constantly dying you quickly want to load and try again, it's not instantaneous enough for 
 the frustrating mood a player is in when fighting a strong enemy. 
  
  The combat system allows you to carry a maximum of 4 weapons. You have 2 primary swords; one silver 
 sword for monsters and one steel sword for human opponents. Both swords give you three styles: 
 
  
  1. A strong style for slower but stronger enemies.
  2. A fast style for more agile opponents, i. e. archers.
  3. A group style for fighting outnumbered 
 against many foes.
  
  Then you can carry a two handed axe; a slow but damaging weapon and a dagger or small axe to dislodge 
 shields from foes. On order to carry a torch this slot is sacrificed.
  
  I have discussed very little of this vast game but time is limited so I hope you have a decent 
 overview of The Witcher. This game is truly underrated but it is justified since there are a few 
 technical issues. None the less it is completely worth purchasing. A serious game for older players 
 with a solid story line and dark setting along with the odd swear word and nudity. I'M HAVING FUN. 
 I am officially a fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nashiem
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing Witcher for 6 to 8 hours now, and I must say I am a little surprised, and a little 
 upset. First off the game play is fun, after you get to the point in the game where you can venture 
 out and search for monsters to kill. But what is up with the same appearence for all the characters. 
 And why can I not change what button controlls the camera movement. I mean at this stage in life 
 where we have mice with like 6 buttons to customize every part of the controlls, not being able 
 to make the camera move with my button 4 on the mouse really burns my (you know what) . In short 
 great game, but needs some work, and change the faces of the npcs already. With how enhanced games 
 are becoming publishers should already know when it comes to computer games every little bit matters. 
 Change is good, I dont like talking to fat boy in one town and then go down the block and see the 
 same fat boy with a diffrent name and then to the next town to see another fat boy again with a 
 diffrent name, but wait his shirt is blue this time, lame. Yea I wrote a run-on sentence there 
 and thats exactly how I feel when I play a game where all the characters look alike. I rate the 
 gameplay a 9.0- the controlls a 7.0 ( no reason why every part of a game should not be able to be 
 costomized at this level of computer gaming) and for a grand total I give the game an 8.0 even, 
 if the npcs were all diffrent it would be 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadyDame
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  In my quest to find a new game to play I came across The Witcher which seemed interesting to me. 
 
  
  The combat system rocks and the ability to change it based on the experience or preferences is 
 a major plus in my books. I am a sucker for story lines and this one has a good one, makes me want 
 to read the book as much as play the game. The way that ones choices effect the games out come 
 is amazing and dare I say innovative. Reminds me of reading those "Which way" books when I was 
 a kid where it asked you a question and based on your answer you got a different ending. This game 
 encompasses that and more. The use of alchemy gives this game a unique feel and where you may think 
 it's useless to mix all these potions in the beginning in the end you'll be popping potions like 
 candy. The graphics of this game are lovely and I like how each character even the ones on the 
 street have at least a little interaction with the main character.
  
  The bad part, as others have stated. This man is capable of amazing feats of agility and strength 
 but you can loose a battle over something as simple as not being able to step over a rug. The amount 
 of invisible walls in this game is astonishing! The quest line sometimes deviates in directions 
 that are unclear and I have found myself throwing away items I viewed as pointless only to find 
 out later they where needed for some quest. The combat exiting mode could be improved as you stand 
 there for a few seconds waiting to exit combat so you can pick up your loot. 
  
  In town the NPCs prove to be more of a pain then a help. If you accidentally hit them you either 
 have to run or kill them. This can be especially a pain when in part of the storyline you have 
 to cooperate with a main character in the story and end up hitting him with a knock back accidentally 
 and all of a sudden he is no long fighting the enemy but is plowing you instead. This has the potential 
 to provide hours of frustration.
  
  However, this game is a lot of fun and worth a try for sure. I do recommend you buy this game and 
 try it out at the very least. Just keep in mind the little quirks and do your best to work around 
 them and I guarantee this game will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cralle435
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  When i started this game for the first time after installing it, I though: "Probably another game 
 that'll entertain me for a few days before it gets boring".
  Oh how wrong I was! This game is simply outstanding, I've never tried anything like it.
  
  
 The story is incredibly well made, whenever you're about to think it'll just stay dull something 
 unexpected happens and you're chained in front of your monitor for another hour at least.
  
  The characters are nicely made, even the NPCs you see copied hundreds of time through the game 
 are well made, a pretty unusual thing I've noticed. Their movements are not in any way stiff or 
 unnatural, whether they're walking down the street sulking about something or getting slashed by 
 you for calling you a "**** eater!".
  
  The main characters personality reflects your own, you make the choices, you decide how you react 
 to different situations, this will even alter the story for you so you have to complete it at least 
 2 times if you want to see everything. Also the game got an all new combat system (I think it's 
 new, never saw it in a game before) it takes a few minutes to learn what it's all about unless 
 you read tutorials, but once you get the feel of it, it proves efficient and easy to use for those 
 unavoidable encounters.
  
  The vocabulary in this game is not limited to "Darn it!" unless you got the censored version I 
 think (Wouldn't know) . You can see Dwarfs walking the streets saying "**** it!" (I have to censor, 
 but you get the idea) . This is a really great feature, I mean what kind of bandit would say "Die, 
 meanie!" rather than "Die, **** eater!"? Also if you're against female nudity in any way you probably 
 wanna get the censored version.
  
  The world is beautiful, it got the feel of life about it, whether run around between farms or in 
 a muddy swamp you'll always encounter things that gives the world that realistic feeling of not 
 being alone in it. Though this also has its flaws.. The load times when you enter or leave a building 
 is annoying, I personally double-check to see if I got everything I need before I go through a 
 door or change to another zone.
  
  
  I highly recommend getting this game, I havn't played a single player game that got me hooked like 
 this one since Final Fantasy IX.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koldune
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Excellent story: Great hook, intriguing middle, interesting right through to the end. True to the 
 novels' characters.
  
  Emersive world: The place really feels like a dirty, old medieval city. The NPCs have lives (read: 
 schedules) ; people carry on like you would expect real people to. The environments are amazingly 
 spooky (and beautiful) . The game definitely succeeds in conveying a believable gothic horror atmosphere.
 
  
  Interesting mechanics: All of the potions you can make are actually useful and strategic in different 
 ways -- the clunky method of storing ingredients shouldn't bother most. The fighting mechanic is 
 actually highly in-depth once you get used to it (contrary to what other reviewers say) . Character 
 development is detailed and fun. All the little mini-games, including the ones "in bad taste" serve 
 to keep you playing through the slow points and back to the narrative action.
  
  Biggest pro: There are so many paths that you can take in this game (story-wise) !
  
  Cons:
 
  
  Occasionally poor translation: Very rarely, you don't understand what a character meant by what 
 he said (Thaler's conversation with Geralt at the Nankoort Inn) .
  
  Somewhat buggy quest-lines: A daunting number of quest paths/resolutions entail the occasional 
 conflict that developers didn't account for. Doesn't drastically affect anything though.
  
  Dumb loading mechanic: The game doesn't save the main world mod in its memory when you go into 
 buildings, so you have to reload it all over again when you leave the building. Makes loading times 
 between the frequent building hops in the Trade Quarter something like 30sec-1min on medium-grade 
 machines.
  
  Overall:
  
  Save for the occasional technical glitch, The Witcher is a highly immersive roleplaying experience. 
 Must have addition to any serious RPG fan's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zademon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is very well put, a fresh game with not so fresh story but it is still a 
 game that will make you think about it all day long. it will make you want the time to pass faster 
 so you can go home and play it. i think it is a great game with great potential. in some placeses 
 you start to feel related with some of characthers. the big problem it has is the systems requierments 
 and the fact that is not well optimized. it something like G3 but on higher systems it goes smooth. 
 i am a fan of RPG, not a crititc but in my opinion is one of the greatest RPg's of this years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerStelios
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I am not a so easy player 
  and i am always carefully select what to play :D
  
  Witcher gains my interest from the start 
  with its immerce storyline, conflicts, dramas 
  
 and bloody action :D
  
  And ofcource never forget that with every action
  comes a result and this fact alters your 
  personality and your future :D
  
  So i dont tell 
 many words, i simply hope for 
  a sequel BUT based upon your actions 
  for example if you choose the Order 
  in the next game you will be an officer 
  of the order, 
 or a protector of the elves 
  or the Lone White wolf that take no sides :D
  
  Joker out :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doug1975
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is kind of fun when you get to play it, but every 5 minutes there is another cut scene. 
 At one point, there was a long cut scene, followed by a long load time, then another long cut scene. 
 There follows a short gameplay part where you fight some dogs, AND THEN ANOTHER CUT SCENE!! GIMMIE 
 A BREAK!! LET ME PLAY THE FRIGGIN' GAME!! I cannot believe that Gamespot gave this game a good 
 review after they complained about Jericho for the same thing (which I agree also by the way) . 
 I was really exited to play Witcher too. What a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in The Witcher are outstandinggggggggg. Really great graphics engine with very detailed 
 and beautifull textures, great artwork, characters are all perfectly done, the ambience feels great 
 and fits the game as a glove, even the board for the minigame (dice poker) has impressive detail. 
 If the board has that much detail and its just a board imagine the detail in the rest of the game. 
 Some textures are truly incredible like the armors and clothes.
  9.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The combat system its innovative giving you the option to choose from diferent fighting styles, 
 many abilities and fast paced combat, the gameplay as no problems to it but sometimes it has some 
 bad things, like opening a door from the wrong side, or activate something in the wall behind where 
 you are standing, but nothing that can arm the gaming experience.
  9.
  
  Sound:
  
  Perfect voice acting makes interesting characters even more interesting, the voice acting its not 
 at all overacted, its just perfect. While the voice acting its perfect we can't say the same from 
 soundtracks, they are pretty and fit the theme of the game but can get repetitive.
  9.
  
  Value:
  
  YES! another game that will make you spend lots of time in front of your PC screen. 
 You can make many options throughout the game, talk with a lot of people and interact with them, 
 the interaction between different sexes its particularly interesting. With different endings and 
 lots of options to make in the game, so many side quests and other stuff (like 3 dificulty levels) , 
 the game will take many time of your life with its huge single player campaign that becomes even 
 bigger cause of replay value, options and interactions. The Storyline its one of the best I ever 
 seen, very engaging, it makes a great book thats for sure, so imagine a long game with many alternatives 
 and options and a high replay value with one of the greatest storylines ever... you won't stop 
 playing it until your fingers bleed or your head just falls over in the keyboard really needing 
 sleep. A cool addition to the game its the dice poker minigame, its a pretty nice minigame.
  10.
  
  Overall:
  
  The Witcher its a great game and surely the best RPG this year to come 
 for the PC and one of the best games of the year, everyone should at least take a look at this 
 game, the witcher can apply to everyone and specialy to the ones who like the genre or the ambience 
 of the game. The witcher its a very unique game, one of the best games I have ever played and for 
 sure one of the best storylines ever. CD Projekt first game its a must own worth playing masterpiece, 
 Lets just hope the others are like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenMatrix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS THE BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED SINCE 1978!!!!!!!!!
  
  How in the world could you give this game anything below 9.5??
  Are we Oblivion lovers or what? 
 Because this intelligent, involving, excellently written, marvelously executed, wonderfully designed, 
 fantastically illustrated game is THE BEST RPG EVER MADE, hands down!!!!
  
  The storyline will grab you and not let go!
  
  I spent two entire days in the intro missions 
 and starter city. The twists and turns, the gray morals. There's no good or bad absolutes but a 
 matisse of complex human and creature circumstance.
  
  This is the intelligent RPG one that will have me coming back to replay in a different mindset 
 every time.
  
  It runs GREAT on my aging Nvidia 7800 machine, all i had to do was tweak down a bit of the eye 
 candy. But as soon as I upgrade, I'm replaying this baby FULL STEAM... because it JUST GORGEOUS 
 AS WELL!
  
  20 points all the way across the board!
  
  Now I must read the book! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeriousSean
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Ever since my first RPG (Morrowind) I've played quite a few of them. Honestly I couldn't stand 
 the Diablo games (found them boring and pointless) and I tended towards games that gave me a huge, 
 enthralling world to explore and/or choices. I loved Fallout 1 & 2 and the KOTOR games, I thought 
 Oblivion was great fun even if it wasn't as awesome as Morrowind. Recently I've been somewhat disappointed 
 though. Gothic 3 was a GREAT GODDAMNED MESS, that could have been a masterpiece, and Two Worlds 
 began to feel pointless after I could backhand every monster with my plate-mailed fist and send 
 them spiraling into the churning depths of hell immediately.
  
  I had been watching the Witcher for a while, not very closely mind you, but I was interested. I 
 read some (thankfully) vague reviews that came down to "Buy it sucka!" so I did. (Although, a lot 
 of people have been bitching on the forums about the American version being butchered which is 
 a shame. If I knew beforehand I would have gotten it from gogamer through amazon. com. I've used 
 them before, but didn't want to wait for a game to come in the mail.) So I brought it home, popped 
 it in, started it up, and was amazed.
  For starters, this game is built on Bioware's aurora engine. The same engine that ran NWN in 2002. 
 To be honest NWN's graphics didn't age well. They'd make the majority of PC gamers cry and run 
 away. But this game looks awesome. The character models look great, especially the major characters. 
 CD Projekt didn't go ape**** on the special effects, everything is subtle and perfected. I'm not 
 gonna compare the graphics in this game to Crysis' but they still look rocking awesome.
  The audio is great too. The music is nice and sets a tone for every action. Whether your running 
 through a swamp, along a beach, smacking down drowners, or getting ready to rumble with a boss 
 character that you *really* want to see die. Every monster has its own nice death shriek (as do 
 the humans) . The voice acting is pretty good for the most part, but some is pretty cheesy and a 
 bit of it isn't very good at all; that kind of stuff tends to be on par with most RPGs of this 
 kind, though.
  The game-play is awesome, but, be warned, you will be doing a hell of a lot of running around; 
 Now, that may be a good thing, or it may be a bad thing, depending on a person's taste. I found 
 the combat to be fun and cinematic. You whip out a blade (steel for your fellow mankind, and silver 
 for other beasties) , select a combat style (strong, fast, or group) , and click to initiate the 
 combo. Subsequent, timed clicks of the mouse pile up the combos into continuously more damaging 
 ones. If you click too soon or too late (or just run out of combos) you must start on the first 
 combo once again. The combat can be rather tactical at times; you have to figure out which style 
 and which magical spell (called signs) works best when. I didn't really start using the signs until 
 they became more useful a bit later in the game (end of act 2) . The leveling up and alchemy systems 
 work well. You must meditate at a friends house, inn, or at a fire before to can access these features. 
 Alchemy consists of collecting ingredients from identified plants and monsters and mixing them 
 with a base to create drinkable potions, oils for your weapons, and bombs. You can experiment to 
 create your own potions or collect ready made formulas. The only times I've experimented I accidentally 
 created potions I already have. For leveling up there are bronze points, silver points (lvl 15+) , 
 and gold points (lvl 30+) . There are a lot of choices, most of them good, others not so good (or 
 at least they didn't sound that way to me) . Rest assured, the majority of the silver skills, and 
 all of the gold skills seem to be worth it. Being an RPG everyone needs your help. So you get plenty 
 of quests. Some are the ever so rare "gather for me these items three" but I found most of them 
 to be pretty interesting.
  The story rocks. Sure it starts out with you having amnesia like almost every RPG, but other than 
 that and the "I regret to inform you that rumors of my death have been exaggerated greatly" (and 
 the dwarves, and elves, and gnomes) most of the content seems to be pretty damn original (I haven't 
 read the novels) . The story is complex and convoluted, and there's no need to go into it, but rest 
 assured its good, and the game throws some pretty harsh choices at you sometimes. I found myself 
 avoiding some choices for as long as possible, and on one occasion I got pissed at myself for stumbling 
 right back into a quest I had been avoiding, only to be relieved (in a good way) once the shenanigans 
 were over. The game is no Fallout, you can solve some problems without violence, but more often 
 than not you are going to have to plunge your blame into some poor schmucks stomach. The game also 
 has some pretty good gallows humor in it (of which I'm always a fan) and it examines the human 
 condition, love, and philosophy. So, despite all the horror going on around you, the run down and 
 broken state of the world, there are some heart warming moments to be had, if, of course, you initiate 
 them. There are characters you'll come to like (not quite Half-Life like though) and some you'll 
 just *love* to stick your blade in. Some of the big bad guys die in really satisfying ways. One 
 fellow died so horrifically I (yes I'm a sicko) laughed my ass off.
  There are some problems of course. The load times could be annoying, but they definitely were *not* 
 crippling (to me) . Sometimes I wished I had more control in combat. Sometimes I wished the blood 
 sprayed a bit more satisfyingly. I often find myself wishing I bought the European version from 
 gogamer. I can understand covering up a woman's pubic reason, but the game was already mature for 
 chrissakes! Bare chested women aren't likely to warrant an Adult label by ESRB, but I could be 
 wrong. And from what I hear a lot of the dialog got butchered for us. (Sometimes I wish our government 
 wasn't filled with puritanical bible thumping freaks!!!!) It kinda bothered me that women were 
 treated like crap a lot of the time, but I'm sure that was the point. It's not that the female 
 characters are bad, because they are great, but a lot of the games characters were sexist, and 
 racist, and hateful over religious beliefs. That stuff kind of bothered me, but like I said it 
 was supposed to. Cross that last bit of bi -- whining out and add it to the immersion section.
  
  Congrats to anyone who read this crap even after seeing the reviews title. Have a cookie, but 
 only once you've bought this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toesnose
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely love The Witcher!
  Graphics-9.5
  Environments-9.5
  Playability-9.0
  LoadingScreens-2.5
  LOL this game is awsome other then the 20 to 60 second load times, not too 
 bad except for when you are exploring a new area and are going in and out of huts/homes alot. But 
 with that out of the way I can dish out the praises.
  
  The graphics and environments are increadible, the textures are to die for. Peoples faces are better 
 then alot of similar style games but still not perfected, but as for everything else UBER COOL 
 GRAPHICS! 
  It's pretty obvious that there was alot of time and care put into the settings, they are beautiful 
 and laid out las if they were taken from real places. 
  Some of the dialog isn't that smooth flowing, but the story lines are interesting and for the most 
 part do flow well.
  
  The character development is well laid out and does give you a good amount of options as how to 
 distribute XP gained attributes. There are some variations in weapons, but you wind up using the 
 two main swords Steel and Silver most of the time, and there aren't too may variations of them 
 to be found = (
  
  The Herbalism/Alchemy is ok, but once you start gathering a good amount of ingredients there's 
 some storage issues, and the way the innkeepers hold things like a bank are great other then actually 
 moving things back and forth from them. 
  
  All in all an increadible game the only Cons IMHO are the horrible load screens and that since 
 the graphics are so high end there is occasional lag issues (even with a built up gaming PC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I have been following this game for quite a long time. It looked so great in the previews and dev 
 interviews. And it turns out it was under hyped! Yes I said that right under hyped! While games 
 like hellgate get hyped to all hell, it turns out that game is a total disappointment while the 
 witcher is a true masterpiece! The Witcher, brings a hand crafted story based of a fantasy author. 
 The game is not an adoption of his books to game, but rather an original story based off the character 
 Geralt the White Wolf. He is half human (actually a little more human, but I won't get into that) 
 and has been through the intense witcher training which consists of physical and mental and chemical 
 (drugs) challenges, along with these test that are fatal or cause insanity to most that try. To 
 be a witcher, requires a lot of things, Geralt's hair is white because of the witcher tests, but 
 I'll not get into that because it will ruin the surprise and story. On top of the epic story this 
 game uses a real system of consequences and true dialog structures! Your choices actually do affect 
 what happens throughout the game, so the replay factor is huge. The decisions you have to make 
 aren't the typical good evil thing, they are shades of grey! Choose the lesser of two evils kind 
 of thing. And its filled with twists and intrigue! Moments of shock through out where you are totaly 
 surprised at what happens. This is the best game story since Planescape torment! And its right 
 up there with that legendary game! That alone should be enough for any diehard RPG fan to go out 
 and buy the game!
  
  The witchers graphics are fantastic. People complain that it is using biowares aurora engine from 
 2002 that powered nwn1. But its not the same enigne! Its a 2007 version, its been tweaked and tuned 
 to perfection over the years and it shows. All the cool next gen shader effects, lighting and atmospheric 
 post processing is there, its a beautiful game to behold. And the textures remain sharp and high 
 res, why because this game is pc only not on the consoles, they are alowed to push the texture 
 resolution. that is one of my complaints of a lot of mulitplatform games, they usaualy downgrade 
 the textures for consoles and try to cover them up with shader effects, you can see this in a lot 
 of games ( oblivion, bioshock for 2 examples.) The pc has the resources to make games beautiful 
 and it truely shows in this game. 
  
  Sound is great in this game too! All sound effects are crisp and don't seem out of place. Voice 
 acting is excellent! Being made from a polish developer it is surprising how good the VO is, compared 
 to games like gothic which are also european which have horrible translation. The witcher doesn't 
 disappoint! Throw in the mature languge and vulgarities is a nice touch that we don't see in many 
 games becuase most game publishers these days want to release games for teens thinking they will 
 make more money, but the fact is more money will be made in mature games, its been proven time 
 and again! The music is epic in nature as well, they don't repeat the same old thing over and over, 
 it all just fits and fits well!
  
  The combat in the witcher is new and innovative, instead of being passive and just watching what 
 happens ala nwn1, wow, final fantasy etc.. You get to pull off combos and magic and you can move 
 and dodge around the environment during battle. its all in real time, but you can pause to take 
 a potion change spells etc.. While not full reflexed based like the elder scrolls, its a mix between 
 the 2 extremes passive and active. It works extrtemely well! 
  
  The game is very long, and cinematic, dialogs are done in a zoomed in screen, the world around 
 you is still active but blurred with a depth of field effect. Its a touch of magic at how good 
 its looks and how good everything seems to fit together. 
  
  The only complaint people seem to have are long load times, While they are slightly longer then 
 usual they aren't that bad (at least for me!) i don't know what some people are using for pcs, 
 I think they exaggerate too much and are just impatient adhd kids. These same people are the ones 
 that complain that you can't jump! Then they rate the game a low score based on that, just look 
 at the low scored reviews and you will see a recurring scheme. The things is though that with each 
 low review there is 50 high scores, so you do the math and see what most people think of this game. 
 I do wish that more advertising or hype was out with this game though so more people would have 
 the chance to experience what a good rpg is like, we haven't had one in a long time, (I blame the 
 consoles!) and hopefully other developers see this and want to make similar mature rpgs, we can 
 only hope! Anyway do yourself a favor and pic up a copy of this masterpiece game known as the witcher! 
 You will not be disappointed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpetrolino
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this review by stating that what I am about to say is biased by my experience in 
 playing this game on Windows Vista 32 Bit Version. The Witcher is a perfect example of what could 
 have been a great game being ruined for me by numerous technical glitches. When I initially installed 
 this game, I had already downloaded the Vista gaming hot fix and the 1.1a patch of the game, so 
 I thought I would be ready to play. However, I had problems from the very beginning. Every time 
 I would load a new area or try to save the game, it would crash! I then read on the forums that 
 I should update my nvidia drivers, which I did. The game seemed to work after that. I played for 
 a few hours with no problem and then all of a sudden it crashed again! I hadn't saved for a while 
 at the time and I had to redo a bunch of quests. Man, was I frustrated. I had to get into the habit 
 of saving the game every couple of minutes to make sure I wouldn't loose my progress, because I 
 just never knew when the game would crash again. Given that the game takes a long time to load 
 and save, this really slowed down the pace of the game. I could have lived with this situation, 
 but then my encounter with the Beast happened.
  
  The Beast is the first boss in the game. Up to that point, the Witcher is not too difficult. Then 
 you face the Beast and the difficulty level is amped up to the extreme! It must have taken me at 
 least 20 tries before I killed it & I think I just got lucky in the end. My excitement at beating 
 the Beast quickly faded when what I can only think is another technical glitch ruined the rest 
 of the game. Something happened to my character during the Beast fight, which made the graphics 
 appear as though my character was drunk from that point in the game onward. Everything was blurry 
 when I moved my character. I tried resting, potions, but nothing helped. I know its not a problem 
 with my video card, because my other games still look great and when I loaded an older saved game 
 of the Witcher, it looked fine. That was the final straw for me. I wasn't going to go through the 
 rest of the game with blurry graphics & I wasn't going to go through the Beast fight again. As 
 a result, I uninstalled the game.
  
  It really is a shame, because this could have been an awesome game. The graphics look great, I 
 loved the music and the story was compelling. So, anybody running this game on Windows XP, you 
 are probably going to love it. For anyone with Windows Vista 32 Bit, I caution you to wait for 
 a future patch before playing, to avoid massive frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dydek1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  So Witcher is that kind of RPG game where story, dialogues are in the first place. CDPR showed 
 as what is real fantasy, mature world where everything depends on your choices which brings you 
 consequences-there is no choice between good and evil-you have to choose lesser evil and submit 
 with it.
  There is a lot of things to write about Witcher-especially about things which distinguish Witcher 
 from other RPG games. I just want to show you good and bad aspects of the game.
  
  "+"
  -story (three different story paths) , world, dialogues* (makes game very very real)
  -Geralt 
 and other main characters
  -impressive, innovative battle mechanics and spectacular animations (thanks to motion capture system)
 
  -alchemy and the character development system
  -graphics-beautiful environments, good monsters and character design
  -excellent soundtrack
 
  -huge number of very interesting quests; mini games
  -Intro and outro (made by Tomasz Baginski - Platige Image)
  
  "-"
  -amount of loading times
 
  -not stable (sometimes game just crushes to the desktop)
  -secondary character models (attack of the clones ;) )
  
  *Original Polish version have better 
 vioce acting and of course a lot of dialogues are different (there is a lot of jokes, funny situations 
 and even vulgarism which you can find in Andrzej Sapkowsi's story's about Witcher-reason why I 
 just love it) than in the English version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziemniak666
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is very successful game adaptation from books. In my opinion ten times better than 
 movie (Polish movie) . Well it's best game made by polish developers. It was made to be in polish 
 and dialogs are based on ones in Sapkowski books. Translation was poor because of lack of words 
 in English language (IMO) , specially those vulgar ones :) . And also some humor and idioms could 
 not be translated correctly. So learn Polish and play Witcher in our language :) . 
  
  The graphics is good, but not perfect. Some moves are really poor. Well I must say that's because 
 Aurora is old engine and even modification's couldn't help much, and lack of freedom, like ones 
 in Oblivion or Gothic, sometimes tires. 
  And so few models of NPCs is making me nervous:) .
  
  Music is superb, speech and sounds very 
 realistic. Also dialogs (in Polish) are perfectly make, very smooth and natural. 
  
  So why I've 10 when there are some small minuses? 
  
  It's 10 for Polish version and 9 for 
 English, because the steel sword is made to kill humans :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I am very much enjoying my brand spanking new copy of the Witcher. It is nice looking, violent, 
 puts you in some genuinely intrigueing situations and is often quite witty. Of course none of this 
 matters unless you have a beast of a gaming PC to enjoy it on. The choice system is better than 
 I have seen before for this type of game. The choice isn't clear cut between angelically good and 
 unspeakabley evil, you can be sort of...... non chalent in the Witcher which I feel more accurately 
 represents my true diplomacy in situations like these. For instance, if I have to indulge in drinking 
 games with an untrusting dwarf to get him to like me I will, but if I'm protecting a woman from 
 ravenous hell hounds and she gets chomped I won't think twice about robbing her still warm corpse 
 after I have slit up all the devil pooches and put away my sword in a cool way which makes me feel 
 special. OK I am infact a bit of a bastard but my point is the game lets you choose when to be 
 upset by disasters. Basically, life gave me lemons and I robbed a corpse....... Lemonade! There 
 is of course the option of just not getting involved at all when you see bad things happening, 
 but thats a bit boring. Get stuck in! 
  I don't normally go for these long winded adventures but after thoroughly enjoying Oblivion I suppose 
 my gaming scope has widened. Anyway. The game is very good, stands out in its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: look-ashek
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Graphic is ok, look like cartoons in some way but it's definitely nice piece of art. There are 
 not to many action parts (in act I and prologue) , most part of the game are dialogues, but fortunately 
 not stupid and often quite funny. Climate is dark and mysterious, a little bit like in horror movies. 
 Very important thing is that game is very cheap (in Poland) .
  I head that game is not stable, but I had no problem at all (have 1.1 version patch installed)
 
  Is surly worth of buying. Only thing that irritate me in this game is log time of loading data, 
 data are loaded each time you enter of leave buildings (or any scene) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I bought Witcher with a bit of concern given the game had come seemingly out of nowhere. It has 
 turned out to be one of suprise games ive played this year. The first point I have to make is be 
 patient , the tutorial sucks and you find yourself muddling through the first few quests wondering 
 why you cant use certain items, why you cant find herbs or make potions, and what the hell is this 
 combat system all about? However after some trial and error and messing about (save regularly!) 
 you eventually learn the ropes and find yourself wandering through a dark medieval world full of 
 monsters, prostitutes, peasants and soldiers. The combat system is absolute genius, it takes away 
 the mindless point and click system and removes the boring one click system and gives you something 
 that when upgraded leads you to do a dance of death through your opponents. With brutal finishing 
 moves and heads flying everywhere its the 18+ RPG players dream and the really nice bit is that 
 it doesnt take away from the game one bit.
  
  Any true RPG fans should definitely check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAlexShooter
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  I dont believe how bad the game is, i really tried to like it, I really did, but I could not eventually 
 after hours of play...
  It is technically broken and the fighting system is broken, boring and aweful.
  the good things 
 I can say about the game is the big maps that you enter and explore, fantastic story , nice graphics 
 with great music. interesting character build.
  I will start with the aweful engine: It looks pretty good, but you can see the engine is outdated, 
 environments look great, with great effects but it looks bad in severel places and it is really 
 heavy for such an engine.
  loading times are a big ISSUE, they are very long, even when you quick save it takes minimum of 
 10 seconds, loading minimum of a minute (avg 1.5+) and that is for every time you go out of a house. 
 loading long when entering a smal hut and so on. that is playing on a Core 2 Duo 3.0ghz, 2GB of 
 ram running 800MHZ and NV 8800 GTS OC.
  Although the combat system comes with somthing fresh, it is borken and lame. its frustrating to 
 see the character does nothing againstenemies or stuck at some points, even if attacking with the 
 right weapons and styles. jumping or eveding enemies during fights, seems broken as well, as Geralt 
 stands half of the time while trying to evede.
  Im sorry for this short review, because I'm usually not angry at a game as im at The Witcher. It 
 could have been so great. It has great story and music, goes down by bad gameplay and bad game 
 engine.
  I guess I'll just read the book, Isuggest the same for others disappointed by this game.
  .... 
 guess i'll go exchange the game for Hellgate and hope for better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TileToad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  Compared to most RPG's out there (or what is supposed to be RPG) , The Witcher is sheer brilliance. 
 For any true RPG fan, this game has it all. A living breathing world, compelling story, interesting 
 side quests, moral choices, intense combat, spoken dialogue, fitting atmospheric music (celtic 
 influences) , and even beautiful graphics to boot. It's tough to name all of the great aspects in 
 this little gem.
  
  On average you will find yourself playing this game for atleast 50 hours (not including side quests) 
 and every choice you make impacts the story. Moral choices aren't clear cut either, as all choices 
 have positive and negative implications (which is the way it should be) .
  
  If you're a fan of RPG games like: Fallout, or the KOTOR series; or just a RPG fan in general, 
 you should definitely consider picking this one up.
  
  One thing to note is that lots of people seem to have long loading times (I'm not one of them luckily) , 
 though, apparently CDProject will be releasing a patch soon that makes the autosave optional, which, 
 I'm sure, will greatly improve the overall loading times.
  
  My system specs: 2.8Ghz Pentium (D) , 2 GB (PC6400) RAM, HIS X1950 Pro IceQ3 (256MB) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nenn88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  The witcher is an alright game, though it could of been better.
  I didn't quite like the camera movement, I thought it was pain in the butt.
  Voice acting in 
 this game was lame, there was no spirit in it, and no real commitment should I say. Sounded like 
 it was from a bad 70's foreign film and dubbed over in English.
  Graphics were great, would of been totally gorgeous if my pc wouldnt be so bad that I had to play 
 the game on lower graphics.
  The quests in the game were good, I liked them, but the longer you play the more boring the quests 
 became. Whole alchemy thing was alright, but it made your inventory fill up very quickly with all 
 the materials.
  The story of the game was good in my opinnion, and I totally loved the opening scene of the whole 
 game (you know the movie at the start when you open the game, princess monster and such)
  
  All in all, I think that this game would of needed more work. Its still playable, and worth playing, 
 but like I said, it could of been better~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanKlinger
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for game of this caliber since the Torment !
  First adult oriented RPG in eons. Fortunately, I was lucky enough to read Sapkowski's Witcher books, 
 which helps. ;)
  To everyone who are complaining about the poor character creation at the start isn't as it is supposed 
 to be in the real RPG, listen. You are playing established hero. It's same as you would want Frodo 
 to be something else than hobbit. It cannot really be compared with Oblivion which is totally different 
 cup of tea.
  Even though you don't really have such a freedom as in Oblivion, strangely it will pull you inside 
 and spit you out at the end, wishing for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remyzero23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about the witcher using the Aurora engine back in '03 I did not think much about 
 this game and thought it would be a NWN clone with outdated graphics. I could of not been more 
 wrong and what CDProject has created is a masterpiece. Graphics: 9.5
  Everything is beautiful and attention to detail is in every thing you see. The world is alive and 
 all the promises that you heard about the NPCs feeling real in Oblivion are realized in The Witcher. 
 3 views let you get as close or as strategically far away from the action as you would like.
  
  Story: 10
  The story seems fresh and gritty in a setting that has seen so much use but never 
 quite like this. Every choice you make has consequences. There is no black and white in the story 
 and enough twists and different results from choices to warrant playing through it more than once.
 
  
  Flaws: minor
  -Some complain of long load times. I have a Pentium D 3ghz, 2 gigs of ram and an x1950xt card (so 
 not top of the line comp.) and the longest load times are about 1 min and a half and shorter for 
 smaller areas and I run the game at high settings.
  -Inventory can sometimes be a pain to find things.
  
  This is a must own for RPG fans. This 
 in my opinion ranks right up with Bauldur's Gate II and Planescape as one of the best RPGs of all 
 time. I would score it as 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomixxx_
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  First impression is really cool. Great cinematic intro, nice main character, pretty fine graphics 
 etc. However the longer you play the the more bugs, glitches and crap you see. Crashes, problems 
 with saves (my save-game folder grew up to 3GB :o ) , more and more stupid dialogues, glitches, 
 problems with textures etc. etc. After 2 hours of playing I would give it 9. Now it takes 4.
  And the fighting system... hmm.. first you think:
  wow! innovative! cool! Then: click, click, 
 click.... boooring After 10 hours:
  damn... I miss Oblivion fighting system!
  
  I think that the developer focused on the beginning of the game to make great first impression 
 but they forgot about the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to go into great lengths about the positive elements of the game because I think 
 gamespot reviewer did a good job covering those. Instead, I'll focus on what gamespot omitted to 
 mention, which in my opinion impacts gameplay significantly.
  
  First of all, the loading times are quite long, even if you are entering a small hut . It wouldn't 
 be an issue if the plot of the game required rare changes of scenery but given nature of quests 
 and combat (more on that later) , it soon becomes irritating. Quite often you'll find yourself staring 
 at the loading screen , which I have clocked to be often close to half of minute. If you are thinking 
 that my computer might be the problem here, I hasten to inform that I have AMD Athlon 64 3700+, 
 2 GB memory and GeForce 7600 GT graphics card. You be the judge. The inventory could use much better 
 management. All items are represented by tiny icons which makes it sometimes hard to distinguish 
 them. Quite often I would find myself slowly passing cursor over all items in my inventory in search 
 of particular potion. It's very difficult at first to distinguish bottle of water from vitality 
 potion or even jar of grease. It's true that inventory widow is divided into multiple compartments, 
 but manually segregating after each time you get new items is not fun. Separating inventory into 
 sub-categories is not exactly a new invention or one extra difficult to implement, so I don't understand 
 why this game would fail to do that automatically. 
  
  Gamespot praised the combat system, and it works as advertised in the beginning. Instead of traditional 
 button mushing you perform series of clicks where timing is very critical. If you get the timing 
 right, the consecutive attacks stack up into more damaging or more numerous blows. Gamespot is 
 correct in pointing out that the game could use much better introduction to this system, because 
 it will take some trial and error before you get a hang of it. As long as you are dealing with 
 generic opponent the combat works fine. However, when you are confronted by harder enemies combat 
 can get unnecessarily hard and frustrating. Part of the problem is that quite often you'll find 
 yourself fighting more difficult groups enemies after plot advancing cut scenes, where you are 
 not given time to prepare. The outcome is that find yourself immediately surrounded without as 
 much as weapon drawn. Given that Geralt takes his time drawing a weapon, you can imagine that you'll 
 very often take beating even before you have chance to do anything. If you think that you'll get 
 clever and draw your weapon in advance, you are setting yourself up for rude surprise. Geralt has 
 a habit of sheathing his weapon while having a conversation or entering building. One of the most 
 frustrating examples of that happened when I was about to confront group of salamander thugs in 
 small hut. Anticipating the fight, I took out my sword and entered. Unfortunately, as soon as hut 
 interior loaded Geralt decided to calmly put his weapon away, despite being surrounded by group 
 of hostile enemies. It took another few seconds of desperate button pressing by me to get Geralt 
 to take his sword out, by which time my vitality (health) was nearly one-third gone.
  
  It only got worse when I had to confront the Beast, the most difficult opponent up to this point. 
 In addition to above mentioned problems, the frame rate dropped significantly, making any timed 
 clicking very challenging. Many times I had difficulty telling if I mistimed the attack or if the 
 unresponsive control system ignored my command. I tried that fight about fifteen times and failed 
 to do take away more than than one-third of the vitality of the Beast before being slain. Being 
 RPG veteran I know that sometimes difficult fights have to be repeated many times to achieve victory, 
 but Witcher's long loading times mean that I have to do more staring than fighting.
  
  I have put away the game and I'm not sure if I'm coming back to it. I just might not be worth the 
 frustration. 
  
  Edit: I played the game little bit longer and got to like combat little bit more. The Beast is 
 easy to deal with using right blade oils (duh!) but I still find the loading times to be a major 
 drag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  + many great stories and questlines surrounding the main storyline
  + mature content makes this game even more authentic
  + hard to make decisions, not the usual 
 black and white
  + good graphics and sound
  + Just plain fun, just like reading a good book or watching a good movie
  
  - loading times 
 are too long, automatic autosave adds to this (the later will be fixed)
  - traveling can take quite some time
  - no free world to explore
  
  For people who liked 
 Gothic1/2 and put high hopes in Gothic 3, i think this is the game you were waiting for, except 
 for the fact that the game put you in a enclosed (still large) area from act to act, this game has 
 all i have hoped for Gothic 3 would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmeanflea
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  whts there to say about this game. I mean it's a work of art it should be in the louver because 
 it's so great. They took a story that failed in the film made it more interesting. And a lot more 
 inventive with the whole alchemical mix system and of course the bow chika bow wow parts. . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZPILA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  When I saw the review score, I was wondering if the reviewer has read the book which the game is 
 based on. But when i read all text it become clear to me that he hasn't. Most of minuses is not 
 because the translation is poor, but because he couldn't feel and\or understand this world, which 
 isn't even called Temeria, that's only one country from this world. Well... I can't blame him, 
 book was translated to English not so long ago surprisingly, I read it because I'm Polish. But 
 you have to read it if you want to understand all this strange language, bad or not, and, sometimes 
 even extremely, strange sense of humor, because it's sense of humor of the books, not of the game 
 itself. Anyone who will take this books in his hands won't regret this, it perfectly teach you 
 how to read between the lines... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balmoran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Well, the Gamespot reviewer sounds like he's a preacher from some narrow-minded church. The devs 
 did tout this as a MATURE game for adults, didn't they? And in real life people do have sex (some 
 more, some less easily than Geralt, but the player has the choice, and by the way, my character 
 was turned down a few times, and I felt pretty stupid) . I do agree with the card thing being a 
 bit off-colour, though, it chepens the game. (Not to be too hypocritical though, I have peeped 
 at them where possible, and they do look rather good.) Real people also swear and drink alcohol, 
 although maybe a bit too much focus on alcohol-use, but that's getting nit-picky. I like the voice-acting, 
 and find it natural and contextually appropriate. The combat system: Wonderful! It's more immersive 
 than the rts-like once-click only of the Forgotten Realms series (which is party-based and not 
 single-character) (being Neverw. Nights &amp; friends) , much easier than Gothic , and less tiring 
 than quickslash games like Fable where I actually sometimes got a sore forearm from all the frantic 
 clicking during combat. So it's actually nice that there's a bit of a pause in the clicking, plus 
 it's more realistic. Wer'e not using guns here, after all. So far, I would give the game as an 
 overall experience a 9. (Not a 10 because of slow loading times and occasional framerate issues, 
 and because of a general feeling of sexism and issues with forced alcohol consumption. It's pretty 
 difficult to kill monsters while you're drunk, for Pete's sake!)
  Gameplay: If using OTS mode, the game gives better gameplay than most, I'd rate it a 9.5. Battle 
 is a pleasure with the pause system and good interface. (no more having your character run all 
 over the place when trying to click the interface, like in Silverfall and Titans Quest) The downside 
 detracting from a 10, is I prefer a first-person view (like Oblivion) and freedom to move anywhere 
 in the environment, (like Oblivion, Assassins Creed )
  Sound: Music changes to give a good atmospheric background to each situation, voice-acting is good 
 (it feels natural) : 9
  Graphics: beautiful, rich and atmospheric. Landscapes are incredible and character models (especially 
 women) are stunning downside is too many generics used, eg. all the merchants and preachers look 
 alike; 9.5
  Storyline, presentation and originality; 10
  Tilt, 10.
  Overall; 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greykor
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for some time. The clips and in game play looked very cool and 
 had a darker element to it. and then the game died while fighting a mage in a key battle. this 
 game is buggy. I have been waiting for Atari to come out w/ a solid RPG and am still waiting. The 
 voices seem a little over acted and the interface in my opinion could use some tweeking
  
  I remember a time when Atari meant quality and good games. I do not think so now. It is just spitting 
 out crap, and I am stupid enough to keep buying it. Their tech support is also not there. E-mail 
 them w/ a issue and you will never hear from them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torresmatt
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RPG I think I've played since Oblivion. It isn't quite as polished as Oblivion 
 or other games, but the developers seem fairly new to this, and their effort is still applaudable. 
 The thing that I like most about this game so far is that it is a story... a very specific story 
 about a certain person. You don't spend 20 minutes at the beginning creating some character's face 
 and clothing, then picking a name for him, then playing through a generic fantasy plot that plugs 
 your random unknown character into it all. No... you ARE Geralt of Rivia and this story is about 
 GERALT. I can really appreciate the focus of the storyline in this respect. Games like Oblivion 
 are great, but let's face it, the plots are usually -- at least on some level -- reiterations of typical 
 generic fantasy plots. At times the moments where you see what your choices have left you with 
 are a little obvious and it feels like you're being belted over the head with it. Also, some of 
 the lessons present in the plot (ie: sometimes people are more monstrous than monsters, etc) are 
 a bit too obvious, but hey, this isn't a novel, it's a game... and one of the few games to try at 
 such an ambitious story in the first place, so I won't hold it against them. All in all, I'd say 
 if you're looking for a fresh and original take on a fantasy game, the Witcher's worth your time 
 and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegreen133
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game with a wonderful storyline. You get a great combat system, awesome visuals, 
 cursing, sex, and violence. It is a blast. I recommend this game to everyone. The need to strategically 
 switch between weapons and combat styles adds a great amount of style to the battle system. The 
 adult themes and content are a wonderful change from the other picks in the pool. The only drawback 
 I have had with the game are frequent and long load times; I would have given the game a 10 apart 
 from that. I will definitely press this game upon my friends and strongly encourage anyone to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samw3dgt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  What a game! It's been on everyone's radar since a couple of videos and screens were released a 
 while back (whether it was the actual game or the excellent accents of the devs that sent out the 
 blip is a debate for historians) , and it hasn't strayed from its initial promises. It begins a 
 bit slowly, unless you appreciate the passion for atmosphere and stories that the developers clearly 
 have. You spend most of your time in the game's infancy out of the control of the Wolf, a grayed 
 and grizzled Witcher who seems to have just returned from the dead. I can't think of any game hero 
 that's done THAT before.
  
  After the first sequence, things settle down (?) , and you wander off in search of secrets and villains. 
 The characters that populate the world are stunning; the depth of true village inhabitants is mimicked 
 precisely, as you eavesdrop on local gossip running by to kill zombies. The control scheme is just 
 what I've been waiting for. There is freedom to choose your style of motion control (I use over-the-shoulder) , 
 and combat feels like a combination of Zelda and Guitar Hero. And, no, this combination doesn't 
 yield a murky brown; it creates an iridescence unique to the game, and one that must be experienced 
 to be understood. PLAY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexSupreme
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  How long have I longed for a game that will consume huge amounts of my time and yet will leave 
 the taste for more.
  The Witcher is definitely one of the greatest RPG games to come out so far.
  From the first moment, 
 the intro movie was amazingly captivating, the game itself tells about a beautiful story, very 
 complex and very mature.
  
  The witcher uses the NWN2 engine to create an amazing world of medieval age where monsters and 
 wizardry are a daily view.
  One of the greatest pro's of this game is the realism, I personally hated every single game where 
 the main character was this colourful hero that goes with his big, clumsy, shiny sword to fight 
 childish colourful enemies to save some village, it defies the healthy reason.
  The Witcher on the other hand is much more realistic, with blood, cursing and mild sexual exposure. 
 Enough to make it both interesting and realistic.
  
  Now to some basic grading:
  
  Graphics:
  9/10 - Damn, I would give 10 but it's not on the same level of assasins creed.
  
 The battles are quite good but the story parts and the conversations are remarkable.
  One con that this game has is the huge requirements on the high settings, although it makes up 
 with almost as good, low settings.
  Even if you can't play on the highest settings, the game looks AMAZING.
  
  Sounds:
  10/10 
 - couldn't been better (well, could but hard to imagine) .
  Those who have seen the lord of the rings in the theatre, imagine not only sitting and watching 
 the movie, but to make decisions, and play in the movie with the magnificent sound effects, great 
 voice acting and remarkable background music. makes me shiver with excitement.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 - Perhaps the only thing that really bothers me about it...
  Slightly buggy engine 
 with long saves and above the average combat definitely kick this awsome game in it's manhood.
 
  Although I cannot ignore the good parts, the advanced alchemy crafting, the diablo style roam 
 around , the complex missions and a great journal still keep the game on top of others in terms 
 of joy.
  
  One thing that I would like to elaborate about, it the decision making in the game, it is the part 
 that makes The Witcher what it is.
  Not sure what about you, but I got used to a single story line that even if you have a main choice 
 it will only affect your side, whether it's towards the evil or the good, but the main story is 
 the same as always.
  
  Well, it's almost entirely different in The Witcher .
  In The Witcher , the MAIN story is the same but how you reach the ending from the beginning relies 
 upon your decision, and certain cutscenes in the game will prove to you how important it is to 
 make the best decision possible according to the corcumstances.
  
  Story: 10/10 - Simply AMAZING!
  Once again, it is one of those games that you need a certain 
 mood to play, like some dark evening or some quiet place to sit and play without interruprtions.
 
  The plot of Geralt (the main character) is deep and evolving as the story continues.
  The mood that it creates, is magnificent to say the least, the dark times and the medieval poverty 
 in the towns and outside them is definitely showing, the inns are at last look like a more realistic 
 inn and the characters and their personalities suit the story and the game well. Summary: The adult 
 theme with serious topics, the well designed characters (The women at F***ING LAST look like women 
 and not some ghoul) , the remarkable soundtrack and the stupendous story definitely make The Witcher 
 one of the best RPG that I've played.
  
  Thank you for thy patience.
  Supreme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuttss
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I like the combat much better than Oblivion. This combat has variety and inspires some innovation. 
 While one on one combat can usually be handled with a heads-up properly timed 'clicks', you are 
 frequently are engaged by multiple enemies requiring different tactics. I love how they have implemented 
 the alchemy. So far they have been useful without being overpowering nor overly complicated to 
 manage. Other games making potions took to much time and/or unbalanced the game. This game as many 
 have noted is 'mature'; this is a nice change of pace as decisions are often between the bad and 
 the really bad. Also, the impact some of your decisions have on the game are meaningful; not just 
 a +/- influence point or a few coins difference.
  
  If you have played these types of games before you'll probably want to start on hard.
  There 
 is an oddity with game where you can not jump or run off the edges of things such as bridges or 
 stairs. The game plays well without it but it seems a step back in interface/environment game play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guppieface
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  this is a fun gme, but its sure not real . its a game. I like the adult content, but i do wonder 
 why the U. S. censores sex more than violence. we can see a decapitated body on CSI but not a fully 
 nude one? weird. I also wonder why the translations cant be more accurate in the game dialogue, 
 it seems simple enough to find bilingual people to translate for a game. Just have a few of them 
 check each other then have a native english speaker read the end product to see if it makes sense. 
 This game's protagonist is probably the reason this game is worth playing. He protagonizes everything 
 he comes across! Even demons, many women, and the occassional squirrel. He greased that lil squirrel 
 up and protagonized him alllll night lonnnnng. If you are looking for protagonistic main characters, 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragunsky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  I think that this game will drag lots of people to play it. For log time now I m tracking this 
 game and yesterday i get the DVD and I installed the game. When I started the game I stayed so 
 thrilled with the introduction cinematic and story telling. Finally we get the real game of mystic, 
 magic, acrobatic fighting, big and so well made enemies. On the beginning I need some time to learn 
 how to play the game, and I don't like the stile of fighting and clicking during the combat. I 
 would like that we have free combat stile not waiting, but that is just for me a little (-) nothing 
 else. Character are great story of this game is amazing, from the beginning we have a dose of mystic 
 what is so good. graphic and physics of the game are also very good, enemies are not stupid you 
 must choose how to attack them. Especially what is nice is building your character in meditation 
 mod where you can rest, build skills, make potions....
  Stop I will not tell any thing just take the game and try to play you will not be disappointed.
 
  
  I just want to write something about this game because i like it so much and cat stop playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrJesus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  First - read manual. Loading times : System spec - amd64 3200, 2gb ddr, 7900gs - all set to high 
 and all is fine, 30sec-1minute loading time - if you have spyware, viruses / antivir , or other 
 software runned don't cry for too long loading times
  
  Graphics : Great job. Fighting : IMO the best fighting system in RPG. This is not hack'n'slash 
 or gothic style. This is Witcher :] . Attack sequences based. "Suck dwarf's cock ;) if you can't 
 learn such simple thing like click and wait a few moments to click again in correct moment.
  
  Gameplay: For Mature. Long prologue/tutorial (around 1h) but this is a good thing and remember 
 that because this is tutorial there is so much cut scenes. In later stages of the game there are 
 much less cut scenes.
  
  Interface : clear and easy . I don't know why some lames are talking that there is something unclear.
 
  
  Conclussion:
  Best RPG I've played since Fallout series. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cousken
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  As i am polish, i have had the pleasure of reading the whole Witcher book series which the game 
 is based upon, and not only the first story book as the Review states. I belive the whole series 
 is about 7 books long, and is currently beeing translated into English, so keep an eye out if you 
 liked the story in the game.
  The most obvious mistake i saw was calling Triss a witcher, which she obviously can't be. I'm pretty 
 sure the game explains that witchers aren't just a job, it's a mutation. Witchers are created out 
 of young boys, and boys only. As an extra note i can say that during the course of the books we 
 are introduced to a girl that tries to become a witcher but can't for obvious reasons.
  I'm also getting quite tired of hearing that the sex is uncalled for in this game. I agree that 
 the cards have completely no place here, especialy if it is true about the censored american version, 
 but Geralt has allways been a womanizer, and i can't say i can't understand him. Imagine yourself 
 a mutant beeing forced to put up with the worst kind of racism. It's not surprising that he uses 
 every opportunity he gets to get a little intimacy and warmth. I do have to say that 'getting' 
 it is all to easy. Tho the game never acctualy forces you to.
  I also didn't really agree about what was said about input during fighting. I play on medium, and 
 in the tutorial fighting was eplained to me fairly straightforward - click mouse button when the 
 sword icon is a-flamin'. Can't say i had any problems understanding how it was done. Can it be 
 another american version differance?
  All in all i think this is one of the best real-RPG , as i call them, that has been released in 
 many years. In my opinion it is much better than the original NWN campain, and i allmost feel inclined 
 to say that the game is almost as good as Planescape or Baldur's Gate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alecard
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  As Fallout was the pivotal change when it came to RPGs, in the late 90s, (no more PG kill the bad 
 orc) so i belive this game will do this to the 2000s.
  
  I mean I dont know about you but i was really getting tired of all those RPGs with the moral (choices) 
 a 10 year old would make about good and evil (lol)
  
  I was dreading another release of the tryed and true (but boring) DnD games and remembering the 
 Fallout series with all of its gray morals, where even when you got to the end you werent sure 
 that you had actually done anything to improve the world.
  
  So i hear about this game about a year back, and i dont know what to expect, I mean all the things 
 they say about the games before being released doesnt most of the time make it to release (Fable 
 anyone??)
  
  But man these guys met those promises on this one and then some, IMO this is the best and the most 
 realisting RPG iv played sisnce Fallout 2.
  
  Now to the graphics, game play review:
  
  Graphics -- They are great, 2007 for sure, the character models look great and the way they move 
 and the expression on their faces match with what they are doing. Also the landscape looks awesome 
 with everything moveing accordingly with the wind. I also run great, on my GeForce 7950 GT it ran 
 on all setting to high (beside Shadows) includidng 2-AA and 16-AF.
  
  Sound -- great orchestra music, with an old Celtic feel to it, also the voise acting is great with 
 each character haveing a different voice, and even the generic ncps reacting differently to you 
 depending on the situalion, also the way they have nasty conversations about you when they think 
 your not in earshot anymore.
  
  Gameplay -- this is really hard for me to get into, because heh i dont know if i can discribe it 
 accurately ( its that good) , but since youve seen my Fallout obsession ill stick with that thread. 
 Picture Fallout with 2007 graphics but instead of a post-apocalyptic future, its an apocalyptic 
 past. Something similar but also all together different.
  
  Also i have never given a game a 10, ever, no before you even ask not even Fallout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishxan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Innovative, breathtaking and immersive; this game is what the RPG genre has been lacking all these 
 years. When RPG's tout about choices and consequences you're usually met with obvious choices which 
 lead to obvious consequences, which all subsequently have obvious moral and ethical implications 
 - good or evil. The Witcher presents you with choices and you are not going to say, Ok, this is 
 the good guy line, that one the neutral and that one the evil guy. , instead you will think about 
 your choices. You play as Geralt of Rivia and you can chose what Geralt does at any given situation, 
 but you are STILL Geralt and those choices will be in the context of Geralt's character; failing 
 to realize this might make you feel that the choices of dialoge are sometimes restricting, but 
 this game forces you to do what most games of this genre fail to do - role-play.
  
  This game might be coined as a D&amp; D-Diablo, but it is not. It is RPG at it's best. It is RPG 
 with interesting combat, not lucky dice rolls. Next time you buy another RPG you should expect 
 a good combat system, and thank The Witcher for this. RPG's can longer be excused of having boring 
 combat solely on the basis of being an RPG. Actually it does better at what most ARPG's fail at.
 
  
  
  You are Geralt of Rivia, a Witcher. You are a professional monster hunter, and if you choose to 
 be, also a woman hunter. You are kick-ass. This game seriously set a bar for the way a game should 
 be presented, especially an RPG. I do not wish to spoil ANY detail of the game's plot, just believe 
 that this game will not dissapoint you with the plot. It is not a masterpiece plot, but its execution 
 and presentation is close to one - if any game ever had one. This game has one good story to tell 
 you, for one good 60-80 hours.
  
  
  First an foremost this is an RPG and plays like an RPG. You explore, solve quests and rescue damsels 
 in distress, which later are extremely thankful depending on how thankful you want them to be. 
 This game also adds an innovative combat system which at first can seem confusing, so pay attention 
 to the prologue and your cursor because it is a pleasantly subtle and quick discovery. If you choose 
 to play with only your two main weapons, a steel two-handed sword or a silver sword you can, but 
 there is a wide range of weapons for Geralt to use, so if you find the combat becoming stale there 
 is many ways to spice it up. Hopefully future developers will take a note from The Witcher.
  
  There is also one other aspect of gameplay which is mingled with the dialogue. That's Geralt's 
 ability to convince women to sleep with him. If you are an ostracized male or a female you might 
 find this part tasteless. Yes it is in the game, but if you want to experience this content is 
 completely up to you. Of course there are times when the choice is available you find it so inappropriate 
 you wonder, it's wonderful. This game can sometimes feel really real with the occasional racism 
 and inappropriateness... look at our perfect world. It is hard to believe that this game is using 
 the engine from the original Neverwinter Nights. This game is gorgeous, alive and believable. The 
 graphical presentation and the sound can sometimes activate your imagination which in turn makes 
 this game even more beautiful. Some dialoge, rather the choice of some wording, can seem out of 
 place, but this seems like a translation error, albeit the context of the meaning remains the same. 
 The voice acting is very good, though sometimes it can sound bland it happens rarely.
  
  
  This is an RPG which became an instant classic and will be played for a long time by fans of 
 this genre. Though this game has its technical problems, which can be frustrating sometimes, I 
 cannot mark it down just because of that. For a novice development team, from Poland, working with 
 Atari. This game is exceptional and so is the future of CDProject, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meilute1953
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  One of the few games where you really have to scratch your head before picking a dialog choice. 
 A major plus (as compared to games as Elder Scrolls) is that game throws at you events around every 
 corner. There'll never be a minute you are not engaged in a quest. Also having a quest tracker (arrow 
 pointing to where you can further the quest) is a very cool feature, eliminating frustrating moments 
 where you don't know what to do next.
  Combat is different from your standard fare, it's neither a crazy click fest nor traditional turn 
 based. It turns out very well, leading to some frantic 5 vs 1fights where you do need to use faints, dodge 
 moves and magic to outperform your opponents.
  A golden game, the kind that are not made often anymore. A must buy for rpg lovers.
  Also play 
 on hard difficulty, then you will have fights that will make you sweat for the victory and you'll 
 enjoy every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rimnet00
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I just got my copy of The Witcher. The game is frankly amazing. This is the first Action WRPG I 
 have played. I don't know how it compares to the likes of Baulder's Gate, because unfortunatly, 
 I never had the chance to play it. However, I think regardless of whether one has or hasn't played 
 a game like this before -- this is a must buy.
  
  The best advice I can give you is to check out the Developer Interview sessions on GameTrailers. com 
 - it should give you some insite into this game.
  
  Oh, btw... This is a truely Adult RPG. By adult RPG, I don't mean there is pointless nudity and 
 swearing all over the place, but it is there, and it is in context. This is really the game that 
 everyone over 18 should have been waiting for. I'll add more impressions tomorrow at work :P
  
  Pros
  + Graphics are very good. Everything is highly detailed and textured.
  + Controls 
 are amazing. The basic controls consist of hitting the Left mouse for melee, and having a timing 
 system that allocates combos. The right mouse button is used for magic. Now, the combat has a little 
 more to it then this, but its easy to start, hard to master -- very fluid
  + Story so far is AMAZING - not suprisingly since it is based on a hit series in Europe
  + Three 
 story lines (according to the dev interview) . From what I experianced, there are in fact decisive 
 decisions you have to make in this game, which STRONGLY impact the story. This is probably the 
 first game I will actually replay, since they have purposely made these key decision events obvious, 
 so that it is easier to purposely choose a different path the next playthrough
  + The music is amazingly well done. In fact, there are many moments where the music transitions 
 to deal with the situation, and it does it very well.
  + Adult themed / In context
  + Every conversation is voiced over. While the voice acting is top notch.
  
  Cons
  - Load 
 times and Save times seem like they can be a little long
  - Uhmm... it may cause you to skip ****s and not go to work?
  
  Seriously, from what I have 
 played so far... this is a 9.0 and going to be a cl@ssic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lakin0817
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  The Witcher was a good idea but needs a bit more of some and a bit less of others. This isn't a 
 game for young teens, much less children. There is alot of sexual comments and cursing. I'm not 
 fond of the idea of getting to have sex in a game. It ruins the flavor for me. It's probably the 
 lowest point of the game. As far as the graphics, sounds, voice acting, etc... its great. It's a 
 beautiful game. There are some very funny comments made by NPC's and Geralt. They also did a good 
 job creating the environments and bringing life to them. But the game falls short after all the 
 flash. 
  
  There are several things that take away from The Witcher. Just to name a few: the attack system 
 is purely based on mouse clicks. First, you click which opponent you wish to attack, then you watch 
 for your mouse icon to change to do a follow up attack. My problem with this is, you are so focused 
 on watching the icon change, you miss the combinations, moves, and animations of the fight. Frustrating. 
 I want to focus on the action not the icon. I think it would have worked better with a NWN point 
 and click system. Let the skills, bonuses, etc do the work for us. Isn't that the point of building 
 up your skills? I mean, some of the skills give a % to hit, whats the point in one extra click? 
 It doesn't get us that involved, nor does it need to. That way, we can sit back , enjoy the combat 
 and watch Geralt progress in his skills. 
  
  Secondly, the potion / Inventory system is a jumbled mess. You run out of room very quickly if 
 you choose to pursue alchemy. The icons for the inventory are hard to distinguish one from another. 
 You do a lot of searching throughout the inventory to find what it is you want. With poor explanations 
 for items uses, you're not sure what to use where. You can't use most of them right away so its 
 hard to keep track of what you need and don't need at the moment. 
  
  Thirdly, you're offered slots for weapons other than your two swords. These weapons do low damage 
 and cannot be used in combos... what's the point? 
  
  I'll close with one final discrepancy, the skill system spreads itself to thin. You spread your 
 skill points for different combos, and strengths... all of which you will eventually need at one 
 point or another. I think the combo trees should have been a branch to their own, to give the character 
 more depth and individuality. Such as, you can choose one style or the other (fast, strong, groups, 
 etc) , and build sub skills off on those styles. Instead, all players will eventually have to put 
 points in the same skills in order to be well rounded and be able to succeed. Point being, all 
 characters will eventually be very similar in the long run. As far as the skill explanations and 
 effects.... some of them give bonus/negatives, etc to stats. For example, plus 20% dmg, plus 15 
 % bleeding etc... but they do not give what the final statistics are or what your base was to begin 
 with. You don't know what your damage was before or after. What your strength is before and after 
 the added skills. You have nothing to go on other than % adjustments. 
  
  In the long run, if there aren't some major patches and changes to these issues, I can't see myself 
 finishing. The problems are a bit too much to fully enjoy the game. It could be a better game, 
 a lot better. But overall as it is, I'd give the game a 7.0 as it is, if they fix these issues.. a 
 strong 9.0 or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  The subject summarises the game in its entirety.
  This is a beautiful looking game - period. The character animations are top notch, the graphics 
 are superb... the babes are HOT and the story rocks too.
  
  On the flip side, my biggest gripe is the HUMONGOUS load/save times!!! I don't have the best rig 
 - though its pretty good- but am stumped as to how friggin long it takes for levels to load!!!
 
  
  loading Oblivion was a breeze - something I loved about that game (though not its absurdly limited 
 fauna - something this game improves on) . I'm not sure if the developers can ever release enough 
 patches to fix the loading times - but hopefully, even a bit repreive will go a long way in making 
 this game TRULY great. If you are looking for great customizability of gear/weapons etc - don't 
 play this.
  If you're looking for HUGE open ended game - dont play this.
  
  But if you're looking for a superb story line, a unique adult theme world - a polished game with 
 very few bugs - and a chance to visit the Eager Thighs Brothel - play it!! Its ALMOST There!!
 
  
  Fix the Load times developers -and you will get a masterpiece !!!
  We're waiting!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbit93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Wow where do i start, i have hyped this game since the first hands on preview and wow was it such 
 a reward to stick to this game. Never has any game combined so much themes and morals into one 
 game. The combat is just outstanding and never repetive. Every quest actually felt like it was 
 for something... unlike just reptive grinding quests.... the story was so well made and the unique 
 stories depending on your choices are very different. It took me about 60 hours the first time 
 i went through... pretty hardcore.
  
  Graphics- beautiful enviroments and terrific lighting.. character models are passable and load 
 times are horrdendus... but hey it all pays off Gameplay- Awsome meaningful decision and spectacular 
 combat... the ability that you can carry four weapons and use a foce push makes you feel top of 
 the line badass
  
  Overall- While not flawless... very pleasable and an RPG that will be a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisKumfi
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, overall this is a good game.
  
  Were it not for...
  
  ... loading times. Yeah, what is wrong with that? How can loading times be so awfully long when 
 you can't even leave the area the act is set in?
  
  ... the combat system. Nice approach, not having a clickfest, but it would be even better if it 
 wouldn't stop responding after some time.
  
  ... the inventory. This is bad. And I don't mean bad like NWN2's was bad pre-patch. This is just 
 awful. Pure chaos, symbols suck, too.
  
  ... the interface. Cluttered and unintuitive.
  
  ... NPCs repeating greeting lines after each dialogue. Minor point, but a little bit hard on 
 immersion and oh so totally 90s.
  
  I really wish that this game realizes its full potential after the next one or two patches as it 
 its there. then I'd care to finish it. Maybe.
  
  Until then 7.0 for effort... somehow I get tired of waiting for games to be finished after release. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: variableKIA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Put simply this is the best rpg I have ever played.
  NWN2 and Oblivion are totally outclassed by this game.
  
  The choices you make actually have 
 an effect and are suitably grey, with no clear moral choice which makes you really ponder you next 
 decision.
  Plus the quests are very well written and suitable dark ie: rape, canibals and child slavery feature 
 in this game, not standard RPG fare by any means.
  
  I have seen a few people critize its lack of free roaming, I think the play areas are massive and 
 very well designed. So much so, the lack of free romaing is a non issue.
  
  The combat system is nicely animated and fun to use, with the finishing moves looking very classy. 
 However sometimes you can take a little bit of a beating waiting for the lengthy animation to kick 
 in. The graphics are top notch, I simply cant think of another game that looks as good. The only 
 real negative I can think off, is the relatively long loading times between zones. Perhaps I need 
 to defrag my driver to improve this.
  
  Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr___happy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Most RPGs seemed to be divided between the MMORPG and the Japanese style RPGs which seem to be 
 building up an immense band wagon over the years. Long has it been since the days of 'ultima 8' 
 a game i spent what seemed like years playing in my youth, since then we have had great games like 
 the Elder Scrolls series, of course the hack 'n slash era of Diablo, and the greatness of Baldurs 
 Gate/NWN1 and KOTOR. Although the more recent attempts such as Oblivion cater very well for most 
 hands-on action/RPG, most of the RPGs in recent years have lost that almost late eighties-early 
 nineties feel of being in the shoes of a bad-ass protagonist. And Geralt of Rivia, a sort of medieval 
 Jedi monster slayer, is definitely badass and ultimately his story and the entire setting of The 
 Witcher is very well thought out, most probably due to the already much established source material 
 of Sapkowski's books.
  The game starts off with Geralt having amnesia (the most common way to introduce a new player to 
 a character with an already long history!) , and then eases you into the games mechanics and quest 
 system. The quest system is a familiar affair, and allows you to organise exactly where you are 
 going and what you are doing, there are some problems sometimes with finding people at the right 
 time or place, as the locator doesnt actually track certain NPCs it only tracks the location, bit 
 annoying, but nothing we havent seen before. The familiarity is very nice, but the first thing 
 that will truly stand out from others in the genre is the choice system. Often all is not as it 
 seems in the plot of a quest, and you'll find yourself having to choose sides in feuds and battles 
 you probably didnt want to get yourself involved in, and these choices dont have an instantaneous 
 effect, already i have made the choice of life and death for characters ive gotten to know (some 
 of them as allies) , its definitely quite hard knowing which decision is the right one to make, 
 or even which party is good or evil, in fact most of the time it seems like you are having to choose 
 between total evil and a lesser evil. This concept is pulled off quite neatly, and another great 
 thing which emphasises your actions is the many social and political issues going on in the world, 
 such as racism, corruption and deceit, and even your love life! The game definitely makes you feel 
 like you are playing the part of Geralt, and definitely rewards and satisfies when you begin to 
 know the outcome of events of which you've played a part in.
  
  The combat is not your standard point and click affair (which admittedly has been getting very 
 boring) but a 'timed' point and click, with the option to change between your three combat stances 
 or opponents while linking in combination moves, the result is a satisfying, well animated and 
 mo-capped, not to mention bloody affair that leaves little to be desired. There are some tech glitches 
 in the battles, like sometimes it doesnt look like you are connecting, or sometimes a clipping 
 issue, but these are mere oversights - bottom line is Geralt is meant to be one mean mofo, and 
 you definitely feel like a mean mofo when you taken out a horde of bad dudes with some well executed 
 moves. aside from timing your attacks you can dodge and use magic (one of five signs, which i wont 
 really go into!) but their uses are fairly self-explanatory and they do offer you more options 
 in combat. Another cool element of the game is the meditation/alchemy. Being about as hard-core 
 as Jackie Chan spliced with Robocop, our Geralt doesnt sleep, instead he meditates (!) In this time 
 you can concoct potions, bombs and up your rewarded stats into the skill tree (which is nice and 
 pretty in-depth without being too much of a chore) , and you'll definitely be making use of potions 
 throughout the games many battles, some of which it would be very hard to get through without.
 
  
  Apart from the main and side questing, there are some mini games and other exploits to take part 
 in. You can fight people in bars for cash (sounds just like the local bars in my town!) , or play 
 poker dice to make yourself some more of that sweet dough, or you could just get totally pissed 
 out of your mind (although not necessarily a mini-game, but often used to get information from 
 people youre getting lashed with!) . And what better way to end a night of ruinous delights? - a 
 visit to the whore house maybe? Which leads me on to the next sort of mini-game/conquest (!) Although 
 being hated by most of humanity for being a bit of mutant freak, Geralt has little difficulty in 
 getting laid and although some of them require a bit of leg work, its nice to be able to let off 
 some steam (quite literally!) with some of the many female NPCs scattered in the games towns and 
 villages, the developers make this clear at the very beginning of the game with Geralts main love 
 interest, Triss, of which you can choose to make 'sweet love' to after the games' first battle. 
 You are rewarded with a sort of 'collectable' card as a memento to which birds you've had your 
 way with (all of which are well illustrated in a classy painting-esque look) . If you play your 
 cards right, Geralt ends up having a love life Chuck Bukowski would be proud of! Technically, the 
 game can be very nice to look at, there are some beautiful locations, all seem unique but still 
 relative in style. textures overall are good, though many of the games characters are regurgitated 
 (which is unfortunate as it would have been nice to get more unique looking models for the games 
 many quest orientated NPCs) . The main thing i have a problem with in this game is the loading times, 
 sometimes they can be dreadfully long, which can be a pain when you are just trying to go into 
 someones house for a question, or in the transition between different areas. Hopefully this issue 
 will be resolved by the developers soon, as even though for me personally, it doesnt take you away 
 too much from the games very concentrated atmosphere, it will definitely be something most reviewers 
 will have a dig at. It would have been nice if they had made this game with a more free-roaming 
 feel (with obviously a different engine) , though saying that the game doesnt feel detached at all 
 in that sense due to the involving plots. Overall the frame rate holds up well, but can get a little 
 sticky in certain areas (and i have above the recommended spec, i know it seems a lot to ask for 
 an aurora engine game, but im sure scaling it down will be fine for players with less powerful 
 equipment) . the music and sounds fit very well with the gloomy setting, the voice acting can range 
 from great to pretty bad, though maybe i should rephrase that as 'comically bad', it definitely 
 makes you laugh, but overall the voice acting, sounds and music are absorbing and convincing enough 
 for the whole package.
  
  To sum up, if you love RPGs, you'll probably love the Witcher, there are a few little hitches which 
 could kill the game for some hard-to-please gamers, but they were probably not around in the days 
 of the classics i've mentioned earlier (!) so if you are up for a heavy story, brilliant characters, 
 a healthy dose of bloody combat, and even chicks galore (!) , you cant go wrong with The Witcher, 
 its the closest thing you can get to a purist classic RPG from yester-year with a dark and intriguing 
 fantasy backdrop. A big thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Loading times : all the time (and long loading times) , making it frustrating to play, making it 
 frustrating to save/load.
  
  Graphics : Good but inviroment is not very responsive
  
  Fighting : this is slightly annoying, and fighting is all you do so this is a big no-no
  
  
 Setting : Extremely clich&eacute; and not even in a fun way. Do it good or have some sort of humor/distance 
 to it. This has niether.
  
  Interface : Why is inventory etc so unpractical/unclear?
  
  Conclussion:
  While they put a lot of time and money into this, it isnt very fun to play at all, 
 and that's the point of games right? You're better of playing something else.
  
  Erik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game caught me by surprise. I was initially expecting a rather straightforward hack and slash 
 diabloesque clone. Instead, I ended up getting a fairly deep story-driven cRPG with plenty of dialogue 
 and decisions to make, which actually change the course of the story and characters. The choices 
 presented are more ambiguous than the typical black/white, good/evil fare of most RPGs (Bioware) , 
 which often seems too outrageous and disparate to be believable. This story, while fantasy, comes 
 closer to the real world in terms of how you'd expect people to behave. The concepts are more mature 
 than what you'd normally find in cRPGs, more like Planescape: Torment than NWN or KotOR.
  
  Let's start with the negative technical aspects first and get those out of the way:
  
  Most 
 of the negatives are technical in nature and pretty much all of them stem from the Aurora engine 
 which runs The Witcher. By far, the biggest aggravation are the load transitions, which occur *very* 
 frequently and can be on the long side, depending on the map and the speed of one's hardware. The 
 big outdoor maps usually take anywhere from 6-10 seconds to load (on my machine) and the indoor 
 maps (houses, etc.) take 3-5 seconds. This becomes a problem as you'll have to enter and exit houses 
 very often to talk to people and work through quests, and it begins to seriously disrupt the flow 
 of the game. On top of that, there is no option to turn off autosaving, which also occurs very 
 frequently, always after a quest is given, updated, or completed. This adds another 5-10 seconds 
 to the overall transition time. The autosave option will probably be corrected in an upcoming patch 
 and hopefully the map load times can be reduced significantly as well. I deducted 1/2 a point from 
 my score solely because of this problem.
  
  The performance of the engine is okay, though it does get choppy at times (on a C2D@3.2GHz and 
 8800GTS@650/1000, 1600x1200) . I'd say it's better than the Aurora version running NWN2, considering 
 that the maps are much bigger with more detail and characters. Too bad they couldn't use the Gamebryo 
 engine. Atmosphere/Environment:
  
  This game most resembles Gothic when it comes to environment. The big difference is that this game 
 is broken up into separate maps while Gothic is mostly free-roaming. The outdoor maps in The Witcher 
 are much larger than those found in NWN2, at least 9 times bigger in area on average (3x3) , having 
 more of a feeling of openness, with rolling hills, forests and lakes seen in the distance. Early 
 in the game, most of the maps have defined paths separated by fences and fields which cannot be 
 crossed. Later in the game, the maps become more open, where one can run up, down and across hills, 
 fields, and swamps. The scenery looks quite nice on maximum settings, vastly superior to NWN2. 
 For those who are accustomed to the semi-free-roam of Oblivion or Gothic, it may take a while to 
 get used to the limits of the maps, but it's still nowhere near as confining as NWN1/2. As to the 
 atmosphere, again it very closely resembles Gothic. Characters have day/night cycles. During the 
 day they work and walk around, sweep the streets, hammer swords on anvils, eat, drink, dance, play, 
 chop wood, wash clothes, pray, converse with other characters, etc. and even run under cover when 
 it rains. The range of AI activities helps to convey the feeling of a living world, probably even 
 better than Gothic.
  
  The game has physics, unlike NWN, although it's not at the level of Oblivion. Monsters go ragdoll 
 when killed and can fall off ledges and such, and the wind spell can destroy and throw objects.
 
  
  Graphics/Artistic Quality/Animations:
  
  The environments show attention to detail, and they seem more true to a medieval fantasy world 
 than the stuff coming from US/Canadian studios, which seems sterile by comparison. The character 
 models look pretty good for the most part, although the faces, while well-modeled, lack any discernible 
 emotions whether angry, sad, or happy. Characters' lips don't move too much at all when they're 
 talking, and the syncing is sometimes off. Some of the hands and arms look a bit odd, but whatever. 
 You will notice that you're seeing the same character models used over and over... fat merchant 
 with bell, poor man with bag around neck, old woman with one tooth and mole, priest with beard 
 and robe, etc. Over time, it bothered me less and less - it just didn't seem to hurt my experience 
 that much. Unlike Oblivion, The Witcher uses set meshes. There are no add-on clothing/armor pieces 
 to mix and match different outfits for the characters, nor are there different heads for each body. 
 Even the character you're playing, Geralt, only has a handful of unique-looking armors available 
 to wear, no more than 3 I believe. For some, the lack of visual upgrades might be a real turn-off. 
 While I do like customization, it didn't put a dent in my enjoyment of this game. I guess there 
 were more interesting things to do other than play dress-up.
  
  The combat animations are all mocap and really do look convincing, very fluid. Conversation animations 
 are less impressive, containing some wierd hand gestures and body movements which often don't match 
 the character's disposition. Overall, nothing so bad that it detracts from the game.
  
  There is enough variety in the monster races to keep things interesting, although subraces do look 
 quite similar, really only differing in size, color, and small features like horns and teeth. They're 
 all very well animated. Combat Mechanics:
  
  The combat is a combination of twitch and 'dice' rolls. You initiate an attack by clicking on an 
 enemy, which begins a sequence of blows. You must wait until the sequence enters its final stage, 
 signified by an orange flash from the blade, at which point another click launches a second, more 
 advanced and damaging sequence, and third, and fourth, provided you have those skills. If you click 
 too early or too late, the attack is interrupted, the chain of sequences broken, and you must start 
 over from the base attack. 'Dice' rolls come into play when an attack is first launched, where 
 they may be dodged or parried automatically, both by Geralt and his enemies. There are different 
 weapons styles as well: strong, fast, group. You switch between these on the fly depending on which 
 type of opponent (s) you're facing.
  
  I found this combat system to be more to my liking than that of Gothic. It reminds me a bit of 
 Blade of Darkness, with combos and chained attacks, yet simpler and easier to control. Other comparisons 
 could be made to Vampire: Bloodlines or Jade Empire. At any rate, it never drove me to boredom. 
 By comparison, Oblivion's combat had me bored within a few hours. There's also magic (signs) , which 
 tends to become overpowered at high skill levels: air (knockdown/stun) , fire, shield, trap, and 
 hex (charm) . Some magic skills work in combination with sword skills, like doing extra damage to 
 an opponent who is blinded or on fire. Tedious combat can ruin a game. Thankfully that didn't happen 
 with The Witcher. There's enough going on to keep it from turning into a mindless clickfest.
  
  My biggest gripe with the combat is the sheathing/unsheathing of the sword and how the game 
 deals with hostile/safe areas. You can only unsheathe your sword if the area you are in is hostile, 
 indicated by red claw marks across the day/night circle. If you're in a 'safe' area with hostiles, 
 you must click your mouse pointer on the hostile creature and then the sword will be unsheathed. 
 Problems arise when you need to get your sword out really fast in a tight situation, where say 
 you've just entered a house with 6 enemies right on top of you, all of whom already have their 
 weapons drawn. You'll get hit at least a dozen times before you can respond since it takes over 
 a second for the unsheathing animation to complete, and then Geralt becomes unresponsive for another 
 second after that. When no enemies are in close proximity, Geralt auto-sheathes his sword after 
 a certain period of time, something I find annoying, especially when I'm running towards a monster 
 and he sheathes 5 feet away from it. I guess the safe zone thing was done to prevent players from 
 killing neutral characters who are important to the story, thereby breaking the game.
  
  There are a few problems with proper spacing while attacking a knocked-down opponent, where he's 
 either too close and can't attack, or goes into an unbreakable animation loop while attempting 
 a coup de grace.
  
  Also, combat with large, slow monsters, like the golem and striga, is way too easy. Just run in 
 circles or stand on the other side of an obstacle.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is excellent, some of the best I've ever heard in a game. The ambient music used in towns 
 and taverns is folk, with flutes and strings. The combat themes are heavy with drums, chants, and 
 electric guitars. It beats the crap out of the 'epic' retreads found in other cRPGs.
  
  The voice acting is a mixed bag. Personally, I found the worst voice over to be that of the main 
 character, Geralt. Unfortunately, he's the guy you'll be listening to most of the time. His delivery 
 is dry to say the least and sometimes way off base, several times responding to a friendly statement 
 with an extremely hostile tone, among other things. His gravely voice wore on me a bit. Other than 
 him, most of the voice acting is pretty good, far better than Oblivion and Gothic, although the 
 same small group of actors is used to voice the bulk of the secondary characters - the inkeepers 
 all share the same voice, one for dwarves, elves, and so on.
  
  Character Development:
  
  Geralt gains 'talents' whenever he levels up - bronze, silver, or gold, depending on his level. 
 These are basically spent like money to acquire new abilities. Most of them give a percentage increase 
 to a given ability, like +30% damage or +25% stamina regeneration. There is some diversity as to 
 what kind of Geralt one wishes to create, though by the end, you'll almost certainly have all the 
 bases covered.
  
  Story:
  
  This is by far the best part of the game. The story is dynamic to an extent. Characters may die 
 as the result of your actions. Certain future events may or may not take place depending on how 
 you resolve situations early on, changing the storyline and the outcome of the game. The consequences 
 of your actions are not immediately obvious, and most become manifest much later in the game, so 
 the 'reload the last 5 minutes and pick option B' trick isn't going to show you all of the game. 
 The characters themselves are well-written and the translation to english is excellent... very 
 little appears to have been lost. Some of the voice overs are lacking, but that's not enough to 
 bring it down. There are romances to be had, if one chooses to take them on, and even a father-son 
 relationship, which plays a role in the final outcome. Most of the side quests are interesting 
 and fleshed out, with only the witcher contracts (get x number of x) being of the Fedex variety. 
 Aside from the human/nonhuman conflict, much of the story revolves around Geralt's position as 
 a witcher, whether he has free will, or is merely a monster-killing tool. Certain conversations 
 regarding this also seem to have an effect on the ending. The cutscenes, which are all in-engine, 
 are really nicely done. Of course, there are also seduction quests, which provide a little diversion 
 and humor. Minigames:
  
  The dice game is a joke because the AI is braindead. Four of a kind and they'll reroll two out 
 of the four. This will probably be fixed at some point. Boxing is amusing if only to see some nice 
 punching and taunting animations.
  
  Bugs:
  
  I had at least 10 crashes during the course of my 40+ hours playing. You'll be lucky to only get 
 10 crashes. People with Vista/x64 are having serious problems getting this game to run. I'm running 
 WinXP.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Despite the bugs and other annoyances, it has been a while since I've had this much fun playing 
 a game. It was hard to tear away at times, and I came back to it as soon as I was able. When something 
 is engaging like this, the flaws seem inconsequential. The Witcher is much greater than the sum 
 of its parts. I will definitely replay this later to see a different side of the story and ending, 
 but will probably wait until the loading issue is resolved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damascus_Six
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher has an excellent story with interesting quests, and having meaningful choices puts 
 the role playing back in rpgs. The scenery is beautiful wether you're strolling through town or 
 creeping through a cave in near darkness, and coupled with a very fitting musical score, this game 
 provides a rather immersive experience. Voice acting was good as well, especially for the protagonist 
 Geralt, making him a very likable character. Geralt's impressive sword skills make even the easy 
 fights satisfying and fun to watch. The alchemy system was interesting with a good mix of craftables 
 available, but overall the items and inventory felt a little on the basic side. Overall my favorite 
 aspect of the game is the fact that it doesn't shy away from themes that are sometimes taboo, such 
 as racism, sexism, prostitution, and drug use. It's also made interesting by the fact that choosing 
 between good and evil is never a clear cut choice as you play through. All in all the shortcomings 
 of this game are easily overlooked when you see how much this game has to offer. A work of art 
 that has been passionatly developed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnjaha99
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  An impressive first release from Polish dev CD Projekt Red. It really is amazing what they did 
 with the old Bioware Aurora (NWN 1) engine. Obsidian should be embarassed because the graphics 
 and character models truly trounce the hapless NWN 2 engine. You could almost say this is the game 
 NWN 2 should have been, but its not really your typical RPG.
  
  First off, the main character is not some bumbling, innocent, weak peasant who gets mixed up in 
 some epic, world saving event. He is a badass from the start, and is supported by a good voice 
 actor. ALthough the time periods are different, he reminds me alot of JC Denton from Deus Ex. Not 
 to say the game is easy, your character will have plenty of challenges even early on, particularly 
 with mages. WHile the witcher is pretty hack n slash oriented combat, alot of battles also require 
 use of magic wards, potions, and other strategies to become successful. For isntance, the first 
 sorceror you face summons an invulnerability globe from the life force of 4 nearby lackies. You 
 have to identify quickly that his henchman must first be killed before he can be harmed. Another 
 non typical element to this RPG is the dialogue, it is very mature. Of course this means their 
 are some heavy sexual themes, but also how the game deals with life, death, and general morals 
 of people. The voice acting is also good to make it believable, e ven if the lip sync timing is 
 off at times.
  
  Overall, the world feels very immersive. Little things bring the world to life like fluttering 
 pigeons, scampering rats, realistic NPC behavior in towns, and realistic night and day cycles. 
 The graphics look great maxed out and you don't need the latest $500 video card to enjoy them either. 
 The music is well composed and sets the mood well, never being intrusive.
  
  So whats the problem? Like most Atari releases it seems it was pushed out the door early. Bugs 
 are common in the cinemas, requiring a hard system restart in some cases. Load times are enormous 
 and surely could have been optimized better. Its in alot better shape than Neverwinter Nights 2 
 though, and hopefully they can be fixed in a patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to try and make this short and sweet.
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  When you look at the category of Graphics, you have to compare the game inside its genre. For an 
 RPG to rival those of an FPS is asking a lot. That's not to say that it can't be done, since Oblivion 
 did just that... sort of, but it is to say that when a game does its best to really stand out in 
 its genre, you can appreciate it for what it's worth.
  
  That being said, I have had the luxury of playing The Witcher on Max settings, running at 1900x1200 
 resolution. How does it look? Well, considering the game runs on the Aurora engine (development 
 on the engine started in 1997 I beleive) , for this game to look like it does on what should be 
 considered ancient technology, I would say that even if it doesn't look like Oblivion, it gets 
 an A+ for effort.
  
  How does that translate? Basically, the game gets everything right in this department as far as 
 I'm concerned. The only reason it doesn't get a 10 is because there are some framerate issues, 
 even on the beffiest of machines. However, these aren't really gamebreaking problems.
  
  Sound - 8.5
  
  These days, sound is really overlooked in games. I remember it was a big deal 
 some years back when the whole 5.1 revolution came about, but now, there really isn't a whole lot 
 to it. if the game offers at least 5.1 surround, then you're good to go, since EAX will more or 
 less guarantee that the sound is superb.
  
  In this day and age, however, the sound in a game is really likened unto that in a movie. If you 
 watch a movie, and then realise the sound more or less was satisfying, then that means the sound 
 department did their job. The Star Wars movies are reknowned for this. No one asked questions about 
 how a lightsaber should sound... the sound we heard was pretty much just accepted. Why? Because 
 imagining it any other way would almost be impossible. Job well done.
  
  Music is now more or less formulaic across the board. When the battles start, you get a heavy percussion 
 theme with maybe a loud fan-faire if the battle is somehow important. When you're exploring, the 
 music plays a back seat role, and is turned into more ambience.
  
  The Witcher gets an 8.5 from me because it doesn't stand out as either breathtakingly awesome or 
 eye twitchingly terrible. The only problems are some weird VO's but they aren't that big of a deal 
 since they are at least passable.
  
  Gameply - 10
  
  You'll hear some folks on here talking about how they wish the Combat was more like some other 
 game. Personally, I'm not going to say that sort of thing wouldn't be welcome, but I'm not going 
 to be the guy who says a game isn't worth playing because it doesn't offer the same gameplay as 
 some other game.
  
  What does that mean? It means that CDProject tackled the problem of boring RPG gameplay, and turned 
 it into something that doesn't just work, but is just fun and engaging. Would I have liked to be 
 able to have more control on my attack patterns? Sure. Who doesn't want more control? Does that 
 mean what I do get from the game isn't great? Not in the least.
  
  As far as load times are concerned - I can see how this could really slow the pace of the game 
 down, and honestly, it did get a bit annoying, but I'm used to long load times anyhow. For me, 
 it was a walk in the park on this front.
  
  Also, there is a bit of micro managing concerning the inventory system, but it is functional. Not 
 to mention, the fact that people have be bothered to actually hover over the stuff in their inventory 
 in the first place, says a lot about todays gamers. This is too hard and takes too long. I wish 
 it were easier and faster. Again, it doesn't bother me so much, but that's just the kind of gamer 
 I am, especially when I understand that the game is meant to take up a lot of your time in the 
 first place.
  
  Value - 10
  
  I'm just in love with this game, I'll be honest. I remember a few weeks ago thinking that I was 
 somewhat interested, but felt like it was going to blow hardcore. i really didn't think I would 
 enjoy the game as much as I have. There is a lot of lore behind this game, and everything is just 
 in it's own realm.
  
  What I particularly like about the scope is how a Witcher is more or less a Jedi like entity, but 
 how when you really get into it, it becomes it's own thing. I'll admit, I first thought this was 
 a Star Wars rip off, but then I realised what was going on with the lore.... it's really the fantasy 
 setting I've always thought about. It's a realistic fantasy, where there are real issues in play.
 
  
  I think mostly what I like about this is how it doesn't really come off as an Epic. It is Epic 
 in it's own sense, but at the end of the day, it's about some group of guys taking something personally. 
 You play as just one of those guys, and you're just a badass, and you don't apologise for it. That 
 whole element shows in the game. In essense, you're the good guy... but you're also a guy who doesn't 
 take someone's **** either.
  
  Tilt - 10
  
  I really liked this game... I can only say that so much.
  
  Overall - 9.5 (average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_Total_Nub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  You assume the role of geralt, a witcher who basically hunts supernatural beings, werewolves vampires, 
 other monsters, aswell as the occasional bandit. The drawback of this game would have to be the 
 loading times and the reused character models, for example one of the frst cities you encounter 
 has several npcs that look exactly the same, this is also the case throughout the game. Dialouge 
 is amazing and graphics are great aswell, altough here and there a few of the models look a tad 
 off, it's a lengthy game with multiple endings and some replayability to it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay can be hard to get into at first, but once you finish the first chapter 
 of the game you should be used to it, the way it works is that you have to continuously click your 
 mouse to attack, this is something you ease into eventually and once you get used to it it's easy 
 to manage.
  
  But overall the witcher is a good RPG and worth a purchase. I left a few things out to avoid spoiling 
 anything.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voyt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm veteran of gaming and I've played so many games including all greatest RPGs that sometimes 
 it makes me worry about myself. Isn't it waste of life (time?) . Answer in case of The Witcher 
 is -ABSOLUTLY NO, this is one of the GRAETEST experiences in my life . This game is just amazing. 
 Better than all fantsy games, books and films so far.... Story is so fresh and modern , Geralt is 
 very unusual hero like any other in genre , kind of black/dark yet white haired :) , ironic tough 
 man (?) , exactly one You would expect from demons slayer. This game definietly is for mature players. 
 Technical side is perfect, graphics is fantastic., voice acting and sounds are over the top. Game's 
 mechanics are well done. It took me about 46 hours to finish The Witcher and I didn't even noticed 
 when this time passed. Now I'm ready to play it agian in different style and character development. 
 If any game in years is worth a while it's without doubt The Witcher. Thank You so much CD Projekt!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerelum
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  The Witcher is a great game, from the opening movie to the tie in with the actual game, it's awesome 
 in it's own might. I find the combat system to be new and innovative as well as neat things like 
 the ability to coat your weapon with a poison or sharpen it's blade to make it hurt more. Add in 
 the ability to stun and then kill your enemies in brutal but enjoyable style and the combat is 
 a winner for me!
  
  This game is a milestone for a lot of reasons, it's actually the only game in 5 years that made 
 me actually want to cough out an additional 100 dollars to buy two more gigs of ram so I could 
 play it. I was running it on the min reqs that it states on the box and finding it insane and choppy. 
 (Cut scenes would play audio wise for about 5 minutes then all the sudden the video would catch 
 up, I'm assuming it's cause Windows Vista was eating a ungodly chunk of my 1gb of ram and allowing 
 the game a paltry amount it had to keep juggling to make it work.)
  
  So if you're computer isn't a beast, I mean a powerful raging beast on games, you might want to 
 upgrade before you get addicted (about 5 minutes in) otherwise you're gonna be heating up the credit 
 card to upgrade your system or you'll start to shake and drool and mumble things like Must have 
 Geralt of Rivea! and people will look at you crazy.
  
  So far with me only being in about 5 hours or so of the game, I find that it's awesome. I also 
 love the way you can make Geralt be a P I M P with the ladies and after saving them or boozing 
 them up you can score and get a softcore ish porn picture. GERALT IS A PIMP! Love it when you can 
 have your way with the ladies like a real bad to the bone monster slayer would, am I right!?
  
  On the normal difficulty, during boss fights and so on, I find I really need to rely on Geralt's 
 mutant abilities to take potions that buff him to win. These potions and allies in battles can 
 really make a major difference, for those of you who have killed the hellhound yet, you know what 
 I'm talking about!
  
  So now with my beefy 3gb of ram now powering through my old pc, I do alright with the Witcher and 
 my only complaint is the load screens to the major areas (countryside, big dungeons etc) that can 
 take upwards of a minute or two sometimes. But really for the quality of this game, I think that's 
 such a small price to be experiencing the newest and greatest RPG that's out. Take my advice, buy 
 this baby, but make sure your computer can handle it, otherwise you're gonna be very disappointed 
 and upset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I was a bit suprised at how much I like this game. At first I was a bit put off by the character 
 development and combat system, but once you get into the story and depth of the environment you 
 seem to forget all that.
  
  The graphics are much like that from NWN2. The camera control has been simplified a bit and in 
 doing so you have a little less control over the camera. If that is a good or bad thing is up to 
 the user. The controls are very similar to any other action based rpg.
  
  Where this game really shines is the story. There feels like a lot of freedom to explore and adventure 
 outside of the main storyline. Haven't experienced this kind of story since BG2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LarryGM
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Pretty graphics but poor gameplay. Is nothing when compared to Oblivian or any role playing game. 
 Too many cut scenes that are used to explain what is going on. This is one of those games where 
 you click on the screen and your character will go there. You click on a character to fight or 
 click to talk. Talk is prefabricated. You will spend more time clicking than playing. The graphics 
 are quite good but will appear to be more like paintings rather than dynamic and active backgrounds 
 types. You have that feeling that you are a sprite moving across a pre-fabricated canvas. The whole 
 picture is somewhat muted in color and contrast perhaps to add an aura of ancient times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyerswin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Overall an excellent RPG, though I have only played through thr beginning portion. Story is engaging 
 and voice acting is excellent even if lip sinking isn't. Nice story choices involved.
  Combat is fun, easy to get a hold of and visually impressive.
  Inventory system needs some tweaking, 
 not very intuitive. Hopefully the next patch contains some kind of auto-organizer.
  One or twice the story seems to take some weird jumps with little explanation. But overall is solid 
 and the cutscenes are very nice.
  Mini-games are simple and fun.
  If you are really into WoW or Diablo, and love gear customizing and upgrades, don't hold your breath. 
 There is limited gear and options for it. Additionally if you want to be a pure mage/caster, this 
 isn't for you. Swordplay is a huge (and wonderful) part of the game. You get to sleep with a bunch 
 of women in the game, which is pretty sweet.
  Overall GREAT, just needs another patch or two to work out the kinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undulation
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is my first review of a video game ever, so bear with me.
  
  The story of this game is what makes it so great, there is no right or wrong and thats exactly 
 what makes it interesting. Very early on in the game you start playing a certain way and have to 
 make choices, and not untill very later on in the game it becomes clear what effect these choices 
 do. The downside of these games is that the main character might not act the way you want according 
 to the choice you made. But ive not experienced that in this game at all the way he talks to people 
 is exactly the way i want him to act its great.
  
  The game is pretty dependent on making potions with alchemy to survive and i like it, you cant 
 run into battle expecting to win if you didn't prepare properly.
  
  The combat system of the game isn't all it could be in my opinion you have to click to create chains 
 and use a certain style to best fit the enemies your combating. The styles are well thought of 
 its the combat that consists of clicking chains after each other with timing that makes it rather 
 easy.
  
  Another downside is the long waiting and saving times, i have a relatively fast computer and even 
 with settings down to low it can take up to 5 minutes to load. The saves are 10~ mb each which 
 quickly gets you to 1gb of disk space for saves, if you save as frequent as me.
  
  All in all The witcher is a great game to play, good story with characters and the alchemy system 
 is well thought of. They could have done better with the loading/saving optimizations and the combat. 
 But despite this i really recommend playing the witcher if you like RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scotteq
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  I absolutely *love* the gritty storyline. Haven't enjoyed a storyline this good since Planescape-Torment 
 and Fallout. Doesn't even pretend to apologise for harsh language/insults and more mature-themed 
 content.
  
  The Gameplay strikes a good balance between action and story. The interface is reasonably simple. 
 Yet Fighting isn't just button mashing, as your timing is important. And the abilities you have 
 at your disposal really *do* make a difference in the outcomes of your fights. This is especially 
 true on the harder difficulty levels. There you'll find you often need to think and stragegize 
 about the type of foe you are facing, and where/when to use which abilities (Melee style, Spells, 
 and Alchemy) in what combinations.
  
  Your character is customizable to your playstyle - Even choosing to concentrate sole-ly on Melee 
 still leaves you able to go Tank~ish, all out Damage, Agility based, or some combination. Personally, 
 tho, I found a balanced character to be more fun and playable, since there are situations where 
 just hitting things isn't what you need to do to win.
  
  Some of the best graphics I've seen on a PC game. Period. And yet the designers resisted the urge 
 to go overboard with effects and gratuitous eye-candy. It simply looks like it *should*, no more. 
 And definitely No less. Stone looks rough. Things appear dirty. Wet looks wet, not just shiny. 
 Full Marks here.
  
  The game is only somewhat linear, as you are free to wander and tackle quests in whatever order 
 you like. It's no MMO world like WOW, for sure. But to my mind it's a good, reasonable, and playable 
 balance between open wandering and advancing the story. The only downside of real note is the play 
 areas, even within a zone, tend to be small~ish. So there are frequent pauses to load the next 
 section. It's not my personal case since the box on my desk is new/fast, but I could see where 
 this could turn into a much bigger problem for someone with a slower computer. Docked a full point 
 for that. I docked another full point for some instances of uneven voice acting, and non-native-English 
 translation funniness. But added back another half point cos it's VERY entertaining anyhow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsivertsen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  fresh wind. The Witcher has everything that a role-playing game should have. A good story, plenty 
 of dialogue, leveling, fighting and damsels in distress. The story of the game captured me from 
 the start, with a dark setting and a grim hero. This game is not for the light hearted, with plenty 
 of nudity and violence. The world is filled with NPC that actually has something intelligent to 
 say to you. The game reminds me in some aspects to the KOTOR games, in that there are cutscenes 
 when you talk to NPC's.
  
  I also like the fighting system, although it might get a bit simple in the length.
  
  The only 
 thing I find a drawback of the game, is the camera angles. Somethimes it's difficult to navigate. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinzaleswski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  The story of this game is very interesting. When you play in Witcher you feel adventure. Realistic 
 weather and other effects with forest and village. RPG fans must play in this game. The Witcher 
 has over 60 hours play.
  
  When I buy The Witcher I can't get out of this game. This is one of the greatest game ever, this 
 game kick asses Gothic series.
  
  Models of characters are good, when we will help them, they help us. People have many problems 
 with creatures, and we must takedown they.
  
  Action - Adventure - Long journey - Great fantasy story -----) It must be The Witcher ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: touchmydog
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  firstly, id like to say to those that persist in comparing this to Oblivion.
  
  Oblivion merely gives the illusion of being open and diverse. In reality , it has 50 identical 
 caves and dungeons with the same old monsters, horrendous main storyline line which bored the hell 
 outta me and no replay value. Same old spell effects, same old crap AI, boring characters.
  
  I couldnt give a **** how much i can shrink or grow my nose/ears/chin, what i want is a replayable 
 immersive captivating rpg and this is what The Witcher is!
  
  A return to wonderful storytelling at its best. And stop downmarking this because your pc is to 
 crap to play it. I have ZERO problems and my twin raptors spank the *long* loading times. I notice 
 most of the naysayers played for 10 hours or less which says a lot. probably not much past the 
 prologue so those people should actually play more. Ive fnished the game and the compelling and 
 replaying storyline heralds a return to the rpgs like BG2 and PS: T
  
  And no, im not polish. I dont care if you cant jump, id rather be intrigued by what to choose in 
 the dialogue because it actually matters. People on here giving bad reviews just dont comprehend 
 that because thay havent played the game for more than 1 hr. I dont care if i cant play a myriad 
 of races because what i can play is Geralt as a freedom fighter, or a mercenary, or a selfish oaf, 
 or a lover, or a hater, and thats true RP , not how tweakable your nose/hair is. The time of boring 
 old samey sandbox rpgs like Oblivion is dead, long live The Witcher!
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killjoyrules
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I feel that the PC RPG genre has been pretty lean for a little while now. NWN2 was a fun game, 
 but the expansion left much to be desired. Thankfully The Witcher provides an interesting and engrossing 
 experience that doesn't short change you by being 10 hours long (I'm boycotting Ubisoft games for 
 this very reason) . Combat is more elaborate than the standard fare, and while the Alchemy system 
 isn't perfect it's still a welcome feature that spices things up a bit. The story is highly entertaining, 
 and the side quests feel pertinent to the game despite being optional. The only complaint I can 
 reasonably level against the title is that it sticks you in the shoes of Geralt of Rivia without 
 an alternative. I understand that the game is based on a series of books where Geralt is the protagonist, 
 but I really see no reason why they couldn't have just let you create your own Witcher. The spoken 
 dialog in the game would simply need to refer to your character as Witcher (instead of Geralt ) , 
 and a few plot points would need to be tweaked. Regardless of my criticism, it's fantastic game 
 and a breath of fresh air during a slightly stagnant period in PC RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Now i've just come from completing Oblivion and that really set the bar for me so when i got The 
 Witcher a few days ago i've been pretty much playing it non stop. From the moment i started playing 
 i wasn't very impressed at things like the overlong cutscenes that wern't very good and the worst 
 thing was the really bad combat system. I just hated combat in this game because of it and a game 
 thats so action based then it's a major flaw. It's just that you have two choices and ones click 
 and point action similar to the asian RPG's such as Guild Wars and the other is WASD move keys. 
 Problems i found is i hate point and click RPG's and the WASD version was sorta a hybrid of both, 
 when i use WASD then i want it to be like every time i click my sword swigns. Instead you click 
 on the enemy once and it locks you into combat, then you click on them again and it brings you 
 out of combat, i found this very annoying due to the habbit of keeping on click thinking it would 
 swing every time i did. The combat system is just very boring and clunky and just horrible feeling, 
 i hated everything about it.
  
  What's even worse is the non intuitive UI that i found it took me ages to get used to, still not 
 100% used to it too. With Oblivion everything just made sense and i loved that, however with The 
 Witcher not so good lol. I don't like how you switch stances, i would have much prefered it just 
 being one button to cycle through them instead of having to hold CTRL z, x or c each time I don't 
 like the inventory which is sooo hard to find stuf in because sooo small pictures and you have 
 to put your mouse over it to see what it is. I also found the character improvement pages to not 
 be intuitive aswel and found it to be quite daunting at first.
  
  Also theres far too many cut scenes in the game which are very needless and i don't understand 
 why the NPC's can't talk to you in game instead of having to keep taking you out of game too. Also 
 it's very annoying being in cities and towns and because the games quite unstable you often get 
 crashes (on a 4gb ram XP 8800gt core 2 duo 6700) and long loading times everytime you go in and 
 out of the houses is very annoying too.
  
  I found the storyline of the Witcher to be great and i wont spoil any of it for you but theres 
 lots of action and romance and sad moments and takes you through all the ranges of emotion. I found 
 the game to be about 50/60 hours long for me and thats a fantastic length specially for a story.
 
  
  The world is beautiful in Thw Witcher and they've done a rgeat job creating it, lots of breath 
 taking places. However it's very linear and i found it a real step back from Oblivion, much more 
 beautiful than Oblivion but i just hate all the invisible walls and not being able to go places 
 when you want. The world seems to have a impact on performance aswel and i can't really see why 
 seeing as games like Crysis run better for me, i'm guessing it just wasn't optimized very well.
 
  
  The sounds and music are all fantastic and personally my fave thing is the fantastic music that 
 really makes the game for me, the guy who created the music really has done a great job. The voice 
 acting and animations on the voice acting arn't very good and thought it was quite bad IMO. Alot 
 of the lip syncing aswel just isn't very good and just becomes annoying.
  
  It has some side quests but not really to Oblivions standard and the game has stuff to craft and 
 lots of items in it but again not to Oblivions standed. hats a repeating pattern here and i wish 
 i never played Oblivion before hand because it's really just set the bar soo high for me. The Witcher 
 is more like KOTOR style rather than Oblivion and for me thats just too linear and restrictive.
 
  
  End of the day The Witcher has a great story and offers alot of choice in the story and has alot 
 of beauty but apart from that theres alot i just don't like. The game is a good game and i enjoyed 
 playing it just the flaws of it really do bring it down.
  
  However this is only my opinion and it's worth giving it a try, just for me, it's not as good as 
 Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doriard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is not bad, but it has a serious flaw that really ruins the game. The story line is interesting 
 and very well developed -- that is one of the best parts about the game, and the graphics are also 
 good. However, the gameplay is very slowwwww....... largely due to the terrible implementation 
 of saves and loads. Even a quicksave is now taking 15 seconds and I have a fairly fast computer. 
 Loads are even worse. I find myself not wanting to save the game or expore new areas because the 
 save and load times are so distracting. The game has to frequently load new areas too, so it's 
 hard to avoid the problem. It is really too bad because the game does have potential, but unless 
 they come out with a patch for the save/load times I don't think I will have the patience to finish 
 this game. I'm having more fun playing Oblivion for the second time.
  
  Other less serious problems are the inability to move around very much in the game. The character 
 is not allowed to jump off even low-height objects or platforms, you can steal villagers goods 
 right in front of them and they don't complain, the speach dialog menu system is somewhat awkard 
 and illogical, if you're waiting for something to happen you can't just wait but instead must find 
 a fire to meditate. Other reviewers have commented on the combat system, so I won't repeat it's 
 awkwardness here.
  
  This action role-playing game needs the have the action part of it fixed, and then it would be 
 a truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zulut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Best 'storyline/plot' of any RPG I have ever played, you really can get into 'character' playing 
 the hero Wolf. Very good original gameplay and layout and I would have given it a 10 if it weren't 
 for the slow save/load times but still a marvelous game. The storyline of this game is great, all 
 the Quests/Sub Quests tie together in every way as the plot continues to evolve. And the uncensored 
 language, at times, is ROFL hilarious. I'm on my 2nd time playing through this game and it just 
 keeps getting better.
  
  The Witcher will set the standard for all RPG's that follow in it's wake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxracing1313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher is an underrated game overshadowed by many larger titles coming out this winter. It 
 is an action-RPG heavily focused on story and character development. It is a near-perfect game 
 marred by a few technical flaws. The game starts off with Geralt of Rivia, the main character, 
 who has lost his memory and is soon discovered by fellow Witchers. You are returned to Kaer Morhen, 
 the witcher headquarters, which is quicky attacked. Apparently these witcher foke have the ability 
 to remain calm in the midst of the equivilent of a 50-foot preying mantis and ~50 bandits. Anyhow, 
 after some quick coordination you are given your first task and are thrown into the action right 
 away. The combat system is quite interesting, it involes left-clicking your opponent to unleash 
 a series of attacks and then left-clicking again when the cursor turns orange to unleash further 
 destruction. You can also parry, jump back, and do a variety of manuvers... unfortunently blocking 
 is not included but that is done automatically. The witcher holds can hold one of two possible 
 swords, silver &amp; steel, the former used on magical/undead/vampies/etc enemies and the latter 
 used on human/elf/dwarf/etc enemies. You can also adapt one of three stances (strength, speed, 
 group) that you must switch to depending on the situation. Finally, as you level up your character 
 you can learn new attacks that will be used each time you click the orange cursor. Overall the 
 combat system is simple but fun and only gets better as you progress. The leveling system consistes 
 of bronze, silver, gold 'medals' you can think of as skill points which can be attributed to either 
 your characters attributes, witcher signs (magic) , sword types, or combat types. Because the different 
 skills require a different type of medal at higher levels it makes sure your character can't get 
 too powerful too quickly which is a nice touch. The journal is very detailed and organizes everything 
 you will need as you progress through the game. Quests can be tracked on the map, character descriptions 
 are stored, formulas &amp; ingredients are labeled in detail, areas of the game are listed &amp; 
 explained, etc. The developers obviously spent a lot of time and the presentation of the game speaks 
 for itself. The story is one for mature audiences but the U. S. version of the game is censored. 
 Its quite funny to see a portrait of the person your having sex with over 3/4 of the scene, obviously 
 which isn't there in the Euro version. Although the story is mature it isn't lacking in depth or 
 quality. Cutscenes are a regular occurence, especially at the start of the game, but they don't 
 detract from the game at all and actually add some action in most of them. A downside is the cutscenes 
 are more demanding graphically then the game itself so you might need to lower graphical quality 
 to make the cutscenes watchable although turning off depth-of-field helps a bit. The story blends 
 racism, greed, power, corruption, lust, &amp; all other human vices into a fantastic plot. Not 
 to mention you can take dialogue with NPCs many different directions which will affect how the 
 actual story progresses. Alchemy is another part of the game important to survival (especially 
 in the harder difficulties) . Books can be purchased describing what plants need to be harvested 
 and formulas can be found which makes knowing which ingredients to find much easier. The mixing 
 system is quite simple but requires you to meditate for the alchemy option to appear on the menu 
 bar. Meditating can seem like a hassel as you need to find a place to rest or find a fire/fire 
 pit but it isn't out of your way or anything. The game runs on the Bioware Aurora 2007 Engine that 
 looks great on high-end machines but also scales back quite nicely on older machines. To run on 
 higher settings you will need an x1800/7800 but it can scale back to a 6600/x600. The game also 
 has some fantastic artwork that you will get a chance to look at while the game loads &amp; loads. 
 Although the game looks fantastic load times are an issue and the game even has a tendency to crash 
 but this is highly unlikely (i. e. once every 10 hours) . The load times are the biggest detractor 
 but that is saying a lot for the quality of the rest of the game as this negative can be easily 
 overlooked by the patient. Sound is absolutely fantastic. While it isn't synced with character 
 animations that can be overlooked as your paying more attention to what is being said rather than 
 who is saying it. The soundtrack is an even bigger plus, it immerses you in the game and never 
 gets annoying at all which is rare in most games (Oblivion music annoyed me for example) . The single 
 player, although I haven't completed it yet, is supposed to last over 40 hours at the minimum so 
 there is no shortage of things to do in The Witcher. Especially if you play it again to choose 
 different options with the NPCs which directly affects gameplay. Overall this is a fantastic underrated 
 RPG that could have GOTY potential if it didn't have those technical issues. It also may take a 
 few non-hardcore RPGers a bit longer to get into as it has a steeper learning curve than say another 
 action-RPG that you can just jump into such as Hellgate: London. Finally there may not be as many 
 item drops as you would expect in an RPG but that is really not what the Witcher is about. It has 
 a fantastic storyline, great combat system, great sound, good dialogue, fantastic presentation, 
 and a solid amount of content which will keep you entertained for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for The Witcher for some time now, and I can say, that the wait was not for nothing. 
 I can safely say that this game is the GOTY in my opinion. An RPG which is a TRUE RPG, unlike some 
 other games which are said to be RPGs but sadly they only have some RPG elements.
  
  The graphics are amazing, and I mean, AMAZING. Stunning and Beautiful. The gameplay is really realistic. 
 Combat system is quite original, and makes it a less of a hash 'n' slash in terms of fighting. 
 Your character is quite unique. Missions given to you aren't just Kill that , Go there etc, which 
 is quite a relief.
  
  A good computer is needed to run the game satisfactory. Apart from a good graphics card (x1950PRO 
 512MB should be sufficient) , 2GB of RAM is needed if out of about 80hrs, you don't wont 20 hrs 
 being loading times. 1GB RAM is bare minimum, don't even try to run it on less RAM.
  
  So to sum it all up..
  
  PROS:
  -Graphics
  -Gameplay
  -World Scenario
  
  CONS
  
 -Long loading times
  -Some technical issues
  
  All in all, it's a fascinating game! A MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTR_IceBerg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher might have been rated 10 if ...
  
  The controls and view camera weren't so clunky. In high isometric view (which gives me the least 
 trouble) the camera auto-centers behind Geralt which makes turning a corner a pain. Also when moving 
 over uneven terrain the whole screen bobs nauseatingly. Keyboard movement doesn't make Geralt run 
 when strafing unless forward is being pressed as well. And if you switch to over the shoulder, 
 the mouse inversion setting will need to be changed.
  
  The combat system was more involving than click the mouse when the cursor has flames. Combat looks 
 incredible with swords and feet flying. I wish they would have copied Oblivion's combat model.
 
  
  The (frequent and necessary) load times didn't take 20+ seconds to complete, or better, were not 
 necessary at all. This is easily the worst feature as many characters are only found inside a building. 
 Just checking if someone is home can take over a minute. It really slows everything down and is 
 a huge, constant frustration.
  
  The voice actors would have been better and some of the script not made of cheese. Many times they 
 would use horribly wrong voice inflections or tones that just did not flow with the rest of the 
 conversation.
  
  
  With that said, here's the good:
  
  Graphics are top-notch
  
  Storyline is interesting and compelling
  
  - Ice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mar044
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  In the past few years the role playing industry has been blessed with alot of new rpgs alot of 
 them coming from the europe and the former ussr, and alot of those have had a mixed reviews but 
 all had more then one thing that made them stand apart is originality, the witcher is one of these 
 games and let me explain why its a rpg you should own.
  
  Gameplay wise it pulls away from the D&amp; D type style of gaming we have seen in the past, swordplay 
 is more involved and you are now more in control of your actions while fighting, the system is 
 kinda like that seen in Jade Empire in which the action is more fast paced and you need to click 
 to attack but you have to time your attacks right and switch combat styles to defeat your foes.
 
  
  The world is rich in story and lore, and you feel like you you are living in the game world, when 
 you get drunk you really get drunk your character will act drunk by the way he moves and your screen 
 has a drunk effect to it. before I go on, the game has been dimmed down, the sex seens arn't there, 
 well for the most part anyway but if thats what you want you can always pick up the uk version 
 like some of us did for the game fahrenheit. This game also has some of the funniest insults npc 
 can say ever that would get me in trouble if i repeat them here so its up to you to find out.
 
  
  Your hero can have 3 weapons that all sway and show up along with up to date item so on so what 
 you put on is what you see, you can't carry weapons on you since you dont have this huge pack but 
 you can carry alot of other items from food to potions to armour so on,
  
  Interface, very clean, ites been a while since i have seen such a pretty artwork for your menus 
 and everything is streamlined so you can get what you need in a moments notice.
  
  Graphics are great, I was shocked when I started playing that this game has some of the same code 
 as neverwinter nights 1 and just looks so good, its been modified that its almost not even the 
 same engine but it really shows the love they put into the game, everything looks real and in place, 
 lighting and gameworld are colourful and yet bleak like eastern europe during the 1200-1400 and 
 the gothic area style shows in the way the buildings and the inn are made, if you don't know what 
 i mean it's more like a northern lodge feel to everything, like you are on the edges of the world 
 and civilized world ends at the next door. you should be advised that even though the game has 
 a engine that has been around you will need a good system to run, even with a system that could 
 run games like world in conflict well, had frame issues if all settings were set on high. Sound 
 is amazing music feels in its place and the world music seems to fit the unforgiving enviroment 
 that this game portrays. voice acting is ok, its not a north american game and thus suffers from 
 some questionable voice acting but it can be looked over
  
  All in all its a great game, the only bad note is that load times are many, now how good your system 
 is will reflect how much this bugs you because a good system won't relfect this as bad as if you 
 had a system that is a few years old, the story is great but some parts make it seem like they 
 skipped a paragraph and try to fill it in the objective menu.
  
  You should get this game, its a great rpg, and with the amount of content and options you have 
 you will be playing it for a good while, please note that its been a while since a rpg has deserved 
 a M rating but this is one that does, heads roll when you cut them off, sex talk and foul language, 
 and alot of adult content shows just how real life 1200 AD was. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willowWisp
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Before I got this game I knew next to nothing about the polish novels or the even game itself. 
 All I had seen were the videos you can find on gamespot about the game-play and that was compelling 
 enough for me to get a copy. In other words I really didn't have much expectations, and I was pleasantly 
 surprised. Let me begin with the bad. The Witcher's biggest flaw is without a shadow of a doubt 
 the very slow loading time, and the fact that the game frequently auto-saves doesn't help the case. 
 I heard they're working on a function that would allow disabling auto-saving, something I would 
 certainly be grateful for. This problem can affect your gaming experience in 2 ways. One, you're 
 often gonna be doing nothing while waiting for areas to load. This can be quite frustrating and 
 boring at times - have a book handy or something when that occurs... Two, you might find yourself 
 avoiding entering houses, caves and such altogether simply to not have to go through loading times. 
 That doesn't make exploration fun...
  
  Another problem I ran into - and this may be due to my craptastic computer so don't hold my words 
 for it - is extremely choppy cut scenes, so much I can miss entire bits of dialogs. Strangely enough, 
 the in-game graphics runs perfectly smooth even with fairly high settings. One thing that is slightly 
 disappointing is the fact that you can't customize the main character all that much other than 
 the abilities he uses. You can distribute points into different skills and attributes depending 
 on the fighting style you prefer. But unlike most RPGs in which you can create a character from 
 scratch, give him/her the name and appearance you want, this game forces you into the shoes of 
 Geralt. But considering the fair amount of lore concerning the character and the witchers, it's 
 an understandable choice made by the game developers. And knowing this beforehand, it's not too 
 hard to accommodate yourself to the character. Okay now that's out of the way, lets review the 
 good. I think the best thing about the game is the figthing system which I find quite innovative 
 and fun. It feels far more natural than the usual button mashing that plagues most action RPGs. 
 Here, you need to time your attack if you want to be effective. Click once to begin your attack, 
 wait until you're ready to swing again then click again (the cursor changes, so you know when to 
 execute your next attack) . Click too soon and you may in fact fail to strike completely, click 
 too late and you will miss an opportunity to make a combo strike and deal greater damage. This 
 isn't all there is though. You can also switch between different styles of figthing: strong, fast 
 and group attack. Choose your fighting style wisely depending on your opponent (s) . You can also 
 use Aard signs which is the Witcher's equivalent of magic. Different signs have different use, 
 some can knock down your opponents, others can incinerate them. Overall, it's fairly simple to 
 rapidly switch in-between these figthing styles and signs during those fast paced battles, but 
 if you're ever overwhelmed or caught off guard you can always pause the game and do the necessary 
 changes, take a potion or do whatever you need to do.
  
  Another interesting thing is, choices matter. Early on you can decide to accompany Triss to the 
 alchemy lab to stop the bad guys from stealing something important or fight along side Vesimir 
 to kill a frightner (big mantis looking monster) that threatens to kill 'em all. Which ever path 
 you choose to follow will affect some events later on. Admittedly, I'm still in Act I and therefore 
 do not know to what extent this can affect the story. The story itself is compelling enough, nothing 
 extraordinarily mind blowing but intriguing nonetheless. As I've said before I'm not all that far 
 in yet so I presume it will develop into something more interesting as you progress. Dialogs are 
 fair. Some of the conversations with minor NPCs can feel a bit awkward and bland sometimes though. 
 It's an action RPG so don't expect grand dialogs ala Bioware here.
  
  Well I think that's it! I'm getting cramps in my hands so I better stop here hehe. Overall, yes 
 it has a few hindering flaws. It definitely could've been be a better game had it not been for 
 the infuriating loading time. But if you can get past the flaws it's a decent fun game worth playing. 
 Not the next masterpiece RPG since BG2 that I've been waiting for (might have to wait till Dragon 
 Age for that) but something to keep us busy until then. :P
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GP1mil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This is an average action RPG, there is hardly any character customization of skill/class building, 
 unlike normal RPG games. This game is pretty linear not open-ended as it should be, there are little 
 quests here and there but its not much and gets old and boring after a bit. The main character 
 seems boring and is very mono tone, nothing to immerse the gamer in the world. Combat is sort of 
 clunky and its really smooth, you have to keep waiting for this sword icon to attack any enemy 
 and if missed the character just stands there taking damage. Story seems so generic, oh no monster 
 have to kill it. Ok its dead lets go to the next village and do the same thing again Not much fun 
 in doing that and lots of find items quest and then make something which is a joke.
  
  Only thing that is going for this game is the graphics, the characters have nice texture models, 
 probably some of the best out at the moment. I would wait until this drops price or hits the bargain 
 shelves as this game has nothing but graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  If your going to make an rpg that works, Atari, CD Projeckt Red did it with The Witcher. They raised 
 the bar for all future rpg designers and developers. The Witcher is hands down the best RPG of 
 2007. Its going to win all kinds of awards , for best graphics, best story line, best cinema, intro, 
 music score, game animation, combat, and voice over. Load times can be a little aggravating at 
 times but a game like this is still worth the wait. Once you start playing this game you wont want 
 to stop. Everything works together to bring you into the story so you feel your role playing and 
 thats what I like most. So turn the lights off and the sound up, get relaxed and get ready to dive 
 into a dark Gothic world of the Witcher. Your going to have to make decisions that will effect 
 the story and the end game.
  The Witcher is one cool dude, your going to enjoy being him and helping him find out who he is 
 and what he needs to do. So get ready to kick back, its going to be a long journey. Pack your bags 
 and leave a note outside the door I wont be home for dinner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clouddw99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  I got very exited when I first read about The Witcher about 8 months ago, being a BIG Rpg fan, 
 i wanted something to fill the gap left by Oblivion. Oblivion was amazing, but now its almost 2 
 years old, Neverwinter Nights 2 was also great but I finished it quickly, and then I waited, and 
 waited..... and waited some more, and then I got my hands on Gothic 3. But what a let down!!!
  
  But finally, The Witcher has arrived people!!! All Rpg fans rejoice! Its in depth story line 
 (non linear!) and beautiful graphics make this an instant classic. You assume the role of Geralt, 
 a witcher (in other words a mutated and genetically altered human monster hunter) suffering from 
 amnesia, suddenly reunited with his fellow witchers who thought him dead for the last couple of 
 years. You start the game out defending one of the last witcher's academies from an unknown and 
 threatening presence lead by a mysterious mage trying to steal the witcher's secrets and mutagens....
 
  
  Now it's your task to unravel the story further... But be warned -hehe- this is highly addictive, 
 and in my opinion the best rpg of 2007 and 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darXoul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Sapkowski's Witcher saga is pretty much the best stuff the fantasy genre has to offer. Violence, 
 love, sex, drugs, politics, racism, war, friendship - the Polish author handles everything with 
 style and wit. It's always coherent, logical and credible, and just incredibly interesting and 
 spiced up with awesome sense of humor on top of that.
  
  The game is no different. It does a really good job at depicting Sapkowski's grim, war-ridden world 
 and its shady, morally ambiguous characters. It's a mature game with no cartoony black or white 
 nonsense. It makes you undertake decisions that are often lesser evil . Decisions which impact 
 the gameplay and story.
  
  To start with flaws, yes, the game has them. After the 1.1a patch, it runs 100% stable on my XP 
 system but it features 3 equally imperfect camera modes, some minor animation issues, frequent 
 loading screens and a messy inventory. Oh, and also a bit too repetitive NPC models.
  
  However, conversations are raw, funny and very entertaining. There are some cool minigames, maybe 
 not Pazzak-quality, but still good (fist fighting, dice poker...) . Geralt is a very interesting, 
 deep and cool character. NPCs are credible and authentic, there are hardly dedicated do-gooders 
 here, or plain, evil to the bone human devils. Quests actually make sense and either fit the main 
 plot or Geralt's profession perfectly. Graphics are amazing, with nice animation, awesome weather 
 effects and wonderful day and night cycle. Who would've thought the old Aurora would be capable 
 of such feats... Music is great, voice acting (at least in the original, Polish version) is just 
 incredibly well done, the story is compelling.
  
  Alchemy, due to the messy inventory, may seem a bit clunky, but it's a real asset. Magic signs 
 are right to the point. Combat is very satisfying and spectacular. It requires timing, and is not 
 a mindless click-them-to-death orgy.
  
  Overall, the game is a beautiful, story driven RPG in a grim, morally ambiguous and credible world. 
 If you liked Fallout or Torment, give Witcher a try. It won't let you down.
  
  A closing word to all loot harvesters out there. Please, don't expect to be able to collect +5 
 shiny plate armors and Holy Avenger swords in the Witcher. It's not this kind of world. It's not 
 Forgotten Realms NWN or Oblivion. Wizards are rare, they protect their secrets, and no one mass 
 produces magic items. Plus, witchers have never been and will never be wizards. Or knights fighting 
 in heavy armors. They are professional monster slayers who learn some basic, raw magic in the form 
 of Signs. They use very light armor, simply because extremely quick beasts would make the heavy 
 mails and plates useless. The game developers wanted to stick with Sapkowski's books, and they 
 did it. Therefore, no +5 magic axes or stat-boosting plate armors in the game. I think it was a 
 perfect move. To see Geralt run around with an axe or mace, and in a plate, would be just apalling. 
 It wouldn't be the witcher anymore. It would be some random hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_n_47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  BEST ARP GAME THIS YEAR NO Doubt. MATCH BETTER THEN STUPID NEWERWINTER NIGHTS 2 AND MORE LIKE FABLE. 
 GREAT STORY LOTS OF PORN AND NUDE BOOBS ,JUST A FEW BUGS BUT ITS REALLY NOT A PROBLEM . AND ITS 
 PLAYS REALLY GREAT ON 8800 GTS CARDS.
  OUTSTANDING GAME AND WORTH PLAYING . 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  AZX ADD AFF FAF GRG GERG GEG GNHJJ JGJGHJF FGHDF GFH G HG GFH HGHGF
  HGFHFH FHGFFGHYUJGHJ JGHJHJG GDFGDFG FDG FGD GFGDG DGDFG
  GFDGD FDGDGDG FGDGD GDG FGD GDGHJ HFHG 
 HGFHH JHJ JHG JHGJ
  JGJG XVXC GDGD HFG NVBV GHFH JGHJ IKHK FHFGH RWT HGF HFHFH FH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjkrogs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't quite sure what to expect from Witcher, though I admit the ads and intro movie released 
 awhile ago really got me excited. What's more is that I had just finished NWN2: MOB, which I thoroughly 
 enjoyed, so I was a bit drained and wasn't sure I wanted to jump right into another epic story. 
 I generally wait for a few reviews to come in, but for whatever reason, I didn't this time and 
 went out and bought it opening day. I'm glad I did. Wow.
  
  While not a perfect RPG, this game has made my top-3 list, all-time, for the genre. The story starts 
 a bit slow, but the good news is that you use that time to figure out the combat mechanics, etc. 
 Soon, however, you're knee-deep in the plot, meeting new characters (some of whom are shaggable) , 
 fighting sea slugs, picking berries, making drugs and having a grand old time.
  
  Much has been made about the loading times between screens, and it is noticeable, but very minor 
 unless you are one of those players that needs to explore every house and hut in the game. Luckily, 
 unlike other RPGs, loot isn't scattered everywhere, so these little excursions are generally fruitless 
 anyway. Stick to the plot, side quests and outside exploration. If it looks like a boring old hut 
 or house, it probably is, and you'll be rewarded with a load screen with only a chicken leg or 
 piece of bread to show for it (yep, you can even eat!) The load screens are partially poor programming, 
 but they're also a result of the excellent graphics pouring through your overclocked cards. Even 
 on medium settings, which seems to help the load screen times a bit, the environments are amazing. 
 Really.
  
  Vista users are experiencing crash issues, so play it with XP for a crash-free experience. I've 
 not had a single issue so far in this area using XP, and that seems to be general rule right now. 
 If you must play with Vista, get the patch, which I understand helps, but another is needed and 
 will come sooner rather than later.
  
  The game is far better than I expected and I'm glad I got it. I love RPGs, and it's just so hard 
 to find a good one anymore. Witcher is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BirdBee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Best RPG game by far, it run smooth, finally a game for the mature, its worth buying this game, 
 do pay for it, i like it alot, alot, i really like it alot, lol
  
  this game is gonna set the new standard for rpg games me thinks, i like how this game has a point 
 to it, i like the girls or whores, dude i don't have 100 words, the game is great now okay, i like 
 it alot, alot, i really like it alot, lol
  
  this game is gonna set the new standard for rpg games me thinks, i like how this game has a point 
 to it, i like the girls or whores, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfrattini
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  First, an RPG has to include a certain range of player customization which is completely missing 
 here, Including skills and abilities.
  Second : it is not an open game but a (pretty well covered) sequential one, not to compare with 
 masterpieces like Oblivion or Gothic.
  Then, long loading time every new building or cave you enter exit or go up-down. This was not a 
 problem anymore in many other recent titles.
  Fights are not smooth, having to wait for an icon to appear over a Mob in order to hit is not natural 
 playing.
  Last but not least the UI is not intuitive : inventory page, quest and potion screens are confusing, 
 I think they could have been draw better and give a more 'profession' look and feel.
  
  On the other end, graphic is amazing and the environment very attractive... unfortunately not enough 
 for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ford_troy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Outstanding graphics, isometric camera takes some getting used to. But over the shoulder combat 
 makes for some intense fights.
  -The characters portrayed are lively (although sometimes stiff) , consisting of many well drawn 
 individuals who's alliances are often shakey at best.
  -Story seems to not only want you to know Geralt's tale but fuels your desire for action, and delivers 
 every time.
  -Music that will set the mood for your current endeavours even while loading (Zzz) , simply great 
 music.
  -Babes, distractions, atmospere, realistic, alcohol infused fun, and monterous!
  Cons:
  -Loading... ... ... Zzz ... Even on a high end machine (though running flawlessly) it 
 will take some time out of your adventuring schedule. Enjoy an adult beverage and take a second 
 to stretch, or hemorrhage from the inturruptions.
  -Almost invasive requirement to complete set tasks before moving onto something else (A. D. D. player) , 
 although it's not my story to tell.
  -The interface could have been set in 2 different catergories... frequently used, and not so much... 
 instead of stop what your doing and view everything all at once. Make sure you take your time to 
 absorb the information you are seeing, or else your adding onto the lackluster and not thinking 
 like a Witcher!
  -Those of you who are crashing... check your drivers, check your peripherals and other running 
 programs... check www. thewitcher. com for v1.1. Enough said.
  
  Opinions:
  After playing completely through the first chapter I'm convinced this game has all the right stuff. 
 If the story holds (like it has held my attention) we're all in for a long hard ride. By Difficulty: 
 Hard what I mean is that you will be hard pressed to combat your enemies without your full attention. 
 Macro lovers beware... The difficulty is only determined by your ability to concentrate, prepare, 
 and anticipate your enemies. Which is as enjoyable as swing your steel sword at some monsters rotten 
 little face!
  
  ford_troy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordon5000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  At last a game which is as good visually as my xbox 360, this and bioshock are far better than 
 most average pc games which seem to be made for consoles and the pc version are shoddy.
  
  This though is great ........ plus the music and visuals really add to the atmosphere. But better 
 than that the way you can create potions etc. is all done for you if you have the right ingredients 
 and missions can all be review and selected so you don't waste 2 hours trying to find out were 
 you should be going.
  
  Can't find any faults with this game......... lets hope they make another one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are a Witcher. One of only 4 left in the world. You are sent to stop an evil villian 
 as you recover and try to recollect your past...
  
  Graphics: Very Pretty. Not a lot of high Specs needed either.
  
  Audio: Decent, Voice-Overs 
 are obviously Foreign (Polish Made Game)
  
  Missions: So So Many.
  
  Controls: Customizable, Camera work is good also.
  
  Features: Alchemy, Skills, Many weapons 
 and different styles to them, Easy to use/grip combat, Gripping Story.
  
  A. I.: It's an RPG so it isn't the greatest but an array of options to take.
  
  Loading Times: 
 Oh. My. God. So. Many. Loading. Screens. If you play an hour, 15-20 minutes of that can consist 
 of loading. No lie. Tried to turn down the settings but it barely effected the long loading times.
 
  
  Multiplayer: None.
  
  Requirements: Medium High.
  
  Weapons: Mainly use Steel Witcher Sword (for Humans) and Silver (to kill Creatures) and two other 
 slots for torches, and other smaller weapons.
  
  The Good: In Depth Gameplay that parallels The Elder Scrolls and is just as long.
  
  The Bad: 
 Loading Times. Loading Times. Loading Times.
  
  The Ugly: Boss Creatures after you show them who is boss.
  
  Replay Ability: Medium High.
 
  
  The Bottom Line: A surprise hit for most and shows how good a PC exclusive RPG can be. Waiting 
 for TES V? Buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qasim_mahmood
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is just classic. I havent played it much but as much ive played it, i loved every 
 bit of it, every thing of this game is great. A world is created in which u indulge and do not 
 stop thinking about it even u doing something else. I loved it and totally worth playing for every 
 RPG or action fan. A few flaws which other tell that long loading times and crashes, when u play 
 this game you wont notice it much becase this game gives u lot of pleasure that you forgets everything 
 else. Before playing this game i hated playin RPG becuse those i thoght are total waste of time 
 but this game is worth wasting time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stefan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  I have been craving a good old fashioned RPG on the PC for a while now. Sure, Mass Effect will 
 probably be good on the X360 but I miss taking my laptop to a comfy couch and fiddling with potions 
 and spells until the wee hours of night. I never heard of the Witcher until a friend pointed it 
 out. I checked the game out and got quite interested. The type of story and world it is set in 
 are suitably dark and sinister for my taste and from what I saw of the game, it looked very appealing. 
 When it came out this week I downloaded it off gamersgate and after the usual PC voodoo (that is 
 why I love console games!) I got it to run. I have been playing it since and so far I am loving 
 it. The game is very cinematic, the main character interesting and inspiring and the world dark 
 and violent, exactly as the game is described.
  The area I have been playing so far (Act I) is peaceful during the day and monster-infested at 
 night. This means during daytime you can go around exploring the area, talking to the various characters, 
 collecting ingredients for potions and generally getting ready for a night of monster ass-kicking. 
 The combat system delivers the goods, I really like the chaining of sword attacks. One moment Geralt 
 is ambling along a dark forest path, minding his own business, the next he is spinning and twirling 
 around, hacking and slashing in glorious fury. I don't know who came first, Drizzt or Geralt but 
 they sure are alike. Not a bad thing mind you.
  The good things about this game so far are the atmosphere, the combat system and dark, cynical 
 humor. It has bad things too, load times are abysmal (you need to be patient to play this game) 
 and inventory management could have used a bit more work. Brewing potions is a major game component 
 but without any meaningful organisation to the many alchemical ingredients, you again need lots 
 of patience to get the results you want.
  The game has many influences, going back to Baldur's Gate which is not surprising given the Bioware 
 engine it uses. There are also bits of Fallout, adult themes like drug use, sex and racism are 
 not shied away from. I see a bit of Planescape Torment as well with the dark humor and general 
 undead-ness of it all.
  Graphically it looks good, I don't have the meanest rig on the planet but my dual core 2GB pentium 
 laptop with Nvidia 8600GT video card running Vista does an admirable job on medium detail settings. 
 It seems to be fairly stable, it has a few weird slowdowns at times and it crashed once so far 
 during about 5 hours of game play. If you are a fan of classic PC RPGs and want some dark, gritty 
 fantasy action, Witcher is not a bad choice at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumeiwan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Upon starting the game, the first thing that caught my attention was that big splash screen of 
 HD gameplay . The second thing that caught my attention was the Intro movie showing Geralt (A. K. A 
 White Wolf / Main Character) . Preparing for a fight against a Striga. The whole movie was captivating, but 
 that doesn't mean it's an great game so i hastily started the game as soon as i finished watching 
 the 10 minute long movie.
  
  Tutorial was covered during the start of the game's story so the learning curve is pretty short. I 
 can't exactly say that the story's deep but for an RPG of this decade, i'd say that the story content 
 is pretty much good for me.
  
  The game brings in quite a oblivion's feeling with a pinch of Lord of the ring's ambience to it. Even 
 though it had an Elder's scroll's feeling to it, i seriously think that the game arts are alot 
 more realistic.
  
  Like all the RPGs we have in this decade, the witcher featured Alchemy. But unlike the other RPGs, alchemy 
 is really an essential tool to help you finish this game unless you played easy mode.
  
  Another feature is the journal. Whatever information you come across will be recorded in the journal 
 for you to refer later which is great for me because this shows how much details they're into.
 
  
  The combat system isn't perfect but quite entertaining compared to the other RPGs. It keeps one 
 from falling asleep. Another feature made used of the combat system, which is the Inn's fist brawl 
 for money mini game. Using the same way you fought monsters, but with the choice of only using your 
 fist. However, chaining combos like what you did with the monsters aren't as easy in the fist brawls. The 
 timing is more precise and intervals are shorter.
  
  There're some obvious flaws in the game but the overall fun of the game will take you away from 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s1401
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I don't like RPG's but I'm Polish so i checked what my homies did... and I'm amazed !!! After few 
 other Polish title I was radder sceptic about it, but after two hours any doubt gone. It's really 
 great game. I have no comparison because it's my first RPG but after this title i think it will 
 not be last one.
  There are no many games with Polish voices but this is Made in Poland so there should be and there 
 are. And it's not just some voices. Now i can understand all you native English gamers talking 
 about climate. Great game, great history, graphics, music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danisheraser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Greatest RPG I've played to date! And I have played BG2, BG1, Plane Scape etc. etc. These polish 
 guys really know how to string together a perfect roleplaying game, there must be many companies 
 out there who envy their creativity.
  You quickly feel completely swallowed by the very rich story. CD Project haven't been wasting their 
 time with this game. There has been taken care of many small details, and especially those that 
 require players to be just a little mature. Some would say that graphics are subpar to Crysis and 
 the other new games out there, but for a roleplay game with such a good gameplay and story, it 
 is better than good enough (the movies and cutscenes are super!) .
  
  Well hope you'll buy The Witcher, sit back and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lusingando66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Briliant old School RGP a mix of diablo1 baldursgate fable and oblivion
  I like that A-LOT not just hack and slash but 3 fighting skills.
  
  witcher he is cool hope 
 there vill be a witcher two
  i like the humor in the quest and love to slash my enemy's to Sish Kabab.
  the graphic design 
 is dark and not like wow cartoon graphic Yup i do not
  like wow all mye friends play it way nok play other games like Witcher
  No no no they dont know 
 what is good old school gameplay... WOW &amp; NWN2 get out of town :D
  The Witcher is the king in my domain
  Yup ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cryfreedom66
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing oblivion pretty much since it came out this game will take its place. Good 
 graphics, great environment. It almost feels like oblivion mixed with S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Protagonist 
 is bada** and interesting and so is the story. A few bugs but nothing gamebreaking. AI animations 
 are believable although NPC textures are reused taking away from realism. The score is perfect 
 for the atmosphere of a war torn world. Creatures are diverse and challenging. The journal makes 
 the world more believable and is worth reading. All together this game is near perfect and I am 
 extremely relieved to have a game come out and live up to the hype... thats too rare these days. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TranceRaccoon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Combining the essences of Fable and Oblivion together in an immersive world , this action RPG immerses 
 the player in a world of conflict. As Geralt, one of the last remaining witchers in the world, 
 essentially a genetically enhanced bounty hunter, you trek across the lands in search of a mysterious 
 mage, and in doing so, providing your assistance to all of those around you. Innovatively, the 
 actions you take in assisting these folk, can alter the very game itself, proving that when making 
 a decision even in Geralt's life, there are always double-sided consequences to one's own path. 
 So if you're a fan of either Fable or Oblivion, or you just plain love the action RPG series. The 
 Witcher is a must-get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  No game is a perfect 10 in my mind, but this one prolly comes about 9.8 to being one. I was astonished 
 at this RPG. Expecting something along the lines of the standard point n click isometric Bioware 
 rpg like Neverwinter, Balder's Gate, etc. And I was just shocked to get something at long last 
 that vaults past those previous styles and creates the most interestomg and unique fantasy to date. 
 First Controls have to be admired. Why cant Bioware or Obsidian EVER get their Camera System worked 
 out. This is the way it should be done. Its PERFECT. With 3 camera views that perfectly work better 
 than any game like this before. All the controls are extremely smooth. The environments never feel 
 like a tileset piece of generica. But painstakingly crafted. You feel like your roaming in a large 
 open world full of life happening around you. The NPCs even fully react to you, sometimes even 
 following you. They even move to get out of the rain. Although you cant jump which I always hate, 
 You can actually drop off some small ledges or climb up them. It never feels too boxed in like 
 most all Bioware games that just remove you from the gameworld. Witcher puts you right into it.
 
  
  The storyline is constantly interesting. Their is so much LORE in this game, its overflowing. Every 
 item, person, place has story that goes into your Journal with tons of details. Many books, events, 
 and conversations lead to learning new abilities. Its VERY worthwhile to explore the world. So 
 many details to find. Theres just a constant stream of suprises that are different from all previous 
 RPGs to stumble on. Great cutscenes that go beyond the engine.
  
  Combat is a blast, its wierd at first.. but its very fast and fun once you learn the strategy behind 
 it, which there is a great deal of tactics to use between using your abilities, dodging, and executing 
 chains. All animation in the game is beautifully motion captured, even alot of the animals seem 
 to be motion captured with astonishing detail.
  
  Music is among the best you'll hear in any game, Awesome Ambient Sounds n FX, the dialogue is great. 
 Garret is really an interesting character who says the kind of things you wish all characters in 
 games would say. Hes a bit like Snake in Metal Gear in this sense. He's always up for charming 
 the women, and has a hard serious edge about him that never feels cheesey. This is dark fantasy 
 like Elric or The Black Company and its really refreshing.
  
  Throw away all your misconceptions and get your hands on this and try it out. Within 10 mins into 
 the game you will be blown away and it just gets better. Ive only played about 10 hours and prolly 
 got about 40 more to go. But I can see this level of interest and detail will continue throughout. 
 The designers seriously show total love of RPG gameing in making this, they thought of all the 
 usual exploits people use to cheapen these kinds of games too, like running out of the instance 
 in the middle of battle, it wont let you do that. But you can run. And when the lights go out. 
 They really go out, it pitch black but the whites of your eyes. You really have to use torches 
 or vision spells for once. Its actually scarey at times being thrust into total darkness. I cant 
 say enough details about Witcher without filling a book. But I dont think Ill be able to go back 
 and finish NWN2 or Two Worlds after playing this. Gothic 3 I will though. But I cant wait to see 
 what great future the Witcher series has. It sets a new RPG standard of quality.
  
  Oh I forgot to mention. There are a couple of great mini games throughout Witcher that are outstanding. 
 Unlike any cheap mini games in other games. Like Poker using Dice is really indepth and interesting. 
 Boxing is fun too, and I believe there will be more. They really suprise you with the depth and 
 how they effect the gameplay and story too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andreas133
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Haven't still finished it, but so far i find it great, can keep you glued on it till your eyes 
 close or you finish it. Hard to get off because of the nice detailed world and animation they got 
 in. And the storyline is great , although it could use some more polishing as some points.
  
  But in general, i would recommend this to any rpg fan. And i would also think abotu recommending 
 it to ppl who never tried rpg games cause as i said, it can get you glued on your chair for hours. 
 Tha controls are refreshing since it's not the boring Click or double-click and wait till you kill 
 the monster, you actually take part in the fights using your mouse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hankus18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  A game based on decisions that not only affect some of the story but they affect the whole game 
 play. I finished the Witcher it took me over 60 hours and i fell very pleased about it. I enjoyed 
 a very moment of it. And will play it again soon.
  
  The Graphics implemented in the game look more like paintings not actual 3d models and it looks 
 awesome!!!!!!!!!!! very epic and beautiful.
  
  Combat is made more for the moves than the actual game play, To me it did not brought me a challenge, 
 playing in hard level it was too easy. enjoyable though.
  
  the story really makes you part of it, like writing a book, strong point in the game.
  
  The 
 character development made different and original.
  
  the atmosphere is very dark and gothic i loved it.
  
  Sound is perfect. XD!!
  
  Some minor 
 bugs but nothing serious.
  
  For all i give the witcher a 9.5, Awesome game, very original and hope it opens some new ideas 
 for the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgrezak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Combining brilliant art direction with very well executed combat, this is one game you shouldn't 
 miss. It has some flaws (load times, sometimes confusing narration) but overall for every flaw 
 there are at least three great elements. Take a decent story, one of the most charismatic antiheros 
 ever (you can compare only with Kratos but here our protagonist speaks a lot more) , throw in a 
 bunch of fully fleshed npcs to interact with and place them in a world crafted with almost mind 
 numbing attention to detail and this is what you get. Did I mention you can affect game world with 
 your choices in a meaningful and impossible not to notice way? Very refreshing, yet true to the 
 genre, attempt to revitalize rpg games in post mmorpg era. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STARS_Splinter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  The Witcher. Another pretender to the RPG crown, a game trying to tread that hallowed ground of 
 immersive, mature and engaging whilst remaining fun. And, for the most part, it suceeds. The game 
 follows the story of Geralt, a Witcher (hence the title, believe it or not) , who are basically 
 professional monster-slayers. No, come back, don't stop reading there. Yes, it sounds like the 
 premise of a bog-standard action RPG so far. But bear with it. Because, you see, Geralt isn't just 
 any old Witcher. He's the White Wolf, legendary amongst Witchers. He's also forgotten most of his 
 past, like exactly what happened to him during the Great War a few years ago. He's rather fed up 
 with his lot, and his lot only gets worse when his friends are attacked by a group of unknown assassins, 
 who kill several of his friends and make their escape with some of the famous Alchemical recipies 
 of the Witchers. He's the type of guy who's seen everything the world has to offer, and nothing 
 really surprises him any more- he knows its a bleak place, and its not up to him to do anything 
 about it.
  
  The plot follows Geralt's quest to uncover the identities of the assailants and track them down, 
 and along the way he'll find himself thrown into a lot of other problems and situations. Yes, there'll 
 be fighting, and plenty of it. But there's also a fair bit of investigation, some general adventuring, 
 and a slew of people to meet and things to do. Yes, the Witcher treads similar ground to that which 
 Bioware's KOTOR and Jade Empire games trod before, presenting you with moral choices to shape your 
 path. But the Witcher's aren't so clear cut as the Light Side, Dark Side argument. For Geralt, 
 its more often a case of siding with the lesser evil, then dealing with the consequences. And there 
 will be consequences. One of the games main strengths is its ability to dynamically change the 
 way the story unfolds based on earleir actions- and I don't just mean the outcome of a conversation. 
 No, your decisions can have much longer-term consequences, and often you won't have any idea what 
 these might be when you make the decision- or even that the decision might affect anything at all. 
 And that, really, is how it should be - how often in life can you forsee where your choices will 
 take you? When coupled with the morally ambiguous world that the Witcher inhabits as well, where 
 your decisions really aren't a clear cut good / evil choice, these make for interesting situations 
 that ensures that you'll never have the same game experience twice. But lets veer away from the 
 story a little, to consider another important factor: just how the game plays. The Witcher uses 
 an active combat model thats more familiar to action rpgs than traditional roleplaying games; Geralt 
 has a variety of combat styles which he can switch between on the fly to suit the situation. Combat 
 controls are pretty easy; a double tap of a movemebt key (or double click on the ground if you're 
 playing with the top-town camera, more on that later) makes Geralt dodge aside, and a left-click 
 on an enemy initiates a brief combo. For a fuller attack, you'll need to click again at just the 
 right time to string together more hits, in a manner thats more remniscent of the combo chains 
 of Phantasy Star Online than anything else I can think of. These chains automatically incorporate 
 parries and ripostes as well, which can lead to an odd feeling of distance from the actual combat, 
 but it all comes together to create a very flowing battle system that delights in throwing enemies 
 at you that require different styles and skills to defeat. The Right mouse button, by the way, 
 is used for casting spells, of which there are precious few which you'll need to unlock as you 
 progress.
  
  Visually, The Witcher is striking, if not stunning. The towns and landscapes are full of minute 
 detail, as are the character models, which are some of the finest I've seen. Lighting and dynamic 
 weather effects are also particularly good, although the visuals are let down by some odd, wooden 
 animations in dialogue sequences and poor lip synching. The re-usage of character models also gets 
 old fast, and whilst each is lovingly detailed there could really use to be more of them. Holding 
 ther game up equally well thoguh is the sound; celtic-themed orchestral scores accompany the majority 
 of the game, and the voicework- of which there is quite a lot- is mostly very well done. Geralt 
 inparticular suits his gruff, gravelly voice.
  
  The game isnt without its flaws, however, Some iffy trabnslations marr the dialogue, and the inventory 
 system is cumbersome at best, with no easy way to sort or even identify the myriad components you'll 
 be collecting for brewing potions and poultices. The game can also be quite obtuse with its direction, 
 forcing you to peer through your journal to work out what you should be doing next. These are minor 
 flaws though, and hopefully might be addressed in a future patch. As it stands, however, The Witcher 
 is still a solid roleplaying experience thats different enough to warrant a look, even if you're 
 growing tired of western rpgs. It'll keep you hooked for quite some time, and has enough character 
 that you'll want to see more of what it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorza
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short:
  
  The good:
  - charismatic main character,
  - great, innovative story, which you can change with your decisions. it makes you want to play 
 it second time
  - music, graphics
  - innovative combat system
  - really sucks you in
  - dialogues !
  - atmosphere is just like in Sapkowski's books
  
  The bad:
  - bugs
  - 
 camera can be sometimes annoying
  - loading times are a bit too long
  - inventory, where almost every item looks the same
  - repetitive character models
  
  Summary:
 
  Although bugged, it's a great RPG, that can take away several days of your life. Hope new patches 
 will get rid of the bugs making it as good as it deserve to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudu123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Great all around game, graphics are nice the sounds is vary good also
  
  as far as the sstem problems I have not had any yet. 3 years ago my system was kind
  
  FX-55 
 2.6
  1g ram
  256mg x800xt
  24in monitor I have the game set to 1900-1200 rez and most everything on high, i will have to wait 
 and see in the ultra pop zones whats happens, but great so far. I like the combat a lot but wish 
 there was more to the sword fighting then just a few clicks. If you whant a real good and fun game 
 get ths now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedited255
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge RPG addict! There's nothing i enjoy more than playing through an immerse story filled 
 with interesting characters and emotional storylines. I also believe it's the hard decisions that 
 make the game fun! For instance, do you save the hostage that's in the burning building or do you 
 chase after the villain preventing him from harming anyone else.
  
  The Witcher is an example of a fun action-rpg that offers not only a good story but lots of things 
 to do. Get tired of sword fighting? Go to the inn and try your hand at fist fighting. Or maybe 
 see how well you can drink someone under the table. Want an edge over your opponent? Try crafting 
 some potions and building up your alchemy skills. All of these on top of the imersive story which 
 offers immense consequences makes give this game hours of play time.
  
  The game also looks great and characters look very alive even though sometimes they just stand 
 there like stick figures. The faces are incredibly detailed and help add a little bit of depth 
 to each character you meet so everyone doesn't look identical to each other.
  
  last but not least, the combat system. While i tend to perfer the turn based combat i found this 
 to be alot of fun and really exciting. The game is playable from both an 3rd person over-the-shoulder 
 mode and with using only the mouse (i perfer 3rd person in combat while using mouse-mode for moving 
 around) . You have 3 sword styles each required for use in different situations as well as Magic 
 Signs which help when overwhelmed by a mob of enemies.
  
  It's a shame you can't weild two swords at the same time but aside from that it's a great game 
 that anybody who loves PC-RPGs should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korpaps
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics and sounds. The story is interesting and i like the main character. Loading times 
 are a big problem, there is also pretty much bugs.
  The fights are pretty well done and leveling up is cool too. The loading times are very depressing 
 some times, when you want to go in house and then back it will load pretty long. The same problem 
 is on high-end machines too. I hope they patch this. I really hope, that CDPROJEKT will do more 
 of these kind of games. Very impressive work from CDPROJEKT. I haven&acute; t read those books but 
 this game makes me want to read them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurutree
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Granted the load times are, well.... lets say catastrophic at times. This game sucks you into the 
 story like I have never seen before. Its just beautiful to look at, and a joy to explore. It has 
 a very adult feel to it - no cartoonyness or lack of realism. I really like how they try to explain 
 magic and monsters in more of a scientific and scifi way. It is more believable because of this. 
 The charachter development is complex and fascinating, and the combat is challenging and fun. I 
 haven't played very long yet, but I would recommend buying this game immediately. It is destined 
 to set the bar for all RPG's in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TweetyLeaf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Wont write long text coz i want back to play.
  I cant see anything wrong in this game the bad side&acute; s are purely technical (couple of CTD&acute; s, 
 long loading times) which might be understandable because this is after all CDProjektRED&acute; s 
 first game that they developed.
  Improvements can be ofc done but there is no such thing as perfect game.
  If you tolerate those 
 technical flaws you will enjoy the game if you are an RPG&acute; er that enjoys immerse and black 
 fantasy.
  Some people said that not being able to create the character is bad thing. In this game the character 
 couldnt in my opinion be created and that would actually be a bad thing becouse the main character 
 is so well made and thought out it hugely increases the feel of the dark settings.
  The game definitelydeserves its k-18 mark and i wouldn't let my own kid play this before age 17-18. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shappy1010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  RPGs often fall short in trying to accomplish too much (Gothic 3) , trying to appeal to a larger 
 audience, bypassing hard core RPG players (Oblivion) , or build upon the success of it&acute; s predecessor 
 (NWN2) . Around comes the Witcher, arguable the best RPG in years, you play the role of a single 
 character who needs to rid the world of monsters, bandits and what have ya, problem is our Gerald 
 lost his memory, thus all that training and experience he has done over the years has gone to waste 
 and he has to start from scratch again. The story is immersive to say the least. This is not some 
 geek programmer who thought this all up, but the game is based on the works of a Polish fantasy 
 novelist. The result is an extremely mature and deep story with complex characters and themes such 
 as downright racism between races such as elves and dwarves. Gerald is one of the coolest gamecharacters 
 ever, neither being good or downright evil, he walks the fine line of a man often doing the right 
 thing, but his acts are often motivated by an egocentric self interest. Graphically The Witcher 
 shines, it&acute; s hard to imagine this game running on the Aurora NWN1 engine looks much better 
 then NWN2. Music is excellent, never sounding repetitive and capturing the dark mood of the game. 
 It&acute; s hard to find anything I didnt&acute; l like in The Witcher, some of the NPCs look simular 
 often making it a bit confusing to see the same person with a different name and voice, but this 
 is partly due to the fact they are so expressive and detailed. Loading time can be a bit long, 
 often because of the autosave feature which cannot be turned, but all of this is overwhelmed by 
 a wonderful game anyone remotely interested in RPGs should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  The game is just so addictive, whilst it does not offer anything particularly new, what it does 
 offer is solid and very much fun. Galt is probably one of coolest heroes/anti heroes i have played.
 
  The only thing that i found annoying were some of the loading times which could take up to 20-30 
 seconds. I dont think this is system specific as i have a very powerfull rig running 2X 8800gts 
 640mb each running in SLI mode. With OC quad intel 6600 running at 2.9ghz amd 2 gigs of ram. So 
 it must be the way the game load and unloads the graphics.
  
  In all a wonderfull game and a must buy !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuSSoL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  So i have waited for this game quite some time now, and when i finally got it and played it for 
 couple hours, i can say it's one of the finest RPGs ever, last time i had so much fun playing was 
 with Oblivion. In the witcher Graphics are really nice for your eye, with beautiful views and design 
 for houses, npc and unique monsters you don't see in other games. Sword fight is awesome to look 
 at, especially when you perform long combos with slow motion. Story is interesting, making you 
 want to play more and more to find out what happens next, quests are fun and well done. There are 
 some animation bugs and others, but nothing that cripples gameplay and they just fade away and 
 stop bothering after some time. I give it only 9.5/10 for those bugs : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Hmm wow yah, didnt really expect to like this game as much as i do, took me about 45 mins to an 
 hour to get a feel for it and really start to get into the game. I say true RPG because unlike 
 recent ones like Oblivion, or Gothic3 etc. this has a fairly strict yet widely varied main plot 
 line that you cant stray from too far. That is to say you cant just go off wandering and do what 
 ever the heck ya want. You develope your character and make choices that affect the game, as well 
 as the developement of you (Geralt) amnesia blah blah u know the routine. I was pretty impressed 
 actually in how good of a job they did in making it still fun even though its more linear than 
 a free roaming game. There are still places to go exploring and what not though. lots of lil mini 
 games that are fun.
  
  Graphics, Very good, not the best but definately good.
  
  Sound, again Very good, not the best but right up there.
  
  Gameplay, kind of a NeverwinterNights2 
 on steroids yet much funner, its got a kind of under the hood semi turn based gameplay its hard 
 to describe, you dont just hack and slash yet you dont just click and wait. You chain together 
 attacks, and dodging etc. is all done automatically. Bottom line it works.
  
  Downsides: Well the load times while not bad (40 seconds TOPS for the big loads) can be frequent 
 and will cause u to not wanna go into every house and cave you see simply cause you dont wanna 
 wait for loading again.
  
  The sex.... Came off a bit dorky to me... Basically there are plenty of women you get to 'do' followed 
 by some romancy music and then some picture of a topless chic, they vary.
  
  Definately not a game for the kiddies lots of profanity, nudity. None bothered me though.
  
 
  GREAT GAME buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RagnarBloodAxe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  They start off the game very well. I like the movie and how they introduce you to the combat system.
 
  
  The combat system and camera were a little odd in the beginning, but you'll grow to either tolerate-accept-like. 
 I myself am between accept-like.
  
  The story is great! The books they based the game from must have been excellent. Compared to Hellgate: 
 London... well there's no comparison. Hellgate will be for the multiplayer people, but if you're 
 looking for a good single player RPG in my opinion, I would suggest The Witcher.
  
  
  I bought the game an hour ago and I'm happy with my purchase. I hope it stays the same or even 
 better throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tollers
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Simply wonderful rpg. This is what I have been waiting for for sooooo very long. I have yet to 
 find a single player game that I can play through, until now :) MMO's have taken hold of me but 
 TW makes you feel as if you are part of this unique world. Worth the buy and great fun. As far 
 as bugs, glitches, etc. not a one! I have a decent rig but nothing to bring home to mama ;) Everything 
 is hitting on all fours in TW. This is waht NWN2 should of been but was far away from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marlu28
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The Witcher this plays on which I waited !! From there was no so interesting and good game RPG 
 . Pictures themselves and films from the game already made the large impression treat just the 
 full version of the game shows with what we have the contact. The nice surprise really makes the 
 appearance of the game after installation of game first the graphics is the sensation , you can 
 see that creators tried about all details and the imitation the world about which one can read 
 in the book. Music in the game this also the masterpiece I did not hear so well long ago composed 
 and fitting to the climate game. Congratulations for the team CD Project RED for the splendid game 
 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awsomaha
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is awesome. It has good graphics, good game play and story. The only major issues 
 I have are the load time between screens. Sometimes I avoid going into house just so I don't have 
 to wait for the load back into the world, and the reuse of the NPC images. I keep seeing the same 
 ones over and over again, which gets a little old. But as for the quests and how you have to learn 
 things is very creative and I for one enjoy this game. It is what an action RPG should be, granted 
 I've only made it to ACT II so I know I still have a lot to go, will maybe update when done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPayneJr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Before i begin i would like to quickly discuss the use of the word linear. You see it all the time. 
 Usually used negatively to express a game forcing the player to do this or a lack of choice. But 
 doesn't anyone (besides me) feel that the word linear is being used too much now? Its seems every 
 game that forces you to follow a storyline and isn't a sandbox rpg gets labeled Linear by some 
 guy on an online review. In this game your character choice is non-negotiable. You play Geralt 
 a witcher. There is no choice and even if you play through the entire game your Geralt will be 
 inevitably similar to my Geralt. But is linearity really all that bad? If you played through FEAR 
 or some other linear game and it didn't tell you where to go or set appropriate guild lines wouldn't 
 you be a little disorientated? And doesn't any game and that sets up a completely non-linear format 
 sacrifice something in return? It doesn't let the developers set-up scripted and atmospheric effects 
 nearly as well, if have any. The Witcher is for people that want to be a part of the Witcher world 
 and play it through the Eyes of Geralt. Its not for people that want to spend 100 hours playing 
 an elf doing sidequests before starting the main quest. Its about the tale of him. The scripted 
 cinematic dialogues are for people that WANT to listen to them and be apart of a story not a full 
 action game. Another thing is why doubt The witchers validity as an RPG. Just because customization 
 is limited doesn't mean you are still playing a game that puts you in the role of Geralt. If you 
 want to be a part of a story and a part of the witcher world play this game. If you want action 
 games that encourage you to skip the cut scenes so you can still play or if you want a game thats 
 lets you run around the forest as a character you created don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton_es
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  feels more like those old **** quest games where you have inventory, quests, sidequests and minigames 
 but can't do all you want oblivion style. which is great imo and personal taste, makes the story 
 much more engrossing and my motiviation to keep playing unparalelled by any other game in the last 
 4 years. having different moral choices which have really deep repercussions thru-out the storyline 
 is excellent (take that BioShock) and I really like the time-based combat. It won't be anybodys 
 choice but if you wanna experience a good story, presentation and most important for me: atmosphere 
 this game is for you. there is just no part which really stands out as bad. RECOMMENDED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stiler
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best rpg/adventure I've played in years. The atmosphere of the setting, the 
 quest lines, the voicework and dialogue are all very well done for the most part. Especially for 
 the main character, Geralt.
  
  The combat is more hands on then your usual rpgs, though there are a few problems where you seem 
 to just not attack when you click for some reason (read the official boards, many people are having 
 this problem) but it doesn't happen too often for me so it's not a huge deal. There's a ton of 
 skills to learn, I mean you literally have like 5 tier's of skills for every combat stance (six 
 total, 3 for each of your two swords) then 5 tier's for all your signs, then 5 for all your attributes 
 (Sta/dex/int/str) . So many to learn and some that sound great too. I went mostly with Dex so far 
 because of the skills that just sounded fitting for the type of character I want to build (IE deflect 
 arrows, higher dodge, etc) .
  
  Speaking more of the atmosphere of the game and characters. The game, even though it features dwarves 
 and elves, is told in a much more realistic/gloomy matter, not your usual high fantasy stuff. The 
 dwaves/elves are treated as outsiders and lower class of humans and racism among other things you 
 will see throughout the game. The characters themselves are brought to life with some overall good 
 voicework (some can be cheesy at times, but not too often) which just goes to show how far a good 
 writer (for the dialogue) and voice actor can take a game that much further. Some models are used 
 over and you will notice clones, even sometimes standing right beside each other. However after 
 you get into the game this won't be an eyesore really as the characters you converse with and talk 
 to are generally very well done.
  
  The world itself has a more late middle-ages Germanic countryside feel to it. Some great time of 
 day effects that are not only cosmetic but actually affect things in the world, such as monsters 
 that only appear at night or when it's raining as well as npc's seeking cover from rain.
  
  The world itself is filled with more mature things that rpg's have been lacking since games like 
 Fallout/Daggerfall/Baldur's gate left the scene. You'll encounter the things you'd expect, Violence, 
 sex, coarse language among more importantly, the storylines and context of the world and characters.
 
  
  I have only a few minor gripes in the whole so far. The lack of a screenshot button (have to use 
 fraps or alt-tab) and no ability to hide the hud that I can find are a bit annoying, especially 
 because of some of the beautiful scenes and environments you'll see exploring the world. For some 
 reason the cutscenes sometimes lag. At first they were doing really really bad lag, but I turned 
 off Depth of Field (which is only used in cutscenes) and put things to medium and now it runs fine 
 for the most part. The loading in and out is the biggest hit to the game. Having to load a small 
 hut going in, then turning around after just a few seconds inside to have to reload the exterior 
 cell can take a while, and if you like to explore every nook and cranny in rpgs as I do, it will 
 annoy you from time to time.
  
  In closing, even with the loading problems and other ones they are dwarfed by how fun and great 
 the game as a whole is. This is one of the best rpg's I've played in some time and I hope it won't 
 be the last from CD Projekt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeStarkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Oh my God!! I have been waiting a game like this for years. In my opinion this game delivers tons 
 of adult Role Playing (alchemy management is great and challenging, the interaction with NPCs is 
 also great, the envirovement shows a cruel and nasty world, the main character is so cool...) .
 
  
  This game is pure fun, inmersive, the storyline is simply amazing and suck you in from the first 
 second of playing, the original gameplay is innovative and is based on a deep combat system. Old 
 school graphics are quite effective, sometimes impresive, I cant beleive that this game is using 
 bioware graphics... Any lover or RPG should try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelMac
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  What it's role-playing about? To be someone else. Someone different in new environment with skills 
 that you never will have. In "pen and paper RPG" you write history of a character you playing as. 
 His quirks. His past. His behaviour. And his strengths and weaknesses (Yes! Points on Attributes 
 in d20 e. g.) . In this case you have Geralt's past fulfilled but yet blank (amnesia) . You must write 
 his future by yourself. And you are thrown in to a world with a storyline much like a some adventure 
 written by Game Master. Instead of "The Witcher" I could write a "Half-Life 2" is a role-playing 
 game. And "God Of War". "Metal Gear Solid". They are all role-playing games because you play a 
 role as a main character. With strong identity and exploring a story which is really told not by 
 himself. "The Witcher" as a game is giving you a chance to taste of luxuries of role-playing game 
 imitating real "fantasy-setting" life. With swearwords not hearable in "computer" Fareun. With 
 sex and drinking. With morals no ideas. It has bugs. No jumps. Not many weapons. No WoW drops. 
 No heavy leveling. No things that will be pointed in next GamSpot reviews. Things that I don't 
 need in computer RPG. I need story. I need very beautiful but not top-notch graphic. Good music. 
 Good character. Good story. These I have in "The Witcher". 8.5 it frankly should be but I'm giving 
 9 for one reason. I'm a Polish fan of Sapkowski's books so I am subjective.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: droper66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Well graphics are really good, game is really long and it really feels huge you end up getting 
 overwhelmed by all the missions and quests you get there are so many. Your decisions effect the 
 game and every time you make a choice in this game you actually stop and think which is nice. It 
 has tones of replay value because you can always go back and make different decisions and the results 
 are different. The only down side to this game is all the loading from going into houses and back 
 to outdoors but other then that its exceptional and really immersive story based rpg. Everything 
 is voice acted as well so characters really come through. By the way I only review games If i think 
 its worth praise and this game is definitely worth praise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: entan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  There is probably only one bad thing I can say about this game: the loading times between areas 
 are awfully long. If you can live with that, and you love classic RPGs, you're going to enjoy The 
 Witcher. The game is one of the very few ever that touches subjects considered uncomfortable in 
 the popular culture: racism, fanaticism, resorting to violence to defend one's freedom (and whether 
 terrorism and guerilla fighting which hurts civilians is acceptable) - this is very far from the 
 fairy tale D&amp; D. Choices you get to make may have unforeseen consequences and it's not just 
 about being a good or a bad guy. The character himself seems to be lost - he is a dieing breed 
 - a human mutated in his childhood for the sole purpose of slaying all kinds of monster that threaten 
 the mankind. He is good at his craft, but all too often he is helpless in the reality where the 
 greatest monsters in the world are humans themselves. To paraphrase one of the characters: progress 
 is like a pack of pigs - lots of good things coming from it - ham, roasted meat and suchlike - 
 so it's no wonder there's so much sh*t everywhere . The game is full of dark, bitter, sometimes 
 cynical sense of humor. This is obviously a product for mature players. It is in many ways even 
 more sinister than Planescape: Torment, but is in no way demoralising or oozing with mindless violence, 
 sex or dirty language - all these things are there, but only in the moments where they are appropriate 
 and in moderate doses. As for the technical side of the game - the graphics are superb, hard to 
 believe it's the ancient Aurora behind this game. Sounds and music are excellent. The combat system 
 is quite interesting - it does require a lot of clicking, but it's not a click-fest - you have 
 to time your clicks to make chain blows into combos. The gameplay is quite linear, though it does 
 fit the structure and the story of the game superbly. It is more or less as linear as Planescape: Torment 
 used to be, though some of the younger players who enjoy go-wherever-and-do-whatever games like 
 Oblivion may feel disappointed. I don't - I prefer good, immersing story to a free roam and nice 
 views and The Witcher beats everything I have seen for a long time when it comes to story building 
 (the last time I got so immersed was when playing KOTOR II, and earlier Fallout II) . The bottom 
 line is: if you like cRPGs and you are not a free-roam fanatic, you want to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helfar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  I really liked the game, and how good it is shows by the fact that even with the annoying bugs, 
 and fairly linear gameplay, I am still playing it like mad. Graphics are great, and sound is good 
 too, though the speach has a little to be desired at times, or more importantly where they cut 
 the speach from and too. I would have rated this 9+ if some of the bugs were sorted, like when 
 attacking, you sometimes find the target can hit you, but you can't hit them, even when your standing 
 in an open area. The depth of the game is great too. Just let down by some poor gameplanning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aidennwitz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  I found The Witcher to be the best story-oriented cRPG I have played since the golden days of Fallout 
 and Planescape: Torment. It is not a revolution, but it comes dangerously close (though I doubt 
 anything will take the crown from Fallout 1/2 or Torment anytime soon) .
  Simply put, it is a great story with fantastic dialogues and moral choices garnished with conscious 
 art direction, atmospheric music and thrilling gameplay. It does have its fallbacks here and there, 
 for example, the cutscene direction sucks donkey balls, long loading times and crashes are not 
 rare and it's not as polished as it should be; but I don't give a damn, since the storytelling 
 is so great, and you have this magic feeling that your choices actually accomplish something. It's 
 not a simple question of ethics and morality, where either you have to play Mother Theresa or eat 
 babies alive, it's almost always the middle ground, where consequences and the choices themselves 
 are not that clear. It's also not a game, which babysits you and tells you what to do, most of 
 the time you have to figure out a lot of stuff all by yourself.
  Overall, The Witcher is a very mature addition to the withering cRPG market and I recommend it 
 to anyone who liked Fallout and/or Planescape: Torment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draqos05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Overall, it's a good game - I especially love the music and the atmosphere. It is not an hack'n'slash 
 kind of game - you spent most of the time solving quests than fighting monsters. I play it and 
 I enjoy it, it's worth the time. On the bellow I will focus more on what I don't like, but keep 
 in my mind I play this game and I'm happy with it.
  
  The Witcher's combat styles are ok, but not Immersive or Innovative - there are three possible 
 stiles - group (for fighting large groups of enemies) , strong (deals big amount of damage to one 
 strong enemy) and one for fighting fast opponents. Once you select one of the combat styles - you 
 have little choice of fighting. I was actually a bit disappointed by this, as I was expecting combat 
 styles like in Severance: Blade of Darkness. Character development does not allow a great deal 
 of choosing - you level up and virtually you'll have levels for every possible skill in the game 
 (at least this is how it is until level 14) . Potions are also different than what you find in usual 
 RPG - for example, the healing potion will not restore vitality, but instead increase the recovery 
 rate of vitality, so be very careful when engaging enemies. Someone reviewed as being better than 
 Oblivion - first, they are very different, and second - NO WAY :) !
  
  One of the funny parts in the game is flirting and trying to get laid with virtually every female 
 you encounter :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  My favorite games are all RPGs, so I had my eyes on The Witcher for a while. It promised a rich 
 atmospheric storyline as well as amazing graphics, so what could go wrong?
  
  Well, that depends on the kind of game style you enjoy. In my case I feel overly linear games where 
 you are forced to do exactly what the game designers had in mind is not a good RPG. And, The Witcher 
 is exactly that. Extremely linear.
  
  First of all I was put off by the many limitations on how you can move your character. Find a small 
 stone on the ground, and the hero who possess amazing acrobatic skills in the cinematic scenes 
 can for his life not pass over it, but needs to walk all around any kind of tiny obstacle. There's 
 no jumping, so god forbid having anyone jump down from the last two stairs. There's none of that. 
 There's invisible walls everywhere, so you better move where you are told to.
  
  The quests are also very linear. You have to do the quests in the exact way they are supposed to 
 be done. For example, in the opening scene you are supposed to open a gate. I fought my way to 
 the gate and tried all kinds of things to open it, but it just would not budge. Then it turned 
 out there's some enemy left behind. I had to go all the way back, kill him, then return. And, like 
 magic, the damn gate could be opened easily. Where's the logic in that?
  
  And, what kind of four year old kid designed the user interface? It's overly cluttered with all 
 kinds of useless icons, it's confusing and inefficient. It will give you a headache if you look 
 at it for more than ten minutes. About the graphics, yes, its quite nice. However, the engine seems 
 to really enjoy loading. And it seems for every 10 meters passed you have to load a new section 
 of the map, so you have plenty of time to do something else while playing. The cutscenes are quite 
 god for enhancing the atmosphere, but there are just too many of them. You are constantly interrupted 
 to watch the characters play out their pretty boring dialogue.
  
  The fighting system is awkward, so is the camera modes. It's frustrating as it is very hard to 
 make your character do what you want while fighting, and the feedback from hitting an opponent 
 are weird at best. Sorry, this game is just not fun to play. I have no clue why anyone would like 
 it, unless they are the kind of players who enjoy to click a couple of buttons then see a lot of 
 cinematics unfold. In my case, I would rather rent a b-movie, and hit the pause button sometimes. 
 It's way more satisfying. I hope this is not where the genre is heading, please give us back the 
 sandbox RPGs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adres666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  ... the thing with the witcher is that the game is beliveable, the settings of it is in the darkest, 
 most twisted fantasy universe ull find, one of the smartest and humorest as well. the witcher is 
 a game based on series of novels by a. sapkowski. in those books ( 7 of them first two are standalone 
 storys, and rest is the witcher saga) we meet geralt, the witcher- witchers are mutants, when they 
 r just an infants witchers take them from thier parents and raise them showing how to fight, how 
 to make potions (toxic for normal ppl) and they mutate them ( they giving them a toxic potions 
 to change thier dna to gain a perfect killer, but there is a price to pay- human emotions are gone 
 forever) . only 1 on 10 boys can survive that grass tray . geralt is one of the best witchers in 
 the world, coz his body was tolerating most of the poisons thats why he is albino, and he is mutant 
 with bonuses . but geralt is diffrent then other witchers in other thing as well... he can feel 
 human emotions, even stronger than we do. but he is not a hero, he dont wanna save the world, he 
 dont wanna save princeses ( they r prob a whores or spoild ) . he is charismatic antihero... he 
 is not a pretty boy.. in fact he is almost 100 years old. ( the witchers thing ) . the story of a 
 game begins 5 years after the novels, where geralt SPOILER!!!!!! died on the end!!!!!!!!!! END but 
 cdprojekt red made very good job to actually put the player into sapkowski world.
  
  graphics: very good models, nice climat, but models are repetitive. invisable walls. overall 9
 
  
  music: thats one of the strongest thing in the witcher... check it here http://gry. wp. pl/filtr;0,0; x; patronat,160, page, ost; core. html
 
  
  gameplay: fights r cool based on combo-like mouves, swords piruetts and cliking in right moments, 
 loads of potions to make to drink before fight, story is one of the best i saw in rpg so far.
 
  ok i need to go now.. but remember... the witcher is an rpg ull waited 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyiri
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This was one that sunk under the radar. I usually watch out for most RPGs, MMOs etc. but I only 
 caught this as it was released. I was pleasantly surprised to read the intro from the game devs 
 in the manual. They claim to be players of the original RPG classics and if they could make an 
 RPG to rival/challenge the usual dross delivered into the genre they would be happy. Well, they've 
 done it. I've been playing RPGs since pen and paper Warhammer FRPG quite some time ago (more time 
 than I'd care to admit!) , but The Witcher has all of the basic elements, with enough twists, to 
 happily sit amongst the best of the classics out there.
  Let's be clear, it's not Oblivion. It doesn't deliver the immediate feeling of awe you encounter 
 when entering a new and seemingly endless world. What it does do is deliver a compelling story 
 driven by an amazing opening video and followed up with a well structured tutorial sequence of 
 action/video to immerse you in the story.
  The combat is innovative. Foes require a certain stance or technique to be overcome. They also 
 require choice of the right weapon. The active pause is a useful feature in getting your weapon 
 and attack-style just right.
  The advancement system is complex and well thought through. Many skills and abilities are available; 
 though an understanding of the choices are required. This is one place you might want to RTFM!
 
  Unusually for a game in this genre, (mostly because we are doomed to receive contrived and badly 
 acted parts; take Two Worlds as an example) the voice acting and lip-synching are quite impressive.
 
  This is a game I'll play for some time. What it could do better is a (and this is picky) a right-click/space 
 out of searching remains and some more descriptive text for the items you find.
  All in all though, the RPG section of the market has been waiting for a title which draws in action 
 fans and story seekers. The Witcher delivers action, quest solving and story telling in one intelligent 
 package. A definite thumbs-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwsoul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Well i will provide a list now with my opinions on particular aspects of the game.
  
  (Graphics) 8 Graphics not really a top concern for myself but i do like a complete and convincing 
 enviroment that runs well on a machine that should be able to easily run the game, in Witcher this 
 is the case as a matter of fact the game looks very nice and compares to games like Neverwinters 
 Nights 2 and Quake Wars for Visual effects and details. Although not quite as polished as games 
 like Oblivion the Graphics maintain a consistent quality coupled with a stunning environment.
 
  
  (Performance) 7 Well The Witcher dose quite well here i have a Duel Core, 7800GTX, 2GBs, and a 
 Sound Card and my Rig can run the game maxed out with little to no stuttering, after a few adjustments 
 to the settings i realised that the game had started up using i assume hardware detection software 
 on AA * 4 and Anosthrophic Filtering *16 and full shadows! i adjusted this to no AA and Med Shadows 
 and well i haven't had a hitch with the game since. (Sound) 9 Well very very immpressive to say 
 the least convincing enviroment sound effects like wind, rain, convincing animals as well, voice 
 acting is in my opinion great and so far i havent noticed any glaring mistakes. Music is good and 
 fits well with the entire feeling of the game and when combat starts the music picks up to suit 
 the situation.
  
  Footsteps are not the best i have heard and the fact that a lot of the Peasants and none important 
 NPCs have the same voice and Dialog on occasion, irks me but hey sadly this is a common trend in 
 game that hard to cure without spending a lot of money and well getting higher capacity discs in 
 some cases.
  
  (Game Play ) 9
  excellent i find this game very very hard to put down, you have your usually gather all the items 
 and create potions you have small mini games to compete in and actually progress in in a manner 
 that is interesting and will benefit your Character.
  
  Combat is excellent at first it took me some getting use to man the timing is quite hard to master 
 and you have 3 different but all important fighting styles. moving in combat is important and its 
 all to tempting just to stand still and wack away, well i am finding that to be a losing formula.
 
  
  
  Finishing moves are satisfying and utilising the Magic abilities is great fun! One of the best 
 moments i have had was fighting a gang on a bridge a bunch of humans coupled with a wizard attack 
 me and some men at arms i launch into the fray using the group fighting technique and the fight 
 wages. I begin taking a hefty toll on the would be attackers, i watch as my Characters sword flys 
 high at head height and proceeds to decapitate 2 men in one go a spray of gore ensues coupled with 
 2 bodies hitting the floor! At this point the wizard who i could not quite reach gets stabbed in 
 the face and flung over the side of the bridge by one of the men at arms!
  
  Quests are interesting and thankfully varied so far no World of Warcraft here... but i need to 
 complete the game before stating that as fact! Leveling up system is simple and varied giving you 
 the option of many ways to improve your character how you see fit.
  
  Alchemy although not exactly exciting to perform yields highly effective and fun potions to use, 
 that actually make a huge impact on combat and other aspects of the game.
  
  (Difficulty)
  I have the game on hard and well i thought at 1st that it maybe a bit to easy well 
 i was wrong and killing the beast is proving quite a challenge at the moment i do recommend playing 
 all games on hard 1st time through personally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cejaem
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I would hate to think that 'The Witcher' be missed out on the exposure it truly deserves...
  
  CDProjekt have taken the Bioware engine, added a touch of magic and the result is a game that 
 is strides above NWN2 and MOTB.
  
  Taking a little while to familiarise myself with the layout, config settings, the story plays as 
 though you are involved in an engrossing storyline, rather then a disembodied RP game.
  
  I have only played for a few hours so far, therefore, according to the storyline, I only have around 
 70+ hours to go...
  
  Please, grab yourself a copy and become immersed in what might end up being one of the best RPGs 
 of the year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
