-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Watchmaker
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/watchmaker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 18, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 57 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Got Game Entertainment
Developer: Trecision
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jun 1, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of traditional adventure games will enjoy the puzzles and will likely be able to bear with 
 the awful voice acting and the underdeveloped story. 

 The Watchmaker includes many time-honored features of the adventure game genre: a generic story, 
 terrible voice acting, and a few ridiculous puzzles that make you wonder when the genre will get 
 its much-needed kick in the pants. That it still manages to be entertaining despite all of its 
 problems is either a testament to its few innovative features or simply a by-product of the fact 
 that there haven't been any good adventure games so far this year.           You'll activate strange 
 devices, but you won't always understand why.    

  You play as two characters: Darrel Boone and Victoria Conroy. The former is a paranormal investigator, 
 the latter is a lawyer. The pairing is obviously inspired by both  The X-Files  and the Gabriel 
 Knight games, but because the characters don't have much personality, it mostly just serves as 
 a game mechanic. Some puzzles can only be solved by one character, while others will require both. 
 In theory, it's an interesting device, but it's been done before, in both The Beast Within and 
 Day of the Tentacle, and with much better results. In The Watchmaker, the protagonists can easily 
 share inventory items and knowledge, and you can switch between them with ease, so they mostly 
 just serve as an easy way to jump between locations without actually traveling.   

  Darrel and Victoria have been sent to an Austrian castle to search for a mysterious pendulum that 
 focuses the earth's energy, imbuing people with immortality -- or possibly killing people who are 
 already immortal. The history of the device, or what little you'll get of it, is interesting, and 
 you'll pick up bits and pieces of its relation to the castle's original occupants. But the whole 
 affair is a bit unclear, which may be a result of a poor translation from the game's original Italian 
 language. The dialogue is stilted and strange, and you'll spend minutes listening to minor characters 
 tell you every detail of completely unrelated anecdotes, while important plot points will fly by 
 without explanation. The game's title is even a victim of mistranslation, judging from the dozens 
 of clocks in the game and the noticeable lack of watches.   

  And The Watchmaker's delivery is worse than its dialogue. The groundskeeper, an elderly, jocular-looking 
 fellow, sounds as if his voice was provided by two different actors, neither of which took the 
 part too seriously. Another character sounds as if the actress took a few Valium and then forgot 
 her reading glasses. And even when they're bearable, the voices rarely match the characters. Old, 
 young, female, or male: Almost every voice is ill suited to its character. About three-quarters 
 of the way through the game, the voices dropped out on us completely, signifying one of the first 
 times our enjoyment of a game was significantly  increased  by a bug.   

  The poor quality of the voice acting is unfortunate, because The Watchmaker has a great deal of 
 dialogue. You'll need to interview the staff of the castle and its occupants to gain clues about 
 the pendulum and those who are looking for it. The game takes place over 15 hours, and the clock 
 advances based on your actions. As in Sierra's adventure games, the different time segments act 
 as small chapter breaks, and you must perform certain tasks to proceed. And also as in Sierra's 
 games, it can be a problem figuring out what to do to move on. The castle is a big place, and even 
 from the start your course is a little unclear.   

  Luckily, the puzzles are mostly good. There is the occasional puzzle that defies all logic, such 
 as one that requires you to find a backhanded means of draining a pool to get an object, when a 
 long pole or a quick swim would be both easier and more courteous. But generally, the puzzles just 
 require you to find various objects and use them with other objects. And if you occasionally don't 
 understand the solution to a puzzle until you've already solved it, it's just another unfortunate 
 side effect of the game's generally confused story.           The first-person view lets you examine 
 objects and places.    

  The Watchmaker is played from a third-person perspective, but you can switch to a first-person 
 view to look inside objects or examine them more closely. The incremental time structure makes 
 for one of the game's most distinctive features: The castle itself looks very good, and it looks 
 even better as the light changes over the course of the day. It's a simple but effective trick, 
 and the castle grounds look increasingly dramatic as night approaches.   

  The game gets more dramatic as well. As night falls, the game finally starts generating suspense, 
 using the dual protagonists to better effect and throwing some danger your way. The Watchmaker 
 would have been a better game had there been more of this danger from the beginning. Still, fans 
 of traditional adventure games will enjoy the puzzles and will likely be able to bear with the 
 awful voice acting and the underdeveloped story. And given the current drought of such games, they 
 don't really have much of a choice.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: galneon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame most people don't even know about this game. It's not a high-dollar production, doesn't 
 attempt to emulate tried and true adventure classics, and it all takes place at a single mansion. 
 No wonder today's shallow gamers are so dismissive of it.
  
  What immediately sets this game apart from most adventures I've played, with the exception of Gabriel 
 Knight 3 (if you liked it, you'll love The Watchmaker. Really, stop reading this and go buy it 
 now) , is the way the characters all move about the estate through the course of the game. Basically 
 every event in the game (which usually passes a couple of minutes of game world time -- time only 
 passes as you progress, by picking up objects, talking to people, or otherwise interacting with 
 the world) triggers characters to move to their next location and offer new conversational options. 
 It's a truly living game like few others, and feels more realistic than today's real-time RPGs 
 with fully scheduled, but shallow and predictable characters. While quite linear, The Watchmaker 
 is beautifully scripted and logical in its presentation. The dialogue all makes sense, and if something 
 isn't clear, it isn't supposed to be: the game is a mystery, and as such your suspicions will change 
 focus constantly throughout the course of the game. Once you get started, you likely won't want 
 to quit.
  
  One of the most common criticisms of this game is the voice acting. Granted it isn't wonderful, 
 it will not hurt your game experience as the writing itself is top-notch. Fortunately, the speech 
 is often unemotional as opposed to overacted. I don't know about other adventure gamers, but when 
 I reflect on a great game, I remember its story, environment, and the way it made me feel, not 
 the tone of the main character's voice.
  
  The graphics were hardly state of the art at the time, but they are glitch-free and will not detract 
 from your immersion in the game world. The Watchmaker has so many objects, all examinable, that 
 you'll be impressed by the sheer volume of them more so than you will be deterred by their unspectacular 
 texturing. Unlike many of today's adventures, there's never a shortage of objects to click and 
 learn about. Interactivity is what it's all about.
  
  The game demands a thorough hand. The difficulty is just right, so long as you are observant and 
 exam/collect all objects and talk to everyone, as if playing any other adventure game. I admittedly 
 had to consult a walkthrough a couple times (mostly near the end where the puzzles become quite 
 difficult) , but then again, I almost always do when playing other adventure games as well. Your 
 mileage may vary.
  
  My favorite adventure games include Sierra classics like the Gabriel Knight series, modern masterpieces 
 like the first The Longest Journey game, to a lesser degree more recent point-and-click games such 
 as Runaway, and, yes, The Watchmaker. I can honestly say the only game I've played similar to it 
 is GK3. Living, breathing adventures are rare, and as such they should not be dismissed without 
 at least being given a chance. Don't pass up The Watchmaker. At the least, it'll be a refreshingly 
 original experience, if quaint, and at best, one of your favorite adventures which you will not 
 soon forget. I'm off to give it another play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Just hard, no clues or help. You are left wandering a mansion for some mystery that I never got 
 to finish. Not epic, not fun, no. Check the bargain bin for this. If its higher than 5 dollars 
 then you are getting an overpriced game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Just use your mouse to click on items, how fun... Bad story. You figure out why this was so important 
 to them, this mystery. No, or extremely hard clues. Don't get this game, please.
  
  Graphics/Sound
  Graphica are disastrous, nice detail though. mostly still pictures throught the 
 game. You enter a room, you are at one end, then just click on items inside. You just stand by 
 the door. Voice acting? Just as bad - it was like they were talking in their sleep...
  
  I don't hate it, just dont like it at all. Never playing it again... I suggest you don't either. 
 Bad game, from a publisher I don't even know. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
