-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The X-Files Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/xfilesgame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 6.0, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 157 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fox Interactive
Developer: HyperBole Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     May 31, 1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's like an X-Files primer, filled with cute references to events from the show and following a 
 plot that the devout will be able to predict within the first 15 minutes of the game. 

 The X-Files Game opens with one of the most illogical puzzles ever presented in an adventure game. 
 Your alter ego, FBI Field Agent Craig Willmore, sits down at his computer and is prompted to enter 
 his name and password. The name part is easy. The password part, of course, is the puzzle. But 
 why, if you are supposed to be this person, should you have to figure out your own password? This 
 is your daily workstation, after all, so it seems you'd pretty much have your password committed 
 to memory.  

 This puzzle (which, by the way, is not even original - it appeared before in Phantasmagoria: A Puzzle 
 of Flesh) epitomizes the confused nature of The X-Files Game. Most adventure games that attempt 
 to create an atmosphere of suspense face a similar challenge: making you believe that you are learning 
 and deducing the situation at the same rate as the character you control. Games like The Last Express 
 handle it artfully, while games like The Beast Within find ingenious ways to incorporate the schism 
 between player and character into the suspense. The X-Files game does neither, and the password 
 puzzle provides early evidence that the designers aren't capable of tackling such a sophisticated 
 challenge.  

 The game, it seems, is set sometime during the third season of the television show - an assumption 
 based almost wholly on the fact that Special Agent Mulder's informant, the man known only as X 
 on the show and who was assassinated during that season, makes an appearance. The fact that Willmore 
 uses a Newton as a PDA is further evidence, since it's hard to imagine anyone still lugging around 
 that outdated piece of gadgetry beyond 1996. Willmore is a field agent in the FBI's Seattle office, 
 called away from his caseload to investigate the disappearance of two agents from Washington, DC. 
 These two agents, it turns out, are Special Agents Dana Scully and Fox Mulder, who have vanished 
 while working on a mysterious case.  

 The story will be familiar ground for X-Files fans. While hunting for the missing Feds, Willmore 
 uncovers some shady dealings that he thinks are shady dealings of the everyday, humans-breaking-the-law 
 sort. But fans will already know the big surprise that awaits him: It's really about aliens and 
 government conspiracies. Willmore doesn't figure this out until very late in the game, and we spend 
 much of the early portion learning his personal history and watching two subplots unfold, including 
 one involving a female police detective and some romantic tension. The latter seems particularly 
 unnecessary, and it's doubtful that anyone purchasing a game about The X-Files will really care 
 whether Willmore will score. The game plays out neither like an episode nor an entity unto itself. 
 It's more like an X-Files primer, filled with cute references to events from the show and following 
 a plot that the devout will be able to predict within the first 15 minutes of the game. Which poses 
 yet another problem: If the game is aimed at X-Files fans, why tell a story they already know? 

 Technologically, the game moves from the excellent to the terrible faster than you can say "little 
 green men." The full motion video is striking. The photography is great, and the quality of the 
 video itself is some of the best ever seen in a game. The interactive segments of the game, however, 
 are composed of dreadful, washed-out photographs that you must maneuver through using a silly-looking 
 cursor that's unsuited to the game. There are only a few puzzles beyond the aforementioned password 
 puzzle, which may be a good thing. At least they didn't resort to placing slider puzzles everywhere. 
 The game portions, for the most part, involve nothing more than clicking on every possible area, 
 hunting around the screen, making sure there isn't anything you missed. There's the occasional 
 action sequence and the occasional need to access records from the FBI's database - but for the 
 most part you just click on everything and you win.  

 Even the character conversations, which appear to be branching, aren't really interactive. In many 
 cases, you'll be given a wide variety of possible statements, each of which elicits the exact same 
 response from the person you're talking to. One area in which there is variety is in the conversation 
 menus: There's one with text statement responses, one with emotion-based icons that allow you to 
 choose a "type" of response, and one with pictures of evidence you can ask about. There's no real 
 rhyme or reason for the three menus or when they are used; choosing one would have been sufficient. 
 There is also a variety of discs, seven in all. This explains the quality of the video, but it 
 certainly doesn't explain why the game only lasts, at the most, a dozen hours.  

 The game gets better when Willmore finally catches up with Mulder and Scully. Their presence considerably 
 livens up the game and almost redeems the confusing endgame sequence. You get to interact with 
 them - and that is, after all, what you're most likely here for. But beyond these brief interludes 
 with the characters, The X-Files Game is nothing more than a throwback to the earlier half of this 
 decade, when cheap Myst clones and interactive movies were a dime a dozen - and, perhaps, when 
 it was conceivable that someone could forget the password to his workstation.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  First, I want to apolagize about my grammar, as you will read, english is not my primary language, 
 but I wanted to write my own review, because I think gamespot one is so wrong, even the picture 
 are wrong, since the game is a fmv.
  
  Graphic: The cool part about fmv game is that you can't say that the graphic are outdated, since 
 its like watching tv, although the picture where you need to search your clue are a little blurry 
 and could use a better resolution than 640/480. You can see though that the game is not a cheap 
 attempt to pack something disjointed, the scene are very good and well detailled. You will even 
 see some explosions at one point. I would say that the quality of the scene are about the same 
 you would expect from a normal X-files episode.
  
  The acting in the game range from pathetic to good. The guy who play Craig Willmore (the character 
 you play) is bad at the begin (he looks nervous, especially with the scene with Skinner) , but become 
 more interesting to watch after a while. The feminine agent that you will follow you after first 
 act is one of the worst actress I've seen in my life, you can clearly see that the dev wanted to 
 add another scully-like character to team with you so you would forget that you are not playing 
 a mulding/scully combo. The rest of the *unknown* cast is good (except Cook) and this is surprising.
 
  
  Since the game was made during the filming of the season 5 of the X-files and the first X-files 
 movie, its not surprising that you will not see Mulder and Scully a lot during the game, but during 
 your adventure you will meet pretty much all the important character from the show. Like Skinner, 
 who is doing a nice acting job overall, the lone gunman ( very funny scene with Frohike at the 
 begin) , the cigarette man (who only appear for a big 3 seconds if you trigger your own death at 
 a certain point... Disappointing, since this is my favorite character of the show and even more 
 when you start thinking why did they bother to bring him to this place and pay him to do his 3 
 seconds of movie.) . At the end, you will finally see Gillian Anderson as Scully (who seems extremely 
 annoyed and/or bored ) and Duchovny as Mulder who is surprisingly doing a good acting job (but 
 when you consider that Duchovny love video game in real life, this is not surprising that he was 
 motivated to do this job) . The sound is great, you will not hear a lot of music, but the sound 
 effects are great. Actually in Willmore appart you can hear a weird song about UFO.
  
  Value: The game pack about 10-15 hours of gameplay, more if you get stuck in some part of the game. 
 Since you can get the game on ebay for next to nothing ( I got mine for 10 $) , its truly worth 
 it.
  
  I think the game highest point is the athmosphere. You really feel that you are an FBI agent and 
 you can easely roleplay in this game. The game want you to live in the shoes of Willmore, by adding 
 some random thing about his life in his apart. The game also immerse you in the whole x-files universe 
 by adding ton of eastern egg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbish1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  I remember that when DVD were an emerging medium,,,
  Interaction was a big deal and the direction that many believed was THE coming, new trend for home 
 entertainment. I thought it an interesting idea these many years ago. One I had never got to see. 
 until I checked out the X Files, I had noticed that the reviews for this game are all over the 
 board. I think that this is because it is not your typical game. It is an interactive medium. I 
 would not know how to rate this in comparison with other games. It is different. I can say with 
 confidence, that if you are a fan of X Files, you will enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creasy14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to take a role as an F. B. I agent? Like the X-Files? This game is for you. 
  
  You take the role as Special Agent Criag Wilmore in a first person mode investigating the disapperance 
 of Mulder & Scully, all game play is done by very clever graphic work, everything you will see 
 is just like a movie and you control what it does.
  
  This is the type of game you would expect for the x-files. You have to do certain things in order 
 to advance on to next stage, mabye question a witness or find evidence. 
  
  They game is really good fun, and makes you think all the time. If you love the X-Files then buy 
 this, espeacially for the price you would find on the web now. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
