-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Thief II: The Metal Age
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thief2themetalage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.9, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,266 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Looking Glass
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 29, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The mission design is more consistent than the original's, and some of the missions are among the 
 best in any action game to date. 

 Like Thief: The Dark Project, Thief II: The Metal Age uses the mechanics of a first-person shooter 
 to make a game that's more about inaction than action. You won't find yourself running through 
 hallways shooting everything that moves. Instead, you'll find yourself hiding in alcoves, listening 
 intently for the slightest indication that you've been detected. The sneaking premise of Thief 
 was only one of its best features; the game's excellent story and generally good mission design 
 helped to make it one of 1998's best games. And in some ways, Thief II is even better. The mission 
 design is more consistent, and some of the missions are among the best in any action game to date. 
 But the story is a bit disappointing compared with the complex plot of Thief, and the game itself 
 lacks the surprises of the original. Yet if Thief II has a real shortcoming, it's that the game 
 is too similar to Thief.  

 But that similarity isn't necessarily a problem, considering how good Thief was. It's clear that 
 Thief II was put together with the intent of getting the game done as quickly as possible. That's 
 not to say the game was rushed or is incomplete, but only that it reuses a number of Thief's elements. 
 For instance, certain parts of the game's structure are almost entirely the same, from the mission-briefing 
 screens to the "mission complete" and "mission failed" movies. But the quality of Thief II's mission 
 design more than compensates for this recycling.  

 A few of the missions borrow heavily from Thief, and a few are predictable. There are some moments 
 in Thief II when you'll see potential twists in the mission from the very beginning if you're familiar 
 with Thief. But otherwise, the mission design is superb: The designers have gone to great lengths 
 to emphasize the thieving element of gameplay, so you'll spend less time searching through monster-infested 
 caverns and more time in high-security buildings. You'll rob banks, burglarize storage warehouses, 
 infiltrate secured mansions filled with secret passages, and even sneak around high-society parties. 
 Thief II's 16 missions are longer and more involving than the first game's, and the locations are 
 often enormous, but unfortunately, the accompanying loading times are longer as a result.  

 In the game's best mission, Life of the Party, you must sneak across the rooftops of a city, break 
 into a high-security building, gather information and loot, and then sneak back across the city 
 again. The mission is filled with funny moments, and you'll overhear all manner of conversations 
 during the course of the heist, such as two sets of guards shouting insults across the rooftops 
 about one another's employers. Looking Glass has done a remarkable job of making the city seem 
 alive, as almost every mission contains conversations to eavesdrop on and people going about their 
 business who are unaware of your presence. The only element that slightly weakens the otherwise 
 excellent ambiance is the occasionally poor voice acting.  

 The highly detailed missions are likely what make Thief II's story seem weak in comparison with 
 the original's. In the first Thief, the missions served the story. But the opposite is true of 
 the sequel. The hero Garrett is once more called upon to put an end to a great evil, and he once 
 again seems reluctant to do so. With the exception of the epilogue, Garrett does little but remain 
 his roguish, wisecracking self the entire time. Garrett's an interesting character, and it's a 
 shame that Thief II doesn't do more to develop him. Despite Garrett's desire to be an independent 
 rogue, his seemingly self-serving actions usually end up working for the greater good. Thief II's 
 epilogue, which seems disappointingly abrupt in comparison with Thief's excellent ending, at least 
 hints at an interesting development for Garrett in the next game. As in Thief, the sequel takes 
 place in a city occupied by mysterious guilds. The original told of the pagans' attempt to overthrow 
 the Order of the Hammer, a group that worships industry and its deity, the Builder. In Thief II, 
 the Order of the Hammer has been reduced to but a few loyal followers. The Mechanists have risen 
 in its place, and they're a more fanatical order that also worships the Builder but believes that 
 machines are his tools rather than man's industry. The Mechanists' rise to power was referred to 
 in the epilogue of Thief, when one of the Keepers told the hero Garrett to "beware the dawn of 
 the metal age."  

 Thief II's story is surprisingly linear. Thief was filled with twists, but Thief II's story seems 
 more like a James Bond plot: The villain simply has a plan, albeit a very strange plan, to take 
 over the world. It's unfortunate that the game has a different focus than the original, which introduced 
 a fascinating world but didn't fully explain it. Thief II should have provided more information 
 on its world, its society, and its history.  

 Thief II does succeed in taking a great premise and making a good game of it. You get to use a number 
 of interesting thieving tools in environments in which they're all useful. There are very few moments 
 in Thief II where there's a single correct path to take, and the beauty of the mission design is 
 that it's left to your ingenuity to use the tools provided to overcome the obstacles in your path. 
 Do you shoot out the torches and sneak down a hallway? Or should you use a rope arrow to hoist 
 yourself up to the rafters and ambush the guards from above? It's a testament to the quality of 
 the design that when you complete a mission in Thief II, you'll actually feel as if you've accomplished 
 something and not just executed a series of predetermined tasks.  

 The completely new elements of Thief II are primarily some new enemies and a few new tools. The 
 new enemies mostly consist of the "Builder's children," which are robotic servants of the Mechanists. 
 There's also a terrifying new monster, which is strangely underused in the game. Garrett's new 
 tools aren't that useful, but they do come in handy on occasion. He now has vine arrows, which 
 are a slight variation on the original game's rope arrows; a scouting orb that lets him see in 
 heavily guarded areas; and a mechanical eye (which replaces the eye he lost in the original) that 
 can zoom in on areas.  

 The fact that there's not much new in Thief II is a minor complaint. At first, Thief II may seem 
 too much like Thief, but on closer inspection it's a better game. It may lack its predecessor's 
 excellent story, and the graphics engine may be slightly dated, but no such concerns will seem 
 relevant when you're sneaking around in Thief II's excellent environments.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (32 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Torsive
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  IN A SENTENCE:
  
  A medieval stealth based game, where you steal and sabotage, outwit the guards, and all with an 
 engaging story.
  
  
  THE MECHANISTS
  
  The game starts out with somewhat disconnected missions, but after certain events take place Garrett 
 the Master Thief (the character you play as) will have a purpose. Each mission flows easily into 
 the next, with distinct "Thief" style FMVs (full motion videos) interspersed between each mission 
 to bind them together. One gripe I had though [potential spoiler] was a portal that transported 
 you to a particularly different location, one that seemed slightly out of place at first, but it 
 accommodated the story quite well in the end. "The Mechanists" will play a large part in this game, 
 they're a sect that is attempting to make life better via mechanical inventions... and that's all 
 I'll say as I'd rather not spoil the story for those that intend to play it. I'd just like to say 
 that the story starts out weak, but gets better later, and it ultimately caused me to want to finish 
 the game itself.
  
  
  KEEPING TO THE SHADOWS
  
  You'll have objectives on each mission, which may change as the situation may not play out as predicted. 
 There are three difficulty levels: Normal, Hard, Expert. I highly recommend "Expert", because I 
 guarantee that you'll get the most out of every mission. It will give you a genuine Thief experience 
 if you choose this one. In Expert you'll often be forced to avoid killing guards/innocents, resulting 
 in the use of more stealthy techniques like wielding your Blackjack (black thumpy thingy) in the 
 shadows, awaiting the nearby guard to repeat his patrol route that you've seen him take recently, 
 unsuspecting of what will soon meet with the back of his head. 
  
  As well as avoiding enemy line of sight, in Expert you'll have a few extra goals - as either a 
 side mission or something you must do to complement the main goal. The main difference in the majority 
 of maps will be the need to find more "loot" though, and this can sometimes force you to explore 
 more areas than you would have needed to if the difficulty was lowered. It can potentially be time 
 consuming, so it's best to play in small bursts, but it will allow you to play the maps to their 
 full potential, and it's good for completionists that want to explore every crevice in a map (although 
 it often won't come down to that!) . There was only one map where I got fustrated with trying to 
 find an extra bit of loot to complete a mission, but if you pay attention to small details in the 
 environment you'll reach the loot goal easily as the developers have placed more than enough throughout 
 any single location.
  
  Most of your time will be spent sneaking around in the shadows, pilfering from the rich, and pinching 
 keys off guards' belts to unlock doors. There's secret rooms in many areas, so paying attention 
 to the smallest details may just lead to a hidden lever or button that might shift a bookshelf 
 or section of wall. There's an abundance of lore about as well, presented in the form of handwritten 
 letters unintended for your eyes, or extracts from in-game books. They'll lead you to clues, or 
 sometimes their purpose is to simply aid in immersing you into the local environment.
  
  Make sure you're sound is turned up loud, and having surround sound or headphones does help. You'll 
 need to hear footsteps from an approaching guard, or your own, as well as the NPC speech (both 
 dialogues that may provide aid in your main goal, and utterances that reveal to you the state of 
 an NPC - whether they're unaware, suspicious, or hostile) . The way you choose to move also plays 
 a large part in your stealthiness. You can creep, walk, or run. Although you might not think it, 
 sometimes darting out of the shadows and pouncing towards the back of a guard, then landing a Blackjack 
 knockout mid-air can be more effective than walking towards them slowly on a noise prone metal 
 floor.
  
  
  THE THIEVES ARMOURY
  
  There's a large inventory of equipment that you can choose to outfit yourself with before every 
 mission. You'll have a new preset inventory for each mission, but the previous loot gained from 
 the last mission will turn into the funds with which you can use to support yourself in the current 
 one - although on most (early) missions you'll find any extra equipment you may need by searching 
 the map. A few examples of equipment and their uses are: the Water Arrow for dousing exposed torches, 
 Rope/Vine arrows for reaching item caches and sometimes mission critical locations, Slow Fall Potions 
 to avoid losing health as well as making a loud crash upon landing from extreme heights, Gas Arrows 
 (my favourite) for inducing unconsciousness from afar - without causing death, and the Fire Arrow 
 and Proximity Mines for when there is no alternative - particularly when faced with mechanical 
 enemies.
  
  
  ARE THOSE FOOTSTEPS I HEAR?
  
  The graphics are dated, but they seldom detract from the experience - even if they don't stand 
 a chance against the lighting, modelling, and textures of today. But I didn't have trouble identifying 
 any items purely from graphics as their specific characteristics have been captured well. Sound 
 plays a big part in creating atmosphere, and they've done a great job in emulating the echoing 
 of voices/footsteps in large marble halls, or the dulled sounds of a conversation in a small carpeted 
 room on the other side of door. Silence has never been more attractive in any game, but you'll 
 seldom be left without accompanying ambient sound unique to each environment.
  
  One memorable area of note is the haunted library in a mansion in one of the final missions. It 
 was very atmospheric (at least on a 5.1 sound system with the volume moderately loud) , and the 
 use of ghostly voices here set the mood really well. In fact it reminded me of the spooky atmosphere 
 in System Shock 2, in particular the way the "sub-plot" played out (Not suprising as Looking Glass 
 used the same game engine for both games, and their story telling style is always impressive) .
 
  
  
  HOW ANNOYING...
  
  Just a few minor issues I found that annoyed me, but were far from being game-breaking, and as 
 far as I know they could just WinXP issues.
  
  With thievery being the main game, I though that lock picking could've been implemented a bit better. 
 You have two lock picks: square toothed, and triangle toothed; and you just "use" them on a locked 
 door. Doors that can be picked will give you both visual and auditory feedback. If you can't completely 
 pick a door with one lock pick, then you use the other one until it stops and you use the other 
 lock pick again, or you may successfully open the lock. Although not very satisfying, there are 
 occasions when it is, such as when time is against you and you must pick a lock quickly before 
 a guard comes back, or turns around and spots you. But for a game of its age, the method is acceptable, 
 and the you'll likely be distracted by the desire to know what is on the other side of that door.
 
  
  I found an inconsistency with "silent landings" annoying. Holding CTRL before falling off a low 
 ledge mostly resulted in a soundless landing, but other times the player character's feet would 
 make a clatter, drawing unwanted attention.
  
  Another one regarding player movement, was an issue with climbing up on certain ledges. There were 
 a few rooms (rooms with a particularly interesting floors) where I struggled to pull myself up 
 onto an edge. Although possible, I often didn't end up on the ledge, and falling back down just 
 resulted in a clutter of feet, raising the suspicion of guards. But it wasn't a critical matter 
 because it was an alternate route anyway.
  
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  I found this second iteration to be much better than the first, as the need to confront zombies 
 and dinosaurs was removed, and the levels focused completely on Garrett's art, that of being a 
 Thief. I played this recently, and even after playing newer games, this stands out as unique, I 
 guarantee it will be a memorable experience. As with other sneakers (like Splinter Cell) , one important 
 thing to note is that as a stealth gamer you must be patient, scout your destination, and plan 
 your moves before you perform them - otherwise you'll meet with unwanted situations, good timing 
 is important. If it's not obvious already, I highly recommend this game for those with 2 to 4 hours 
 to spare for each of the missions.
  
  I hope you enjoyed reading this as much as I enjoyed writing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been reviewing games for quite sometime and here a game that I totally left hidden in my collection. 
 Let me tell you, that when I bought this game back in 2002, it bothered me now that I totally left 
 this game to dust and I was urged to complete it.
  
  In 1998, Thief stormed onto our PCs, playing as young Garrett, you break into houses or buildings, 
 performing missions and gathering loot, for you to spend on items on your next mission. 
  
  Thief introduced an innovative approach to first person games, by introducing stealth mechanic, 
 by allowing Garrett to hide in dark areas to conceal himself and away from enemies. 
  
  Thief 2: The Metal Age changes the mix alittle bit, however it still maintains the same gameplay 
 with a few addition elements which allows you to complete the game.
  
  There were a few flaw at the time, this game around, they've been fixed and sorted. The graphics 
 are at a 16-bit colour rendering, the story is more focused and refined and hopefully avoided the 
 effort of battling an army of crab people or bug eyed human figures, despite this, there are a 
 few monsters and creeps you still have to battle or sort out in the game 
  
  The story take age of Garrett being set up, he sets out to find out why an organization is trying 
 to dispose of him. He later finds out that a person by the name of Karras is staging a plan, in 
 which Garrett sneaks out. With some help of some old friends from the first game, he sneaks his 
 way into buildings, mansions and other places to find out the truth.
  
  Finally the team got around to constructing levels first and putting the plot in afterwards, which 
 seems to sink in a little bit towards the missions, however on the plus side, it was satisfying. 
 The levels are mostly cities based and with the new theme of the metal age taking part, they really 
 do fit in the game very well.
  
  The controls and mechanics are the same as the first game, there were a few new items for you to 
 help you in your missions. Potions will help you give you a temporary effect of boost, from being 
 invisible to speeding up to a new Vine arrow, which is similar to the rope arrow, however it sticks 
 to carpet or metal drain panels. 
  
  With the metal age being the main them of the game, Garret will come across really tough mechanical 
 objects from robots to turrets which shoot out arrows, cannonballs and other deadly objects towards 
 Garrett if he's careless.
  
  As stupid as they may be the giant robots sometimes shoot themselves if there cannons aiming toward 
 the wall while they spot you, which defeats them, however you be having to deal with a problem 
 of having that bot blocking the doorway and sometimes when they deal heavy damage and they flee, 
 they tend to do the same thing. 
  
  Also the bots seems to be able to enter the doorway which are smaller then they made for another 
 strange moment or bug in the game. Other then that, the new enemies you face against is worth the 
 challenge. 
  
  The graphics and sound received a huge overhaul and they look really good, along with the new skybox 
 which gives the game a whole feel to the environment. 
  
  It took me some time to complete this game, even on Normal, that alone was around 9 hours, with 
 the other 2 harder modes offering more difficult objectives and it take much more time for any 
 player to complete.
  
  This game came on 2 CDs, it's a huge game, with really sweet movies telling the player the whole 
 story. I strongly recommend anyone who loves the thief series to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca08
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  After completing Thief I, i thought was a fantastic game but Thief II has exceeded all of my expectations 
 and is in no doubt one of the best games i have played for years. Thief II has great graphics and 
 a fantastic storyline, full of 15 action packed missions and full of twists and turns, Thief II 
 is a game that will be remembered for a long, long time. If you loved Thief I then you will be amazed 
 at the greatness of Thief II: The Metal age. In the first few missions, there isn't actually an 
 enemy in the game, and most of the missions are pretty short, but after about the 6 mission, the 
 true ememy of the game is found out and the missions get longer and harder, the 13th or 14th mission 
 is very hard because geeting seen will fail the mission. The last mission is very, very hard, it 
 starts off with you having to do about three objectives, but you end up doing about seven. Ispent 
 about 25 minutes on the last mission due to the lenght of it. 
  
  Summary: A great game and a great plot, gets hard in the final 5 missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Thief: The Dark Project, when it was released, simply blew my mind. It was the most innovative 
 game I have ever played. So, is the sequel good too? Let's find out...
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  - What can I say? It's a immersive stealth game. I already explained 99% of 
 the gameplay in my TDP review, and Thief 2 has been improved from that. Better AI is one thing. 
 New tools are another. The gameplay is just like the first one; Perfect.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  - Never have I played a game that controls so fluid and life-like. I mean, you 
 can walk, run, creep, crouch, lean forward/left/right, strafe, jump, mantle, climb ropes. Thief 
 has PERFECT controls, and is one of the reasons why I feel kinda crippled in most modern games... 
 Looking Glass truly has mastered the controls.
  
  Atmosphere: 10/10
  - Ah, the world of Thief. The atmosphere is just astonishing. While Thief 1 had this more medieval, 
 magical, sinister atmosphere... Thief 2 has more victorian and less "creepy" atmosphere with a 
 lot of newer technology (and future technology, like guard robots who shoot fireballs! Man, I'd 
 like to have one of those...) Some original Thief fans were disappointed that The Metal Age moved 
 away from the magical, medieval setting. And others dislike Thief 1 for it's mystical levels, such 
 as crypts, ancient cities, haunted cathedrals, magical mansions and such. Thief 2 has more "realistic" 
 levels, like banks, police stations, city streets etc. I myself like them both, but The Dark Project 
 is definitely more scary.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  - Thief never was about graphics really. They are ok, nothing wrong, but many people criticized 
 them (I dunno why though?) I find the lighting and shadows to be amazing, and that's what Thief's 
 all about... Mmm, shadows...
  
  Sound: 10/10
  - Thief has the best sound design of any game, ever. It's just so damn realistic. It cannot be 
 described with words, you have to experience it to know how mindblowing it was back in 1998/2000 
 to hear such advanced sound technology. Heck, it's advanced even by today's standards.
  
  Physics: 7/10
  - Thief's physics work well, but ultimately it's just basic stuff we had back 
 in 2000. I'm glad and sad at the same time because they removed the "bunny-hopping" from Thief 
 1 though :D
  
  Replay value: 1000/10
  - No, 10/10 is not enough. The original game itself is long and you can try multiple approaches 
 and difficulty levels for every missions. I've played the original missions over 100 times. AND 
 there are over 500 (!) fan made missions for Thief 1 and 2. It's probably over 750 by now. There 
 are some amazingly good quality fan missions to be played, really! Some of them are even better 
 than the original missions. AND there's the unofficial expansion pack, Thief 2X, which is better 
 than most modern games.
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  - The game can be found cheap as dirt these days, sometimes for under 5 . There are also various 
 "Thief collections" around, which have Thief 1-3.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - The game is stabile and performs very well on any PC built after 2001. The only thing is that 
 newer graphics cards such as Nvidia's 8000 series can make the game look ugly or unplayable. Thief 
 doesn't like dual cores either, but gladly there are fixes available.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Are you kidding 
 me? Thief series has one of the most devoted fan communities (TTLG. com) and it's regarded as a 
 classic by almost any review site I know.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - People who have P-A-T-I-E-N-C-E. You will be waiting and lurking in the shadows A LOT. So don't 
 expect it to be like Doom/Quake. So, anyone who has enough patience. Try the demo first, the map 
 in the demo is one of the best levels in the game. It's a rare example of a demo that gives a pretty 
 clear picture what's the game going to be like at it's best.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 10/10, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  THIEF 2: The Metal Age.
  
  
  For the criminal in all of us Thief 2: The Metal Age has arrived. Going all the way back to 1998 
 many will remember the original as a breath of fresh air into the FPS genre. Combing stealth-based 
 action, tremendous level design, a plot with a real character and tension, Thief: The Dark Project 
 was gold. It practically invented the stealth genre! No longer was FPS just an abbreviation for 
 First Person Shooter but First Person Sneaker! We've seen many games take on the stealth genre. 
 From Metal Gear Solid to Commandos, many have tried to copy the formula but few, if any, have succeeded 
 in capturing both the intensity and innovation of the Thief series. 
  
  
  This very impressive sequel retains all the best aspects of the original into fifteen huge missions; 
 each one carefully constructed and designed to keep players engrossed for countless hours. For 
 the second time you're in control of Garrett, the world's greatest thief. He's broke again; unable 
 to pay his rent and live the quiet life. After the disastrous events of the original the city is 
 quite a different place. The Pagans are being hunted down and the Hammerites are absent, replaced 
 by a breakaway group known as the Mechanists. Surprise, surprise, they're not all they're cracked 
 up to be. Within a few missions Garrett is drawn back into the world of corruption and prophecies 
 that he desperately tried to leave behind. As a Keeper would put it: "The Metal Age is upon us" 
 
  
  
  If something isn't broke, don't fix it. This seems to be Looking Glass Studios mentality with this 
 game and rightly so. Yet there are still several notable changes, beginning with the removal of 
 the horror elements of The Dark Project. Zombies are few and far between and the giant spiders 
 are absent. Playing on the 'Hard' difficulty setting I only had to make contact with those pesky 
 Haunts once. That was enough. Many found it impossible to be stealthy around these abominations 
 so thankfully there are no more! The next big improvement is the size of the levels. I'll get back 
 to this later on though.
  
  
  Finally the third enhancement is the new opponents you soon face, Mechanist security. Not only 
 is this a great replacement for the undead but it also turns out to be a very cool and integral 
 part of the story as well. These cameras and robots now populate the majority of levels making 
 all the would-be thieves more wary than ever. Apart from these obvious changes much of the formula 
 is intact.
  
  
  Each chapter begins with an introduction, which is narrated by Garrett. He outlines where the job 
 will take place, what he has to steal and sometimes what he'll be up against. These are always 
 priceless to watch, not just for the hints, but also for the incredible images that each one presents. 
 Animated cut scenes, while infrequent, are also exciting and suitably creepy. The faces of the 
 characters in these are hidden by the shadows and the darkness adds an eerie flavour to the mix. 
 After viewing a cut scene you'll then be given a list of the objectives and you can choose the 
 difficulty. The choice of the difficulty setting can seriously affect how you play the game. The 
 higher settings are more demanding, denying players to kill or adding an extra objective. I highly 
 recommend playing on either the 'Hard' or 'Expert' difficulty. On these two settings most levels 
 will take numerous hours to finish and you'll find yourself desperately looking for that last valuable 
 artefact or the final bit of loot to get to the next stage. Seeing as the amount of loot you steal 
 in each mission reflects how much equipment you can buy it is good incentive for players to steal 
 as much as possible. Anyone who has played the first Thief will know that the equipment you purchase 
 before the mission can often be the key to your success.
  
  
  All of the old items return in good form: lock picks, black jack, sword, flash bombs, mines, and 
 arrows of various kinds: Gas, fire, water, rope, moss, noisemaker. They're all here. A small quibble 
 though: while there isn't a great need for it, it would have been nice to include holy water for 
 the one or two instances involving the undead. There are a number of new tools this time round 
 including: invisibility and slow-fall potions, vine arrows and a remote camera. The camera is perhaps 
 the most useful. By throwing it down a hallway it sends images of the area to Garrett's mechanical 
 eye. His eye also has a zoom feature, making it perfect for scouting. Once you've finished selecting 
 your inventory, you'll be dropped into the levels and must proceed to objectives with minimal contact 
 from the guards. 
  
  Although there is no rule that says players can't fight their way through each level it is certainly 
 not recommended, as the AI is extremely effective at both fighting and uncovering your position. 
 They react to sound and inspect areas if something seems amiss. Guards will recognise and comment 
 when a torch has been extinguished and they always have a bad habit of moving closer and closer 
 towards you as you hide in the shadows. They're even smart enough to make a run for it if they've 
 been wounded. While some may find it annoying that there is no tutorial to easy rookies into the 
 game, during installation there are useful tips for those who haven't played before. The first 
 level is fairly easygoing too and should serve well to let newcomers break into the game. Still 
 with the combination of intelligent A. I., huge levels and multiple objectives, this might be too 
 tough for some.
  
  
  Strategists will have a far better time than those who prefer action. The deliberate pacing of 
 each level not only makes players think about their actions but also heightens the suspense. Will 
 you take a risk in dispatching the guards? Or perhaps you'd prefer to extinguish that lantern and 
 sneak past by sticking to the shadows? Will you shoot a rope arrow into the rafters above, climb 
 up and go into the next room? Or will you go through the door and knock out the guards and disable 
 the patrolling robots?
  
  
  Each level is perfectly structured permitting you to make these kinds of decisions. Combine this 
 with some outstanding attention to detail and players will feel as though they have just stepped 
 into a real castle or mansion. Spiralling staircases, secret passages, cryptsit all fits into 
 place. As I mentioned the levels are more open. A better way to put this is that your objectives 
 are linear but your exploration is certainly not. For example, the second stage is located at the 
 docks. I know I have to replace a shipping label and steal a certain amount of loot but I'm free 
 to snoop around the surrounding buildings in the area. This form of freedom makes things more realistic 
 in that you're not just following one long corridor to an objective. The mission size seems far 
 more consistent than The Dark Project. The last few levels in that game were quite short. Maybe 
 they were intentionally brief to give a feeling of momentum and panic but for me it didn't really 
 work. The Metal Age however is an epic adventure and the size of each stage only confirms this.
 
  
  The only drawback to this is that it is easy to get lost, although this is compensated somewhat 
 by the poorly drawn maps, which now have colour coding to indicate where you've been and where 
 you are. From a technical point of view the game is simply masterful. The Dark Engine has not only 
 been tweaked to produce improved character models and weather affects but the number of sound channels 
 has also been increased. Sound was a key feature in the original and has been given the same treatment 
 here. Each level is hauntingly atmospheric and made utterly memorable by the incidental sound effects. 
 Whether your eavesdropping for guards on one side of a door or your outside listening to an all 
 too calm breeze, the sound is always first rate. Movements are perfectly echoed and the voice acting 
 is tremendous. Weapons are also well accomplished too, from the swishing motion of your sword to 
 the sound of your arrows being released into the air; you'll never be dissatisfied. 
  
  The Metal Age is compelling from start to finish. For once we have a main character that is actually 
 interesting and has a great deal of personality. The voice acting plays a large part in achieving 
 this. Garrett is a very humanistic character compared to most of the brain-dead stars seen in games. 
 This guy is nothing more than a poor thief trying to survive in a very dangerous world. Maybe somehow 
 he'll find redemption in the final chapter. Can't wait to see how it's all going to pan out in 
 Thief: Deadly Shadows. The story and main character are just that enthralling. The setting is also 
 worthy of mention as it will be interesting to see how the city has evolved in the third game with 
 the return of the Hammerites. This is what all sequels need to aim for: continuation of the protagonist 
 as well as an evolving setting. It's hard to fault Thief 2: The Metal Age. For its cool story, 
 terrific level design and technical achievements it raises the benchmark for the stealth genre 
 even higher. If you haven't bought it, do so now, this is unmissable entertainment.
  
  For: 
  
  + Superb story.
  
  + Excellent level design + Challenging.
  
  + Sound and 
 visuals.
  
  Against: 
  
  - Too tricky for some.
  
  Verdict: 
  
  Undeniably one of the best games to be release for the PC; Thief 2: The Metal Age is the game of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Not much to say it is not a FPS it is a FPStealth!!!
  
  Find it buy it play it it looks a little old but it is just perfect I almost crapped my pants while 
 playing some missions the sounds of the game is amazing also Garrett's voice is really impressive 
 and the levels are quite good and the best part is it is so hard to beat the game in expert mode... 
 
  
  Try it if you re into stealth games otherwise dont buy it you will not like it and write horrible 
 reviews about it and piss me off :)
  
  Respect the masterpiece sisters and brothers...
  
  P. S: There is an unoffical expansion to the game which is also great the fans of Thief should 
 check it out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Can't say more about it. This game was only about stealth and getting caught. Once upon a time 
 I read ONE player review that stated that they did not like the spiders. They were too scary. And 
 that the game would have been better if it were more about the stealth and less about being scary 
 with spiders. The game creators took this one review and made it the bylaw of how Thief two would 
 be done. No horror. No Pillaging and looting and hiding. Just Stealth. And if you get caught, then 
 you see the skull and cross bones and you have to start the whole entire level over. The game creators 
 managed to make the very best game I have ever played in Thief and then turned around and made 
 the absolute worse game in Thief II. There was no horror, no real action, just hide and don't get 
 caught. The end of the story sucked worse than anything. Your character confronts the villian of 
 the game, and says something like, so whats next? The villan at the end, whom you don't get to 
 GET says, you just have to wait and see. The End. Therefore, Looking Glass studios made the single 
 worse peace of miserable crap that I have ever experienced in the entire history of human gaming. 
 Oh, it sucked too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Looking Glass Studios deserves credit for taking a chance. In 1998, the original Thief ducked away 
 from the rocket-dominated unoriginality that defines the first-person shooter market. Uncertain 
 that this new style of first-person sneaker (as they dubbed it) would succeed, they hedged their 
 bets by balancing the thieving elements with lots of monster mashing. But those zombie battles 
 were not very successful, and most fans clamored for more thieving action. Looking Glass listened, 
 and the result is a sequel with great stealthy gameplay, useful new thieving tools, and a compelling 
 story.
  
  Garrett&acute; previous adventure was a bittersweet tale; sure he survived, but losing an eye 
 is never a good thing for the self-employed thief. In Thief II, there is literally a new sheriff 
 in town who is making life rather difficult for thieves and other never-do-wells. The poor and 
 dispossessed are disappearing in the night, and Garrett has suspicions that the sheriff knows all 
 about it. Complicating things is a splinter group known as the Mechanists, who have introduced 
 a motley collection of clanking machines and whirring cameras into the game&acute; s medieval fantasy 
 world.
  
  The basic game mechanic is identical to the first title. The cut-scenes are stylish and evocative, 
 with excellent voice acting. The load-out screen is simple and intuitive, but like the original 
 Thief, you will not be able to hoard gold between levels, so be sure to spend every last nickel. 
 The vine and gas arrows are the best of the new weapons, and the invisibility and slowfall potions 
 are the most useful new items. But the coolest addition by far is a spectator orb that communicates 
 with Garrett&acute; mechanical eye. You can toss the orbs around corners and get a safe, fish-eyed 
 view of the world. They are not cheap, but they are worth every penny.
  
  Thief II&acute; s 15 levels are enormous and are designed explicitly for tough, complicated jobs. 
 Breaking into a heavily guarded bank in the dead of night is a nerve-wracking and exciting experience, 
 like being part of your favorite heist film. The original Thief had problems with the AI not responding 
 to Garrett when he was on another height plane, like standing on a crate or table. That problem 
 has been fixed, but pathfinding is still an issue. Guards will often take a direct line toward 
 Garrett and run blindly into a barrel or lamppost. The new mechanical beasts are none too bright 
 either, but the game&acute; s crude, steam-powered behemoths bring a lot atmosphere with their noisy 
 rumbling and powerful cannons.
  
  The greatest weakness of Thief II, as with the original, is the dated graphics. The graphics engine 
 has been bumped up to 16-bit color, and there are a host of beautiful new textures. But the fact 
 is that Thief II simply can&acute; t compare with the visual splendor of other first-person shooters 
 on the market today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSeptim
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Another game of the Thief series, another exitose game!!!! the only bad thing is the death of victoria, 
 but is a excellent game like the others, and i have to say that all the new places are good like 
 in dark proyect.
  Good quests, good new places.
  better whitout zombies? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  For those who haven't played the first game, the Thief series puts you in the sneaky shoes of Garrett, 
 a master thief in a fictional medieval town. Amidst his burglarizing of wealthy manors, he tends 
 to get involved in more sinster happenings, enlisted by the order of the mysterious Keepers to 
 maintain the balance against evil. In this game, the evil takes the form of the Mechanists, an 
 offshoot of a masonic-type order called the Hammerites. Mechanists hate the organic and strive 
 to bring machinery to all aspects of life. Their leader has some especially dark plans concerning 
 the fate of life in the city. As a thief, you aren't heavily armored or especially equipped for 
 combat. You do have a sword, but you will generally lose in a swordfight against more than one 
 person, and even in one on one combat you stand to sustain losses. Instead of fighting, the idea 
 is to sneak around in the shadows and avoud being seen. To this end, you have a trusty bow with 
 various arrows for different functions. Water arrows extinguish torches and furnaces, fire arrows 
 can kill human and machine, moss arrows cover surfaces otherwise too loud to walk on undetected 
 (marble, metal) , noisemaker arrows distract guards, and rope arrows dangle a convenient climbing 
 rope. Your other primary tool will be your blackjack, a club useful for sapping unaware guards. 
 In case you do run into some angry guards, you also have some escape options. Flash bombs temporarily 
 blind everyone nearby, speed potion allows you to dash away, and invisibility potions enable you 
 to vanish completely. Each level has several objectives, some advancing the storyline, some just 
 for looting purposes. It is best to complete them all, especially those asking you to fetch a particular 
 treasure, as the money you earn will be used to buy gear for the next mission. The environments 
 are completely immersive, and an impressive amount of dialogue was recorded for ambling NPCs. The 
 best way to experience the game is on the expert difficulty setting, as it forces you to rely totally 
 on stealth. It's just very exciting trying frantically to pick a lock so you can toss a body in 
 the closet as you hear the footsteps of a patrolling guard slowly approaching. Enemy AI is decent 
 but not great, and you can usually count on a guard to return to duty fairly quickly after he hears 
 an odd noise. It is also very easy to sneak up and knock them out with the blackjack, even on expert. 
 Nevertheless, the game retains a wonderful sense of danger and presents a tough challenge. The 
 storyline is one of the best I've seen in a game, and really sucks you into the Thief world. You 
 don't even need a fast PC to run this game anymore, and I'm sure it is very cheap by now, and has 
 a classic quality that will make it fun to play no matter how much more advanced computer games 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game uses the same mechanics as the original game and even adds some equipment which you didn't 
 have access to in the original game. Even though the gameplay is the same and there is hardly anything 
 new to learn it isn't the same game. I enjoyed the original a great deal and really looked forward 
 to the second, but I was not as impressed with the overall finished product in this game as the 
 original. I think the original was so fresh and new that they just jumped on the bandwagon and 
 cranked out a sequal w/o putting forth the same effort on building a good story behind the game. 
 If you loved the first game then I recommend playing this one, but don't be surprised if it doesn't 
 hold quite the same weight for you as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Thief: The Dark Project sent shivers down spines back in 1998, and proved to the world that a game, 
 completely focused around stealth, works. It's dark setting, wry humour, slow gameplay, and realistic 
 enemies completely immerses, and pulls the player into a deadly gameworld full of enemies on more 
 than one side.
  
  Thief II: The Metal Age was released two years later, and although I've only only managed to write 
 a review now, I can tell you, the game is still ripe with entertainment, and and is still more 
 fun than most games out these days.
  
  You are recast as the sly and deadly thief Garret, ex-Keeper, master archer, deadly asassin, and 
 mysterious rogue. Garret is the sort of person you wouldn't want to meet on a cold dark night - 
 but chances are, that if you're guarding anything expensive, you will.
  
  The game begins on a slow pace, to get you back into the feel of things. One of Garret's good friends' 
 wife has been locked up, and it's you're job to break her out of here. One thing leads to the next, 
 and you'll soon be hunting down the offspring of the Hammerites from the original game, the Mechanists. 
 Simply put, the Mechanists are a strange cult like club, who are lead by a menacing voiced character, 
 who believes in the bringer of metal, machines, and mechanics. Twists and turns lie around every 
 corner, murder, ambushes, and strange dimensions lay in place, and there is something new to do 
 every mission.
  
  This leads me to the gameplay side of things. The gameplay is anything but fast paced, infact, 
 one could say it was slower than the original game. Does this hurt the game? Absolutely not. If 
 anything, the game is better for it, and this is proved through the countless heart stopping moments.
 
  
  You enter a room filled with light, and metal conceals the floor. One guard is standing ahead, 
 with his back faced away from you. A well placed moss arrow will disguise footsteps, but there 
 is no way to remove the light. For now, I walk across my newly softened ground, and continue to 
 make my way to the opposite door. Suddenly however, the guard turns around, and sees me in a blink. 
 He shouts and begins to chase me down. With haste, I throw a flashbang on the ground, and he is 
 suddenly blinded, which gives me the oppurtunity to escape.
  
  This is an example of the unique gameplay that surrounds The Metal Age. Although you have a sword, 
 it would be a risky attempt to get into a fight, as Garret isn't too strong, and will quickly perish. 
 A bow is always useful for long distance deaths, but watch out for any other witnesses, as they 
 will catch you out in a second. The water arrow is useful for puting out those bright lights, while 
 the blackjack can make sneaky knockouts to turned opponents.
  
  Anything is possible in the world of Thief, and you can complete the mission any way you wish. 
 Some enjoy sneaking through without taking anyone down, while others might try to to get a whole 
 heap of guards chasing them, then at the last second throwing a mine in their faces. The unique 
 architecture speaks with vibrancy, and intellect, and sometimes it really makes you think how to 
 get over to the next area.
  
  Rather the story be presented through ingame cinematics, Looking Glass has once again decided hit 
 you with large greyscale cartoon style videos, that have such a dark edge it could only be Thief. 
 The animation is smooth and sleak, and Garret's voice is so gruff and husky.
  
  The rest of the story is revealed through in game letters, audio feeds, and eavesdropping on guards, 
 and this is a great way to convey information without sacrficing realism. These moments are also 
 a great source of humour in the game, an amazing feat when compared to the dark setting.
  
  The graphics are dated today. Infact, they were dated when they were released due to the fact that 
 it follows a hardly upgraded version of the original Thief. But technical graphics do not do justice 
 to the amazing artistic style that is still incredible by today's standards. The dark and pensive 
 world, full of shacks, mansions, churches, banks, and with the aid of characters brings the world 
 alive, especially in the missions where you begin in the city.
  
  Although the character models are quite poor, it is neither a large overlook, nor too much of a 
 problem since they look dangerous from a distance, and the only time you'll ever get close to one 
 is to knock the living daylights out of him. The small graphical upgrades compared to the first 
 game include upgraded models, higher quality textures, better blood, and female guards.
  
  Where the engine isn't so strong in the graphical side of things these days, it is still and amazing 
 piece of software in terms of AI. Stepping into light and guards will see, running over metal, 
 and guards will hear. Hit them down too much, the guard will run or call for help. Left a body 
 lying dead in the middle of a corridor, a guard will notice. All of these factors add a huge sense 
 of danger, non-linearity, and some wild moments. Hiding in a dark corner has never been so much 
 fun, and it's always great to see you've outsmarted you're opponent.
  
  As you probably know by now, sound is the basis, and a very important item in Thief 2. Through 
 sound you can hear the volume of you're footsteps - you can hear other guards footsteps. You can 
 hear guards scheming and planning, you can hear guards give up the chase for you. And while the 
 physical sound in the game is amazing, the music is just as good. The tracks are just as deadly 
 as the game itself, and you will almost jump out of your seat when you hear it.
  
  Although there are only 15 missions, a mission can take anywhere from 2-4 hours, based on the length 
 of the mission, the difficulty, skill of the player, and size of the map. I've spent countless 
 nights searching for pieces of gold, and is just pure fun, because there's always something you 
 need to watch out for.
  
  Unlike a different kind of stealth game, like Splinter Cell, the non-linearity of Thief allows 
 for multiple replays, and is always fun the third or fourth time playing through. The game believes 
 very strongly in creating you're own situations, and most of the time this works absolutely excellently. 
 This game is a gem, a thrill ride from start to finish, and although it's slower than any game 
 I know, after I'd finished my heart was beating faster than it ever has before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepsen1977
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Thief II: The Metal Age is really a wonder of a game! It is one of those games that really should 
 only be played when certain conditions are met. If you do that the game rewards you with the time 
 of your life.
  
  Some of the conditions include darkness. Only play the game at night in a totally dark room (yes 
 it's bad for the eyes but who cares :-) ) . Another one is that you should be alone and you should 
 crank the speakers waaay up! If the key-board is hard to see then light a candle! A third condition 
 is that you should only play if you know the meaning of the words imagination and fantasy. If those 
 words seem strange to you then forget about playing Thief.
  
  In Thief II you play as the master thief Garrett who loves to... well, steal things! The story 
 and game play of Thief II should be well known by now so my review will focus on what makes the 
 game so great. As I have alluded to it's all about mood and setting. When you creep by some guards 
 inch by inch and hold your breath so as to not alarm them you know you are playing a great game! 
 When you take out your trusted blackjack and take out some guards (Barney?) then you feel the rush 
 of playing computer games. So is Thief II a perfect game? No, no game is perfect, but Thief is 
 a very good one that's for sure. You could argue that guards shows NI in stead of AI (no intelligence) 
 but really the game would be impossible if the AI was realistic . By todays standards the graphics 
 are dated but who cares about that anyway? If I want pretty things to look at I go buy Playboy! 
 The Dark Engine do what it's supposed to and that's fine. Garrett is not always as agile as one 
 could wish for but sneaking is still fun. The point is Thief II is really, really fun. Johan Huizinga 
 claims in his book Homo Ludens (the playing man) that we play games as an integrated part of our 
 culture. That we play games to have fun and try some agon (competition) and Thief II offers all 
 that and much much more! And you can even download an unofficial expansion pack called Thief 2X 
 plus you can try many mods for free. So what are you waiting for? Go steal something! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Thief 2 is an excellent game and is worth buying, if you can find it. You would probably find it 
 over the Internet where you can download it to your hard drive. The graphics are not much of an 
 improvement but even then there still good for something from 2000. The mission design is great, 
 it has some cool ways of finishing missions, but it takes a while to find out how. The sound is 
 pretty good too especially when you use the fire arrow.
  
  GOOD: The graphics are fun and the sound design is excellent, the story is pretty interesting too, 
 it relates to the first one, saving the world.
  
  BAD: It hard to find out how to finish some levels, and the restrictions do get somewhat of an 
 annoyance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frozendagger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  It is clearly one of the greatest stealth games ever created. The part of mastering the game by 
 finding EVERYTHING is one of the hardest things to accomplish. But its still worth the time to 
 play the game. The controls and graphics are very well done, and the sound makes it even better.
 
  But one of the things I find most fascinating about this game is the story line. I guess its just 
 a personal thing.
  There is a dramatic change when u pick the dificulty of the game. It also changes your objectives. 
 Despite the levels where you are not permitted to harm other game charectes, when it comes down 
 to it, it can be alot of fun just causeing chaos and anger over the soldiers. They may be able 
 to kill you in 3 or 4 hits (or less) but takeing them out with stealth is what makes it all worth 
 while.
  Hope you have as much fun as I did!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ioannicodim11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game simply teleports you to a medieval complex of locations where there is a very rich plot 
 which involves all blankets of society. Like in our world, a constant fight (though not so evident 
 ) between good and evil is taking place. Now you, a thief that isn't like all other thieves must 
 make an important choice, will he close his eyes and continue his rogue life... or will he make 
 a stand against the "Mechanist's" evident threat? Of course you will be persuaded by the game to 
 take the second choice and have a great adventure.
  BE WARNED, there are a lot of bugs that are very annoying. That's why I gave such a small "mark" 
 at the Gameplay category. But trust me, once you begin the game this flaws will dissipate! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This review regards on Thief II: The Metal Age but much of what feel can also reflect on my impressions 
 to the previous title, Thief: The Dark Project. If you like the first shooting person genre this 
 will be an interesting experience. Unlike start shooting everyone (or everything) you rather be 
 quite and walk under shadows. As the title suggests, you are a thief and in order to accomplish 
 your objectives you should think and act as one. Once you take this new concept its time to start 
 learning how to use your weapons and which one is the best at different moments. You can have healing 
 potions, swords, a bow with several different kinds of arrows for specific situations. For instance, 
 you can use water arrows to take out a fire lamp and make the ambient darker. That is the issue. 
 Stay undercover, in the shadows, stealth. Another important issue is about sounds and noises. Try 
 note to make noises and pay attention to sounds surrounding you. Sometimes you can predict what 
 will happen or plan you next move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightFalcon662
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The Thief series were highly admired and well-respected when the two games were released. As this 
 is an older game, this review has been written as if the year was 2000 now, so all credits to the 
 game would be properly given if the game has been released now.
  
  Thief 2: The Metal Age continues the story of the stylish, yet cynical protagonist Garret. Thief: 
 The Dark Project dropped you in caves, haunted cathedrals, high-tech security prisons, and even 
 another planet. Thief 2 solely has emphasis on a certain type of missions.
  
  
  Thief 2 is really classified as an "expansion" to the T: DP. T2 does not have many new weapons or 
 other tools added to the series, though a few new items are quite noticeable. The game somewhat 
 starts a new storyline of the series as the ending of T1 was nicely wrapped up and had nothing 
 to continue on. Some players might feel as if the game was rushed, as a clear example is the "Mission 
 Sucess" and "Mission Failed" movies. Though not to say that literally, T2 mission design is very 
 consistent and well-planned.
  
  Some would argue that Thief 2's mission design is even more cleaner and interesting then T1's. 
 Insteading of fighting zombies and slaying other unhumanly creatures as you did in T1, you will 
 spend more time invading high-tech security prisons and banks and whatnot. A few of the missions 
 in the game were brilliantly designed, such as Life of the Party and Framed. Most players would 
 agree however that some of the latter missions in the game are particularly difficult, such as 
 Casing the Joint where you are forced to slip into a highly-patrolled mansion, complete a couple 
 of set objectives, and slip out without even being noticed slightly. Though even missions like 
 these present a sweet challenge to the player and have been fantastically executed.
  
  The graphics in Thief 2 are nothing to sneeze at, and even at the time when the game was released 
 the graphics were somewhat outdated. This is mainly due to Looking Glass Studios not spending any 
 time or money upgrading the DarkEngine, the engine used to power Thief: The Dark Project and Thief 
 2: The Metal Age. The two games graphics look nearly identifical. Though the graphics in the game 
 shouldn't bother you a bit now, as over five years have passed since the release of the game.
 
  
  The sound in Thief 2 continues to be a marvel. The audio in the game was incredibly well-done, 
 and since the game forces you to pay attention to the sound to survive, such as to hear footsteps 
 of a guard or many other things, the player will enjoy this. There are a handful of noise levels 
 Garett produces. If you walk on soft carpet, you will almost make no noise and will be able to 
 safely traverse the terrain without being heard. However if you walk on noisy glass or clangy metal, 
 you can very easily alarm multiple guards in the area, and putting you at a disadvantage in the 
 game. The footsteps of Garett are perhaps the most payed-attention to noise in the game.
  
  
  The value of Thief 2: The Metal Age has definetly changed. During the time the game was released 
 a player could play and complete the game, and there would be nothing to do afterwards. You could 
 replay the game several times if you liked, as the missions were very open-ended and in most missions 
 there were multiple paths you could take. However, now there are hundreds of fan missions released. 
 Looking Glass Studios gave us all a present by supplying a professional mission-editor in the game 
 that was installable to everyone. Though the program is somewhat complex and not as easy to use, 
 serious players who are interested in getting into mission design for the game could very well 
 do so. There are also a handful of fan missions out that were superiorly well-done, and a couple 
 of them even exceed professional-level quality. This was an intelligent move for Looking Glass 
 Studios to make, as the game now has an infinite value, and downloadable fan missions are being 
 avaible to get as you read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadicalEntity
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  It's easier and easier these days to develop a game that looks great. And for the time, this game 
 had pretty great graphics. But what Thief brought to the table that few games have since then is 
 a really complete package.
  
  Thief gave a completely immersive experience, and really defined a new genre of gameplay. Thief 
 I & II are what I would consider a complete package when it comes to gaming. A rich story that 
 unfolds as you play, and a world that different than anything you've seen, but still believable. 
 There was almost nothing linear about this game. You could approach it in any way that fit your 
 playstyle and still succeed.
  
  I wish game developers still put this as effort into the overall playing experience as Spector 
 & Ion Storm put into Thief.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dkel01
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I've gone back to Thief II time and again since it's release, always enjoying it on a different 
 level. The first time it was a little daunting, the levels are huge and surprisingly free-form, 
 with so many hidden secrets. I've since mastered the style, and have to say the best way to play 
 is on expert difficulty, with the additional objectives. I'm ashamed to say I still haven't completed, 
 for some reason my saves get lost or forgotten towards the end, though the story so far has been 
 very interesting and unique. I real top notch game, one of my favourites, and Thief III (while 
 not bad) doesn't come close. Highly recommended as it's still easy to get hold of, and has more 
 than once dragged me away from new releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  So, you ask, is Thief II really worth the effort of finding and buying it? The answer is YES!
 
  
  Thief II begins right after the first game, Garrett is being persued by a corrupt town marshal 
 and must find the answer to finish off a conspiracy that is threatening the future of existance. 
 Yep, same supernatural thing here. But in this case the story works as a whole, and if you go out 
 and play Thief III after this one, it'll all be one concise package.
  
  New features include the addition of robe arrows: now you can climb roofs with the aid of this 
 trinket. Garrett also has the aid of his new mechanical eye: he can se further and scout ahead 
 traps and dangers.
  
  The gameplay is the same even with the new features. Graphics-wise, the game looks a little bit 
 sharper than the old one, but not so much, if you liked the old one, you'll feel right at home 
 here. The sound effect quality manages to be even better this time around, so turn up your speakers 
 for the ride.
  
  Thief II is a great game worthy of its name. Unfortunately the developer closed its door sometime 
 after the game came out, so Thief III was picked up by another studio. It is really worth playing 
 all of the chapters and sequels, including fan made leves.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: margevich
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  I am big fan of the original Thief: The Dark Project, i love it, and as you can understand i expected 
 much from Thief II when it came out. I dont know what happened to Looking Glass, were they tired 
 or absolutely out of ideas, enthusiasm or else, but:
  
  1) there is no atmosphere in Theif II;
  2) level design is.. lets say there is no design comparing 
 to Thief l;
  3) there is no pseudo medieval Thief I feeling as the stupid robots are everywhere ahhh;
  4) 
 did i mention those STUPID ROBOTS, ah whatever.
  
  So if you havent tried Thief II dont even think about it, first play Thief: he Dark Project, then 
 play the unofficial addon to Thief II - Thief 2X: Shadows of the Metal Age, which is very good 
 (at least most levels of it are) , and then play the literally thousands of the fan made missions, 
 some of them are brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Been a fan of the original thief. I must say that part 2 is a letdown. Especially the story, it 
 isn't as exciting and compelling as the first. It isn't as creepy and imaginative as before. The 
 Mechanists who are the bad guys here seem to be an offshoot of the Hammers.
  
  Gameplay wise, everything is still the same. New items have been added for better gameplay. Levels 
 are much bigger, enemies are much smarter. The game borrows some old levels and characters from 
 the first. For those who have played Dark Project, it should bring back some nostalgic memories. 
 Graphics have an overall improvement, but only a slight boost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Here is 3 words to describe thief 2.... THIS GAME ROCKS!!! True everything in this game has the 
 same gameplay as the first thief game. But that's what makes thief an instant classic still. The 
 stealth in the game never gets tiring, sneaking behind guards and knocking them out with a blackjack 
 or kill them with a sword is still awesome. Although thief 2 isn't as scary as the first thief 
 game. In thief 2, there are some new features. Like the rope arrow, and the scouting orb and the 
 frog beast egg. Although that's not what makes thief 2 great. It's the different story line that 
 makes this game kind of wanting you to play a lot and the old classic gameplay that the other thief 
 game has. Thief still has its touch. If you love the first thief game. Then you won't be disappointed 
 by the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The next installment in the Thief series is a good one. It has an excellent storyline and tie in 
 with the first game. The twists in the game make it really fun to play. Some of the new things 
 in the game (technology) are strange. I still liked killing my metal enemies though. The graphics 
 and sound are excellent, as always, in this game. By the time you get to the last mission, the 
 voice of the villain is so annoying, you want to freakin strangle him. Like the other Thief games, 
 this is a stealth game. You are supposed to sneak around and hide rather than confront your enemies. 
 This is not to say that you can't drop some people but it is discouraged (expert difficulty) . I 
 have played this game many hundreds of hours and haven't gotten sick of it. Whether you are looking 
 for all the loot a mission or trying to find all the secrets, you will have a good time with this 
 game. Out of the three installments of this series, I would recommend this one. You should most 
 definitely play the first installment, Thief Gold, so you can become familiar with the story line 
 and get used to playing Garrett. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:07 am PT
Review:  This review judges Thief by the standards of the day.
  
  If you haven't played The Metal Age yet than do it now! 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is almost 
 identical to The Dark Project, but with some twists that make it more challenging. (10)
  
  Graphics: Similar to, although better than TDP. Many FMM have improved textures. (9)
  
  Sound: 
 Although not as creepy as The Dark Project it's still great. (10)
  
  Value: Tons of free Fan-made Missions (FMM) are available for download. Many of them are even better 
 than the original game, giving you hundreds of hours of gameplay. The best FMM for The Metal Age 
 are even better than those made for the original Thief! (10)
  
  Tilt: If Thief 2 were released today, with better graphics of course, it would be one of the best 
 games of the decade. (10)
  
  The Good: Improved graphics and better FMM make TMA even more fun than the original. 
  
  The 
 Bad: The story was not nearly as good as the original, there were some recycled levels and the 
 steampunk theme detracted from the medieval atmosphere.
  
  The Bottom Line: Although not as good as The Dark Project, the incredible FMM, such as Shadows 
 of the Metal Age, more than make up for any flaws.
  
  Check out this site:
  thief-thecircle
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  Like movie sequels; video game sequels tend to flop and lack the same soul that was present in 
 its predecessor (s) . Thief II: The Metal Age manages to capture the same feeling as The Dark Project 
 while giving players larger levels to explore; unfortunately Looking Glass decided to sacrifice 
 what appeared to be a promising storyline for this. You once again play the role of Garrett; the 
 Master Thief who foiled the plans of an angry God in The Dark Project. Thief II begins with a couple 
 of missions that introduce what is presently going on in the city much like the original. Most 
 of the game revolves around the battle between nature and technology (like in the first game) except 
 instead of just being caught in the middle; this time Garrett is forced to take sides.
  
  The gameplay (and graphics engine) arent much different from the Dark Project. Except for some 
 new items you can buy or find in missions, and some new enemies that are meant to click into the 
 storyline; everything seems to be recycled from the original game. This is of course not a bad 
 thing since the Dark Project was brilliant, but though there are many similarities one of the biggest 
 differences between the two games is the level design. The levels in Thief II are much longer, 
 more difficult and take much more time to complete. Some of the levels are extremely tedious, but 
 some of them are also very well designed and manage to generate as much atmosphere as the original 
 Thief.
  
  Since the engine is the same, so are the graphics. Looking Glass improved the textures and character 
 models a bit, but except for these minor touch ups the game may simply seem like a retread of the 
 Dark Project to some more casual players. The character models now have noses, and more realistic 
 looking blood, and the textures are a higher res and are a bit brighter than the dark textures 
 in Thief.
  
  Like the graphics; the sound in Thief II is the same for the most part. There is of course new 
 music which is ambient like the originals; as well as new voice acting which is just as good as 
 Thiefs. Garretts original voice actor returns to deliver another satisfying performance, and 
 the classic guard voices have returned along with a few new ones.
  
  Thief II: The Metal Age is a worthy follow up to the masterpiece that is Thief: The Dark Project. 
 Though the storyline is lacking; it manages to delve into Garretts character more as well as his 
 relationship with the Keepers. If youre looking for a fun stealth game with large, sprawling levels; 
 then Thief II: The Metal Age wont disappoint. Due to its lack of the same interesting storyline 
 found in the original Thief its not quite as good, but its still a must play for fans of the 
 original and fans of the stealth genre. If youre just a casual gamer give it a shot, who knows; 
 you might like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:11 am PT
Review:  Not much has changed since the original, but if you've played that already, you know that's not 
 a bad thing. Very little needed to be changed in the original Thief. Graphics and sound are much 
 the same, the interface is pretty much the same too. It would have been nice to see updated graphics, 
 but Thief II hardly suffers because of it. 
  
  The gameplay is just about the same as the original Thief (read my review on that if you havn't 
 played Thief) , with new missions. The missions are good enough, though quite similary to the original 
 Thief's, so there won't be as many surprises. 
  
  If you've played the original Thief and ejoyed it, Thief II will probably give you alot of enjoyment. 
 Though, if anyone is looking for a stealth game, the Thief series is one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2004 9:47 am PT
Review:  The sequel of one of the most original games in the late 1990s, Thief II- The Metal Age doesn't 
 disappoint the fist episode fans.
  Thief II is setted in a mixture of medieval enviroment with a strange advanced technology for that 
 period, in this sequel you'll see advanced mechanical technology, in short, you'll have to face 
 very dangerous mechanical robots mixed with human guards and mixed with strange and terrible creatures.
 
  The engine it's the same of the first episode, your role it's Garrett, a skillful master thief.
 
  I don't want to ruin you the game telling about the story or everything, I can tell you that you'll 
 find new stuff, new abilities, and more challenge puzzles and objective, so grab a copy and see 
 for yourself that it's worth the price.
  Ah, look bakc when you are alone, the shadows can betray you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2004 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Thief and Metal Gear Solid both came out around the same time while MGS was officially the first 
 real stealth action game, Thief came out and it was all about stealth it perfected this new sub-genre 
 and is now the king of the stealth action genre. While many Thief fans will disagree with me, I 
 believe that Thief 2 is the better of the 2 games. It perfected everything that was done in Thief 
 and felt more like you were a "thief" instead of a Lara Craft type zombie hunter.
  
  Graphics: Graphics aren't the Thief series strong point. While they are acceptable a lot of the 
 textures are not too good and the character models are somewhat blocky including character animations. 
 This really doesnt matter though as the gameplay is so incredible that you can overlook the average 
 graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound is great. You need to use sound in this game to hear where your enemies are coming 
 from and how far they are from you. You can even lean into a closed door to eavesdrop on what is 
 going on in the room. You actually hear better when you lean your hear next to the door, a really 
 cool effect. Voice over is done generally well although it sounds as if the same voice actor was 
 used for more than one character. Garretts voice actor though is great and is used in all 3 of 
 the Thief games. Your arch enemey in this game, Karras has a very unique vocie to say the least. 
 The basic sound and weapon effects in the game are done fairly well.
  
  Gameplay: This is what makes Thief 2 a classic game. The whole basis of the game is using stealth 
 and sneaking your way through a variety of levels to steal and figure your way through the storyline. 
 Trying to battle your way through the game will only get you killed and frustrated. You must take 
 your time and hide in the shadows and watch out for guards. You have a stealth meter which will 
 show you how much of cover you are in, it will be totally black when you are in good shadows or 
 it will be bright when you are in light. You have an arsenal of arrows at your disposal to use 
 for your cause. Water arrows are used to put out torches and lights to help you stay undercover, 
 gas arrows can be used to knock out guards and enemies, moss arrows you shoot at the ground and 
 makes the ground soft so you make less noise while walking, rope arrows are used to climb to higher 
 places, one of the coolest levels in the game is using the rope arrows to steal some art pieces 
 where you can't touch the floor or posinous gas will be released so you must use your rope arrows 
 to stay off the ground and shimmy down them above the art pieces to steal them. The reason Thief 
 2 is better than Thief is because you feel much more like a Thief in this game, you rob from a 
 bank, a museum and other places that feel more like places a thief would chose to steal from, while 
 the first Thief was more going about zombies and ancient artifacts you are trying to aquire. The 
 story of Karras the crazy genius with his coal powered robots turned some people off to this game, 
 but I thought it was done very well and that the story was very interesting. 
  
  Either way if you like Thief 1 more or less than Thief 2 any Thief fan will still enjoy Thief 2 
 as it has updated graphics and sounds from the first and continues the story from the first with 
 returning characters. Anyone who enjoys stealth games must have Thief 2 in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 20, 2004 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Thief: The Dark Project was probably the first game in the sneak-emup genre, pioneered by Looking 
 Glass Studios. Breaking into buildings, hiding in shadows, studying guards walking patterns, hiding 
 their bodies became the orders of the day instead of storming into more and more rooms filled with 
 bad-ass monsters. Thief II: The Metal Age improves over the original Thief mostly by excellent 
 mission design and a few new features; the only fallback is that the 16 missions of the single 
 player campaign do not serve the story as well as they did in the first game. Thief II 's resourceful 
 missions take place in modern premises: Garrett (that would be you) gets to loot or fulfill other 
 tasks in banks, warehouses, mansions, and high-society parties. Mission areas are big and generally 
 enable you to start exploring buildings and locales in whichever order you like. Being able to 
 enter via different floors and doors creates an immersive feeling of open-endedness, which arguably 
 makes the Thief series superior to strictly linear stealth action games like Splinter Cell. Harder 
 difficulty levels, which can be changed before each mission, force you to explore missions in greater 
 depth, usually by toughening your objectives in terms of looting, permitted kills or alarms set 
 off. Exploring the areas and working your way in takes time but is fun: almost every mission contains 
 funny conversations to eavesdrop on, and Thief introduces plenty of new play mechanics on the way. 
 Among them are scouting orbs which are basically throwable third eyes, a bow which fires arrows 
 of gas/fir/water and a magic rope which can be shot into wood and used for climbing, a blackjack 
 to knock the guards unconscious, guards inventory being visible on their belt, and Garretts visibility 
 meter which is influenced by the lighting he's exposed to, his motion, weapons drawn, or posture. 
 As expected, one of the first games where enemy AI has to see and hear does not come without minor 
 problems. For example, if you have two guards standing next to each other you can knock one down 
 without the other one noticing. That can be done for two reasons: guards cannot see more than 45 
 degrees to their side, and secondly, knocking a person unconscious with a blackjack as well as 
 running is programmed to emit no sound at all. Additionally, after spotting you, guards tend to 
 forget that very quickly - but that is probably an understandable gameplay consideration. Another 
 annoying detail is doors have to be closed and re-opened if Garrett happens to stand in the way. 
 In conclusion, these flaws do not spoil a very original and open-ended game. To Thief II's praise, 
 the interface is great: rather complicated buttons are placed intuitively and the map shows areas 
 where you have already broken into. Thief I and II also have a very involved fan community; well 
 over one hundred custom-designed missions are available for download at http://www.3dactionplanet. com/thief/t2/files/fms/
 
  
  18/20 - Based on : 6 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Good-looking and sounding for the year 2000.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Requires 
 patience not to run through shooting everybody, but is worth it I think.
  3/4 PACING - Just going places, eliminating guards and taking items gets a little mechanical in 
 16 missions. But maybe I have too high standards.
  4/4 INNOVATION - The Thief series basically founded the stealth action genre on PC.
  3/4 IMMERSION 
 - Experimenting with enemies brings out the unrealistic behavior by guards, even at harder difficulty 
 levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2004 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, Thief II: The Metal Age is one of the best games ever made, and far beyond the 
 best stealth action game. It couples an amazing atmosphere with a stellar story to make pure immersion. 
 Though the graphics are a bit dated, the sound and musical score are of epic proportions and grab 
 you into the game from the very beginning to the mind bending conclusion. Missions such as "Invitation 
 to a Party" are some of the best in gaming history, and will go down in the books as benchmarks 
 for development teams to come. What is most interesting about Thief II, is how it's a completely 
 original story, filled with deception, greed, magic, and most of all, thieving. Garret the master 
 thief finds himself mixed with the Pagans, and only time will tell how he holds up. Thief II: The 
 Metal Age, is a masterpiece, Looking Glass Studios' best work. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
