-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Thief: The Dark Project
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thiefthedarkproject/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.0, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,432 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Looking Glass
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its emphasis on stealth, strategy, and ingenuity, coupled with its strong narrative structure and 
 excellent mission design, adds up to a game that's stylish, serious, rewarding, and unique. 
 

 Since technology has evolved faster than good ideas, it's easier than ever to be jaded about computer 
 games. That being the state of things, you'll have no problem relating to Garrett, the antihero 
 of Thief: The Dark Project who's so good at his notorious trade that he's not liable to be surprised 
 or impressed by much of anything. Yet even as he takes on assignments that turn out to be much 
 more than even he bargained for, so too will you find that Thief's brilliant design exceeds your 
 expectations. It may look like just another first-person shooter, but its emphasis on stealth, 
 strategy, and ingenuity, coupled with its strong narrative structure and excellent mission design, 
 adds up to a game that's stylish, serious, rewarding, and unique.  

 Your priority is to stay unnoticed as you go about accomplishing your objectives within each scenario. 
 Garrett can stand very still, and becomes effectively invisible if he stands in darkness. He's 
 easier to detect if he draws his weapons or moves around, and even when he can't be seen he can 
 still be heard if he makes a lot of noise. You can gauge just how noisy you are by listening to 
 yourself, and how visible you are by means of a color-coded gem.  

 You'll quickly learn to love the darkness in Thief, even if that darkness makes everything look 
 a little dreary. At other times you'll find some wall textures that are a little too loud, while 
 some of the level architecture feels a bit too plain. But those moments are the exception: For 
 the most part, the environments in Thief are enormous, fantastic, and yet plausible. Ruined cities, 
 lost temples, gaudy mansions, almost-high-tech factories, foreboding cathedrals and much more help 
 maintain a cohesive and creative visual design. And with its smooth frame rate, subtly beautiful 
 lighting effects, and a host of foes whose movements are startlingly lifelike thanks to motion 
 capture, Thief's look will quickly grow on you.  

 But if it looks good, Thief sounds incredible. Because you're always trying to stay silent, you'll 
 find yourself cringing at just how conspicuously audible your footsteps are. At the same time, 
 you'll smile from the shadows as you hear some lonely guard shuffling nearer as he hums some tune 
 or mutters to himself. Each floor surface makes a different noise as you walk upon it, and all 
 of your actions, from using lockpicks to quaffing healing potions, are complemented by vivid sound 
 effects. Since listening to the environment is so important, and because the game sounds so good, 
 you'll find yourself turning the volume much higher than you're used to while playing Thief.  

 
 First-rate voice acting brings the game to life. The cynical Garrett is never at a loss for smart 
 remarks, but he knows to keep his mouth shut most of the time so that he can listen to guards bantering, 
 religious fanatics whistling hymns, and more. Of further note, Garrett's subhuman foes, including 
 all manner of undead and man-beast hybrids, sound positively terrifying. Thief also takes full 
 advantage of 3D positional audio if you have the right hardware, which makes the game even more 
 dramatic. There's no music during the missions themselves, but the pounding industrial soundtrack 
 during the beautiful, stylized animated cutscenes perfectly suits the game's dark magic-and-machinery 
 setting.  

 At some point you'll need to stop listening and get moving. He's careful not to rush, so once you 
 become acquainted with Garrett's jogging speed you'll find that he is as dexterous as you'd expect 
 of a master thief. For one thing, he can lean around corners to see if the coast is clear, which 
 feels perfectly authentic and works extremely well within the game. For another, he can grab hold 
 of and pull himself up onto ledges, a technique most useful in combination with long jumps.  

 
 Still, sneaking and climbing around won't be enough to keep him out of trouble; to that extent, 
 Garrett is armed with sword, blackjack, and bow. Fencing feels pretty clumsy in Thief, but it's 
 supposed to - Garrett's no swordsman. Although he isn't very quick with a blade, Garrett can rely 
 on it as a last-ditch self-defense. But he shouldn't have to resort to self-defense in the first 
 place, thanks to his blackjack. A blow to the back of the head from this small club will knock 
 an unsuspecting foe senseless, without the unsightly blood splotches or cries of anguish produced 
 by the sword. You can then carry the unconscious lout wherever you like, preferably to some point 
 where his friends won't find him. Garrett is also an expert pickpocket, and he's a pro with lockpicks, 
 which are neither simplistic nor cumbersome for him to use.  

 But Garrett's most versatile tool must be his bow. As with most every play mechanic in the game, 
 archery in Thief strikes the perfect balance of great control and just enough realism. It takes 
 a few moments for him to draw back the string; at this time it becomes difficult to move or turn, 
 as Garrett is focussing his strength to keep the string taught. A few moments later, your perspective 
 will zoom in closer to the target as Garrett concentrates on his aim. Unless you shoot the arrow 
 soon after, Garrett will grow tired, his aim will falter, and he'll have to try the shot again. 

 The best aspect of the bow is the many different kinds of arrows you can use with it. The standard 
 broadhead arrow can kill an unsuspecting target with a single shot, but your other arrows let you 
 complete a job much more tastefully. Water arrows can be used to put out torches, allowing you 
 to remain unseen in otherwise well-lit areas. They can also wash away bloodstains, and when infused 
 with holy water, they become your best offense against the undead. Moss arrows release patches 
 of soft vegetation on impact, and are best used on noisy floor surfaces that you can then traverse 
 in silence. Rope arrows latch onto wooden surfaces, creating rope ladders wherever you need them. 
 Noisemaker arrows, as the name suggests, can cause a strategic diversion. And fire and gas arrows 
 make short work of several foes at once. You'll have a very limited quantity of all of these and 
 knowing how and when best to use them, along with when to use your other items like speed potions 
 and land mines, is an important part of your job.  

 You'll guide Thief's charismatic protagonist through a dozen missions, over the course of which 
 a serious, surprising story will develop. Although there aren't many missions, most of them are 
 huge, and more rewarding at higher difficulty levels because you'll have many more objectives to 
 accomplish. There's further cause to want to try a mission more than once if only because the nature 
 of the game is such that you can accomplish your task in many different ways, but in the end, you'll 
 still wish the game was longer. You'll have a few complaints with Thief - the game isn't perfectly 
 stable, and sometimes your foes won't act as intelligently as you'll expect them to. But between 
 its novel premise, its artistic production, and its superb design and implementation, you'll find 
 that those rare concerns fade from sight even faster than Garrett.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:25 am PT
Review:  This is a game that I really love and play from time to time over the years. This game I have to 
 say is incredible, I still shiver with fear when a word is spoken about Thief...
  
  Thief the dark project is a really really old game, so old that new graphic cards do not work with 
 it. You need to use software rendering to open the game... As for the game...
  
  It is truly amazing, I can not even describe it, This is the game why I dont play shooters anymore. 
 First of all, you will ignore the graphics because they are... ugly, as I told before it is a very 
 old game so you will need to excuse his bad looking. 
  
  You are a thief, pretty straight forward right, but the thing is you are a thief that will be lured 
 into a conspiracy that will take you three games...
  
  Garret was a simple cutpurse who lives off the streets with no parents or relatives. One day he 
 gets caught by the "Keepers" a special cult that will take in garret and educate him to become 
 a masterthief, an expert on stealth, infiltration and robbery. 
  
  Through many missions you will visit underground lairs, tombs, closed sections of cities and such. 
 
  
  Now the game looks ugly, the story may be a bit weak (but I assure you it is not) then why should 
 you play this game? For the atmosphere... While you stalk your prey from behind carefully stepping 
 through the soft spots on the ground, you carefully aim your blackjack to hit, you suddenly hear 
 a voice from behind "What? Who's there?" and you jump from your seat in front of the pc, your concentration 
 broken and you sneak for the darkest corner of the room for cover. 
  
  Or imagine, you are walking on the street of an abandoned section of the city, it is rumored to 
 be haunted, you need to retrieve something important from there, you see the place ravaged by fire 
 and uprising of citizens, now only broken buildings are scattered about, you go in one of the buildings 
 and suddenly you hear the mumblings of someone, you take a peak through the door you went in just 
 a minute ago and you see an undead walking towards you, unaware of your presence, you try to prepare 
 a holy water arrow to dispatch him, only to realize that another voice is coming from behind! 
 
  
  So this game is not equal to the famous stealth shooter Metal Gear or Splinter Cell... This game 
 really gets on your nerves, on every aspect of the game, the music, the silence, the footsteps, 
 the releasing of the bowstring...
  
  If you are one hell of a stealth freak, try this one out (you probably did :) ) but if you are new 
 to this genre, you may not like it due to its ugliness... If you are after a good game not good 
 graphics, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dikandahalf
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:06 am PT
Review:  Theif: The Dark Project is my favourite game. And I own at least forty Ps2 games, about ten PC 
 games and about 30 Ps1 games. Out of all of them Thief is my favourite. Better than God of War, 
 better than Oblivion, better than Tenchu 2, better than Shadow of Rome, better than Prince of Persia, 
 better than EVERYTHING. People who suck at stuff will hate this game because it is extremly hard 
 although at the same time it is extremely fun. I have had thief for about 8 and a half years and 
 i have not finished it. I'm up to about halfway i think. I'm up to a level called The Lost City. 
 ( BTW if anyone plays Thief could they please tell me how far I am in the game) . Thief delivers 
 crap graphics, amazing gameplay, pretty smart AI, conversations that actually give you hints that 
 happen between the guards, and the ability to throw around zombie body parts! Yes, I did say that 
 the graphics are crap, because there's no denying that they are. But anyone who judges a game by 
 it's graphics should just shove a pixal shader 1.1 up their anus. And yes, if your a super graphics 
 nerd, you would know what that is and you would be like, ha, this guy thinks that a pixal shader 
 1.1 is good? He should try a Whetstone scraper 19.100023 undie flasher viewing graphisizer!
  Thief- I will finish this review tomorrow
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwlanning
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  Thief was the first game that truly scared the crap out of me. Prior to the LGS classic I had played 
 plenty of games that stressed me out - Privateer, for example, gave me many a gray hair during 
 its tense spaceship dogfights. Thief was the first game that I was simply too scared to play at 
 certain times, and it thus made a great impression on me as a young gamer. 
  
  One level in particular I just couldn't handle was the Hammerite Cathedral. The first two or three 
 times I played through the game I used the skip-level cheat at the onset of the Hammerite Cathedral 
 to continue playing because all the environmental elements combined to create an atmosphere too 
 fear-inducing for the likes of me to deal with. That's what I loved the most about Thief - not 
 the sneaking, not the black-jacking or sword fighting, but the atmosphere. 
  
  Standing at the front door of that Cathedral, the ghoulish moaning, chains dragging, ethereal ambient 
 music, and menacing architecture combined with the build-up of evil spiritual power from the previous 
 map to produce the most psychological terror I have ever experienced in a video game - and I hadn't 
 even opened the door yet. What's even more amazing that after I finally did muster the courage 
 to enter the Cathedral, I found it to be one of my favorite maps. After you got over all the evil 
 spirits and things like that, parts of the Cathedral produced an atmosphere mysteriously calming 
 and serene. I would simply stand around in places like the library or the observatory just soaking 
 it all in. 
  
  The storyline of Thief is also extremely compelling. Without giving away too much, you find yourself 
 pitted against zombies, ghosts, and other strange creatures from the pit of hell more often than 
 actual human beings as Garrett, the game's protagonist under your control, finds himself caught 
 up in a sinister plot of demigod proportions. During the course of the game you really buy into 
 Garrett's plight and you also feel a tremendous sense of accomplishment after winning. This pride 
 in your work even carries over to Thief II, in which I found myself yelling to the people on my 
 computer screen, "Fool! Don't you know who I am??" That's the kind of immersion that Thief inflicts 
 upon you if you're not careful.
  
  I remember getting the demo off a CD that came packaged with a game magazine and playing it with 
 a friend - with the lights off, of course. Lord Bafford's guards had us quaking in our boots, hearts 
 pounding, hiding up in an attic for most of the time. Thief was just so radically different at 
 the time and so masterfully constructed that you couldn't help but like it, and it continues to 
 have that effect today. Not a year ago I lent it to some buddies of mine that were definitely not 
 computer gamers. They absolutely loved the game, and we still call each other taffers to this day.
 
  
  Naturally the game is not without quirks and flaws. After you manage to beat the game on Expert, 
 you will have learned the nuances of the game and will be able to navigate the game with ease. 
 One particularly useful quirk was being able to stand in a small darkened nook where a hallway 
 and doorway would meet. Completely concealed by the darkness, you could then lean out fully into 
 the middle of the hallway and wait for guards to wander up to you and blackjack them successfully 
 in the face. One other common complaint about Thief was the late-game focus on the metaphysical 
 realms; people wanted more human interaction, which they then got in Thief II. 
  
  To this day, no games have been made even remotely like Thief. Sure, there's scary games out there. 
 Sure, there's sneak-around games out there. Sure, there's games out there with great story lines. 
 But Thief combines these elements better than anything, and thus deserves the utmost respect.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of action, adverture, first person shooter games to know that most are short 
 and can be played within a week. Thief is no exception, however will gamers talking stating how 
 this is one of the great games ever along with a stealth system which has influenced other games 
 such as Splinter Cell, I had to give this a try.
  
  The story takes place in a medieval half middle-aged, half Victorian world with industrial machines 
 located in some places. You play as a young gentleman named Garret, who trained as a noble thief 
 and makes his living stealing items. During the story he is hired by a client to help him steal 
 an important artefact, which has him taken onto a journey across all kinds amazing places. 
  
  The controls are simple and are just like any other FPS, you move around a 3D world, opening 
 doors and interacting with objects which will help you to complete the level. 
  
  The new break though feature in this game is the ability to hide away from the enemy. You will 
 have a gem on you're screen, which will light up or dimmer down depending on how well you hide. 
 The brighter the gem, the more visible the player will be in the world, where the guards will be 
 able to spot the player.
  
  The player will have an set of tools, some of the important ones will be the blackjack and a set 
 of lockpicks which are used to open locked doors and cabinets. The thief will also have a sword 
 and a bow, With the bow are a bunch of elemental arrows. These range from a simple arrow to water 
 arrows to take out light sources, fire arrow to add fire to objects and to kill enemies quicker 
 and a moss arrow to walk on loud surfaces, such as metal more quietly.
  
  The world also has books, where the player can read documents and letters, which will give a clue 
 about what to do during a mission or the location in general. Finally the best part is being able 
 to steal loot, which are sorted into 3 groups, these are Gold, Gems and Goods. In total, they will 
 give you an amount to spend on at the beginning on each missions to buy equipment and tools, however 
 you will only have that chance to spent the amount, as you'll lose it when you start the mission. 
 This will encourage the player to buy and full up as much as they can onto the next mission.
  
  I remember playing the demo of this game and I had an assumption of what to expect from the 
 full version. However as with most opinions, they are usually wrong and I am somewhat freaked out 
 what I was coming into on the later levels.
  
  In the first level, which came with the demo, you sneak into a guarded mansion to steal a sword, 
 you come across servants and soldiers, however in the later early levels, you come across zombies, 
 ghosts and deadly spiders, fair enough, if it's medieval, that's reasonable, however in the later 
 levels, the whole place goes wild you come across crab people, weird moss creatures with human 
 figures and exploding frogs. Couldn't it be any better? 
  
  However, most of the part, the gameplay makes up for the game and really throw you in the thief's 
 shoes as this strongest point, makes the game worth while to play. That is, if you overlook some 
 of the strange things that will appear.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerjpines
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  How incredible was this game when it came out?
  
  Where to begin....
  
  The first thing to note about Thief is how ahead of its time it was. Thief's shadow/AI detector 
 system was and is still brilliant. One would expect serious flaws with such a fresh concept, yet 
 in this respect the gameplay worked flawlessly. In addition, the AIs are very effective and incredibly 
 smart for the late 90s. In fact, the AIs are so intelligent that the game is pretty difficult right 
 from the beginning. Not to worry - the plenty adequate difficulty is a definite plus and never 
 runs into the realm of frustration.
  
  Thief forces you to abandon the "run-and-gun" strategies from games like Doom and adopt a more 
 patient, observant approach. You will find that levels are often far easier to beat when foes are 
 dispensed using the blackjack rather than the sword. To some, this may sound unappealing, but it 
 will soon grow on you and leave you intellectually and aesthetically satisfied.
  
  The voice acting is nothing short of brilliance, and you will often find yourself hiding in the 
 shadows just to hear the conclusion of a conversation between two AIs. Characters will leave you 
 with memories not soon forgotten, and the plot accelerates quickly into an unexpected but welcome 
 storyline.
  
  If you want to check out a great classic, grab Thief. Oh, and while your at it, buy the sequels 
 as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimes73
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  So why did I never get myself to finish it? The answer is simple: bad level design. This is the 
 one and only complaint I have with the game. Mind you: the level design is not always bad, just 
 the contrary actually... But I could no longer bear the boredom of exploring immense and somehow 
 plain levels full with the usual array of monsters. This is where Thief: The Dark Project failed 
 to enrapture me completely. The missions are most often original, interesting and well laid out 
 but then few others felt so awkwardly Doom-like in their concept: enormous areas with spawning 
 of monsters and the need of going through all of it if you ever want to fulfill the mission's requirement 
 on Expert level (which is a real gem - the only level the game should be played at to fully enjoy 
 it) . Unfortunately for the game, in rating it, I need to take in consideration how many hours I 
 have spent enjoying it and how many being frustrated by it. The second took a rather big slice 
 of the time cake in my case, resulting in a breakdown that made me stop playing it. But this is 
 just my personal feeling about - according to me - poor level design choices that completely spoiled 
 an otherwise masterpiece. Still, the reasons for playing Thief: The Dark Prophecy are plenty: an 
 original game concept, a revolutionary gameplay, top-notch sound effects and voices and beautiful 
 visuals can but make me recommend this game to anyone out there. I am grateful to Looking Glass' 
 (R. I. P.) talented developers for this game because despite the one fault that made me give up on 
 it, it gave me many hours of sheer pleasure. If you don't mind overly much (like in my case) long 
 and repetitive sessions of hacking and exploring or if you can satisfy yourself with playing it 
 at easier levels, then it's sure that Thief: The Dark Prophet will become an extremely rewarding 
 experience. If not, but it and play it anyway: the success won't be as complete but the pleasant 
 memories won't fail to stay with you for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkwolven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This title was way ahead of it's time. Most stealth games of today owe a lot to this original creative 
 title. The graphics were brilliant for the time. It was an all around fun game. The use of shadows 
 and hiding had never been done before in a first person perspective game until this one. 
  
  This game not only inspired mods for the many FPS games that came out afterward, it inspired 
 an entire genre. How can you possibly top that? This title deserves to be mentioned in the same 
 breathe as Doom and Final Fantasy. Perhaps even before as the other two mentioned didn't spawn 
 a genre, but merely solidified them.
  
  The use of speech in this game was something also rarely done at the time. What's amazing is that 
 it did them so well. The voice acting was well excuted, and done in such a believable way that 
 you come away with an experience that you probably never will forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjunar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  If you havent played Thief yet, your probably aren't going to now, and it won't be the same as 
 it was back then due to the dated graphics. So you missed out on the type of game that isn't made 
 nowadays, nothing about it felt overly produced. From the awkward animations to the bland textures. 
 There was also a minimalism in the controls and game-play that helped to immerse the player, helped 
 along by brilliant cut-scenes, and a story and main character you genuinely cared about. Genuinely 
 surprising things showed up in Thief, especially if you where expecting a plain medieval setting. 
 A great sequel too, to keep the story going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneaksiegarrett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Best sneaking game ever made. The storyline, game mechanics, etc. This game made 'First Person Sneaker 
 a new genre. Although there was some issues, that is why I gave it a 9.5 and not a 10 even though 
 I love this game to death.... The reason is because I purchased Thief Gold some time ago and it 
 has three new levels + fixes to the original TDP game. I'd probably give Thief Gold the 10 because 
 it makes up for TDP's problems I think. Anyway, this has to be the best sneaking series ever to 
 come across the earth in 1998! I love the medieval feel to it and even though it is not meant for 
 killing - you can satisfy your i've gotta kill everyone in site feeling every once in a while &gt;=) 
 It is possible to play it like a FPS, especially since this one had more levels with monsters that 
 you were fine with killing (down in the bonehoard) for example. TDP's sequel, Thief 2: The Metal 
 Age, was a good game in its own right, but I felt that I liked TDP better because of the missions 
 you went through. Thief 2 felt more like a traditional kind of gameplay: steal from homes, steal 
 from the bank - TDP was more about adventure and less about the end goal. The end goal was always 
 there, but I felt that TDP had that exploring kind of feel to it more so than Thief 2 will ever 
 have.
  
  Scoring:
  Gameplay: 10.0
  Graphics: 8.0
  Sound: 10.0
  Value: 9.5
  Tilt: wtf is tilt anyway? I'll give it a 10.
  
  Difficulty: I'd rate it on moderately difficult. 
 You really gotta step out of your First Person Shooter shoes and get used to it if you are a FPS 
 fan. This game isn't about shooting everyone up. If you want it to be easy, play on easy mode. 
 That's what its for. There is a reason it has three difficulty levels. However, some say expert 
 is the way its meant to be played I think.
  
  Learning Curve: Probably the same thing Game Spot gave it: About a half hour - maybe less for those 
 of you that play stealth games.
  
  Stability: Minor Problems - Same as Game Spot said.
  
  Checkout my website for thief ::: http://www. freewebs. com/sneaksiegarrett 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Thief: The Dark Project was made by Looking Glass Studios, released in 1998. It is a first person 
 -sneaker- game, meaning that unlike most games of it's time, the gameplay is not based on shooting 
 people. The player must use stealth and shadows to survive.
  
  The game is set in medieval world and it has also some fantasy and magical elements. In the game, 
 you control extraordinarily talented thief called Garrett. He lives in an unknown country in an 
 unknown city, called just The City. He has no parents and no home, so he lives in the streets and 
 he has to pickpocket people in order to get money to survive. Then one day he sees a strange man 
 in the streets who seems to be completely ignored by other people, as like he was invisible. Garrett 
 thinks that the man must have some pretty good loot and tries to pickpocket him. The man catches 
 Garrett, but he is not angry at all. It's revealed that this guy belongs to a secret organization 
 called The Keepers, who work unseen and try to keep balance in The City. The Keeper asks Garrett 
 to join them and promises to train him even better than he already is if he does join. At first, 
 Garrett wants to be left alone but then he thinks that Keeper training could be used for other 
 things that keeping peace and balance in The City. So he joins The Keepers, and almost immediately 
 after his training is complete, he leaves them and becomes a professional thief. The best thief 
 the world has ever seen... or should I say, has never seen.
  
  The game has 13 missions plus the training mission, which is integrated to the story. (It's the 
 Keeper Training) Most of these missions are quite lengthy and pretty large, and they allow you 
 to plan your routes and tactics on your own because they are very un-linear and have multiple ways 
 of completing things. You can play the game in Normal, Hard or Expert difficulty, it doesn't have 
 Easy because the first time you play it, it won't be easy at all. The difficulty levels of course 
 adjust things like your hit points, enemies ability to see and hear you, the number of enemies 
 eg. But they also adjust your objectives, meaning that at Expert difficulty you usually have about 
 2 times more objectives, and you need to collect more loot in the mission. Also in most missions 
 in Hard and Expert difficulty you are not allowed to kill unarmed people or even anyone. Garrett 
 is a thief after all, not a murderer.
  
  When you are playing Thief, most of the time you'll want to stay in the shadows. Only move when 
 the enemies are facing the other way or there are no enemies near. Garrett is very agile, he can 
 run fast when needed, jump around and pull himself up ledges to get to places. Garrett has all 
 kinds of neat tools that help him achieve his goals. He has the blackjack, which can be used to 
 knock out most enemies with a single hit. At least if they don't know that you're there. He also 
 has a sword in case he gets in a tough situation and the only way of getting out is fighting. There 
 is another way of getting out of fights though, the flashbomb. It can be thrown at ground to blind 
 enemies for a while (and Garrett too, if you're not careful) so you can run away from the situation 
 and hide in a dark corner. Or you can knock out the blinded enemies if you're quick enough.
  
  Then he has his bow, which most of the time is used as a tool, not a weapon. Though you can 
 shoot enemies with regular arrows, most of the time this isn't the ideal option since even if they 
 die from the hit, they scream really loud (who wouldn't?) and it alerts nearby enemies. Anyway, 
 the bow has better uses. It can be loaded with water, moss, fire, gas, rope and noisemaker arrows. 
 Water arrows are really useful, because they can put out torches to create darkness where you can 
 hide. They can also be used against undead enemies (yes you WILL deal with undead a lot.. A LOT) 
 if you have a bottle of holy water. Moss arrows, when shot in the ground, can make any surface 
 really quiet. Which is of course very useful. Fire arrows are not ideal for stealth, but if you 
 need to take out an enemy quick, they will do the job much better than regular arrows. You can 
 also light torches with them, which isn't really useful at all, but still realistic. Gas arrows 
 are very rare. They they work like blackjack, but they can knock out any human enemy from far away 
 and even if they see you. Then the rope arrows, they are VERY useful. You can shoot them in wood 
 or any soft surface to create a temporary (or permanent if you leave the arrow in place) rope that 
 you can climb to reach places that otherwise would be unreachable. Noisemaker arrows are good for 
 distracting enemies, and like rope and regular arrows, they can be recovered afterwards and used 
 again. Rope and normal arrows can only be recovered if they didn't hit an enemy, and you did hit 
 a wooden or soft surface. You can also distract enemies by throwing stuff like crates.
  
  Then the rest of the equipment. You have of course lockpicks, essential thief tools. You've probably 
 guessed what you can do with them, surprise surprise, pick locks! Not all locks are pickable though, 
 so you'll have to find a key. Wooden doors can also be smashed with your sword, though this makes 
 a lot of noise. Other (metal) doors can also be opened with a couple of fire arrows. Then you have 
 a couple of potions, healing, breathing and speed. Healing heals some of the damage you have taken 
 from fights, traps or falling. Breathing potion gives you more air when you are swimming underwater. 
 Speed potion gives you more speed for a while, which is useful when running away from enemies or 
 trying to make a long jump. There are also mines, regular and gas mines. You put mine in someplace, 
 enemy walks over it and kaboom! Normal mines do a whole lot of damage, and a whole lot of noise 
 too. Gas mines work like gas arrows, knocking out enemies silently.
  
  Since the game was released in 1998, the graphics by todays standards look really poor and outdated. 
 But when it was released, the graphics were pretty good. Especially the lightning and shadows are 
 absolutely perfect, and they are very big part of the gameplay. Character models on the other hand 
 may look a little... blocky, but they are ok. All of the textures are alright too, nothing special, 
 but they do the job well.
  
  Then the sound.. Oh the sound is just perfect, absolutely 10/10 here! And it plays part of the 
 gameplay too. Not only the enemies can see you, but they can hear you too. Try to jump on metal 
 or marble, and every enemy will know where you are. But there are some quieter surfaces though, 
 like grass or stone. Anyway, the sound.. Voice acting is very good and convincing, especially Garrett's 
 voice is really well done, and the character just wouldn't be the same if the voice was changed. 
 Sound effects, yes they are good, everything from footsteps to swords clanging in fight sounds 
 great. There isn't really ingame music in the game, but there are some *very* cool and well done 
 ambient sounds, so the soundtrack is absolutely perfect too, it fits the game so well and gives 
 it really dark and sinister feeling. The atmosphere is just perfect here. You HAVE TO play this 
 with good headphones or surround sound speakers, and you need a decent soundcard (anything newer 
 than SB Audigy 2 should be good) to fully enjoy this game. And you HAVE TO play this with a monitor 
 that has a good, dark black. Meaning that in the darkest shadows, you will see only pitch black. 
 Play at evening or preferably at night.
  
  While this game is one of the best, if not the best game ever made and almost perfect in any way, 
 there are some minor annoyances. The AI for example, while it works well most of the time, it can 
 be very stupid and be exploited in many ways. For instance, you have a guard chasing you, and you 
 jump on a table. Tadaa, you are safe forever as long as you don't go too near the guard. And the 
 AI can be knocked out EVEN IN A FIGHT, as long as you are out of their field of view even just 
 for the one millisecond when your blackjack hits them. Also, if you kill, say, 5 people, and bring 
 their corpses to someplace and a guard walks by, he starts to search for a while as usual but then 
 after a while he 'gives up' and thinks that 'it must have been rats' or something. While pretty 
 hilarious, it makes the game seem less realistic. And the undead zombies are sometimes pretty buggy. 
 When you kill them using sword or arrows, they don't really die. Which is how it should be. They 
 fall down to the ground. Which is how it should be. BUT, after a while, they get up, walk around 
 and can't see or hear you unless you go really close to them. They should stay on the ground until 
 you approach them. (the developers said that it was the way it should've been) And there may be 
 some glitches such as tables or chairs that float in the air and stuff.
  
  But some bugs (especially the zombie one) are fixed in the Gold release, which also features three 
 new missions that were originally planned to be in the game but were left out for some reason. 
 And it has minor alterations to the original missions to make them better. Get the Gold release 
 if you can, but it's pretty rare.
  
  Anyway, all in all, this game is one of the most revolutionary games ever made. And the most original, 
 because it was the first REAL stealth game, meaning you don't HAVE TO kill or knock out people 
 to succeed, and enemies can see AND hear you. Even if it has those little minor bugs I mentioned, 
 I think it deserves the rating 10/10, because even today, it remains one of the best, if not the 
 best stealth game ever made. A real masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I am your number one fan. This is what I say to this game everytime I see it in my game library. 
 First of all, graphics are a big huge plus times ten for this game. I loved the work on the stone 
 on castles and walls and stuff. Awesome. What made the first game of Thief so amazingly wonderful 
 was the fact that you did have to hide YES of course, but if you got caught, you did not have to 
 start the level over. You could run, hide and then whack the guys who were chasing you. You could 
 lure certain guys toward you; whack them until you thin them out and then loot, loot, loot. The 
 other thing that made it so great was that it was a dark game that had a sinister attitude. It 
 gave you this grave feeling that your character was evil but at the same time good but for selfish 
 gain. Thirdly and almost most important was the horror aspect. In the dark halls, you had to avoid 
 waking up zombies that would startle the hell out of you if they came around the corner. Then the 
 monkey men trapezing around going heeee heee heeee. Finally and most phenomenally were the spiders. 
 With that sound that they made when they got after you. Oh my. My blood would literally freeze 
 when they would come. All this plus the bow and arrow that would zoom in on your target and get 
 him with a one shot kill if he was unsuspecting PLUS leading up to the boss devil thing at the 
 end made it just rule rule rule. No doubt about it. The game is a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSeptim
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  this game givesto us terror mainly and is amusing because of hes objetives and at some moments 
 even produces desperation as ahhhh I do not have blessed water &lt; - and zombis persecutes us. 
 Another thing that is worth to mention is that it has a excellente plot, that even continuous perfectly 
 in the newest games -what it gives a special touch to him- in addition its thousands to varied 
 objects that even take to you to create them in molds being used the correct combination of materials, 
 elaborated arms affluent -as it is the action to stun and later to assassinate with the dagger- 
 in addition, the very human actions for those times of technology - still they even surprise the 
 face expressions to me of deadly shadows- and finally the narrative voice that makes of this game 
 a gold history.
  
  And the last thing is that this game is very interesting, when you play it 1 time you need to play 
 it more and more, because you want to know what will happen to Garrett. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki003
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Thief is every stealth gamers dream being the most realistic fps stealth game I ever played. Even 
 more better than Splinter Cell and Ghost Recon. The games story is what really draws you in every 
 mission leads to something more mysterious and twisting. The whole game is flawless for a stealth 
 game. The sound gives off no background music except the sound of wind blowing making it really 
 tense, I mean really the game is tense because of the realism your not going to survive multiple 
 blows with a sword especially two on one remember your a Thief darkness is your friend. The AI 
 is indeed the awesome unlike Splinter Cell these guys will attack you the second you step into 
 the light. They also keep their guard up if they see you and lose. The game gives you everything 
 a Thief needs lock picks a sword, health potion, compass, map, and even flash bombs to stun enemies 
 if they see you. You can also knock enemies unconscious with a black jack but be warned guards 
 will look for you if they see a body lying around and carrying one is extra weight like Splinter 
 Cell. The graphics are awesome since this game is ancient so they're really good for its time even 
 if all the guards look the same. The only problem is the sound and value to most people after beating 
 the game once nothing is going to want to make you play it again and the sound in the game every 
 guard sounds the same and only Garret the main character has a cool voice, and even the sound effects 
 are a little shaky but I don't mind. This is one of the best fps games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8Dark8Wolf8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This its one of the best FPS-Strategy games ever, I wish we could have more and MORE thief Saga, 
 besides the 2 and 3... Its a shame that after the 1/2 the 3 version didnt made that far even though 
 it brings U new graphics and story, buty still we MISS the LookingGlass Studios Touch of the THIEF 
 1/2... Still in nowadays we might have some better graphics that in thoose days but I have to admit 
 that I dont get tired of goin to my old collection and get this THIEF and the Secod one: The mEtal 
 Age and play them on once and again.
  
  888D888 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Thief was a great game. people who love stealth will love this game. the story was not the best 
 but the whey you played and the caution you must take. Unlike other games that use stealth as well 
 as fighting you cant go gungho on everything. the game is well put together. There is an eritating 
 mix modern technology when your playing in the mid-evil times. The objective is to get what your 
 there for, not be seem, and get as much bounty as possible to get moneys. This game is a classic 
 stealth and changed the way we looked as stealth games it was a classic the best of the series. 
 If you find it get it. its hard to come by, but its a must have for any collection of PC games 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieElNino
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  alright so i picked this game up a couple of years ago and now i decied to write my review. When 
 i got it and loaded it up i was impressed by the way the makers had set up the levels and menus 
 i really got the hang of the game in about the first mission. The idea that you sneak in and steal 
 things is brilliant its an entire new genre of gameplay and they did an excellent job in realeasing 
 it. The heart stopping gameplay is great and the levels are so cleverly designed it takes a long 
 time just to look at the ingeneous layouts and then just stealing the stuff. So in summary go get 
 it if ur comp can run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flakk3r
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Garret is for sure my absolute favourite character in all games, voicing done by Stephen Russel 
 that has made a nice, smooth and sarchastic voice, perfect for Garret
  
  The game itself is most fashionating in all ways, the gameplay and the amazing story. Nice enviroments 
 and somewhat creepy makes this game the ultimate stealth game ever, yes in my opinion better than 
 SC
  
  It's sad Looking Glass Studios ended up the way it did after the second game
  think they could have kept on going making some more nice games if it wasn't for that they went 
 out of buisness, 2002 I think was the year.... Thief a classic serie and a classic game, and it 
 will always be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiefx100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  Thief: The Dark Project is a game that i immediately fell in love with when i first played it. 
 In the game you play as a thief named Garrett, but you're not just some pickpocket, you're a master 
 thief. People hire you to steal valuable items placed in well guarded areas.
  
  The game's graphics definitely don't look amazing today but I'm sure they were pretty decent when 
 the game came out in 1998. The sound in the game is of course very good, it has to be good to be 
 a successful stealth game. Some sounds like the swinging of your sword sound a little unrealistic 
 but those don't really matter. The sounds that help you detect if someone is coming matter. The 
 footsteps, the sound of the type of floor the feet are stepping on and doors opening and closing 
 are the very important and useful sounds. For example, youre looking for valuable items in a room 
 and suddenly you hear the door open and foot steps walking in onto the rug in the middle of the 
 room, letting you know that hes right behind you. Almost all guards mumble and complain about 
 stuff while patrolling and guarding, normally making them easy to hear before turning a corner 
 or running into the light in case you didn't see them. The voice acting in the game is absolutely 
 perfect, from the hilarious drunk or stupid guard to the screaming beasts, the voice acting is 
 perfect. Oh and Garrett's voice acting is pretty good to.
  
  The game doesn't always take place in a heavily guarded mansion but that's all I'm saying. The 
 story is good and interesting, I didn't fully understand until I played Thief III because it introduces 
 the factions pretty well, unlike this one where I never understood those quoting intros. The weird 
 thing about Thief is that there's a faction called Hammerites, these guys are religious mechanist 
 who have steam powered machines that didn't exist in that time. Someone on the TTLG forums called 
 me an idiot and told me it was called something like "Steampunk".
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys stealth games. It's definitely one of my favorite 
 games ever. Play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aj_102
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 13, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Yeah !! 9.2 is pritty damn over rated man !! its about 8.7 !! its an okay game !! abit too hadr 
 on an easy mode and wayyyy hard for an harder mode !! i think that for its time the graphics are 
 more capible than givin in this game !! okay every one reccomended it to me becuase it was a cheap 
 stealth action !! right ?? okay !! the stealth bit is taken wayyy over the top from splineter cell 
 !! being abit of a stealth game cuz its got action !! the stealth is too far !! like for instance 
 ...... you cant be seen if your in shade, or like you cant be heard at all on carpets and not even 
 on metal grounds if your quiet !! thats not what i would call interseting action !! would you ?? 
 So the stealth side of the game isnt very impresive !! abit of creeping p behind backs and knifing 
 a person down would be enough to class it down for stealth !! right now to the action bit !! okay 
 this bit isnt as dissapointing as the stealth !! youve got the close up sword wars which are pritty 
 good exept for if you get hit once your down !! and youve got the biw and arrow them down which 
 is under rated because sometimes it can take a none armoured enemy 7 bows that are hit straight 
 and streched to kill !! 
  Okay !! thats the hatred and down bits of the game !! ive tried to be nice !! but it deserved abit 
 of telling off !! and maybe a third person shooter wouldnt of killed it either !! but ill put the 
 moaning to a rest there and then !! now to the good bits to make people like it and want it because 
 the good bits are juicy !! oh before the good bit one more bad thing !! THE GRAPHICS pritty much 
 sucked !! AND it was wayy to hard (again) and took too long even on easeir mode !! the leraning 
 curve was okay because of the traning other wise it was no good because i ended up skipping training 
 at first : ( lol !! 
  Hmmmmm goood bits... ?? okay !! the action !! heres a few good points on the action for you !! 
 youve got the sword fights tht are pritty immence !! yeh ?? it might take too many blows to take 
 a garud down but otherwise its good !! the gamplay is goooood !! its easy adn straight forward 
 !! now the story line is something i think was bad becuase i didnt get it one bit !! just random 
 missions if youde ask me !! but !! from what the missions were !! that was goood !! interesting 
 and action "stealth" misison !! lol !! right !! the last thing is the moves the guy has !! which 
 im going to end with 10 words !! "he cant fight to save his life, hes too soft" !! 
  And that should conclude m spiffing veiws of thief !!
  Theif 2 review coming soon i hope !! (Doubt 
 it'll be good) !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Thief was revolutionary when it was released, and while a lot of its luster has faded, it is still 
 an excellent game that combines many complex elements together with such great skill, that the 
 whole is much greater than the sum of its parts, yet its parts are still many.
  
  The graphics in Thief were good when it was released, but its blocky models seem particularly odd-looking 
 today. The textures were also fairly low quality (and only 8-bit) , but were otherwise very well 
 chosen and implemented. In fact, they've aged pretty well, perhaps almost lending the game more 
 of medieval effect than they did when it was fresh and new -- almost like graininess in an old black 
 and white film.
  
  The sound still holds up very well. This game was a pioneer in 4-channel audio, and it holds up 
 very well by today's standards. Sound effects are clear and identifyable with good positional effects, 
 and ambient music (if you could call it that) is eery, subtle and really creates a mood. The only 
 audio problems are that it is sometimes very difficult to determine a sound source's height (maybe 
 not surprising, given 4-channel setups) , and audio occlusion is either poor or nonexistent (if 
 there is a partition wall with openings on either side and a guard behind it, his audio will appear 
 to come to you straight through the partition -- even if it's solid rock -- rather than around it) .
 
  
  Level design is a mixed bag, which I had to knock off a point for. Sadly, this is one of those 
 games where it the phrase "it really picks up after..." must be used. There are some really crappy 
 missions in this game, the first half of the game being a mix of excellent and crappy missions, 
 but after the halfway point, things take a turn for the better and never look back. Actually, I 
 should clarify that the level design itself is all amazing, my least favorite level was admittedly 
 rife with cool architecture... the fun-factor of some of the levels is just lacking.
  
  The story is also one of the best I've ever seen. The cutscenes and mission briefings work with 
 and enhance the atmosphere. The handful of story-advancing cutscenes are so well done, that they 
 may leave an indelible mark on you, similar to how a really well-done movie might. At the very 
 least, they are memorable and incredibly well done.
  
  As of April 2004, this game also holds my designation of having the most satisfying game ending 
 ever. Many FPS games just throw a really hard to beat boss at the end, and you have to scope out 
 the weaknesses and just shoot it until its dead. Obviously, a game like Thief can't do that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hethegreat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  40% Action 10% Adventure 50% Stealth
  
  Alright I have a bone to pick with this game. I like the game for the first like 7 levels, good 
 idea to keep the killing down to some degree but they went too far. I like getting things out of 
 my way. So on easy you can pretty much kill all you want, this made it nice to sneak around and 
 take people out one at a time (I really like the bow) . After level 7 though they put zombies in 
 it (ok so they introduced them earlier but not to this extent) You can kill zombies but only with 
 Holy Water, which lasts for 30sec and you need to use your water arrows. This is annoying because 
 then you need to save Holy Water so you end up running from the zombies for the most part. They 
 also had flying balls of fire these, though unusual, are not that bad because water arrows take 
 them out in one hit. 
  
  The NPCs, including the flaming balls, are smart in this game; in that they take note of dead bodies 
 on the ground, unusual noise and blood stains. I even ran into someone noticing when one of there 
 friends vanished (because of me of course) . Oh did I forget to mention the balls are also intelligent.
 
  
  I found this to be a great game when I can kill things. Even having not finished it because of 
 the zombies I still think it was worth the $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I played this first in the series. It grabbed my attention with the sneaking, and looting mechanic. 
 As the latest part of this series this sure is a fun way to sharpen your skills for the next. Personally 
 I'd skip this sequel, and jump right into Deadly Shadows. This one is for those boring days after 
 playing out Thief: DS. The graphics were not that great, nor the sound, but the value, and fun 
 factor is great!. The AI in this game isn't as what I planned, but what can you ask for when this 
 game was still being under development for the best of the series. I'd try it out if your interested 
 how this game evolved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Thief is a revolutionary game. It simply brought new life to the first person shooter genre. Incredibly, 
 with just 10 years of existence, first person shooters were already suffering from the fate of 
 repeated formulas and nothing new.
  
  Thief brought to the table a new concept: the ability to sneak through the gaps in the enemy's 
 defenses and steal their riches, all without alerting them and not even killing anyone. Normally, 
 to do the same thing in other games, one heck of a morgue truck was needed to clean up the mess. 
 Here, you'll need your cunning and brains to avoid detection and fights. The game makes you think, 
 because if you don't, you'll won't survive. To put it simply: the main character wasn't built for 
 head-on confrontations.
  
  The game begins as Garrett, a thief trained by a secret society goes out in his first 'mission' 
 to steal some loot at a rich man's estate. Soon, he gets thrown into a conspiracy involving rival 
 factions and a demonic spirit bent in turning the world into another age of darkness. You'll face 
 guards, religious monks, forest spirits and even the undead as you steal your way through the game.
 
  
  At your disposal, you'll have soon interesting items: your bow that fires water, fire, moss and 
 normal arrows, each for an specific function, for ex, the water arrow douses torches so you remain 
 in the darkness; the blackjack, used to know-out enemies and sentries and many other trinkets that 
 are used for diversion and quick escapes, such as the smoke bomb and the flash bomb. The latter 
 has a special attribute, it disables the undead!
  
  The enemy A. I in the game is in medium range. To make the game a possible experience to beat, the 
 developers were kind of lax in the intelligence for the guards. They give up searching quite quickly 
 if you manage to outrun them and sometimes they don't even notice if you knock-ou their comrades. 
 But as I said, it wouldn't be too playable if it all the guards were paranoid and super determined, 
 right? No guard is like that in real life.
  
  Thief has a great story and you'll enjoy it as long as it lasts. Now, years later, many add-on 
 maps were created by fans, prolonging the experience to the max, and if you consider playing the 
 other two games in the series and their maps in succession, you'll spend a lot of time with our 
 charismatic hero. 
  
  Now go out there and don't make a lot of noise!
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffer38
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  this game was a huge hit for the pc when it came out and rightly so. this game has a brand new 
 idea nobody has tried before, first person stealing. you're not trying to run around and kill people 
 in this game, but instead you're trying to sneak past you're enemies first and foremost. the only 
 thing i really don't like about this is that you don't know if something is loot or junk that you 
 throw. other than that this game is very good. if you've played Deadly shadows and you haven't 
 played the first game you owe it to yourself to give this game a chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  The first thing Ill say is remake it with the new Thief: Deadly Shadows engine and maybe with 
 a few upgrades to it. But I have to say this game was superb! I spent a long time trying to beat 
 the game on normal then on expert it took a long, long time about a week or two to beat it. There 
 were miner errors in the game and for its time the graphics were excellent and so was the game 
 play and just about everything else was good. And the AI (Artificial Intelligence) was excellent 
 they were the main reason it took me so long to beat the game. It really made the stealth differentiate 
 from other stealth action games.\ and even for nowadays. And the different enemies in the game, 
 well lets just say you could tell the difference between them. And the main bad guy was UGLY. But 
 I cant tell you about him that is if you suckers still havent won it. 
  
  Now on the negative side, well there isnt much to talk about so Ill make it brief. Now first 
 off I want to say I did encounter errors in the game where the graphics show a wired arm of Garrett 
 when he blocks it all flat. And sometimes, SOMETIMES not all the time the AI might run into a wall 
 or object and get stuck there. But like I said there isnt really much to talk about but if there 
 is well if you know how to I cant keep track of my e-mail tell me what it is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Back when this game came out in 98 one of my school friends told me all about it. He isn't a particularly 
 excitable guy but he was going absolutely crazy about Thief: The Dark Project. So four years later, 
 in winter 2002, I finally got around to buying it.
  
  I'm not big on the whole stealth games thing. It adds variety to missions if occasionally you are 
 required to use stealth to get things done, instead of just happily shooting/slashing/bludgeoning 
 enemies into submission, (eg the stealth missions in Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines add a 
 different challenge and are a lot of fun) . Despite not really enjoying stealth orientated games 
 I was prepared to give Thief a go, just for a new challenge and the fact that I remembered my mate 
 almost having an accident in his pants telling me how good it was. He was 14 at the time, so such 
 an accident would not have been forgivable.
  
  So I gave the game a go, have persevered for quite a while with it, and have tried to get into 
 the style of the game. But yet it stands now as the only story driven game I currently own that 
 I haven't ever completed. This isn't because I find it too hard, it's just that it bores me. I'm 
 a patient guy - I'm in to point and click adventures, for goodness sakes - but I just get frustrated 
 with Thief. The plot moves slowly, the missions don't really seem connected, and the whole thing 
 just doesn't engage me. I just get the feeling that it's a good concept and it should have been 
 done much better.
  
  Also it is pretty bad graphically. People and objects seem the wrong shape at times, some items 
 are proportionally incorrect in terms of size, and too many of the levels are very plain. The character 
 that you play as, Garrett, seems clumsy and is awkward to manoeuvre, especially when attempting 
 to knock out enemies.
  
  It is good in terms of sound, and it is interesting to have to make your move often just using 
 sound as a guide for whether an enemy is nearby. This is an interesting concept, and the sound 
 is done well.
  
  I am yet to experience any bugs with the game, but then again I've only ever played it halfway 
 through, so there may be as yet undiscovered corruptions lurking within. To be honest I can't see 
 me ever learning if the game is totally bug free.
  
  So in all, this is an awkward, slow paced, disjointed, graphically below par game. It is a good 
 concept however, and maybe the follow-up games in the Thief series are better. I hope so. I want 
 to be able to like this game as it does have a few positive elements and an interesting concept, 
 but sadly far too much counts against it. If you are able to persevere with the slow and at times 
 unconnected story then I'm sure this will be a rewarding experience for you. The only thing I feel 
 for it is disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EgoMaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Now this is one of the games that you can call "breakthrough". Creating a new sub-genre called 
 "Stealth-action", Looking Glass Technologies not only created a believable world of technology 
 and magic, but also created an atmosphere so tense that you couldn't even catch your breath while 
 watching the movies between the levels. Though it had mediocre graphics, the sound, the design 
 and playing mechanics were perfect, achieving what Jurassic Park: Trespasser tried and failed. 
 This is the one and only game that I can't dare to play with lights out and most atmospheric game 
 along with Sanitarium. Though I recall having bought it because a friend insisted, not because 
 I wanted to, I immediately became addicted to it. After all these years (8, I presume) I still 
 play it and the game can still make a 30-year old guy like me out of his seat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenBlkthorne
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Sitting up late one night , many years ago I downloaded the demo Thief the dark project, and spent 
 the next several days engrossed in it , this game hooked me and the developers were brilliant in 
 the scheme of it, game play and originality, to say the least.
  
  The game has a great storyline and the gameplay is unreal for the time , very advanced shading 
 and effects , shadowing and texture but for the technology and cpu speeds I think it was Direct 
 X 6 I'm not sure , I think at the time I was running a Voodoo 4 or 5 card it ran great , what got 
 me into the game was the incredible sound quality , the character voices and ambient sounds , were 
 better than any game i'd ever played at the time , and the cut scenes were engrossing , to say 
 the least. Garrett's journey and his abilities , like the rope arrow , that was just cool, and 
 the level of the Hammerite Temple with the living dead, very spooky , loved it.
  
  RAVEN
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  Okay, so this is not the normal runna-shoota'em up... And of course no point in comparing it to 
 Splinter Cell series as many do, because it is simply not even the same genre.
  Thief is *ALL* about stealth, you live it, you breath it, you think of it all the time in every 
 step you tread... and you better tread carefully or they will spot you. The fascinating thing here 
 is that the creators really did a great job in making stealth the most important factor, meaning 
 that if you got to a situation that have been revealed and a fight begins you are most likely to 
 loose, since you are rather weak. The main point here is NOT to be seen by any chance. 
  
  The weaponry you have is also quite simplistic, which makes it real good! You are a thief after 
 all, so it makes sense that you will not be carrying a pistol, or any loud noise producing device, 
 right ...??!?! 
  All you have is your trusty Black Jack - great for knocking these guards out cold (without having 
 to kill them actually) , your long sword - which you save for those most desperate situation when 
 a fight is inevitable, your bow which is in fact your Swiss army knife, since as you proceed in 
 the game you get different types of arrows which make the bow very useful for just about anything, 
 killing from afar, coating noisy platforms with soft moss, extinguishing torches and more...
  
  The graphics of the game are OK, no more. If it is graphics you seek then you may be a bit 
 disappointed here. The NPC's and monsters limbs for example, look a lot like in the game System 
 Shock 2 if some of you know it. It did not bother me however as I prefer gameplay over looks.
 
  
  Sound is chilling and quite spooky especially when in a dungeon or a cave. Really good job there. 
 You hear every footstep and you can "feel" that someone or something is getting closer and closer.
 
  
  The game is quite stable too, never had any problems with it. I have played it on WinXP + SP1 with 
 an old & trusty Geforce3. Don't know about the newer cards though...
  
  One thing you must bear in mind is that you need a lot of patience with this game. This is no Serious 
 Same and no Duke Nukem and no Splinter Cell. The gameplay here is truly unique and second to none. 
 That's how it goes when most of the time you are actually hiding and looking over your shoulders...
 
  
  I have never finished the game, I left it quite a while ago due to lack of time but the levels 
 I did play were are great fun and very rewarding as you go along...!
  This game is a must for every player who considers himself a serious gamer. At least give it a 
 try :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garret_thief
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  I bought this game in 1998 nad cant seem to find a better game that this. When i first playedthis 
 game i was blown away by the highly immeresive environment and the superb sound that the game had.
 
  The gameplay is very good but it gets repititive some times.... its the same all the way through 
 i. e. hidding in the shadows and waiting for someone who u can blackjack. But even thats enjoyable.
 
  If u like to hack your way through levels then this game is NOT for u. This game requires a lot 
 of patience.
  This game goes into my list of top 10 games as number one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while an amazing game comes along but is overshadowed by other bigger name games; 
 Thief: The Dark Project is one of these games. It combines superb stealth gameplay, quality narrative 
 and an atmosphere like no other. You take on the role of Garrett; a cynical and world weary master 
 thief who was once part of a secretive organization known as the Keepers. After an optional tutorial 
 you step into Garretts shoes on a typical night in the city where you must steal a jeweled scepter 
 for your Fence.
  
  The gameplay of Thief revolves around lurking in the shadows and not mindlessly charging at guards. 
 You do have broadhead arrows and a sword for tight situations, but for the most part youll be 
 using your blackjack and assortment of unique arrows that serve different purposes such as water 
 arrows which put out torches that can otherwise make you visible to patrolling guards. As you progress 
 through each mission you will also be able to buy unique items (which you can also find in missions) 
 such as potions and flashbombs with the amount of loot that you obtained in the previous mission.
 
  
  Thiefs level design contains a lot of atmosphere; every area is well crafted and usually fits 
 in with the narrative. Throughout the course of the game you travel to manors, ancient tombs, haunted 
 cathedrals and more in search of loot and important items. The areas are presented in an outdated 
 engine by todays standards, as are the character models, but they accomplish what they were meant 
 to: draw you into the dark world of Garrett.
  
  The audio in Thief is superb, the weapon sound effects are what you might expect and the game features 
 EAX support which brings the places in Thief to life. Walking down a dark corridor and hearing 
 the echo of your footsteps has never felt more satisfying in a video game than what you experience 
 in Thief. The music in the game isnt catchy, but its ambient. The musical score is there to immerse 
 you in the game world rather than sounding nice or upbeat to fit the action.
  
  Thief: The Dark Project is a game that every gamer should try at least once, and a game that no 
 stealth fan should miss. If youre looking for a good story; Thief will give you a dark tale of 
 revenge and betrayal, if you want good gameplay Thief will deliver top quality stealth and adventure; 
 if youre looking for a game to test your latest top of the line PC with... look elsewhere. Thief 
 is a memorable experience crafted by the now defunct Looking Glass Studios, and though it may not 
 have been as popular as other games that came out in 1998; it was one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Adkins
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  To start with I might as well mention that this review contains NO SPOILERS.
  
  First off, I have to say that if you are wondering if you should play the Thief series in its correct 
 order (The Dark Project, The Metal Age, Deadly Shadows) , the answer is most definitely 'yes.' To 
 truly appreciate this series you need to start from the beginning, and it isn't just because of 
 the good storyline. You will probably be ruined by the graphics of this game's sequels if you play 
 them first, or you might have trouble getting used to the old school gameplay mechanics presented 
 in this game.
  
  To truly appreciate Thief you must first realize that regardless of its first-person view, this 
 game is almost completely stealth-based. The main arsenal of the game is pretty small, consisting 
 of a sword (useless throughout the majority of the game) , a blackjack (to knock out those pesky 
 guards before they know what hit them) , and a bow which is surprisingly used as more of a tool 
 than a weapon. Your bow is able to use many different types of arrows, which include, but are not 
 limited to, moss arrows for dampening footsteps, water arrows for dousing torches, rope arrows 
 for reaching places you shouldn't be (it's a thief's job) , and gas arrows for harmlessly incapacitating 
 your foes from long distances (useful during missions where one of your secondary objectives involves 
 not killing anyone) . Along with your weapons, you also have a variety of items at your disposal, 
 which may be purchased between levels using the loot you managed to grab while you were "doing 
 your job" in the previous mission. The items you can purchase range from more ammunition for your 
 bow, to restorative potions, to blinding Flash Bombs used when you desperately need to vanish as 
 quickly as possible.
  
  The game has three different difficulty settings, but the first and second mainly just cut out 
 large amounts of secondary goals during the missions instead of actually making them easier. For 
 the full Thief experience I suggest playing on Hardest the first time through. Although it may 
 seem daunting for the first few missions, as the 'Hardest' difficulty setting makes even the first 
 level take over an hour, it is definitely worth it. If you don't play on Hardest at first you should 
 at least play on the Hard setting, as Normal (this game's 'easy') just takes out too many secondary 
 objectives. Giving an example of this would ruin some of the game's surprises, unfortunately.
 
  
  There is also some good A. I. in Thief. It can seem a bit dumb at times, but it's still easily better 
 than the A. I. in Deadly Shadows, since the guards of this game do an excellent job of hearing things, 
 unlike the apparently deaf guards you see in the latest entry in the Thief series. The guards will 
 become alerted and sound the alarm if possible if they see a fallen comrade, so you will usually 
 have to hide corpses and unconscious bodies in shadows where guards are unlikely to stumble upon 
 them during their rounds. There are two problems with this system, the first being that guards 
 are unable to distinguish between an unconscious body and a corpse, which is very unfortunate, 
 since this makes them scream "Murder!!!" whenever they find an unconcious body, all throughout 
 the game. The second reason is that guards go back to their rounds far too quickly after they see 
 a body for it to be realistic, this can be partly forgiven due to the fact that if this was made 
 realistic you would basically instantly lose if the guards acted the way they would in real life. 
 The guards and other foes will also be able to hear you better if you walk on louder surfaces, 
 which is a pretty impressive feat for a game from 1998, since it's rare to see this even in modern 
 games. The thing about the A. I. is it's never dumb to the point of you being able to put your guard 
 down, which keeps tension high through almost the entire game.
  
  The game also has a very distinctive style, chances are you've never seen a quite game like this. 
 It's like a steampunk theme minus the firearms and automatons (although the latter appear in the 
 game's sequel) , mixed with a fantasy theme and some heavy doses of originality, for good measure. 
 The level design definitely takes this into account, as do the game's mind-blowing cut scenes. 
 How do a game's cut-scenes still look incredible so many years after release, you ask? The answer 
 is simple; there is little to no 3d animation (an example of what I mean by 3d animation would 
 be Final Fantasy VII's cutscenes) . This may sound odd, but the cut scenes make up for this is by 
 having a distinctly hand-drawn look (you just need to see it to believe it, I'd never seen anything 
 like it until I played Thief) , which happens to be absolutely stunning, and occasionally mixing 
 it with what I believe are real people's silhouettes. Sound even stranger than before? It definitely 
 is, but using this odd mix the developers created some truly amazing cinematics, rivaling even 
 today's greatest works with their sheer style and atmosphere. Unfortunately there are only four 
 of these cut-scenes in the game, including the intro movie and the ending.
  
  Thief's mission design is one of the key parts of the game. The areas you will find yourself looting 
 range from a run-of-the-mill manor house, to dark caverns and even less appealing places, filled 
 with some rather unpleasant, often terrifying, inhabitants. The atmosphere of that the game's areas 
 give off is spectacular, and usually extremely creepy, which is mostly due to the game's exceptional 
 artistic graphical design and excellent use of darkness. The missions all take place at night, 
 and it's a good thing for you, because your main goal in Thief is to hide in the darkest shadows 
 available and avoid contact with the guards, or other foes, like the plague. Nothing beats cowering 
 in a shadow while a zombie moans and walks stiffly by you, while you sweat and hope it doesn't 
 notice. The missions also often take hours to complete, but they rarely ever get to the point of 
 tedium (very few of the game's missions reach this point, regardless of the time you'll likely 
 spend on them) . Often enough your objective will change during a mission, though the reasons for 
 these occurrences vary greatly. Going into any greater detail than that would ruin some of the 
 game's great moments, so you'll just have to find out for yourself.
  
  The game's mission briefings are some of the few in gaming history that will actually make you 
 sit up and pay attention. They are basically narrated slideshows of well-drawn pictures containing 
 places and/or people. The narrator of these briefings is none other than the main character himself 
 -- Garrett. His world-weary and cynical voice nails the part perfectly, and although these sequences 
 may not sound like much when you read about them, Garrett's voice manages to breathe amazing amounts 
 of life into them. The rest of the game's characters and enemies also sound fantastic, even though 
 they don't quite match up to Garrett's performance. Garrett also occasionally chimes in with his 
 own commentary throughout the game. For example, during the first mission you may come across a 
 library in the mansion you are looting, at which point which Garrett wonders out-loud, "I wonder 
 if he reads them, or if they're just for show...?" in regard to the mansion's owner "Bafford" and 
 his enormous collection of books.
  
  In Thief, quite possibly your greatest weapons are your speakers, since the game uses sound effects 
 like footsteps and the whistling of guards to allow you to hear your foes long before you see them, 
 making it possible to avoid detection much more easily. There is no in-game music besides what 
 you may be hearing in the game world itself, but the ambient noises and sound effects are superb, 
 and you'll often find yourself turning up the volume to hear them, and the voices of your foes, 
 in greater detail. From the bizarre gibbering of ghosts, to the sound of your own footsteps, the 
 game keeps you on edge and alert at all times with its audio. There are few things in gaming that 
 have topped the terror of suddenly hearing the dragging-chain noise that the game's scariest enemy 
 makes when it walks around. The voice-acting is also very good, and as I mentioned before Garrett 
 is easily the best sounding character, but the rest of the voice acting in the game is still very 
 high quality. Often enough the guards sound more comical than anything, but for some reason it 
 just works in Thief. The voice acting during the game's cutscenes is probably the best in the game 
 (this is partly because of the game's script, which is well written, and even more so during cut-scenes) , 
 but that doesn't mean the in-game voice acting is bad in the slightest, it just means it isn't 
 quite as good. The only flaw in the audio is the strangely cheesy rock music that shows up from 
 time-to-time during a few cutscenes and mission briefings. This was an odd decision on the developers' 
 part, since the music doesn't fit the world of Thief very well. Thankfully, it doesn't detract 
 too much from the game.
  
  The story is also good, albeit a bit on the predictable side. The story itself doesn't take center 
 stage, but it definitely provides you with enough intriguing little elements to make you want to 
 progress through the game, in order to see what happens. The main reason the story is so good is 
 because it helps flesh out the world the game takes place in, which it does really well. The game 
 has some very interesting mythology, which works its way into the story and manages to become all 
 the more interesting because of it. The story basically starts on mission five, so don't be disappointed 
 when it doesn't seem show up at first.
  
  When you combine the many fantastic elements that make up Thief: The Dark Project, you are left 
 with a game that can't be called anything but a true classic. And since you can find this game 
 extremely cheap on the internet these days, you shouldn't hesitate to dive right in to this amazing 
 experience as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  For all the stealth games I played in 2005, this game is the best stealth game I ever faced. The 
 gameplay is solid. The game conceived a extraordinary atmosphere and some of the atmosphere can 
 be creepy and scary. Even if this game wasn't ment to be scary it is also one of the creepiest 
 games I ever played. The moaning of zombies and ghosts can give you the jitters, the sounds are 
 incredible for an old game too. The graphics are very good for a classic game. This game is very 
 original then any other game I played. This should of had an award for on e of the creepiest and 
 best adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  Of course, Thief's graphics are quite dated. More than likely Thief's graphics won't impress you 
 at all, though hopefully you won't skip this game because of it. Unlike other games, the graphics 
 play an important role in Thief. As would be expected for a real thief, you must keep to the shadows 
 to keep from being seen. You'll usually be able to tell how well you're hidden by what type of 
 shadow you're in, but the game still provides a 'meter' if you will, to tell you how well hidden 
 you are. 
  
  Sound is pretty good given the games date. Again, sound as well plays an important role in the 
 game since you'll have to be as quiet as possible. The less you hear the better, and as such, you 
 won't be hearing much of anything. It's needed since you'll have to listen for the gaurds patrolling 
 around anyways. 
  
  In Thief, you'll be given numerous missions varying from stealing an item to helping a friend break 
 out of jail. There are numerous ways to complete a mission, and numerous paths to take. While many 
 times you will be forced to take a certain route, for the most part you get to decide where you 
 want to go. 
  
  Missions usually have various other places to visit, and as a thief, there's only one reason to 
 visit them; to steal. There will be numerous items and gold to steal to help buy items for your 
 next mission. That is, whenever you start a new mission, you are presented with numerous items 
 to buy to help you with your next mission. 
  
  As I said, you'll mainly be using stealth and strategy over combat. However, when the time comes 
 you will need to use your combat skills. For the most part combat is fairly slow, and not very 
 challenging, so if your reflex skills are none too great you don't need to worry; you won't have 
 too much trouble with combat. 
  
  Your bow will be your most used weapon; one precise shot can instantly kill a gaurd, though they 
 are hard to make. There are numerous arrows to equip your bow with for various effects. Your water 
 arrow can put out those annoying torches, and rope arrows allow you to climb to places once unavailable. 
 Using the bow is atleast somewhat realistic, you must spend a little time pulling back the string, 
 and you can't hold the string back forever. 
  
  You have another useful weapon called the Blackjack, that can knock out an unsuspecting gaurd. 
 Again, you'll have to use stealth and strategy to be able to catch a gaurd to do this. You also 
 have a sword when you can't avoid sneaking past a gaurd. The sword battles are not very entertaining, 
 it's a little slow, and at some points pretty easy. That is, as long as you only face one enemy 
 at a time; any more and you'll more than likely be facing a losing battle. 
  
  As you can see, you'll need alot of patience to play this game, and a love for stealth. If you 
 do, Thief is a great game, and one of the best of its kind. If you're lucky, you can find this 
 with it's sequel Thief 2 for around 10 bucks; a great buy in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2004 11:03 am PT
Review:  I decided to play Thief was the first time in light of the upcoming Thief III release. I had played 
 Thief II a few years ago and enjoyed it a great deal. I am rating this game for Thief Gold which 
 is what I actually played.
  
  Even after all these years, I still found Thief to be a most excellent game and in some respect 
 better than its sequel even with the dated graphics.
  
  The atmosphere of Thief is very intense and is very appropriately accented with the occasional 
 burst of heart pounding music or more often with the eerie background sound that gently floats 
 in the background. Thief is a much more scary game than its sequel. I would say this scary factor 
 and the better mood inspired by the game is one of the qualities of Thief where it is better than 
 is successor. Much of the scariness is due to the significant presence of non-human creatures that 
 you must deal with. I personally didn't like that aspect of the game very much and apparently neither 
 did many fans because the non-human aspect of the game was almost non-existent in Thief II.
  
  I played Thief on the Expert mode and all I can say is that it makes the game very hard. There 
 were a number of levels where I spent a considerable amount of time wandering around trying to 
 find enought loot or the special item to complete my objectives (and this is something I like to 
 do) but many of the items to find are very well hidden.
  
  The one thing I did find odd about this game, and I'm sure it's simply due to the technology of 
 the time, were the large numbers of empty rooms. Throughout the game as you're wandering through 
 houses and castles, you'll come across a lot of rooms that have nothing in them. No furniture, 
 no rugs, no paintings. It just seemed rather out of place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2004 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Thief was revolutionary when it was released, and while a lot of its luster has faded, it is still 
 an excellent game that combines many complex elements together with such great skill, that the 
 whole is much greater than the sum of its parts, yet its parts are still many.
  
  The graphics in Thief were good when it was released, but its blocky models seem particularly odd-looking 
 today. The textures were also fairly low quality (and only 8-bit) , but were otherwise very well 
 chosen and implemented. In fact, they've aged pretty well, perhaps almost lending the game more 
 of medieval effect than they did when it was fresh and new -- almost like graininess in an old black 
 and white film.
  
  The sound still holds up very well. This game was a pioneer in 4-channel audio, and it holds up 
 very well by today's standards. Sound effects are clear and identifyable with good positional effects, 
 and ambient music (if you could call it that) is eery, subtle and really creates a mood. The only 
 audio problems are that it is sometimes very difficult to determine a sound source's height (maybe 
 not surprising, given 4-channel setups) , and audio occlusion is either poor or nonexistent (if 
 there is a partition wall with openings on either side and a guard behind it, his audio will appear 
 to come to you straight through the partition -- even if it's solid rock -- rather than around it) .
 
  
  Level design is a mixed bag, which I had to knock off a point for. Sadly, this is one of those 
 games where it the phrase "it really picks up after..." must be used. There are some really crappy 
 missions in this game, the first half of the game being a mix of excellent and crappy missions, 
 but after the halfway point, things take a turn for the better and never look back. Actually, I 
 should clarify that the level design itself is all amazing, my least favorite level was admittedly 
 rife with cool architecture... the fun-factor of some of the levels is just lacking.
  
  The story is also one of the best I've ever seen. The cutscenes and mission briefings work with 
 and enhance the atmosphere. The handful of story-advancing cutscenes are so well done, that they 
 may leave an indelible mark on you, similar to how a really well-done movie might. At the very 
 least, they are memorable and incredibly well done.
  
  As of April 2004, this game also holds my designation of having the most satisfying game ending 
 ever. Many FPS games just throw a really hard to beat boss at the end, and you have to scope out 
 the weaknesses and just shoot it until its dead. Obviously, a game like Thief can't do that.
  
  The final mission is very climactic, and requires some of your best thieving. Parts of it are 
 on a schedule, so tension is high. And unlike some other games (*cough* half life *cough*) that 
 follow a climactic final mission with the most unsatisfying cut-scene, the final cut scene in Thief 
 is not only an incredible piece of multimedia art, but is very gratifying as well. It gives you 
 a solid feeling of accomplishment, as well as important recognition in the game. The game world 
 feels alive when you are playing it, and you really feel like you've done something for that world 
 at the end... as opposed to just having beaten a hard video game.
  
  Yet it also manages to effortlessly set you up for a sequel which is Thief 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: east_injun
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2004 5:06 am PT
Review:  Thief is SHEER TOP QUALITY. Certainly one of the best ever (thewre are so many good ones out there) . 
 There are so many awesome things about it. Other reviewers have talked about most of the issues. 
 What I liked best was it's going to make you feel as if you were really there. Get's you so involved. 
 As if the game is alive or something. I guess words can't describe the feeling. You might not feel 
 it initially. But once you've got the hang of the game and are comfortable with the weapons and 
 the strategy and all that, this game beats the hell out of everything else. And you are certainly 
 not going to get bored. Know what?? If FPS games are your favourites and if you're thinking about 
 buying this one, go ahead and buy it. Pretty soon you might feel like throwing your other games 
 into the dust-bin. You'll just ignore them. The graphics is indeed outdated. But everything else 
 is top-notch. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
