-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Thief: Deadly Shadows
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thief3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,719 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Ion Storm
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     May 25, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like its predecessors, Thief: Deadly Shadows features a memorable protagonist, a great setting, 
 and some very interesting missions. 

  One of the many reasons why 1998 was such a groundbreaking year for gaming is Thief: The Dark Project, 
 a game that helped invent what's now commonly referred to as the stealth action genre. Though two 
 other noteworthy stealth action games were released that same year -- Metal Gear Solid and Tenchu: 
 Stealth Assassins -- Thief's brand of stealth was the most convincing, and it went on to become the 
 most influential. The original developer of Thief and its similar sequel is unfortunately no longer 
 in business, but Eidos and Ion Storm thankfully snatched up the rights and have finally delivered 
 a new chapter in the series that's suitable for longtime Thief fans and newcomers alike. Like its 
 predecessors, the new Thief: Deadly Shadows features a memorable protagonist, a great setting, 
 and some very interesting missions. It also happens to suffer from a variety of miscellaneous, 
 minor flaws. These are unfortunate, since Thief: Deadly Shadows is great game, for the most part. 

          The master thief Garrett returns, and once again, he'll be knocking foes out cold and robbing 
 them blind while unraveling a web of intrigue.     

  At its core, Deadly Shadows sticks very closely to the formula of the older Thief games, which 
 are first-person perspective action adventures in which you must carry out a series of high-risk, 
 high-reward missions as Garrett, a self-serving master thief living in a cold, surreal, medieval 
 world. As in previous Thief games, the gameplay in Deadly Shadows primarily revolves around having 
 to retrieve a bunch of special trinkets (and other riches) from assorted heavily guarded establishments -- and 
 doing so by hiding in shadows, waiting for unsuspecting guards to turn their backs, and then blackjacking 
 them so that they remain unconscious for the remainder of the mission. You'll have a wide variety 
 of other gadgets to help you, including lock picks, water arrows for dousing torches and other 
 firelight, flashbombs for temporarily blinding opponents, and more. There's always a compass onscreen 
 to help you navigate the sometimes mazelike environments, and you'll also be paying close attention 
 to the onscreen "light gem," which changes color depending on how well-concealed you are. This 
 interface feature has always worked great in the Thief series.  

  You'll be treated to an intriguing story, which is narrated by an even more intriguing protagonist, 
 whose particular brand of cynicism isn't nearly as unwelcome as cynicism tends to be. The story 
 gradually and surprisingly unfolds during the course of what's a decidedly lengthy single-player 
 adventure. Due to the open-ended nature of the game and its four available difficulty settings, 
 average playing time should vary quite a bit from one player to the next. However, it's safe to 
 say you're not going to get through this one in a weekend, unless all you did was play.  

  The story of Deadly Shadows is gleaned through overheard conversations, cutscenes, and Garrett's 
 own monologue, but you'll also be doing a good bit of reading memos, notes, and pages of books 
 for clues. No previous experience with Thief is necessarily expected or required, but the plot 
 is deeply interconnected with and contains many references to the previous games (for those who 
 played them) . For instance, the game features all of the Thief world's unique and interesting factions, 
 including the Keepers, a shadowy group of sorcerer-scholars who once helped Garrett hone his talents; 
 the Hammerites, religious zealots devoted to industry and order; and the weird, druidic Pagans. 
 And while this isn't a high-fantasy world with elves and dragons, you  can  expect to square off 
 against inhuman foes, like the undead, an ancient aquatic race, stone automatons, and more.  

 
  Ironically, the few detours Deadly Shadows takes from the series' blueprint are likely to annoy 
 diehard fans of the series, while those who've never played a Thief game prior to this one will 
 probably get caught up on issues that are, in fact, conventions of the series. As far as the annoyances 
 are concerned, Thief fans will likely be dismayed at the absence of rope arrows in Deadly Shadows, 
 which, in previous installments, could be used to create rope ladders, yielding access to otherwise 
 inaccessible areas. Deadly Shadows replaces these with a pair of climbing gloves that Garrett can 
 purchase, which are a far less interesting solution to the same types of problems. Furthermore, 
 the climbing gloves aren't well implemented, since the mechanics of climbing feel clunky, and you 
 rarely even need them. Lock picking has also been changed -- and not for the better. Garrett will 
 often have to pick locks, but most locks merely require you to move up, down, left, or right and 
 then press a button to unlock from three to six tumblers. Unfortunately, this a process that can 
 be learned quickly and neither requires nor rewards finesse. A few locks dare you to try the diagonals, 
 but they are still completely simple to undo. As a result, this is either a perfect simulation 
 of being a master thief, or it's just plain boring.  

          Deadly Shadows is more open-ended than its predecessors (let alone most action games) , 
 but this loose structure isn't entirely a good thing.     

  Another questionable design decision is that in Deadly Shadows, unlike in the previous Thief games, 
 you actually get to sell all the loot you steal. You can then use these funds to purchase new equipment, 
 which carries over from mission to mission. Let's not dwell on the ramifications of having to buy 
 stuff from stores in a game called Thief, and let's not speculate about why a master thief like 
 Garrett lives in a total dump of an apartment, for some reason. Instead, we'll just point out that 
 in the previous games, your limited supply of equipment was replaced after each mission, which 
 was a deliberate gameplay contrivance implemented to urge you to use everything at your disposal 
 to accomplish the task at hand. By contrast, in Deadly Shadows, you'll end up hoarding your rarer 
 items, like noisemaker arrows and fire arrows, by saving them for a rainy day that never arrives. 
 As well, since you'll make a ton of money (being a master thief and all) , you'll be able to afford 
 a vast supply of healing potions, which are the most useful items in the game. Unfortunately, this 
 diminishes some of the game's challenge -- at least at the normal difficulty setting, in which most 
 foes can't hurt you too much with a single attack.     

  Other aspects of gameplay will be very familiar to Thief fans but will take some getting used to 
 by anyone not previously acquainted with Garrett and his world. For one thing, while you usually 
 have access to a map of your immediate surroundings, these aren't the fancy GPS-style automaps 
 you may be familiar with from other games. Instead, they're fairly crude, hand-drawn diagrams that 
 aren't terribly useful. This may seem frustrating, but not only is it an authentic touch, given 
 the pseudo-medieval setting, but also it's defensible from a gameplay standpoint, since it encourages 
 you to actually explore the gameworld rather than spend more time looking at the map.  

          You'll square off against -- or, rather, creep up behind -- a wide variety of foes, but they're 
 all basically identical in practice.     

  Another potential surprise is that Garrett's pretty slow, even when he's running, and he's weak 
 in a toe-to-toe fight. It's not just him though. The game's melee combat is lousy, and it simply 
 involves readying Garrett's dagger (which replaces his sword from the previous games) so that he 
 can repeatedly hack at his opponent. Meanwhile, you have to hope that Garrett's opponent dies before 
 he does. Of course, if you're playing Thief properly, then you shouldn't be going toe-to-toe with 
 anyone anyway. You'll be spending most of your time creeping up on unsuspecting characters, and 
 this type of action is handled very well by the game. Garrett automatically raises his blackjack 
 or dagger when he's in range to strike, so your job is to quietly get close enough so that you 
 can hit the button when it's time. It's a process that doesn't cease feeling risky.  

  The thing about Garrett is he just doesn't come across as particularly athletic. He's basically 
 invisible when standing in shadows, but you don't ever get the feeling that you're controlling 
 some sort of incredibly lithe and dangerous character. In short, Garrett's not a ninja. But part 
 of the appeal of the Thief series actually stems from the fact that you really are a thief in these 
 games, rather than a one-man army. You're quite vulnerable and have every incentive to stay out 
 of harm's way. Other stealth action games make you feel like you could easily overpower your foes 
 in single combat, so having to use stealth almost feels like a limitation. But in Deadly Shadows, 
 you're often stalking things that are much stronger than you.  

  Staying out of harm's way actually isn't very difficult for Garrett. The entire game takes place 
 at night, and shadows always abound, even indoors, which creates ample opportunities for sneaking 
 around. Should you be detected, just toss a flashbomb (or a gas bomb, an explosive mine, or an 
 oil flask) and run for the shadows. Or, if you don't want to waste a flashbomb, just run until 
 your enemies run out of breath.  

  Including enemies that can run out of breath while trying to chase you is actually pretty entertaining. 
 The enemy artificial intelligence in Deadly Shadows has a few other such neat tricks, in addition 
 to some eventually obvious limitations. For instance, blackjacked foes fall with a groan as their 
 weapons clatter to the ground, but in gameplay terms, all this happens silently. So if two guards 
 are walking down a hall and they're five feet apart, you can blackjack the one at the rear, and 
 the one at the front probably won't notice. Also, Garrett can flatten his back against walls, which 
 is an ability that's far more useful than it should be, because it makes guards completely incapable 
 of detecting him (in most cases) . But then, guards who discover something suspicious -- say, like 
 a pool of blood or a body -- will sometimes run to get some other, nearby guards to help investigate, 
 which is a nice touch. So are the ways in which guards will notice doors that you've left open 
 or things that have gone missing. There are also various states of alertness for guards. They might 
 catch a glimpse of you from a distance and think nothing of it if you manage to duck out of sight 
 quickly enough. They'll often stop and listen as you're creeping up behind them, which actually 
 works out very nicely. You'll also hear your foes' various comments as they search for you, and 
 despite there being some repetition in the speech, there's a lot of variety to it.  

  However, your foes are ultimately all alike when you've done something to arouse their suspicions. 
 They'll search around for you for a while, and then, like clockwork, they'll put away their weapons 
 and resume patrol -- at which time you're free again to creep up on them to brain them. You can't 
 knock out or backstab foes when their weapons are drawn, so you'll either end up waiting around 
 for a while until the coast is clear, or you'll flee the scene and come back later. The meaty, 
 open-ended missions in Deadly Shadows encourage exploration, so the latter approach is naturally 
 encouraged -- which is good, since in other stealth games it's often necessary to wait for alarms 
 to stand down before you can perform other game actions. In Thief, it pays to be patient, but at 
 least you can pretty much always keep moving and are never made to feel like you're forced through 
 a linear trial-and-error routine.  

  One of the main differences between Thief: Deadly Shadows and its predecessors is another feature 
 that may be confounding both for series diehards and new players. Specifically, the entire game, 
 not just its missions, has a fairly open-ended structure. The City itself is the setting, and after 
 the first two missions, you'll be relatively free to explore it in between pursuing your particular 
 objectives. You'll be able to mug innocent passersby for their loot, avoid or attack the city watch, 
 break into people's homes, sell your loot and buy more gear, and generally snoop around. This is 
 a great idea, in theory. And in practice, it  does  help give Thief: Deadly Shadows a more cohesive 
 feel than its predecessors or other mission-based action games. However, The City isn't all that 
 impressive, so a better name for it might have been "The Town."  

          You can effectively play from either a first-person or a third-person perspective, but 
 series purists know that first-person is the way to go.     

  As with Ion Storm's last game, Deus Ex: Invisible War, one of the technical issues with Thief is 
 that the game environments just don't seem big enough from one loading screen to the next. The 
 result is that you've got these individual districts of The City that you can rush across in literally 
 less than a minute, and each district is populated by civilians who just trudge around mindlessly. 
 Later in the game, when you've gained access to all of The City's districts and will be required 
 to navigate between them to complete various objectives, the going can actually get pretty tedious. 
 It's all old hat by this point, especially with regard to the loading times. Fortunately, the mission 
 areas feel a bit bigger, though they too tend to be split up into a couple of different zones. 

  Then again, the missions that make up the meat of the game are mostly excellent. Each mission has 
 numerous objectives that must be met, which tie in with the plot. Garrett's always looking to make 
 a little extra on the side, though, so each mission is partly a scavenger hunt for valuables. This 
 is actually quite fun, especially when you're casing some of the game's more lavish establishments, 
 such as a museum reported to be "thief-proof," which will be left barren, without so much as a 
 single painting hanging on the walls, by the time you're through.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (119 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rogue_Kain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Thief: Deadly Shadows proves to be one of the best stealth action games despite it being the third 
 in the series. You take the role of Garrett: a master thief. You begin with simple thievery missions 
 but later you unfold a complex story filled with magic and intrigue. The game-play is simple and 
 fun. You have all sorts of gadgets suitable for a thief of your caliber, like flash bombs that 
 blind your opponents for limited amounts of time, gas bombs, water arrows with which you put out 
 fires or torches, noisemaker arrows etc.
  One thing i like about this game is that you cant go toe to toe with every enemy you encounter, 
 you being a thief, a rogue not a fighter, and if you do so you will pretty much have your ass handed 
 to you. Be silent, quick and blackjack your enemies from the shadows (don't forget to steal everything 
 of value you get your eyes on) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Superb stealth action
  - Lots of dark places, items and enemies
  - Challenging gameplay
  - Interesting mission objectives
  - Lots of things to steal and weapons 
 to kill your enemies with
  - Lengthy story
  - Superb voice acting
  
  Negative
  - Enemy AI isn't always so good
  - Frame rate struggles some times
  
  This is what you call 
 a stealth action game. Thief first released in 1998 under the name Thief: The Dark Project and 
 in 2000 under the name Thief II: The Metal Age. The 3rd game in the series is an amazing, fantastic 
 game. I only played this game but from what I know, the other 2 games are a little better. To those 
 you played Tenchu might seem familiar, except that you're a thief and not a ninja. 
  
  Thief starts off with a training section, where the game explains some important details. The part 
 of town where Garrett lives is the South Quarters. He lives in a piece of apartment. Anyway there 
 are other areas like the Docks and Stonemarket. Most of the time you'll see enemies around, like 
 the Hammers. The only weapons you will have are a blackjack, a dagger, a bow with elemental arrows 
 and other things. The blackjack is the weakest in hand-to-hand combat. The blackjack works well 
 when you sneak and stab an opponent from behind without him seeing you. This is effective not to 
 lose health. Dagger is mostly good for hand-to-hand combat. This weapon inflicts a lot of damage, 
 much more than the dagger. There are arrows too. There are normal arrows and the elemental arrows. 
 Elemental arrows can be found in its elemental, like fire and water. These elemental arrows like 
 the water arrow are used to clean up blood and to take out torches. There are some explosive mines, 
 gas bomb, flash bombs which can be bought from the shops in each area. Normally each area has 2 
 shops, one which you can sell loot you steal from people or places. Not all shops would buy your 
 loot, and shops which you buy from sell only one of the 4 elemental arrow. Elemental arrow consists 
 of moss, water, fire, gas and you can also add noisemaking arrows. Other item you can find is Holy 
 Water. I don't need to explain these. 
  
  The arrows might seem useless but they are a very important part of your arsenal. The noisemaking 
 arrows, for example when shot, can lure out enemies in the same spot. This makes escape easier 
 and you can also throw a gas bomb or explosive mine and take them all out at once. The gas arrow, 
 if it reaches the head of the enemies, he will die immediately. The fire arrow, one direct hit 
 and he's dead. One problem with it is that is makes a lot of noise and enemies can easily see you. 
 The bright gem with the compass, the brighter it is, you are being seen. If it's dark enemies cannot 
 see you. They only can see you if they pass near you or see you doing to hide. The blackjack doesn't 
 work on all opponents such as the undead. Undead are only damaged by flash bomb and the holy water. 
 
  
  Most of the time you have to go in dark places to avoid enemies since enemies can deal a good amount 
 of game. A hit from a blackjack kill your enemy with one hit. Even if you hit an enemy with the 
 normal arrow in his head or chest, when unaware you can kill him. To get loot you will have to 
 take missions, though in houses and normal people will have loot. To do missions you have to do 
 to a place and find the mission. There are 4 difficulty settings. Difficulty setting differences 
 are that the easier it is the objectives are easier and enemy is less aware. Like you have to get 
 30% of the loot. The tougher the difficulty, the more loot you have to get + another objective 
 and enemy is very aware of your move. Objectives will change throughout your missions; they never 
 go as you planed. You will have to search things, kill enemies and read books and letters to arrive 
 to your particular loot. Also you have to complete all objectives in order to finish the mission. 
 Mission are really interesting too. There will be tons of locked doors, but those won't be a problem. 
 Don't get dull quickly. Start is length and the game is highly addictive. 
  
  Thief has tons of weird and dangerous enemies. The pagans and the hammers are the most common types 
 of enemies which you will encounter in the first stages till the end of the game. Some pagans are 
 shamans which can cast magic to attack you. There are some other enemies which are must stronger 
 and dangerous. The undead, don't die so quickly. Even if they fall after hitting them some times 
 with the dagger, after some time they wake up. You will have to use holy water or flash bombs. 
 When the game loads some tips and writing appears. Tips can help you more to play Thief better 
 and learn from. Such as the game tells you that undead are damaged by sudden flashes of light and 
 other important details. There are also writings from books such as the book of prophecies. These 
 are really interesting to read especially for beginner to understand the era Thief is settled in. 
 
  
  One important thing about thing about Thief is that it all happens at night. There are no mornings 
 when you play. Garrett really doesn't play his part perfectly. The game doesn't let you run faster 
 but you can duck and jump. Enemies in Thief can be smart and sometimes a total dumb. When enemies 
 see their allies dead they will search. Citizens will call for help to the guards and the guards 
 will come. But the AI is poor sometimes since the way some enemies run is pretty lame. They don't 
 run as you expect. Map isn't much of help in the game. You have to use the map and compass together 
 to find your way to a particular place. Ok, there maps which it doesn't display your position or 
 anything. This might become a total pain especially when you're in large places. Well at least 
 enemies voices are excellent, so its Garrett's. I didn't write the story 'cos my version was a 
 bit problematic and didn't understand the story, but even without understanding the story, Thief 
 was still great to me. 
  
  You can pickpocket citizens when unaware. By sneaking behind them when they don't notice you, you 
 can steal what is shining. This is a pretty good feature in Thief. Production values are lacked 
 in Thief but not much needed since the game is in darkness and shadows. Something people will like 
 and others not. You can save at any point, also in missions. This can be an big advantage since 
 you can try to sneak behind any opponent without being seen. Also this makes losing less and you 
 will lose less items and life. But this can make the game too easy. Some non-expert players take 
 this as an advantage to beat this game without much trouble. There is no autosave in the game or 
 anything. You can save anywhere. 
  
  Visuals are great, although dark. Walking in the dark and sneaking doesn't become repetitive at 
 all. Still graphics are clear and the action is neat. Voice acting as I mentioned is superb, all 
 of the people talk or say something when they notice something strange. There isn't much music 
 in the game, very little but what there is, is pretty good. There are some little frame rate problems 
 but not to make you go crazy. 
  
  In the end, Thief: Deadly Shadows is a marvelous game and unique game which anyone can spend a 
 lot of time on it. The game is highly addictive and the action is superb. Though the game is dark 
 and sometimes confusing, the stealth action, the interesting mission objective and the other things 
 I mentioned above can keep you playing Thief 3 for a long time. Newcomers should check Thief 3 
 rather than the first 2 games since this is the most accessible for beginner, and still so much 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Well give it a try it is an awesome game nevertheless, you play as Garrett once again but now there 
 is a whole city to explore now between missions, well not a whole big city, but it is a city anyway...
 
  
  The graphics are quite nice, sounds good, but...
  
  First of all now the storyline is not that incredible... It is pretty straight forward and you 
 can guess what will happen next... And another bad side is, the game is easy, I mean VERY easy... 
 You can beat the game without any problems in hardest difficulty... The only thing that will challange 
 you is trying to find the loot to pass the level... Other then that it is not hard, since the game 
 allows you to kill (Unlike the first 2 games) it becomes so much easier... 
  
  But it is a great game and you should give a try if you are in to stealth games or a Garret freak 
 like me :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Many years ago I tried to play Thief 2... unfortunately, at the time, the only other first person 
 games I had played were Half Life and its ilk. I somehow managed to get about a third of the way 
 through the game before my misguided attempts to maim every guard I came across began to fail in 
 the face of a difficulty curve obviously oriented around a concept I had never heard of before: 
 stealth.
  
  Many years later, after being weaned on the joy of tiptoeing around in the dark as Sam Fisher and 
 snapping terrorists' necks, I found Thief 3 in the bargain bin and wondered why I hadn't given 
 it a go.
  
  Thief is a solid stealth-action game with a genuinely open level design that encourages some simple 
 lateral thinking. You are encouraged to be as simple or as elaborate as you like. If you can grasp 
 the basics of stealth gameplay, each level is relatively fast paced, and gives you new locales 
 and puzzles. In between missions, you play out minor objectives within the city, opening up new 
 districts and stores as you progress through the story.
  
  I won't go over the game mechanics, because I'm sure anyone reading this is familiar with them 
 - what I really want to highlight is the pleasant lack of tedium, the original level design, and 
 a strongly paced, original story.
  
  To be honest though, as much I loved Thief 3, being weaned on Splinter Cell highlighted the areas 
 where the game's production values were sorely lacking. The AI is horrible - every character can 
 only react in a single way to a stimulus, which produces some really retarded reactions. For example, 
 if were to stealthily shoot one of a pair of guards, you might witness the survivor calmly walk 
 past his dead compatriot but on the return journey a minute later, he would scream and run off 
 waving his sword as if he had been beset by enemies.
  
  The lack of graduated reactions by NPC's really does produce the game's only tedium - Garrett can 
 blackjack a completely unsuspecting guard, but not a slightly suspecting one; one arrow will down 
 a guard with his sword sheathed, but it takes three or four if he draws it. The AI eventually tempts 
 one into relying completely on gadgets like gas arrows and flash bombs to completely avoid any 
 semblance of stealth once it takes more than a single attempt to get past a guard, because you're 
 unwilling to wait another minute for the guard to resume his patrol.
  
  The story could also have done with some neater stitching together, because while it was coherent 
 in theory, the actual presentation jumped back and forth.
  
  Really though.... they're just pet peeves. They only annoy me because, well, I would love to rated 
 Thief a masterpiece. It feels like it would only have taken a few nudges to the AI and voiceover 
 dialogue to get it there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grd9425
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  The first impression I got when playing the game was wow, what an awesome concept - sneaking round 
 black jacking unaware guards, using all sorts of different arrows to leave not trace of your existence, 
 stealing loot from the rich... what fun! However, and you'll see what I mean when you play it, 
 the game feels awfully jerky on almost every console and the pc: the frame rate severely damages 
 the gameplay. The graphics are good, there's no doubt about it - all the lighting and terrific 
 shadow effects. The game looks beautiful while you are standing still and panning the camera around 
 Garett. But quirky animation does upset the overall look of the game. Watch a guard and other civilians 
 move in the city - you'll get the picture... they look like the exo-skeleton terminator from the 
 end of the first arnie film (lol, great film though!) Combat is let down by the frame rate too 
 - after delivering the final blow to a guard in a hefty situation, it will take him a second or 
 more to drop down to the floor... rather annoying when your surrounded and running out of flash 
 bombs!
  
  The music in this game is great, and builds on the mystical atmosphere. Sound effects, although 
 occasionally delayed, are also spot on.
  
  The game lasts quite a while , over 20 hours, and is very fun for the duration of the story... 
 but there is not much else to do after than start a new game.
  
  To finish, this game is likely to please hard core stealth fans - and although not living up to 
 games like the Splinter Cell series, it still kicks ass (despite the bastard frame rate) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Now, I'm not trying to say that Thief: Deadly Shadows is a bad game. It's not. It's a great game 
 and I enjoyed it a lot. But it's just not as good as the first two Thiefs are.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  - It's Thief. The best stealth game the world has ever seen. BUT, Thief: Deadly 
 Shadows is a perfect example of what happens when you try to make the game more accessible to new 
 gamers. It gets dumbed down. When Thief: Deadly Shadows was released the reactions of the original 
 fans of the series were mixed. Some loved it, some hated it. But mostly, the fans hated it. Why? 
 Because it feels like it was made for 14-year-old Xbox-kids (sorry Xbox fans, I know you're not 
 all 14 and a lot of you are intelligent but still...) The controls were dumbed down, the gameplay 
 was dumbed down (no swimming? no rope arrows?! WTF?! NO. ROPE. ARROWS?!?!?!) and the release was 
 rushed. It feels like it was made for the Xbox, and then ported to the PC, which would explain 
 the long loading times, the poor frame rates, and the ridiculously small levels. All of this because 
 of the Xbox's technical limitations. It's really sad actually, because with a couple of small improvements, 
 and porting the game to Xbox FROM the PC version, this game could've been AMAZING instead of just 
 being pretty good. So basically, the gameplay is just like Thief 1 & 2, but much less "deep".
 
  
  Controls: 7/10
  - The original Thief games had the perfect controls. I think ALL games should have the same kind 
 of controls as Thief did. But, TDS was developed for the Xbox and that shows. The controls feel 
 awkward and controlling Garrett is like trying to breakdance while on drugs. No, it's actually 
 not *that* bad, but compared to the original games, well, it's nothing like them.
  
  Atmosphere: 10/10
  - One thing that Thief 3 still manages to do right is the atmosphere, the 
 setting, the story. The game has a good story and some really atmospheric locations, like the infamous 
 Cradle. The levels and enemy types are varied enough to keep the atmosphere wonderful. It's quite 
 amazing actually.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  - The graphics are awesome, especially with John P.'s enchanced textures. The lighting and shadow 
 are just gorgeus, it makes me wish that the original games used volumetric shadows as well.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  - Sound is still amazing, thanks to Eric Brosius, the master of ambient sounds. 
 It's just great to hear Stephen Russell as Garrett again, and some of the old actors as various 
 guards and people too. Overall, the sound design is perfect.
  
  Physics: 7/10
  - Yay, ragdoll..! Meh. Ragdoll was pretty cool back then, but it has lost it's appeal because it's 
 almost standard now. Other physics work quite well actually, but it's nothing amazing.
  
  Replay value: 9/10
  - Well, the replay value isn't nearly as good as in the first two Thiefs, 
 mainly because there is no active modding community to TDS like Thief 1 & 2 has. I blame the game 
 engine. Dark Engine is just SO much better to work with than... *shivers* Unreal Engine...
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  - It's cheap nowadays, so there's really no excuse not to buy this 
 game if you don't have it yet.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 4/10
  - This was one of the major flaws of TDS (and almost any modern game these days) ; It was shipped 
 too early. It's filled with bugs and missing features, some just mildly annoying, some REALLY annoying 
 and a few gamebreaking. The game doesn't run that well on most computers too, due to poor optimizing.
 
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Yes, because it IS part of the Thief series. But I think almost any Thief fan would prefer the 
 first two games to this one.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Fans of Thief, and fans of stealth genre. This game isn't nearly as punishing in difficulty as 
 the first two are, so you can pretty much just run around and kill everybody... *shoots fire arrow* 
 BOOM, HEADSSSHAAAWTT!!111one. But seriously, you should play this game as a sneaker, not a shooter.
 
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  The greatest thing about Thief: Deadly Shadows is how great the AI works within the game space. 
 The AI is not without flaws this is true, first impressions are fairly lacklustre in fact. But 
 the poorer features fade away as you play through when you realise what a great stealth system 
 they have put in place. There is no alertness bar, there is no alarm indication, and each individual 
 enemy takes information from the world and assesses it.
  
  If you move out of the shadows a guard will think he saw something, so he moves to the spot, if 
 you have moved off or into the darkness he will assume it was nothing and continues on his way. 
 At this point since he is unaware of your presence a single arrow to the back will dispose of him. 
 A lowly citizen might see this body; he gets frightened and runs off to the nearest guard for help. 
 This guard comes back and searches the area with sword in hand, ready for a fight. Now a single 
 arrow won't work, rather it serves to annoy and partially damage the guard, as the game wants to 
 reward stealth rather than action. After some time the guard will be mystified and go about his 
 merry way. 
  
  The fuzzy detection system is great, there never appears to be an imaginary line of detection, 
 its very much based on how long you are in the light, how far away you are and how much noise you 
 make but you can never be sure and need to listen to enemies responses and most of the time they 
 will be comical. The AI can be a great laugh when they are after taffers. There will be times when 
 you get seen, at which point you can dart away, guards usually tire of running and you can hide 
 in the shadows again. Otherwise you can use you bag of tricks including a flash bang type device, 
 gas grenades, mines and more to keep them off your back, there are some dynamic moments associated 
 with these devices like setting up traps and gassing multiple enemies as their paths cross.
  
  The game missions take you across various parts of the city, the city is open to you but patrolled 
 by guards, you can steal from places many times. You can pick up arrows that regularly return to 
 the cityscape in the same spots. The loot you acquire during missions or free roam can be sold 
 to fences and then you can buy (but not sell) items like arrows and health vials. Water arrows 
 can be used to douse fires keeping you in the dark, you'll be using these quite a bit. The game 
 takes you through a story and opens up doorways to levels to do what thieves do best.
  
  The story unfolds via some inconsistent hand drawn and some rather poor 3D cut scenes but they 
 get the message across sufficiently. The maps aren't particularly large; missions are usually made 
 of two or three maps. The game quits to desktop and restarts every level load, which is quite irritating. 
 Also sometimes your animation will get stuck in a half jump move, making Garrett pretty useless 
 again forcing a reload. Despite these and other minor problems the nicely varied missions and superb 
 stealth detection system make it well worth looking at.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: murt2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give 
 it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give 
 it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give 
 it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give 
 it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give 
 it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  just i didnt like undead man so that i give it 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I remember loving this game while playing it. It was a few years ago and still it sticks in my 
 mind and I can only hope that Assassin's Creed shall be similar to it. 
  
  Having the benefit of hindsight, the game could have been less linear and had more paths, such 
 as climbing and jumping through the rooftops. The worlds could have been larger with more options 
 but considering when this game was made, no game had such freedom. I think even far cry came after 
 it , and far cry in my opinion started the large game non-linearity revolution, so I cannot possibly 
 be too hard on this game. All in all, I wish it were more like medival GTA, but that's no reason 
 to reduce a mark to such an extraordinary game. 
  
  I can only hope improvements are made and more such games are made in the future. The AI would 
 not be considered outdated, as well as some most of graphics but still the game would still be 
 very enjoyable, and bearing in mind when it was made, I shall give it a status of an absolute legend 
 on my list. 
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpu_killar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i recommend playing Thief: The Dark Project and Thief II: The Metal Age before grabbing 
 Deadly Shadows, so you'd know what's with the Hammers and the Pagans, the green eye, the Keepers, 
 etc. As the Title says, it's all about stealth. Theft, sneaking, playing from the shadows. Or at 
 least that's the way it should be. You'll find that killing the enemy is quite easy, sometimes 
 almost boring. If you leave a corpse / unconscious body in plain site and somebody notices it, 
 no big thing is gonna happen, but stai alert for 15-30 seconds. What i'm trying to say is that 
 the AI should be a bit more .. keen (see Desperado: wanted dead or alive ) As long as you don't 
 hold on to your gold, and buy max arrows, health potions etc. you don't have any problem playing 
 the game as if it was an ancient shooter or smth like that. Another shortcoming is the map.. sometimes 
 you tend to get lost if you don't plan your every step ( consulting map and compass ) . It's best 
 if you killed / knocked out every enemy you encountered so that you can roam freely, in case you 
 need to go back for something you forgot. Although all the shortcomings, the storyline worths all 
 the effort, as i find myself going through the missions just to get to the next cut-scene or to 
 find out why i hat to do it (the misson) . But taking the game for what it is, not what it should 
 have been, you've got yourself a good game that will keep you seated in front of your PC for about 
 20 to 40 hrs and you won't even notice. Game ranking: Enjoyable ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Concluding a story is always difficult. It's even harder when it's the finale to what must be the 
 most innovative and refreshing PC game to date. Nonetheless this was the task faced by Ion Storm. 
 They took hold of the Thief series once the original developers, Looking Glass Studios, closed 
 down. The pressure of having to live up to such a renowned title must have been unbearable. So 
 the question remains: is this the game fans having been waiting so long for? Or is it lost in the 
 shadows? Thankfully after finishing Thief: Deadly Shadows I quickly came to the conclusion that 
 this was definitely the best game in the series so far. 
  
  Right from the very beginning you can see the variations in the game from its predecessors. The 
 Dark Engine has been replaced with the Unreal technology that powered Deus Ex: Invisible War and 
 the game looks absolutely dazzling. Just looking at the character models you can see they are more 
 detailed and more fluent in their movement. Havoc physics has also been included as well. Bodies 
 will now slump realistically (guards for example can slip on spilt oil) and boxes will tumble over 
 if you bump into them. The real centrepiece of this engine though is the dynamic lighting and shadow 
 system. Stepping into the light you can see your own shadow projected onto the walls around you. 
 If you open a door the light from the next room will shine through making you easier to see. Light 
 also shines through windows forcing players to reconsider their path. 
  
  
  By using the shadows to hide it is possible to avoid confrontation with enemies throughout almost 
 every level. No other game except for perhaps Doom 3 has used light in such an effective manner. 
 Not only is it a terrific and immensely realistic feature of the Unreal technology but it is also 
 an integral part of the game play as well. The visuals are exemplary but the game matches this 
 with the most effective use of sound to date. Stephen Russell brings Garrett to life with such 
 amazing charisma and has done so for all three games. Never before has a character (or storyline 
 for that matter) been so fascinating in a videogame. Equally impressive are the incidental sound 
 effects, which in collaboration with the visuals often dictate the mood of the missions. As you 
 enter a room the music builds up but all you're left with is yourself and nothing more. When you're 
 creeping around a seaside mansion to the sound of soft, classical music it establishes a very romantic 
 mood. 
  
  The game also wins points for the way it builds the tension in every stage. As a guard comes towards 
 you, inspecting a noise, you'll crouch down low in a corner, holding your breathing, hoping they 
 won't find you. It's not just the tension but the haunting atmosphere as well. As you dart from 
 shadow to shadow in an abandoned building there might not be anything there but the tapping sound 
 from the attic suggests that there very well COULD be. All of this would mean little if the game 
 play wasn't as brilliant and as exciting as it is. There are several new additions to the classic 
 Thief formula but fans will not feel left out in the dark with these. Rather than just being taken 
 from one mission to another it is now possible to explore the city, purchase items from a series 
 of black-market-like establishments or rob your neighbours. If a City Watch officer in these sections 
 kills you you will wake up in prison so its best to avoid these guards. 
  
  The different sections of the city are broken up by load screens but with the relatively fast loading 
 you want have to worry about this. Poorly drawn maps are supplied for these areas as well so the 
 chances of getting lost are minimised. At first only a few areas are available but as the story 
 unfolds more are unlocked. Sometimes these sections form the crux of the story other times it's 
 just a blast to be able to sell your loot and stock up on some new thieving equipment. This design 
 decision not only gives players greater freedom then the previous games but it also gives a greater 
 sense of credibility and location to this relatively unknown city. It may not be the GTA-style 
 form of freedom Looking Glass were going to instigate but it certainly is a lot of fun. 
  
  With the actual jobs you begin by listening to Garrett deliver his briefing of what is to happen 
 in the mission. Simultaneously you can review your objectives or overlook your statistics. The 
 architecture of the places you break into, as you would expect from a Thief game, is remarkable 
 in both the scope and design. The biggest drawcard for the levels is that they are huge and non-linear, 
 which is something games like Splinter Cell sorely lack. You are free to explore both halves (each 
 mission is broken into two sections) but the flipside of this though is that guards, human or otherwise, 
 are always around the corner. Even on the Hard difficulty setting they are awfully reactive. If 
 they hear a noise they will stop to inspect it and if they see you they will not hesitate to kill 
 you. Their actions are mostly natural. The amount of time they spend looking for you very much 
 depends on how much they've seen or heard of you. Sometimes you'll even encounter guards bearing 
 lit torches. It's quite spectacular to see them lite up a room as they move closer and closer towards 
 you. Even servants, while unarmed, will catch you off guard, as they runoff only to return with 
 help! 
  
  To combat your opponents your arsenal is made up of all the old weapons such as the various arrows 
 and the blackjack. While the new climbing gloves, which allow you to scale walls, is lots of fun 
 and allows for some exploration. This is a game that necessitates the use of both your eyes and 
 ears. When searching for loot it is not obvious as to what is always valuable. The loot glint, 
 which twinkles on anything of value, requires players to be especially observant. Likewise there 
 are priceless conversations and remarks to be heard from both the NPC and Garrett himself.
  
  What I really think makes all the Thief games so special though are the stories. By having 
 all the events inside one fictional city the writers have been able to incorporate a terrific narrative 
 that never seems uncreditable, no matter what strange and bizarre things are included. Much of 
 it is told through some astoundingly animated cut scenes. It is a lengthy adventure that will have 
 you drawn in for many hours. Concurrently Garret remains the sharpest personality to have graced 
 PC gaming. His remarks are witty, he seems like a much more humanistic character than any other 
 personality, and thanks to an available third-person mode, players will now have a better idea 
 of who they're controlling. 
  
  Concluding a story is always difficult. Remarkably though Ion Storm have pulled it off. It is a 
 deeply satisfying conclusion to what is the most intellectual and refreshing PC game to date. I'm 
 doubtful that there will be more Thief games after this, which is sad in a way because this series 
 alone has been a benchmark for both the stealth genre and how PC games are assembled. There is 
 nothing more to say other than Thief: Deadly Shadows much like its predecessors is an intense and 
 beautifully constructed game that will be remembered for years to come. 
  
  For:
  
  + Another terrific story. 
  
  + Beautifully designed in all aspects.
  
  + Terrific and 
 innovative use of light. 
  
  + Impressive new features. 
  
  Against: 
  
  - A few minor control issues. 
  
  Verdict: If there's one title with the potential to cause 
 an upset with the Game of the Year vote (2004) against Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 its this masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The stealth genre wasn't much before Looking Glass came along and redefined it with it's seminal 
 game Thief: The Dark Project, a game that is considered among the best ever made. Its sequel, The 
 Metal Age brought a bit more consistency to the formula and was also well received. Then came the 
 dark times: Looking Glass closed shop in 2000 and with it the Thief series died too. Or so it seemed. 
 Former Looking Glass designer, Warren Spector, founder of Ion Storm and creator of Deus Ex (another 
 classic) took it upon himself to continue the series and in 2004 his studio released Thief 3: Deadly 
 Shadows. I remember that time as there was a lot of talk surrounding this game. Many felt it was 
 a disappointing sequel, others felt that it was a masterpiece. So lets see how things really stand.
 
  
  First off, I'll tell you about the setting. Thief 3 takes place in the same dark fantasy world 
 as the first two games. It's a pretty original setting as it combines steampunk and medieval elements 
 into one unique world. The setting works great, nothing feels forced or out of place. Power is 
 concentrated in the hands of the Keepers, a secret society of which Garret (the protagonist of 
 the series) was a part of, but not anymore. Other factions include The Hammerites (a theocratic 
 religious group) , The Pagans (a group of outcasts living underground) and a few minor factions 
 like the pirates, the undead and of course, the City Watch.
  
  In terms of game mechanics things haven't changed significantly since The Metal Age but some elements 
 have been lost along the way. For example, you no longer get to use rope arrows and the lockpicking 
 mechanic has been turned into something that requires no skills whatsoever, which is pretty disappointing 
 considering the fact that you play the role of a thief. Garret's other equipment has been ported 
 successfully into this third installment: you have your faithful water arrows for putting out torches, 
 broadhead and fire arrows for damaging and killing enemies, the noisemaker arrow for creating diversions 
 etc. A few other things like flash and gas bombs, holy water or health potions are also part of 
 the equipment locker. Also, your faithful blackjack makes a comeback but Garret has dropped the 
 old sword for a small dagger. The light gem also makes a comeback and for those who don't know: 
 it's a little element of the HUD that tells you how well you are hidden in shadow. Also new is 
 the ability to explore the city between missions. Now you'll be able to visit shops and sell the 
 loot you have stolen, buy equipment or simply enter random houses and steal stuff. A problem that 
 I encountered is that you're always going to have excess money and excess equipment. It would have 
 been nice to be able to use that excess cash to buy some special upgrades for Garret, the ones 
 that are available are pretty limited in number. Overall, in terms of game mechanics, it seems 
 to me that the developers took the conservative route but in the end it's OK. Mechanics are not 
 clunky, they feel good and refined.
  
  Thief 3's story focuses on a prophecy that speaks of dark time to come. It basically boils down 
 to doing various missions that will help you decipher the mystery surrounding it. It's not the 
 best of stories but it gets really interesting towards the end. The problem is that for the first 
 half of the game you will not even feel its presence. Overall, Ion Storm could have done much better 
 (specially considering how well they did with Deus Ex's story) but it's still a good aspect of 
 the game.
  
  In terms of graphics, the development team has done a great job. Thief 3 uses a highly modified 
 version of the Unreal 2 Engine and its qualities show. The game runs smoothly while also looking 
 exceptional. It does dynamic shadows and light very well while also rendering textures at good 
 quality and displaying a variety of SFX like bloom and glows. The graphics are good even by today's 
 standards and serve as an important immersion factor. It's too bad that environments are a bit 
 small. Still, it's not going to detract from the fun, plus you get used to it after a while.
  
  Thief 3 is also top quality when it comes to sound. FX are pretty good, things like doors, 
 mechanical devices or footsteps sound natural while voice acting is generally good. But the music 
 takes center-stage here. The soundtrack is composed in the good old fashion of Brian Eno's ambient 
 pieces. I personally love this sort of music and it suits the game perfectly so I can only praise 
 Thief for its choice.
  
  So as a final thought I'll say that Thief 3 is definitely a worthy addition to the series. It has 
 a few odd choices here and there and it's also an easy ride but the atmosphere, generally good 
 game mechanics and the setting more than make up for it's shortcomings. You must try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarbroncos
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a disappointing game for this series I loved Thief 1 &amp; 2 best games of all time in 
 my eyes, So I waited along time for this sequel to come out . The graphics were ok. But the story 
 was less than what I hoped for and it was too short , the other two games were longer.
  The cross over from just pc to game console I didn't care much for especially when I bought the 
 pc version and thought I needed a gamepad to play it.
  The game play was ok the controls was hard to get use to. And I didn't care for the town to town 
 warping.
  
  I think the makers of it got rushed to get it done by sell date.
  
  Thank goodness we have fan missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yrill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  Great game. Addictive and good-looking. Sometimes the missions are hard to complete, but you will 
 make it if you just keep trying. Nice use of different weapons (for example: Water Arrow) Really 
 nice. This game is just a must-have.
  
  Camera:
  The camera is great. Not bothering and easy to use.
  
  Controls:
  Perfect.
  
  Graphics:
 
  Perfect for a game dated 2004.
  
  Nice tutorial at the beginning of the game. They'll teach you everything you need to know. Sometimes 
 I had to look at the controls menu to see what the controls are again. This game just has to be 
 in your gaming library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_5700
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  The best game but a little short, good graphics and good game style, i like the throw of holy water 
 and the dust of the zombies when you kill them -ovbiously with fire arrows and sometimes with holy 
 water- and the best is the type of load areas in a world, not missions, i like the city -is good 
 for stole, beautifull places...-the shops, to sell and buy, the facial expressions, the factions 
 -this help you so much in the game- that rusts mites and rats-there is more than just people in 
 the game- the camera control -you can see outside of garrett-and at least a very good history, 
 i cant believe that this game have a minor than 10 of score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpt
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  As usual, I'm reviewing a video game after arriving 3 years late. It happened before, it'll probably 
 happen again as long as I think it's worthy.
  
  I've just finished this game, it was actually last night, after a month of intense and extremely 
 emotional Thief gameplay, in a trip that started in Thief: The Dark Project, went through Thief 
 2: The Metal Age, and finally reached its end in this Thief: Deadly Shadows. And boy, am I astonished. 
 I can't believe I've been missing all this marvellous and magic Thief gameplay for so many years. 
 After I accomplished the final objective in this last Thief, and saw the ending sequence, my words 
 were something like Wow. Just... I mean... It's like... wow. 
  
  And why has this happened?... read below.
  
  First... the plot! It's waaaay over the top. I 
 mean, it should get like 15 in 10, or something alike. It recreates a completely new world, but 
 drawing a parallel line with the hierarchy of our society. Or how it used to be a few centuries 
 ago. It has the Peasants , represented by the random people wandering around the streets and drinking 
 in the taverns, the Church , awesomely represented by The Hammerites, the Noble (which there is 
 very little reference, though you know there is some by reading some books) and there is what I 
 call the Military Faction , represented by the City Watch . Then, there are the Pagans, which are 
 a different cult, completely opposed to the ideals of the Hammerites. It's like the Jeova s or 
 something. And finnally, there's an underground secret order, called The Keepers , that somehow 
 represent the Invisible Hand , commonly known as The Illuminati . Their objective is, basically, 
 to control and ensure Balance in the world. And then, during the course of the game, you have the 
 chance to work with some of these factions, and doing special jobs for them which grant you a raise 
 in the popularity towards those factions. I won't describe the way the plot evolves during the 
 game, but it sure is catchy and immersive, and provides an intense and unexpected course of events 
 in the very ending, culminating with an excellent ending sequence, that leaves the ring definitely 
 closed for Thief series.
  
  About the graphics: Despite a few minor textures glitches, and a lack of engine efficacy in my 
 opinion, since I really can't understand how my 7950GT in some places can't handle easily this 
 game in the top resolutions, I'd say this game looks definitely very good. Taking in account it's 
 a 2004 game, the graphics are awesome, though not the best for that time.
  
  The sound is incredible. It pushes the adrenaline and atmospheric feeling to the limit. The voices 
 are also great, I love the way the dialogue evolves during the encounter of more than 2 people. 
 It's very well accomplished. Top score!
  
  The difficulty level is quite adjusted. In my opinion it's a significant improvement over both 
 other Thief games. In the other games, you'd get addiotional objectives to accomplish if you chose 
 a higher difficulty level... however, you were also forced to steal more loot, you'd be restricted 
 to kill human adversaries, etc. In this game, they decided to give the same objectives in every 
 difficulty level, which allows you to play on Easy, and still have the same plot objectives that 
 you would have playing on Expert. The only difference is the minimum amount of loot to pick up, 
 the awareness and number of opponents to face, and the restrictions over enemy kills. It's much 
 better in my opinion, since the plot-related objectives should be completely independent from the 
 loot-related objectives.
  
  There's a lot more to say about this game, but not without taking the risk of spoiling a little 
 bit of the game's storyline, and that would be a complete shame. It's something so beautiful that 
 you MUST find it out for yourself.
  
  For the first time, I'll give a game a Perfect score. Because it was just what I felt in the end. 
 Even though a few minor glitches during the game, in the end I felt completely fulfilled. The game 
 has done its job extremely well. I salute you, Ion Storm. After the mess you made with Deus Ex: 
 Invisible War, this is the best that could ever happen. Congratulations.
  
  Definitely buy this game. I bought it on a cheaper version, like Retail or something, I hope you 
 have the same luck. But it's definitely worth the originally released version value, even nowadays. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSeptim
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The best game but a little short, good graphics and good game style, i like the throw of holy water 
 and the dust of the zombies when you kill them -ovbiously with fire arrows and sometimes with holy 
 water- and the best is the type of load areas in a world, not missions, i like the city -is good 
 for stole, beautifull places...-the shops, to sell and buy, the facial expressions, the factions 
 -this help you so much in the game- that rusts mites and rats-there is more than just people in 
 the game- the camera control -you can see outside of garrett-and at least a very good history, 
 i cant believe that this game have a minor than 10 of score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game reminds me of splinter cell but of course in another time/era. i was blown away by the 
 sound and graphics, for being a few years old it looks and sounds very good.
  
  The City itself, where you will spend most of your time when you're traveling from mission to mission, 
 simply has a very nice aesthetic appeal, but lacks quite a bit of intricate detail. Medieval architecture 
 dominates the City in the shape of massive stone and wood constructions over cobbled stone streets. 
 Torches and a few lamps provide the illumination, creating a somewhat misty, dirty and eerie mood. 
 To top things off, the City is starting to see the first signs of industry creeping in, it's in 
 the form of piping and metal conspicuously placed. The dynamic lighting is a determining factor 
 between a dead guard and a dead Garrett. You will be able to see if your head is receiving any 
 torchlight when you're settled behind and a crate, if this is the case, prepare to un-sheath your 
 dagger.
  
  If you like stealth and fantasy this game is a must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSchafer3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed action games or others that have a little bit of the stealth gameplay, but 
 only on the side. Sometimes I found them too repetitive............ other times it was too dark! 
 (can't see where the heck I'm going (: ) , but most of the time, I was just bored to death waiting 
 for the patrols and you were always locked in a mission. (Thief lets you do some side quest in the 
 city and such vs. Splinter Cell, for example) . I'd given up all hope on these games, but then a 
 friend of mine recommened Thief and I played it on the XBOX. To my surprise, I like the game... then 
 my XBOX broke. Anyway, I got it on the PC later on and only recently. What's good about Thief, 
 as I mentioned before is the freedom of it. You can have your own way of completing each mission. 
 In Splinter Cell, it was almost like I was trapped and a lot of times felt like I had to follow 
 everything to the letter. I play a mission once and play it the same way the next time kind of 
 deal. The storyline's not half bad, and oh, another aspect of the game that's important- the difficulty. 
 I think it's just set about right. Splinter Cell- follow everything exactly or else game over (plus 
 the controls were evil I thought) .
  I recommend this game to almost anyone. Try the demo out; it's part of the game actually (so it's 
 not like two different experiences) and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I have to begin by mentioning that I've never really played much of the older Thief games and that 
 this is largely a new series for me. But after giving it some time, I've found it to be a fairly 
 entertaining adventure. You could compare this to other stealth games like Metal Gear Solid, but 
 you'd end up coming out with 2 very different experiences. Games like MGS are great, but often, 
 it feels like stealth isn't always necessary, and you can breeze through much of the game, just 
 popping enemies with a big noisy gun. Splinter Cell comes a bit closer to Thief because your equipment 
 is fairly limited, and guards can take you down in a couple of well-placed shots, sometimes in 
 one hit. In Thief: Deadly Shadows, you have your resources, but you also don't feel like a one-man 
 army, which is kinda what you'd expect from a stealth. You take on the role of Garrett, master 
 thief. While he may come across as a bit transparent, he can be a pretty ominous and interesting 
 guy. With each mission, and in between, you get some cool goodies to use. You get a small dagger, 
 a blackjack (basically a small club for knocking guys out) , arrows, as well as fire-arrows, water-arrows 
 (for dousing fires and torches) , and noise-arrows (for distracting people) , to name a few. You 
 also get flashbombs for blinding people and making an escape. These aren't really anything new 
 but they work well for the game. As I said, stealth is actually necessary here. If you want to 
 engage enemies head-on, you'll find yourself getting chopped down pretty quick. But, if you can 
 manage to sneak up on somebody with the dagger or blackjack out, you can stab him in the back, 
 or whomp 'em over the head to knock him out. Stabbing someone stealthily will kill in one hit, 
 but it also has a risk, since said character will scream out and attract attention. Not only will 
 you find you should move bodies, but in order to prevent any suspicion, you can use water-arrows 
 to wash blood off the floor.
  Another cool thing is that this game is quite open-ended. While you are required to finish missions 
 and steal loot, you can also wander around between missions, whether you wanna find other loot, 
 buy more equipment, or have fun sneaking around, killing whoever you feel like (And sometimes taking 
 loot of them as well) . The only thing that's a bit annoying is that even if you aren't stealing 
 things or committing crimes, city guards will come after you even if you've done nothing wrong 
 (since you have a bounty on your head, and there are wanted posters everywhere) . This may not be 
 a bother if enemies' AI was a bit better. While you can stealth-kill guards or knock them out by 
 sneaking up on them, if they detect you and decide to attack, they become extremely hard to kill. 
 Blackjack is pretty useless outside of stealth, and the dagger won't do much damage either. You 
 can also shoot an unsuspecting guard in the face from 2 feet away and often-times, he'll stay standing 
 and turn around and kick your ass. While it's more realistic this way, it doesn't feel balanced. 
 In most cases, whenever a guard or any other enemy comes after me, I'd just have to drop a flash 
 bomb and get away. In the confusion that follows, you could easily end up wasting flash bombs on 
 pesky assailants. Even more annoying is that if one character spots you and nobody else is around, 
 nearly EVERY other character in the area know exactly where you are, regardless of the fact that 
 they didn't see you. I guess this is because the game is a few years old and maybe the AI is a 
 bit stale. But, when you're hiding silently in a dark corner, far away from bad guys, they can 
 randomly wander right to you, bump against you, and attack. However, you could be in the exact 
 same situation later on, and have somebody walk right into you without noticing. This makes things 
 unpredictable, but not in a good way. The best thing you can really do is stand still and pray 
 you aren't given away. Some games like Splinter Cell are plagued by this too, but that still doesn't 
 cut it for me, even in 2004. There are some nice touches too though. As mentioned before, NPCs 
 notice blood on the floor, but that isnt all. If you extinguish a candle, fireplace, or torch, 
 people might notice and relight it, making the player have to use a bit of strategy. In Splinter 
 Cell and Metal Gear, you ever see someone change a broken lightbulb? Didn't thing so. Some folks 
 even carry torches around. You could be hiding in a shadow and someone with a torch may near your 
 hiding-spot, making things really tense and exciting. Besides Splinter Cell, you might compare 
 this to the Deus Ex games as well (as you should, since it's from the same developer) . While being 
 open-ended, the graphics look fairly nice, with some very pretty light and shadow effects (Some 
 of the best I've ever seen) . It looks even cooler with bloom effects on, resembling DX: Invisible 
 War even more.
  Despite how good the game looks, it's also very optimized and runs rather well on some of the slower 
 machines as well. Given, I'm using a 512mb video card with 1.5GB of RAM, it also seemed pretty 
 stable on my older systems, even with the visuals bumped up a bit.
  One of Thief's flaws (besides sketchy AI) is that the controls feel a bit clunky, particularly 
 melee combat. While you are discouraged to fight head-on, getting into a fight is a dangerous affair. 
 It isn't because Garrett's not a real tough guy (that's the point) but switching items and weapons 
 in combat is clumsy at best. Rapidly clicking the left-mouse-button is also tedious when in a fight. 
 The other controls aren't too terrible but they could use some work too. Sometimes while sneaking 
 around, movement seems a bit drunken. Sometimes, I found myself having trouble moving if a small 
 object was in the way, even small things like keys and jewels. You'll have to walk around them or 
 pick them up to pass. Picking up objects is a bit weird as well. Rather than carry something around 
 in your hands, it just disappears. Clicking the left mouse button will have Garrett throw it, although 
 there is no animation for this an it just gets launched. Using objects is important though. You 
 can pick up stuff like crates and small barrels and throw them to make a distraction. The physics 
 are top-notch here, and are entertaining to play around with. If you see a big stack of barrels 
 or crates (or other large things) you can walk into them to tip them over to make tons of noise, 
 as well as baffle people. Probably my favorite feature is that you can do missions, but you can 
 also spend loads of time breaking into homes and other establishments to steal loot, which can 
 then be sold to fences (merchants that deal with illegal operations) . Thief does this the best, 
 because you might wanna really plan out a heist, since running in like a madman will get you killed 
 or arrested. Games like Oblivion do this quite well too, but Thief feels a bit more elegant and 
 immersive. I can recommend this to anybody, especially to those who enjoy these games with the 
 heightened suspense and tension. While its easy to get caught, it's also pretty damn heart-wrenching. 
 But if you plan on taking Thief: Deadly Shadows for a spin, take your time, and be very patient, 
 since this is an very tough game at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persiankurosh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Thief: deadly shadows is the best stealth game that have ever made until now. you are a master 
 thief that easily can go every were in town, steal, kill and break into houses and beside you can 
 follow a scary and mysterious story that you have never heard. The game started with a training 
 mission to get you ready for the game. It shows how to creep in shadow, knock out your foes, walk 
 silently, put off lights (fires) , stealth your dead enemies in the dark and steal. It is great 
 experience for gamer to be like a thief and even better than to follow a scary and mysterious story 
 that take you to the heart of house of a witch, to a museum, ghost's ship and many scary or wonderful 
 places.
  graphic is wonderful too. It shows lights and shades very nice that you feel you are really in 
 shadow and blooms of light are wonderful. At the end thief 3 is a very nice game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  If there is 1one thing that the studios from Eidos haven't forgotten , is to make a game with everything 
 , gameplay , story &amp; then graphics ... ion storm has done a great job by bringing back 1one 
 of the 1st stealth games out there ... the atmosphere is overwellming the story is great &amp; 
 the graphics are perfect ! The A. I. is a real challenge because they will search very deep for 
 you the shadows ...&amp; the monsters are really tuff you better avoid them . Iven if Splinter 
 Cell bringed something new to the stealth genre ypu just can't match with the father of this game 
 .. especially because of the setting ... SC is modern ... &amp; thief is more uniq medieval style 
 ...&amp; lets not forget the story wich is very nicle put &amp; the voice acting ... enjoy the 
 game it is1one of the best stealth games out there &amp; the 1st ... to bad that there is no more 
 ION STORM : ( ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  You like stealth? Before Hitman was made, Eidos made the first Thief game. now this is the third 
 in a series of great games. This series nearly invented the sneak stealth game genre. this part 
 of the series is very good.
  First off, the gameplay that you usually find in stealth games is here, but it also is unique with 
 the fact you can use your arrows to help sneak more efficiently. Also the lockpicking mini games 
 are fun, but prepare because your first time will be frustrating trying to figure out how to pick 
 the lock.
  The graphics are great and they still seem to amaze me in 2007. Believe that it is still a game 
 you'll want to see today. The sound blend also is something that I gotta give to the gameplay department. 
 You'll wanna listen to the background noises so you can sneak away from the guards you see. If 
 you can find it in stores, buy it. Believe me, it's a game you'll wanna pick up. and once you play 
 it, the disc should automatically glue itself to the hard drive. It's an amazing game to date. 
 If you haven't heard of it, then my advice is listen to this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defenseman13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  There's nothing like hanging out with my friends on a rainy or otherwise uneventful work night, 
 and resorting to the ol' standard of the Xbox's Halo or more recently, the Wii's bowling game. 
 These are fun games that take little effort, and are usually played in a social setting with metal 
 blasting, our favorite beverage being imbibed, and the occasional pauses for stories, distractions, 
 or potty breaks. Then there are the other times, alone. These are the times in which I have truly 
 fallen in love with gaming , and all it has to offer. This is where a game like Thief comes in. 
 No friends, no distractions, no music... these spell death. All the lights have been turned out, 
 candles have been lit, and a good pair of PC speakers (I HOPE you all own a good pair of speakers 
 with bass box by now) have been turned up. I am leaned into the screen, breaking every rule except 
 running with scissors by this point. I am on the edge of my seat, my full attention on the very 
 possibility that what I just heard was a footstep... to my left? Was that breathing? Was that a 
 shadow? This is Thief. The third in the greatest FPS sneaker games ever made. The idea is simple. 
 Rather than point and shoot, why not steal? Use the shadows. Scitter like a rat from one dark corner 
 to the nest. What is amazing is that this actually works in the game. While keeping an eye on a 
 gem that lightens or darkens based on your visibility, you can watch foes literally walk inches 
 from you... whistling, singing, drunkenly stumbling or frantically searching for you. In fact, 
 face to face combat will most likely spell your death. It is this constant threat of detection 
 and danger that makes this game so completely unnerving to play that you might actually have to 
 take breaks every so often just to regain your composure. God forbid the phone rings halfway through 
 a mission. This game must be played to believed, and in 2007, it still stands up on it's own graphically 
 and gameplay-wise. I would also recommend playing the originals. To end this review, I must make 
 mention of my love of Horror in all of it's forms. True Hitchcockian Horror, where atmosphere and 
 the unseen are scarier than any cheap thrill that American horror movies tend to offer these days. 
 I must then mention the level Shalebridge Cradle . A haunted asylum / former orphanage. I dare 
 anyone to play this level with a good sound system in the dark. You will play it again and again. 
 Go ahead ang Google the name... this is true fear. And a true classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geitenvla
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Thief III represents stealth, cunning, action and a great story in a surreal medieval world. The 
 actual goal of the game is not to run around like a headless chicken, but to be a slithering shadow 
 against the wall. And this is something the game handles very well.
  
  First of all, the story is very believeable and it is told in a great interactive way. Cutscenes 
 are merely to support the story, rather than to tell it. You learn the story of thief throughout 
 the game by reading books and notes, overhearing people talk by eavesdropping beneath a window 
 and stuff like that - but be sure to remain in the shadows at all time. You litterly become part 
 of the story. But apart from the main story there are a lot of ambient-like tales. You can read 
 things like fairy tales, hear people pray to their Gods as they recite their sacred hymns, follow 
 the soap of a guard with a bad laceration or keep track of gossip. Everything that is mentioned 
 in the story is related to the big picture and makes you feel you are actually there.
  Ofcourse the game follows a scripted story, but it doesn't really feel like that. There is plenty 
 of room for the player to pick up on side missions, go out and rob some houses or mug some people 
 on the streets.
  
  The sound is one of the best I have ever heard and makes the whole experience deeply immersive. 
 Truly, I've never heard such well chosen audio effects in a game. This is not to underestimate; 
 I really think this is the best aspect of the game. The voice acting is very convincing, you can 
 hear the right type of emotions in their voices when they talk, reagrding the situation they're 
 in, but what really sets the tone is the extraordinary ambient sound fx. We're not talking just 
 footsteps here, but a wide array of really well recorded and mastered (ambient) audio. The sound's 
 ultimately what drags you right into the middle of the whole experience. It is not there just to 
 fill up some silent gaps, but actually makes sense as it contributes in a very high level to your 
 suroundings. The music is woven into the game at the same professional level as the fx. It never 
 is very present, but you would miss it if it wasn't there. It is highly subtle playing in the background 
 and swells to a climax at the right times.
  
  The graphics also are superb. Sure, it is an old game but there is a difference between good graphics 
 and beautiful graphics. Thief has got good graphics, which means they are not there just to be 
 pretty and entertain your visuals but they really do sketch out this surreal medieval world which 
 gives you an impressive dark feeling. This is great! As you being a thief and all. The whole game 
 is played in the night, but this is never annoying. For the sake of the engine, the game is best 
 to be played in the dark - if you do that, you immediately get sucked up into them. I also suggest 
 a headphone and dimmed or no lights.
  
  The gameplay is good, but I have to be honest here. It feels somewhat clumsy from time to time. 
 It is possible for you to get stuck behind objects or in narrow crevices. Most of the times you 
 can wiggle yourself out, but because you have to be as stealthy as possible, this can be somewhat 
 annoying. Another not so good aspect of the controls shows up in climbing and walking in tight 
 high-up places. There have been a couple times I was pulled down by gravity due to clunky controls 
 and finding myself in the midst of two enemies. It even boils down to a point where you have to 
 shake Garretts head in order to pick up that one piece of loot. Sometimes the auto object selection 
 turns out to be an enemy as well.
  Overall, the controls are not terrible and the game is really playable, but in this field there 
 is definitely room for some improvement.
  
  The AI turned out to be not completely stupid and that was a nice surprise for a game released 
 in 2004. Actually, they are pretty good. Sure, you will see them run into a wall once in a while 
 but most of the times they'll do a nice job. They miss other patrolling guards, they do spot marks 
 of blood and they will investigate. They even become suspicious when they miss certain items you 
 just nicked behind their back. You can fool them by tossing all kind of stuff around like throwing 
 a pewter tankard in the corner of a room to make your opponent go take a look. There's actually 
 quite a lot of stuff you can pick up besides your daily loot.
  If you've been making to much noise or when you expose yourself too much, you're screwed. They'll 
 hunt you down and can do some good damage. A one on one fight can turn out to be in your favor, 
 but make sure nobody sees or hears you fighting as they will come over to check out what's going 
 on. Fighting against multiple opponents is never a good idea in this game so you better beat a 
 hasty retreat.
  If you get caught in the act by a civilian, they'll run out to the nearest guard and warn the officer. 
 Also make sure to stash your bodies in a dark place where no one goes for it will trigger them 
 to figure out what has happened and somehow they always think it was you who did the crime - even 
 if you didn't do it. This is where the AI is a little bit off.
  
  If you add all of this together you come up with one word: atmosphere. The tention oozes of your 
 screen and there are moments your heartbeat will most certainly rise. You can feel the breathing 
 down your neck when enemies stalk you. The game offers some awesome missions which may be not advisable 
 for the faint hearted, you will get thrilled.
  
  Despite some of the downsides I mentioned, Thief III is the most immersive game I have ever played. 
 Everything adds up to a great experience: the sound, the graphics and the story are so incredibly 
 well mixed it really gives you the feeling of being Garrett rather than you are playing a game. 
 Over the passed decades I must have played hundreds, maybe even thousands of games. Many of them 
 impressed me and gave me great pleasure but Thief III is the first game that really made me feel 
 I was part of its world, no... I was in its world. You become the thief, you are the thief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Thief Deadly Shadows is an excellent addition to the Thief franchise. The beautiful graphics and 
 shadow lighting immerse you in the medieval atmosphere of the game and the level design is excellent. 
 There are all sorts of cool places to creep through and everything looks top notch. Obviously the 
 game is all about stealth, and the design of everything in the game really takes you back in time 
 and makes you feel like Garret: thief and saviour. The story is superb.
  
  The only aspects of the game that disappointed me was towards the end of the game, you have to 
 go across so many load times (the city is broken up into districts) throughout the city that it 
 is kind of a pain. Also trying to get to different districts of the city can be a hassle because 
 everybody is out to get you. So just to get to the next mission, you have to creep for quite some 
 time and sometimes this can take awhile, especially if you get lost (which happened to me alot) . 
 Other than these minor gripes, the game kicks butt. If you like stealth and would like to take 
 a look at the world during the Dark Ages, this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Close your windows, bolt the doors, and put your goods in a place that deems secure - thief Garret 
 continues his nocturnal hunt for gold in Deadly Shadows, the third iteration in the Thief Universe, 
 which is highly acclaimed by fans for games like the Dark Project and Metal Age. Although DS came 
 out after quite a long wait, - around four years - it still offers an experience as great as its 
 predecessors', although long-time players may be a little upset with the difficulty of the game, 
 which I will depict later.
  
  If you have played Thief before, you will find this game has a lot in common with the prequels. 
 You're still Garret, a master thief, living in a cold, medieval world, where various factions, 
 including the Pagans, the Hammerites and the Keepers, abode. The latter ones are your allies and 
 give you orders most of the time, but as long as you play nice with the other factions, as well, 
 you should have no harm walking around them. However, since this is a stealth game, there must 
 be someone you're always afraid of, right? Town Watch are the ones. It's better to sidestep those, 
 or, if your nails itch that much, at least kill them unobserved.
  
  Although most of the characters you meet in the streets are people, you'll get to face some inhuman 
 foes, as well - zombies, enemies with heads of a fish, and more. While some of them are easy to 
 dodge, others may require either patience if you're sneaky, or quite a few items from your inventory 
 if you feel like charging enemies full speed, which, believe me, is way too hard and un-rewarding. 
 Saying hard is maybe too risky, as Deadly Shadows feels to be much easier since there is a lot 
 more freedom this time around. But does this freedom make the game more challenging? Not unless 
 you feel like collecting 90 percent of goodies in missions on the highest difficulty setting. It 
 takes quite some time to check every corner, and, personally, it got me pretty frustrated when 
 I couldn't finish a quest just because I'd 89 percent collected, - had to get to the area at the 
 very beginning to pick a worthy ring. Stuff like this may make you pretty pissed at the game, but 
 on the other hand, it adds the difficulty that Deadly Shadows needs a lot.
  
  Burglaries are very fun to perform. Lots of houses and shops can be accessed. Sometimes people 
 sleep, sometimes they don't, but it's easy nevertheless, - using the right gadget / arrow / move 
 in the right situation lets you do whatever you want undetected, and makes stealing a whole lot 
 easier. There's a lot to steal - rings, medallions, candles, and more - stuff that can be stolen 
 is easy to notice because it shines more than other things do. If something you click on's worthless, 
 you'll simply pick it up instead. Sometimes this can get pretty frustrating, since dropping items 
 without making a sound is pretty hard, so if there's someone nearby and you pick an item, it's 
 best to walk away and then drop it, unless you want to do a distraction, of course. As I already 
 said, depending on the difficulty you play on, you've to steal a certain amount of goodies on a 
 mission or you won't be able to pass it since it's one of your main objectives. Special loot items 
 are sometimes needed to steal, as well. They cost a whole lot more than regular items. Since there's 
 no encumbrance in DS, you can carry as much as you want.
  
  While not in a quest, you can free-roam the whole city. Certain areas may be locked at the start 
 of the game, but they become accessible after you pass some quests. The whole city's divided into 
 districts, but it's pretty easy to navigate, since you have a map. Maps show where fences are located, 
 as well. Fences let you sell stuff you have stolen, so, after you collect enough money, you can 
 buy weapons and gadgets, or buy a lock and practice lock-picking. The whole lock practice thing 
 is pretty dumb, in my opinion, since lock-picking is way too easy in DS, anyway - just move your 
 mouse till the pin starts moving and click the RMB.
  
  The environment in the game is pretty interactive - as mentioned, you can pick locks to break into 
 houses and rob them. You also have the ability to take out candles with your finger or using a 
 specific type of arrows, climb walls using special climbing gloves, read papers and books, pick 
 up and throw things, etc. Throwing stuff makes a great distraction and climbing walls lets you 
 rob houses on a higher level, so all this stuff is really needed and makes the game much more fun.
 
  
  Since the game's a medieval setting, don't think you'll get to use any hi-tech stuff against NPCs. 
 The blackjack, dagger and bow are your best friends in the game. Bows support many types of arrows, 
 including ones which take out torches, create a diversion sound, create a pile of moss letting 
 you land softly, etc. Normal arrows are obviously in, as well. If you shoot at the torso or the 
 head, it's a one-hit kill. Blackjacks and daggers have a stealth-kill option, as well - strike 
 an un-aware NPC from the back and he's dead meat. If you attack an NPC and he doesn't die, you'll 
 either have to try attacking him with your weapons dozens of times until he finally dies, or throw 
 a flash bomb and run out of sight, since the characters are pretty powerful. The flash bomb is 
 one out of many gadgets you get to use in-game. There are gas bombs, mines, and many other useful 
 things that make getting rid of enemies easier. If you're on low health, you can use a healing 
 potion, too.
  
  Remember how the first games looked? Of course, graphics seen in DP and MA looked impressive at 
 the time, but nowadays most people would not want to play games like these. Well, they're lucky! 
 Say good bye to low-res textures and low-poly characters - Unreal engine that DS uses does its 
 job well - quality shadows and real-time lighting give DS a horrendous atmosphere that will keep 
 your eyes glued to the monitor throughout the whole game, while realistic-looking NPCs and other 
 models will make your stay even more enjoyable. What's even better is that unlike in games like 
 Splinter Cell 1, you don't need to crank up the brightness to the highest just to see something 
 in the darkness. Sure, the game's pretty dark, but it isn't so dark that you don't get to see the 
 whole beauty of the graphics. The requirements for the game aren't big at all, but don't get your 
 hopes up just because the two first Thief games ran well. Deadly Shadows now requires a graphics 
 card that supports Shader Model 1.1, so if you think your GF2MX owned Dark Project and Metal Age 
 to the max, think again before getting this.
  
  Voice acting in Deadly Shadows is done really well, especially the main characters'. They react 
 when you get nearby, attack them, or when they hear you. Undead creatures make sounds, as well. 
 Believe me - playing Deadly Shadows at night is awesome. This especially goes to Shalebridge Cradle 
 - a quest where you get inside an abandoned orphanage. It was acclaimed as one of the most atmospheric 
 levels of all time by players, and I got nothing but to agree, - since I'm a sissy, it took me 
 around two weeks to pass it. The music is nothing special, since there isn't any. But I didn't 
 have a need too big for it, since every sound that greets your ears in-game is done top-notch.
 
  
  Deadly Shadows doesn't have a multiplayer, but the singleplayer features a quite lengthy campaign 
 with an amazing story that's full of interesting twists. What makes DS even better is that it has 
 pretty much no bugs. I, for one, didn't fall into any bugs or crashes whatsoever. The game is not 
 as linear as its predecessors, so you can take any route you want in a mission. Although it may 
 be too easy for those who've played Thief before, it still offers an unforgettable stealth experience, 
 which makes the game well worth to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  The Good: I was amazed at how the graphics looked. This is a great game, and really delivers a fun, 
 stealthy entertaining experience. The lighting, shading graphics are amazing. The Captain's mansion 
 level has a great thunderstorm with lightning that jars the room and candlelight shadows. It's 
 definitely a lot of fun sneaking around, stealing stuff, eavesdropping on conversations. The Bad: 
 I had a few crashes to desktop but I bought this game from Direct2Drive and that could be the problem. 
 There are some AI quirks from time to time, but they definitely do not hurt gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:9.0
  Graphics:9.0
  Sound:9.0
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:7.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 (much replayability)
 
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: Fantastic, very fun, interesting story and enjoyable to play the Bad guy . Though the 
 other factions are so bad you don't feel guilty. I think many games have taken ideas from this 
 game but I won't say who they were. :)
  
  My Score:8.4 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinstarr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  I just finished this last night and though i'm 2 years late (as usual) , still felt i should write 
 a review of this gem. Starting with a decent interactive tutorial, and then a couple of pretty 
 straightforward thieving missions you get slowly involved with a shadowy group called the Keepers 
 who send you to steal some magical artifacts which become pretty important to the story later on.
 
  
  I had so much fun playing this game, maybe it was just me but i never got bored of blackjacking, 
 backstabbing, and thieving my way through the many missions of this game. And it has a *lot* of 
 missions. It did start to drag a bit towards the end, but i felt compelled to stay until the final 
 cutscene. One thing i noticed was that i didn't just like the game for one thing, but several clever 
 ideas mixed together. Sometimes it felt like MGS, sometimes like Ghost Recon, sometimes like Secret 
 of Monkey Island. Yeah, weird. The 2nd to last mission, the Shalebridge Cradle was awesome. Scarier 
 than Silent Hill.
  
  Don't miss this addictive, easy, but still very playable stealth game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  True to the Thief series, DS attempts to stick to the tradition of it and succeeds, except for 
 some minor faults. The game is rather user friendly in the sense that those who have never played 
 1 &amp; 2 can still understand what's going on.
  
  I felt that the graphics was pretty much average, with an interface that felt alright. However one 
 thing I missed was the highlighting of your current location on the map. But luckily Thief: DS isn't 
 as difficult to navigate as 1&amp;2, which were both tedious but when completed, felt a sense of 
 achievement. DS is rather monotone in that you have to navigate the same old city many times over 
 with items and enemies always replenishing. I had 20 moss arrows by the time I finished the game, 
 which in previous Thief's was a rather hard to find item.
  
  Credit goes to some missions like the Ghostship and Cradle, which were my favourites, the ambient 
 sounds and undead added to the creepiness and atmosphere, playing with the lights off proved to 
 be thrilling.
  
  Those who have played 1&amp;2 will find that the good ol' Rope Arrow is missing! I didn't like 
 the climbing gloves, it felt rather stupid to climb walls. One other arrow missing was Holy Water 
 Arrows, but it wasn't too much of a bother to me. The lockpicking part was ok. Some cool features 
 which I liked were the 3rd person perspective and the 'wall hugging', it added to the experience.
 
  
  Another tedious part of DS is the constant hounding of 'new objectives', every mission I played 
 had it's new objectives added on and on, till I felt irritated by it, especially so for the Cradle 
 mission, it kind of spoiled the intensity of the mission after so many new objectives. This wasn't 
 the case for 1&amp;2 which didn't always have new objectives added on so many times for a single 
 mission. The levels also aren't designed as innovative as 1&amp;2 which can keep any player stuck 
 for many hours, DS is easy IMHO, plus you can no longer find loot in those odd places that no one 
 would think of looking, a little feature of previous Thief's.
  
  Storywise, Thief: DS promises a good one, it kept me glued to it for a good many hours, this time 
 the Keepers aren't as mysterious as in previous Thief's.
  
  Overall Thief: DS is a good game worth your time and replay, however it's the minor problems that 
 brought the score down. But I still highly recommend it, for it's unique genre and setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BranKetra
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game, but the fact that the AI fails to work properly when you are spotted (instead 
 of running at you or striking you when they are right in front of you, the wall ten feet to your 
 right seems like the better target) , along with the many bugs in the game make it worth a rental 
 or a game that sells for 10 buck new. While I think that the bugs probably come from porting a 
 PC game to the 'box (HL2 has this problem sometimes as well) , if you want to sell something for 
 more than the price of a cup of lemonade, make it with quality, because people who play a wide 
 variety of games actually care. Other than that, the game has a lot to offer in terms of stealth, 
 freedom to roam the city and get your objectives done in missions, and the abiliites and items 
 you gain and can use. It really suprised me when I could buy those climbing gloves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laggylad2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Thief: Deadly Shadows is the last Thief game to date and still manages to retain some of the stealth 
 like feel of the previous games even though it has been changed as the game was also made for the 
 Xbox as well, with another addition which allows the player to view themselves in the third person.
 
  
  The story starts as Garret Like the other games the missions are very well made and require a lot 
 of patience and knowing when and where to move to avoid being spotted by the people you're stealing 
 from. The graphics have been updated and look beautiful with the lighting and shadow technology 
 and the environment is very interactive, like the previous games you can hurl objects to cause 
 a distraction or even cause death by dropping heavier objects on your enemies. The sound on this 
 game is also terrific if you have an Audigy 2 and above then you really feel like you are in that 
 certain area whether it is a Cathedral or open streets the sound realistically echoes off of the 
 walls and voices seem to boom out loud depending on the area that you are in.
  
  Yet the game does not feel optimised, the developers seem to have sacrificed the frame rate to 
 get these graphics, I had to spend &pound;250 to get my computer to work well enough with this 
 game, before it was unplayable with a Geforce FX5200.
  
  On this instalment you progress differently to the other two, you travel around the city zones 
 kind of like Postal 2 where as on previous games you went straight from mission to mission but 
 you have to travel to mission areas and this can be frustrating if your PC is not that fast. This 
 game is also sadly missing a rope arrow even though the developers were intending to put one into 
 the game they chose to give the player climbing gloves instead.
  
  The story on this instalment is also very good and ties in with the previous games you will find 
 and hear references to characters on the previous games. This time after you have robbed a stately 
 home/castle you are asked by the keepers to acquire certain objects that are very important to 
 the story and as you collect up these important monuments strange occurrences happen as you try 
 to do and you find out that a supernatural being known as the hag is making attempts on your 
 life, so you follow up all sorts of leads to uncover why the hag is after you.
  
  I said earlier that the missions are very well made, like the previous games you will find some 
 very memorable missions like Seaside Manor, Wieldstrom Museum and Robbing the Cradle, you 
 often have fun on these missions by tricking guards or making them slip over oil patches, there 
 are different ways to go around missions but ultimately you are set to acquire a certain amount 
 of loot and one special item that is important to the story.
  
  So to sum it up I thoroughly enjoyed Thief: Deadly Shadows though die hard Thief fans may be a 
 little disappointed in the change in game play, but this was in no way a bad game, if your system 
 can meet the rather steep requirements then it is worth giving this game a try.
  
  Note: I had written a previous review which a user did not find helpful and now looking back I 
 dont really think that interview had got to the point so hopefully this new review will prove 
 more useful to others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taffers-Trick
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  There is something about being the lubricious Thief, that is difficult to explain. Is it the ambience 
 of being in charge, or the gripping feeling in your gut that appears in times of suspense that 
 creates the ardor of the game? When you enter the game, you begin with a simple training mission 
 that brings to your attention the awareness that is necessary to confront the fictitious foes that 
 are ahead of you. You may become agitated at the difficulty of what lies waiting for you at first, 
 as it takes many computer keys to pin the movements and tricks. But before you know it, your eyes 
 will narrow as you glare through the darkness before you, and your awareness will sharpen. Noises 
 that occur in or out of the game may startle you, breaking the concentration you develop while 
 keeping your ears open during the silence of playing. You are becoming one with the character through 
 all of this as well. Garett, the sly money-loving stranger, will become you in the process. When 
 he get's angry, you boil with hatred. When he is clever, your mouth twists into a grin of pride. 
 Plots and graphics are attractive in this game. The calm colors mix well with the elements of the 
 story, and missions can prove difficult and times, and often impossible. But there are several 
 paths to any destination. You choose which is best for you, and you may succeed, or you may die. 
 Regardless of the possibilites, the game attributes to its own difficulties by allowing you to 
 'save' whenever and wherever you may be in the mission. Before a daring step, remember to save 
 incase your idea fails. Suspense is one-hundred percent guartenteed in Thief: Deadly Shadows . 
 There are plenty of nasty monsters, seeking enemies, and fast suprises that will assure adleast 
 on sharp intake of breath or jolting cry. Even I suprised myself when I heard a slight scream escape 
 my lips when being chased by a willowy creature in the Pagan mines. As far as realism in a video 
 game, I believe it is the closest to life I have ever felt while staring at a moniter. If you are 
 a tolerant player, and enjoy a plot you can sink your teeth into, Theif: Deadly Shadows is your 
 game. It requires skill and teqnique, as well as an enormous amount of patience on your behalf. 
 But if you are devoted to your character, as are most of the people that have played this game, 
 you will find yourself quickly enveloped in it's twisted streets, among people both friend and 
 foe. Before long, you will be calling yourself a Thief with an air of dignity, and more than a 
 little pride. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarek75
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  Several years ago when i first played thief, I was having so much fun that I did not want to finish 
 it to end the fun I was in,
  but now when I remember those hours of dear old thief I am feeling disappointed from this version 
 of thief, actually I expected more, the idea of the game is great and the concepts behind its design 
 is very creative .that was acceptable back then when the game first hit the market, but now I believe 
 the ideas have changed and the creativity must get even with this change too, what I mean is that 
 does all the guards have to act in the same stupid way or it is time to add some reality to them. 
 even more the graphics still outdatedwhy?? have you consider to add more thrill to your story 
 line ?any way I not saying that because I am anti thief or something..!! I am just stating some 
 of my points of view to a very respectable and great game that I which to become more and more 
 thrilling and amazing than it is now.
  Finally it still a great fun to play even there are so many to be added but I hope they can consider 
 revelotionally change in the next version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubileedoo
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I don't think so. Not when you stack it up against its predecessors, Dark Project and Metal Age. 
 Deadly Shadows is kind of lame compared to them. It still retains some fun elements, and even added 
 one -the ability to crawl up a wall. However, it seems the authors sacrificed actual game substance 
 for really cool graphics. That's a pity when you consider how truly ingenius this game was -the 
 concept is great, character execution excellent, weaponry simple yet effective, the ability to 
 hide in plain sight. Use of stealth and logic. Thief's creators really have a good thing, but they 
 didn't effectively integrate technological progress with ease of use on DS. There are also some 
 extra characters whose only purpose seems to be to run around.... as in, they don't seem to serve 
 a purpose at all. My overall rating will be middle-of-the-road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo666_eg
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  when i heared that EIDOS come with a new release for thief, i said waw what the grafic would be, then 
 i found no change at all in grafix or sound
  of old part after all those years EIDOS come with this !! you must be kiddin
  the game needs 
 a seriuos update for that one realy, i wonder why didnt eidos think of that. this one u can call 
 it an expantion for [Thief: The Dark Project or Thief II: The Metal Age ] story is realy perfect 
 ,but eidos ruin it badly with this deacent grafix and sound ,i think its the same grafix engine 
 used in the old parts
  i am thief fan ,and sorry to say this: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frizkit
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 24, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Shadows of the night conceal much that the daytime dweller would be loath to see. - Excerpt from 
 the Archival Keeper Council Transcripts, F. K. Modrian, Book IV, Chapter 7
  
  Heya, welcome to my review of the game Thief III, or as its called Deadly Shadows. (subtitle)
 
  
  Before i start reviewing this latest installent, a bit of history of this (unseen) underappeciated 
 series.
  This game is the third and latest installment of the thief series.
  And i am proud to say that i played this series from the moment as soon as i could get my greedy 
 hands on it.
  The first game of this series, subtitled The Dark Project , appeared back in 1998. And so the First 
 Person SNEAKER was born, the first person stealth genre in general. Ok, at that time there were 
 other games like MGS and Tenchu. Sure, these were good games, but certainly didn't go as far in 
 implementing stealth gameplay. others go to bed The game starts young garrett homeless hungry pickpocketing 
 int the streest people Mysterious man
  
  The world is a great scale, which must stay in balance, in the forces seeking to skew its arms. 
 A collection of knowledge is a set of weighs, to be added to one side of the scale or the other, 
 as necessary. Our task is to place the weights, slowly, carefully, over centuries, in order that 
 the balance is preserved - excerpt form the lectures of the Keeper Loremaster.
  
  Under construction... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manual80
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  What can you say about this trilling game that isn't already said. I've played thief dark ages 
 and metal ages and found them really great. What can i say i'm a sucker for mid-evil times movies 
 and games. First of all the way the story line unfolds before you is just amazing. It goes deeper 
 and deeper without losing credibility all together. The environment and different locations make 
 the story look so much more alive. A real improvement to metal ages that made you feel like every 
 castle was the same. Another improvement is the city that has come to life and gives you a home 
 base to learn and upgrade you stealing skills. You can truthfully do whatever you want (pick pockets, 
 houses, pubs, your mother) . When you feel like it you do a level and steal more stuff that you 
 can sell in every part of the city. Also you can buy whatever you want and need, not just 15 water 
 arrows and 3 health potions. But the best thing about this new thief saga is the sound, the food 
 steps, the bats flying in the air above you, the flikkering candels and beter dialogs, sometimes 
 pretty funny. 
  
  Oke is there nothing that could be improved? Yes there is ofcourse. The city is great but it would 
 be nice to have more rooftop action also the loading times are some what anoying at times. Play 
 this game you will like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midway_nights
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  well i have never been a stealth genre fan neither i liked hitman series or any other game just 
 because the fact i never liked stealth based game as they sound boring.
  
  but i bought thief: deadly shadows one day thought lets try this game (i have played thief 1 and 
 2) even when i was installing this game thief: deadly shadows i was just thinking that i wasted 
 my money.
  
  so where should begin..... this game is fantastic and since the day i installed it on my pc i am 
 totally addicted to stealth based games and obviously to this game too.
  
  the toturial level was so amazing that i can't describe in words.
  it was a complete feeling 
 of 16 or 15th century enviroment and world placed somewhere in england.
  
  the cutscenes have a very high quality of frame rates.
  
  sounds are one of the best i have 
 ever heard in a game, and its a shame for hollywood.
  clouds are running when you look up, a strange voice that comes in night which you often hear chiir 
 chiir chiirr.......... only in the night.
  are all combines and makes a greatest game.
  
  for me this is the greatest game as i look for detailed enviroment and sounds in games.
  
  
 and remember this game will give you best experiance if you play it with the lights off and in 
 night time.
  
  believe me you wont be disappointed.
  
  i wish this game will be available on ps2 so i can play it on ps2 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostagent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I highly recomend Thief 3 to any one looking for a kick ass game. altho i beet the game in four 
 days so i would say its a lil short it is still one of the best games i have played in a long time. 
 their are about 12 missions you play them over a total of 9 night. This game starts off as good 
 and just gets better. you can play the game like a thief or like a assasin. the mission that i 
 enjoyed the most or didnt like lol was The Shalebridge Cradle. this mission was just about if not 
 more freakie than F. E. A. R. in short get it or rather rent it its not one to keep playing but its 
 a experiences of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I didnt get to play through this game completly, so my review might be a bit slanderous. however, 
 i still can shed some light on the main traits this game is made up of.
  the graphcis seemed polished and decent. By todays standards they would be falling behind and HDR 
 would have looked very nice, but this apart, it still can be nice to look at.
  the sound has support for the surround hi-def thing, so thats good too.
  the actual gameplay 
 is pretty user friendly, but i found some parts that took a bit of keyboard jabbing to figure out. 
 also the lock picking was kind of a bi*ch to learn, but thats ok too.
  they put in some really cool Sam Fisher hiding moves and basically defined sneaking. so expect 
 awesome kills and fights.
  basically were looking at a game that should be checked out by the hardcore and the not-so-hardcore 
 gamers. the series wouldnt be the same without this new addition... even if its not so new anymore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveo1337
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 14, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Thief's gameplay is simple, yet engrossing. 
  
  Stealing, attacking, and interacting with objects are all pretty much handled by the mouse, and 
 are always rather satisfying. Hand-to-hand combat is clearly not the game's forte, but you should 
 never be looking for a fair fight. Most opponents can be taken out with a blackjack from behind, 
 but timing, positioning, and precision are required to do this right, since alerted opponents can't 
 be taken out through a stealth kill.
  
  The AI has varying states of alertness, and does a fair job of reacting to a situation (stopping 
 to listen if it thinks it hears something, for example) , and things like blood stains, missing 
 objects and corpses can easily arouse their suspicions, or lead them to go for help. My only qualm 
 is that they invariably let their guard down a few minutes after being disturbed, no matter what 
 had happened. It helps allow for more mistakes, but sort of hurts the AI's believability.
  
  What I found interesting about this game (it was my first Thief game) is that while amazingly 
 skilled in staying hidden and felling unaware opponents, he is not some kind of superman, like 
 many similar games' protagonists are. You're not very acrobatic, not incredibly fast, and weak 
 in a fair fight. If you are spotted, you're generally in at least a little danger, though there 
 are many options you can take in regards to getting away.
  
  The game is a little bit on the easy side, so the best experience can be had playing on hard or 
 expert difficulty.
  
  Graphics were fair, (there's some texture packs available out there that can improve texture quality 
 and improve them) but lighting/shadow effects were top-notch, which is refreshing when you think 
 of how important light is in this particular title. Load times are pretty long for the size of 
 environments, but this is only really a problem when going through the districts of the City or 
 loading saves.
  
  All in all, a lot of effort went into production of this game. NPCs have a great deal of dialogue 
 attributed to them, and some levels (Shalebridge Cradle) were among the best designed levels I'd 
 ever seen. 
  
  Sound is crisp, dialogue is well-done and the ambient sound in particular is brilliant. 
  
 
  This game, well, it sucks you in. You really feel it from Garrett's perspective. Most everything 
 is interactive. You feel like you're taking chances wherever you go; the presence of hostile groups 
 in the city means even there you need to watch your step, and even well-positioned stealth kills 
 seem like they can go wrong sometimes. The light gem makes you feel a little uneasy unless you've 
 got some shadow around you, and oftentimes you'll be listening close for footsteps or stray dialogue.
 
  
  Some portions can even freak you out; once or twice I felt like I was playing a horror film. Atmosphere, 
 something some games overlook, is utilized to great effect.
  
  So despite the game's relative ease (equipment is fairly hard to run out of; that takes a lot of 
 pressure off) and a few other stray problems such as the load times, it's definitely an enjoyable 
 and enthralling experience.
  
  I recommend this game, hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebebebebebe123
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 3, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  I played theif from the very beginning of the series and still love every bit of it.
  This game stands out from others similars for several reasons.
  It's a first person, but it's 
 about tricking, hiding, bypassing your obstacles rather than blowing it out/down/up. 
  It requires patient and timing. So, even a slow person (e. g. myself) can excel in this game without 
 much background of playing FPS.
  
  The third series of thief improves from every aspect.
  First, they include shadow as an element of stealth.
  Second, they make you more vulnerable, 
 which makes like a human, rather than a superhero (in which many games do that) .
  Third, the ability to interact with almost any objects.
  Fourth, Garrent has more skills than 
 ever!
  
  However, they can further improve the game.
  For example, the wall walking doesn't work well when there is a pillar pops out.
  Moreover, the 
 arms sink into the wall or something.
  The victim of your blackjack often lie in some absurd acrobatic positions...
  Finally, there 
 should be more different potential interactions with objects. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jj3ysk
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  Thief 3 did not disappoint me. Unfortunately, the glaring clipping error kept the game from true 
 greatness, as did the minor glitches in the rag doll system and the difficulty modes. Still, if 
 you happen to have enjoyed the previous Thief titles or any other stealth type game like Splinter 
 Cell, then Thief 3 is well worth the purchase. Unlike many gamers on the market, I have always been 
 a great fan of stealth games and The Thief series has created a way to fill that gaming need. On 
 top of that, I get to steal stuff. Thief and Thief 2 have earned a place among the greats of PC 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eveywoman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the games I have ever played this one had a great story that keeped me going like a 
 good book. I had a lot of fun playing this game. A great break from your BF2 or AOE games! 
  
  Go get this game and play it. Just for the joy of sneaking around and killing people, and stealing 
 thier money! 
  
  And keep the sound up so you can hear them walking up on you! Which is really cool, never had that 
 in any other game I have ever played. And keep enough arrows with you at all times you never know 
 what you have to hit from far away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daningis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the stealth genre and a huge fan of the Splinter Cell series. When I heard of 
 Thief, I couldn't wait to get my hands on it, and for the most part, it paid off. Thief: Deadly 
 Shadows is basically a medieval version of Splinter Cell. You play as Garrett, a sly thief who 
 loves stealing stuff (who whould've thought?!) and doesn't care too much for others . So here's 
 a brief breakdown of the good and the bad:
  
  GOOD:
  -GRAPHICS (good on highest settings, although not on the level of games like UT 2004 or Half-Life 
 2)
  -LEVEL DESIGN (the levels are cleverly designed and interesting from start to finish. No complaints 
 here)
  -STEALTH FEEL (simply put, you have to sneak around to beat this game and you have to be creative 
 to do it!) 
  -GREAT PROTAGONIST: I love Garrett as a character. Everyone whos plays this game will like Garrett's 
 sly and arrogant attitude. It works and he has some great lines in the story!)
  
  BAD:
  -THE AL: guards and civilians all have really annoying voices and are very dumb
  -REPLAY VALUE 
 (once you beat this game, that's it... unless you wanna try to beat it on expert, which is VERY 
 HARD)
  -JUMPING: Jumping can sometimes be very awkward and hard to do. I got stuck trying to climb over 
 or on top of countless objects and platforms.
  -STORYLINE: It's not a very intriguing story. It feels more like you're just running around doing 
 random missions for the heck of it. Garrett is the only memorable character from this game.
  
  OVERALL: Thief is a great game in it's own right. It's challenging and will occupy you for 
 a good month or so, until you beat it several times. However, it's not as innovative and well-developed 
 as Splinter Cell. But if you've had a little too much of Sam Fisher lately (like me) than you'll 
 get a good bang for your buck out of this game. Plus, it's been out for over a year now so the 
 price should be right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry3888
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Thief is a very good game. It has a long story and is great fun to play. The first level of thief 
 is a tutorial, it is a very good idea from Eidos and helps beginners with the controls. There are 
 over ten full packed levels with lots of enemies to wipe out cold. One bad thing about thief is 
 that the enemies are not very smart, if they see you and you hide again they will say  I swore 
 that I saw something over there and then theyll put down there swords again. 
  
  In thief there is loot scattered all over the area that you can steal. What you steal by the end 
 of the level, you can sell for useful items such as broad arrows, noise maker arrows, water arrows, 
 health potions and even climbing gloves for climbing up walls. 
  
  Garret the master thief will come upon many locked doors. Lock picking is a very simple problem 
 and requires little thought, you usually just have to press up, right, down or left and then press 
 a button to unlock from 3 to 6 tumblers.
  
  A great feature of thief is that when a guard is nearing you, you can go up against a wall and 
 hold your breath for about ten seconds.
  A gem is located at the bottom of the screen to tell you how well you can be seen, this is a great 
 feature and is useful in tough situations.
  
  The graphics of thief deadly shadows are quire superb, the lighting of every room makes you feel 
 like you are really sneaking around somewhere trying to steel something. The voice of master thief 
 Garret is played brilliantly by Stephen Russel. Also other actors from previous thiefs have performed 
 well for other characters in the game.
  
  Thief is a great game and Eidos deserve a big thumbs up towards this masterpiece that they have 
 created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max2562
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Thief 3... wow, what can I say? I didn't like the cheapish looks of a lot of the NPC characters, 
 some of the play action left a little to be desired (sometimes Garrett would get stuck, and then 
 inevitably get killed) , and there are a few other things that just happenes during game play that 
 annoy me. 
  That said, this game rocks something fierce! Sure there are a few bad things, but Morrowind had 
 some pretty cheap looking characters too. Did tht stop it from making GOTY? The developers of Thief 
 3 did something with this game that almost seems like it happened by accident - like a number one 
 hit song that came by chance. The haunting atmosphere, the way AI works with Garrett (or against 
 him) , the dialogue you can laugh at because it's so funny, etc.
  You know, the graphics are definitely not the best, but they sure are exquisite in some ways and 
 in certain areas. Sometimes, in certain areas of the game, when the background music begins its 
 spooky tune and the dim moonilt ground lies before me I get this weird familiar feeling. It's almost 
 as if the thoughts I had when I was young are rushing through my mind again. 
  This game will put you in its world, that's for sure. There are things this game presented that 
 have yet to be done again and done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Once I picked this up after playing the dark age sequel I immediately fell in love with this game 
 playing it non-stop. The visual that caught my attention the most was the dust particles in the 
 windows glinting as the moonlight hit them. The dark aura throughout the game, and hiding in the 
 shadows sneaking around preying on unsuspecting guards. Stealing loot scattered throughout the 
 castle. Nice nice. I had no complaints with this game other than it had an ending. I wish They 
 would come out with another sequel to this. Just the thought of being able to sneak, hug walls, 
 and move right past the guards within a foot of them undetected is really chilling, and exciting! 
 Can't wait for another episode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Thief: Deadly Shadows is the third chapter of the highly successful Thief series. Originally developed 
 by Looking Glass Studios (now closed) , the game got picked up by Ion Storm (now closed too) and 
 by Eidos, the publisher of the previous games.
  
  It's been a while since a Thief game. The graphic market has grown a lot since 1999, the year of 
 the release of Thief II: Metal Age, so the third game got a good face lift. Adding to the graphical 
 awness is the addition of a third person perspective. It is more a gimmick than anything else, 
 since it isn't as precise as the first person, so you won't use it a lot, maybe only in the first 
 few levels, but after you get the hang of the game's not so friendly controls, you'll run back 
 to the first person mode.
  
  The light is treated here just like the past games. It is your worst enemy. For normal torches, 
 the water arrow will douse them. For electrical ones, you'll have to be cunning or, even better, 
 find another way around it. There's always an alternative way in this game. You'll need to find 
 them all if you're planning to go 100% stealth with no killings to the end, like I did. Yes, it's 
 possible to beat the game without killing a single sould just for the sake of it (OK, I stand corrected, 
 you have to at least spill the blood of someone in just one particular level, but that's about 
 it) .
  
  For weapons, this time around the arrows have wind resistance and weigh factor-into the firing, 
 so fire arrows will travel not as far as a normal one would, so you'll have to aim a little higher. 
 Also, the arrows are more useful this time around, you'll use the fire ones a lot against the undead, 
 and you'll be able to acquire a good amount of them, since money is stable this time around, so 
 you can visit the many fences in town and buy the weapons. Other weapons include the classic blackjack, 
 dagger, mines and smoke grenades. And you'll obtain some new items along the way, like a climbing 
 glove that substitutes the quirky robe-arrow from Thief II.
  
  The level structure of the game is also different this time around. You'll have to travel from 
 place to place through a hub called The City. It has various areas, and each with their own people 
 and guard routines. You won't be able to access the whole City when you start the game, but soon 
 you will. The levels have to be infiltrated before starting, for instance, when you break into 
 a mansion, you'll have to first find your way to the place, then break in before you do the stealing 
 per se.
  
  The enemies are varied and as I mentioned, zombies will be a nuiance, not a lot like the previous 
 games, but enough. They are weaker this time around, since you'll have a lot of fire arrows at 
 your disposal. Guards remain in almost every level and they are as dumb as a door as they've ever 
 been... some other enemies aren't going to be mentioned here since I don't want to spoil anything, 
 but I can say this: not every enemy will be affected by sneaking and clubbin'. Nuff said.
  
  The game will take a while to beat, since if you really get into it, you'll want to go 100% 
 in every level. And let me tell you: it is really rewarding doing that and not killing anyone. 
 It'll probably take you some days to finish if you play like me, short spurts at a time, not a 
 lot.
  
  If you played and loved the original games like I have, go right ahead and get it. If you're new 
 to this, it's a great place to start and maybe you'll even want to go back to the old games to 
 know some back-story, like how Garrett lost his eye...
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  The famous and unstopable Garrett is in action again!
  Now you are not only a Thief but also the one who is going to save the world!
  This game is like 
 the previous ones but it is much better in gameplay and storyline!
  As a fan of stealth-action games I can tell you that this game is an example of a quality work 
 on both tech and entertaiment parts of the game!
  During the game you will have to hide in shadows, knock out the guards and "thiefing"!
  There 
 is only one thing left to say: read the Gamespot's review if you need a detailed discription of 
 the game, as i am suggesting you this game as a player! it will be interesting for everyone, Play 
 it and you will not be dissappointed!
  Tahir"Yazon"Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I tried the very first two thief games and loved both of them. There was no way I wasn't going 
 to miss out thief deadly shadows. Theif deadly shadows, isn't disappointing although the gameplay 
 really reminds me of splinter cell. Anyways thief deadly shadows is awesome because it still has 
 it's touch of it's stealth action and that it has it's classic weaponary like the blackjack, the 
 flashbombs and the bow with regular arrows, fire arrows, gas arrows and etc. But in the first thief 
 games, garret had a sword against guards. In thief 3 he has a dagger. I was hoping they would still 
 have the sword because the sword seem to make you feel more powerful against enemies. They put 
 the dagger to make the game more challenging and make you stay with more stealth instead of brute 
 force. And the other thing I found that really disappoint me is the actions on the enemies. I swear 
 when they make an attack, they don't even look like they are trying to attack you. The A. I. can 
 be dull, I mean i when it comes to combat, the A. I movements are dumb. Although I gotta admit by 
 saying thief deadly shadows is one of the scariest of the series. There is only one level in this 
 game that surpasses the game F. E. A. R. Ever since I played that CRADLE LEVEL I nevered been feared 
 by another horror game ever. If you want a game that really scares you then try any of the thief 
 series, they are the only games that ever scared me. So at least thief deadly shadows still has 
 it scary moments like the past thief games. Overall this game will be great to stealth gamers or 
 thief fans. Although can be disappointing at some parts but still has it's entertaining parts in 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AviticusDSS
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Thief 3 is the best game in the series by far. Its semi non-linear gameplay is an added feature. 
 You are free to roam around the city and wherever, stealing from people. You have set missions 
 but you can choose when you want to do them. The graphics are pretty good, but the shadows/lighting 
 are probably some of the best I have seen. The game's AI can be a bit stupid at times, but at medium 
 to high difficulty, the AI is great. 
  
  You really feel like you are in another world in this game. The storyline keeps you interested 
 all the way through. All of the missions are really fun, besides ONE. There's mostly all the same 
 weapons and the view is mostly in 3rd person, which I like because you can see more of your surroundings 
 and whether or not you can be seen or not.
  
  The game was worth the money and a great 3rd game for the trilogy, although I hope they make Thief 
 IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drivex3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I had played the demo over a year ago, and never bought the game till 4 days ago. and I love it. 
 The strategies are well thought out, and the storyline is pretty cool.
  
  It passes time quickly, as I play it, my Daughter watches me, her and I have had lots of fun together 
 as we kind of make a joint venture out of it.
  
  If I could have one thing to improve, that would just be the time in a day we can spend playing, 
 One thing I have to admit is a little unrealistic is the ease of sneaking by people without being 
 seen, but that doesn't me that every time you try, you get by 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Compared to the games predecessors it isn't as good. Though the graphics are good especially the 
 shadows. But before we continue I'll get through the bad things first, sort of.
  
  It has errors in the game (for me at least) were the textures on the clothing would be brown. But 
 it could be John P.'s graphic updates for the NPC's. Another thing I might add is the physics. 
 In some ways it is good but when they bend like (well a rag-doll) it's like they have no spine. 
 And in the other two it took me about 10 to 15 hours to beat it on the normal difficulty when I 
 got to play it. In Deadly Shadows on the expert difficulty I beat it in around 10 hours.
  
  Next I'll cover the other things good or gust fine. The cradle level is really freaky the first 
 time around I could not or just did not want to finish it. Now I find the zombies in that level 
 to be like normal zombies. And if you're new to games like this one you won't finish it in a weekend.
 
  
  So out of every thing I've covered I'll say this "Good job Ion Storm former Ion Storm I mean, Oh 
 you to Eidos". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banjobear_basic
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this game is a huge disappointment. It feels more like thief 0.5 with a newer, but highly 
 bug-ridden and unstable engine. After the fiasco Warren Spector and Eidos inflicted upon deus ex: 
 invisible war with its xbox compromise that completely killed off the entire francise, you think 
 they would learn to avoid the same mistake in thief 3, but nope. Warran Spector bragged so hard 
 on how he wanted the sequels to be significantly different, yet the end result is nothing more 
 than a much dumbed down translation of the previous games with some initially seeming superficial 
 additions or changes that turned out to break the game. Warran Spector broke deus ex: invisible 
 war with his universal ammo implementation, and he done it again -- though to a lesser degree -- 
 with the 3rd person camera in thief 3. It appears the entire game is designed around using the 
 3rd person camera, with the 1st person as an afterthought -- as if the developer was intentionally 
 betraying the game's root. There's no point in using the first person perspective besides for added 
 atmosphere, and even then the head bogging and moving is very disorienting unlike the first two 
 games. There's no way to fix this other than going into the game's .ini file -- reminiscent to 
 deus ex: invisible war and all its un-removed xbox settings (in the pc version) . This is very lazy 
 on the developer's part. The game has most of deus ex: invisible war's problems as well: very small 
 levels further divided into sublevels with long loading times in between, dumb AI, etc. The city 
 serving as the game's hub is a near idea but poorly implemented and only serves to slow the game 
 down. Since the game appears to be designed around using the 3rd person camera, the game looks 
 like a poor man's Splinter Cell. Again, most of these problems clearly results from compromises 
 made so it can play better on the xbox (though it runs like a slideshow on it) . The developer ignored 
 what made the originals so good and successful. Instead of making the game that fans of the original 
 will like, they ignored them and made infuriating changes that are more acceptable to the casual 
 console market. However, the final game turned out to be too consolish for the PC crowd, and too 
 PCish for the console crowd. The irony is that in the developers greedy attempt to appeal to a 
 larger crowd, they ended up alienating its PC fan roots and got ignored by the console players, 
 resulting in far less sales then it shouldve had and a premature death for the franchise. So congratulation 
 Warren Spector and Eidos, you guys sure know how to kill off two great franchises (other being 
 deus ex) with one stone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irsteve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  To see the guards shadow coming toward you, stop and look around, and then keep walking. Then you 
 get to suck up against the wall wait for him to pass you, and then sneak up behind him and blunt 
 him on the head with your blackjack is an exciting experience all people who enjoy stealth games 
 should get to do, and this is the game you the reader should do it in.
  
  This is absolutely one of my favorite stealth games so far. This game is cool because if you stay 
 in the shadows to listen to the unsuspecting potential victims they for no reason might talk to 
 they're friends about they're treasures or talk about other things that you as Garet our antagonistic 
 protagonist might wanna check out.
  
  Have fun with this wonderful game and enjoy the storytelling cause thats good to. And here i need 
 to add another twenty characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfurax
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  By far the best "sneaker" fps game around!! I would give it a higher score but have been experience 
 small glitches in the sound quality of the game. Story is top notch for players new to the series 
 or vet's like myself of doing some good ol' Robin Hood handywork!! A must buy at today's price 
 for a slower / mid range system. I'm waiting for them to make a new one and WILL be reviewing it 
 once it drops!! Excellent graphics, lighting, and "areas" to sneak to in level's make this one 
 a classic to the series!! MUST BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom_knife
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  The best of the Thief series this game features stunning graphics and good gameplay. Perfect for 
 those with the patience to avoid a gung ho attitude. For those used to shoot em ups this takes 
 a while to adjust to but once you have you wont go back. Highly immersive storyline full of elaborate 
 twists and new enemies. For the most part good for those aged 12+ (however the cradle is a very 
 disturbing level) The graphics and gameplay together with the visually stunning cut scenes make 
 for a film like game with hours of gameplay. Perhaps the best bit is the mugging, pickpocketing 
 and general thieving that makes the game what it is. Thank goodness for the genius that is the 
 Thieves Highway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrbojangles34
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game confused me to no ends. Like i said i hate to be the one writing this. Agree with me 
 or not i dont care. This game was very difficult at times and just a little bit to hard at times. 
 Like at points they expect you to find things and steal them in caves or what ever you may be in. 
 But you have no sense of direction at all and no way of know where the hell you are, which is quite 
 irritating, This game may have created the stealth genre but has absolutly nothing on games such 
 as splinter cell. That game has everything you need. The enemies are way to hard when you do have 
 to fight them 1 on 1 which does happen. When you are being stealthy and good its still quite boring. 
 and games that dont have very many real cutscenes for briefings rather than just voice dubbings 
 are just annoying.
  In my personal oppinion this game made my IQ drop 20 points.
  I wouldnt waste any more money or time on this if the apocolypse was upon us and i had to play 
 1 video game and it had to be this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Thief The Dark Project was the first Mature rated game I ever got. I loved it. The game was very 
 dark and atmoshperic and impossible to stop playing. Thief 2 was just as good. So when I heard 
 about Thief 3 I couldn't wait. It turns out Thief Deadly Shadows isn't quite as good, but it's 
 definitely a solid game. The graphics are pretty good and the audio is great. This makes for a 
 very atmospheric game. The gameplay itself is fairly similar to the other THief games, except for 
 the introduction of The City -- a big environment where you can do a whole lot of thieving. This 
 is pretty fun. Unfortunately, the game gets kind of stale and dull towards the end. The game is 
 very slow-paced and I just couldn't stay that into it. Also, the game has far too many loading 
 times, which gets really aggravating. Despite all this, Thief Deadly Shadows will not disappoint 
 Thief fans and will probably thrill newcomers to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The third installment of Thief is a welcome addition to my gaming library. Can you have a gaming 
 library? I digress, I loved the first to installments of Thief and looked forward to playing this 
 one. While the story progressed naturally to the Keepers, I felt like it was a little to simple. 
 I was thinking quite early about who the villain was and wanting to blackjack them and dump them 
 in the river. Obviously, I would suggest you play Thief 1 and 2 before picking this up but if you 
 love stealth games, you will like this one. If you are looking for action and bodycount, this is 
 not your game. You can kill things but if you play on the expert difficulty, you aren't allowed. 
 You are supposed to be a thief, not a murderer. Anyway, the graphics and sound are good. You need 
 a shading video card to play it and I believe you can get a High texture graphics upgrade online. 
 This makes the game very real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elegrand
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, the long awaited Thief III.
  
  "Almost, but not quite"? You bet. Unfortunately this was cross developed. I wouldn't mind this 
 if it were done a lot better.
  Now, I'm assuming you've played the other Thief games in writing this.
  This game may still feel 
 like Thief, and be somewhat familear, but really, it is very different. Your sword is gone, rope 
 arrows are gone, HUGE environments are gone, swimming is gone...
  
  This game unlike the others seems to be much less harsh on the player if s/he decides to kill someone. 
 For one thing, a dagger is a much stealthier killing weapon than a sword. There aren't real disadvantages 
 to having a weapon drawn such as being more visible. And I can't recall missions with a "No Kill" 
 objective. 
  
  The rope arrows are gone, in it's place are climbing gloves. I don't know about you, but I much 
 prefer the rope arrows. It was just another way to infiltrate areas. I'm replaying Thief II right 
 now, and I'm on the Mechanist Church level (can't remember the name =\) and I've already spotted 
 3 ways in. One uses a rope arrow.
  
  Because of the Xbox limitations, the levels are a lot smaller than the ones you see in Thief 1 
 and 2. And the fact that guards can't pass through it isn't great either. You can't swim eiehter, 
 which is a real shame, there are some interesting break ins through swimming. Instead, there is 
 darker "deep" water, and if Garrett falls into it, he dies. I wonder when he forgot how to swim...
 
  
  The first person view is kind of lurching, and you can tell this game was made for third person. 
 Personally, I think this is the console's doing. Leaning is pretty useless now, since you TOTALLY 
 expose Garrett's body to the outside unlike the sneakier leans in the originals.
  
  In all, it's a good game, but it leaves stuff to be desired if you're a fan of the originals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocur
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:36 am PT
Review:  Thief 3 is simply perfect. When writing a review I always approach every game with scepticism, 
 even my favourite ones. To be honest, I could'n find any flaw in this. There is not any. May be 
 you could criticize the game style and complain about the lack of action. But then this isn't a 
 game for you and you'll be doing better playing Doom.
  
  Thief 3 creates an irredeemable atmosphere with story and plot which could be written by E. A. Poe 
 or H. P. Lovecraft by himself. It is deep, dark, scary, surprising and weird. But it is also funny 
 and amazing, when you suddenly hear Garrets sarcastic comments or get involved in debates or intrigues 
 of the NPCs. During the game you'll fully identify yourself with your neat hero and believe truly 
 the world you are interacting with.
  
  The graphics is beautiful, especially you'll learn to value the cosy dark atmosphere when hidding 
 in safe shadows in (glamorous) mansions by silver moonlight shimmering through the window panes. 
 You slip through great designs and encouter the lovely play of light and shadow. The NPC characters 
 are well designed and animated, their movements and (re) actions are natural and smooth.
  
  The sound is ultimative. The voice acting of the NPCs is something you'll be fascinated during 
 the whole game. If the clumsy guards ("Too clever for my own good") , the religious fanatic hammerites, 
 the strange pagans ("You bes sneaksy") , or the scary enforcers or walking statues ("Find him, kill 
 him, crush him...!") . And also the lovely female voices, especially the one borrowed from 'sexy' 
 Shodan from System Shock 1-2.
  
  As deeper you dive into the story as fervourish you'll beg it doesn't end. And if you decide to 
 play it again after few months , the game will lose nothing from its picturesque uniqueness.
  The only thing that may feel you sorry is this a little underrated review from Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kava777
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  YO! Thief 3 :deadly shadows is my first game of the series. at hought it was released in 2004 , 
 i really liked plain it . The grathix were nice , but you can see some bugs this the lighting and 
 not a very impressive resolution. the sound was superb and if you play thirst person it really 
 hits the creepy claustrophobic mood, especially in the level 'cradle'. i like sneakers like splinter 
 cell and all of that , but medieval setting was something new to me. plus i later realised that 
 there were some non human creatures, like ents and walking statues... the story was very cool , 
 but you only seem to be interested in it when youre more then half though the game. ohh. and it 
 was long... very long... thats good. for me . but i still finished it in 2 days... lol .im bored. 
 i really hope that EIDOS will make thief 4 soon or at all. i would wish some bugs were worked out 
 and given more interactivity. i think YOU should play it. just give it a try 
  :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ainsworthdaniel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Thief is an all round great game with amazing immersion and detail however the one negative factor 
 would be the fact that you often need to complete a mission in one sitting, otherwise it is easy 
 to get off track and once you do it no easy task to get back on track. 
  
  The graphics are amazing with direct x 9 features including some great dynamic lighting that contributes 
 greatly to the immersion of the game. The sound is also great with a larger then usual vocabulary 
 for characters in the game and comments made when something is moved or changed is a nice touch.
 
  
  In short this game is amazing and everyone half interested realy should give it a go for there 
 isn't anything like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99bottles
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I say so my self. i firest got to know about thief when i used to go to the store and take the 
 demo discs they used to have in the gameing magazienes. i got thief 1 it was hard as hell back 
 in the day and is still challenging. a few years later i found that my bro's friend bought an extra 
 copy of thief 2 and gave it to my bro that game i loved and beat. Whenever i went to sleep this 
 is what i hear "the words of Carrius the Words of Carrius" it was hauntingly awsome. then when 
 the 3rd one came out my close friend bought it i came over and literally sat on his pc for 6 hours 
 and got through most of it and omg back then it had everything. you could literally do anything 
 my fVORITE PASS-TIME IS KILL EVERYTHING THAT BREATHS. the ai amazed me the graphics were great 
 the game play couldnt be anybetter the stelth beats any other stealth. though the story is "underground" 
 its mesmerizingly good plot twists up the ass and every thing a game should have it does you could 
 even switch from 1st to 3rd person during gameplay i think it was the 1st to do so. even the rats 
 had personality everything did. though there is one disappointment the knife is nothing compared 
 to the sword in the 2nd one except that when the guy dont know you are there and u sneak up and 
 stab it shows a nice cs. i liked that about it. now picking locks is easier than ever espically 
 with garret's skill master thief best of all time. i always liked the arrow varity. Water fire 
 rope vine and regular those made the game fun and gave you more than just one way to eat it. i totally 
 enjaoed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Although it's not as good as it could've been, Deadly Shadows is still fun.
  
  Gameplay: Not nearly as smooth as the first two. Garret is not as agile.
  
  Graphics: Good 
 use of light and shadow. Some great environments. Poor character models.
  
  Sound: Great environmental and atmospheric sound, although slightly buggy sometimes.
  
  Value: 
 Very short. Not much replay value as there are no penalties or incentives that would change the 
 outcome depending on how you played.
  
  Tilt: This game is definitely worth picking up if you can look past its flaws and shortcomings.
 
  
  The Good: Some very intriguing levels. Well told story. Some interesting new gadgets. Somewhat 
 open ended gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Knock-out and death animations are stiff and awkward. City core is too small. No rope 
 arrows, cat fall or invisibility potions. You can't swim. No leaning forward. Way too easy for 
 veteran Thief players, even at the most difficult setting. Not very many levels. The zombies are 
 laughable. Steep computer requirements.
  
  The Bottom Line: Deadly Shadows could have been an awesome game if they had expanded the city and 
 not changed the game mechanics of the original.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atecom01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:54 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the thief series really helped, but this is one of the best games to date. The user 
 plays as a thief called Garrett, and you must go through the city, accomplishing missions. Brilliant 
 story, lighting, sound and gameplay makes this one of my favourites.
  
  The A. I is another great thing about this game. Guards and civilians react to you in different 
 ways. They also react correctly and do realistic things. overall this is worth a 10/10
  
  If your looking for fun, excitement, adventure or just a good time then this is highly recommended. 
 Whether you have played the rest of the series or not, this should still be a fun enjoyable experience 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipisgod
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Thief is definately a game for those who like to think and plan their moves, rather than run about 
 killing in FPS mode. The first two games in this series are classics in stealth type gameplay. 
 Thief 3 meets this expectation exceeding them in many ways, though failing in a few.
  
  The good: Thief is a game to play with the lights off in a quiet room. The gameplay is first rate, 
 you can really get into the feel of this game. There are many ways to meet a challange: attack, 
 hide and wait, sneak up and kill, sneak up and stun, or even run. Enemies are not cutting edge 
 AI, but are fun to listen too - especially when they wander about looking for you as you hide in 
 the shadows.
  The Sounds in the game are great, particularly listening to the guards mutter and whistel to themselves 
 as they walk.
  Game is fairly long for a modern game with many areas to explore.
  The misions vary quite a bit, and the storyline is fairly involved.
  
  The average: The graphics 
 are not up to the latest standards, but they are still quite good. The environment is well rendered 
 though a bit grainy.
  
  The bad: Levels are smaller and less open then in previous versions. jumping between areas requires 
 a short load time, which is jarring while into the game. As the levels are small, thus these loads 
 happen often.
  
  Overall, on of the better games to come out recently. Though this one came out a good year ago, 
 a review was in order since the fan made mission are now coming out. These missions are free to 
 use in most cases adding hours of fun to an already quality game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigGrumpy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I found this to be a great first person game to play but found 2 glitches that I have still to 
 work out. That is, once you buy the Crown and Eye imitations in the store, if you return to an 
 earlier save in order to retry the level the Crown and Eye copies cannot be found again. Also if 
 you fail to kill the bully boy in the Auldale level and he gives you the slip he is almost impossible 
 to find again. The interface is easy to alter for gamma, sound and keys. I think this is the best 
 in the series and is a must for anyone who likes first player games. I also like the side missions 
 that you can take on if you wish or not as the case maybe. But if you want you can just go about 
 robbing and mugging if that is you're pleasure. Top rates and respects to the programmers and designers 
 for this fantastic addition to the series and I hope its not the last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  When Thief: The Dark Project was released years ago, and no one really thought that gaming could 
 ever reach this kind of superior imagery. Expect to be mesmerized by this game, even if its relatively 
 a miniature image of the original Thief.
  
  Garret is your main man here. No one seems to able to sneak into the alleys of the city (the word 
 town is a more appropriate term) , pickpocket the rich and the poor alike, and at the same time 
 embark on dangerous but rewarding missions which complement the whole gaming experience altogether, 
 other than him. The atmosphere is just gripping. And at times, like in the madhouse/orphanage level, 
 aptly named The Cradle, you will feel a tingle inside you, which will have a long lasting effect, 
 trust me.
  
  The game looks fantastic, with excellent implementation of the shadows which are vital to Garrets 
 survival. Character animations (with the exception of Garret) don't always feel right. But its 
 not a big issue because Garret is no soldier, as you would have realized.
  
  The sound effects add more edge and contribute to the overall grandeur of the atmosphere. The music 
 is also astounding and atmospheric. Garrets voice is convincing and the voice acting is very good 
 indeed. The little girls voice in The Cradle will send shivers down your spine, and when she finally 
 leaves you after you finish the mission, and upon hearing her say: Good Bye! You will start 
 missing her. The game really grows on you; lots of talent both in the presentation and technicality.
 
  
  The game has some flaws, like the poor combat system (which you shouldnt bother with if youre 
 playing the game correctly) , some graphic anomalies, and other smaller issues, but the overall 
 effect is evident.
  
  If youre a fan of adventure games, you should be playing Deadly Shadows right now, its a gripping 
 adventure all along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophed
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Thief series for a long time and I can definitely say that Deadly Shadows 
 is extremely fun and has the same feel and ambience as the other Thief games.
  
  The Pro's:
  
  Graphics: pretty nice eye candy with the Engine that was used.
  
  Sound: 
 really good creepy music from Eric Brosius (also did Thief 1,2 and System Shock 2 soundtracks)
 
  
  Gameplay: It's very fun sneaking in the shadows and waiting for the perfect time to pounce on your 
 enemy with your dagger, trusty black-jack, or just use your bow with some fire arrows.
  
  Story: the story on Deadly Shadows has definitely followed the same feel as the other Thiefs, which 
 is also quite creepy.
  
  Deadly Shadows is a really good game and definitely worth getting for PC or Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Well this one I have pondered.... then played.. then kept on the ol Hard drive and gone back to sometime 
 later.... inbetween other games that has taken my fancy.
  
  Why does this game remain you say?
  
  Well this is a hard question to answer but I'll give 
 it a go to answer...
  
  The graphics are good.. not great but good, sneaking around in the dark and knicking poor passerby 
 populous is satisfing... shooting guards from a dark corner also brings a smile to the ol chops....
 
  
  It just one of those games that doesn't have you falling over yourself to buy it brand spanking 
 new but at budget price which it is this days is just too much to resist.
  
  The game has a no real introduction when you load it up so don't expect it otherwise be in for 
 disappointment.. but it does keep you going with a nice little tutorial to ease you in with and 
 then some fine little challenges along the way.
  
  The idea is to be as sneaky as possible thats the name of the game, if your up for a stand up fight 
 thing then this is not for you mainly cause the character is not built for fighting it out... he's 
 a thief remember. AD&Ders will know what this means.
  
  Anyway, there are several cool things which get you in the mood for this game... such as water arrows 
 which douse torches, noise arrows which distract guards, sneaking silently, robbing the poor and 
 lock picking which is pretty good which I won't give the game away but to add this is a nice touch.. 
 the list goes on.
  
  And being as it's been around for awhile is a steal (Pardon the pun) is now buyable at a price 
 that wont make you sob when you fork over your hard earned cash.
  
  What do you say to that.... a game thats not great but keeps you going back for some reason that 
 you can't quite put your finger on...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game, being the 3rd installment of the Thief seires, had a lot of obstacles to overcome. First 
 of all, it had to overcome the shortcomings of the 2nd installment. While good for it's own game, 
 the 2nd of the sieries didn't live up to the quality of the 1st game. I believe Deadly Shadows 
 put the new graphics & updated game play to good use. The game introduced the ability to jump back 
 & forth from 1st person to 3rd person. It also allowed you to take on missions as you chose instead 
 of playing a strictly linear game. It also gave you the ability to fully capitalize on your thieving 
 abilities by allowing you to sell all you steal, and to hold that money from mission to mission. 
 You are also no able to carry equipment from one mission to the next. While I feel the story is 
 better than the 2nd installment in the series , I still have doubts as to whether it's truly on 
 par with the original. However, the original was innovative, and thus it's hard to recreate that 
 kind of a feel in a game when you've already played through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Thief: The Dark Project and Thief II: The Metal Age are both two excellent stealth games, and Thief 
 III: Deadly Shadows manages to live up to its predecessors but does unfortunately fall short in 
 a couple of areas. In Thief III you once again play as Garrett: Master Thief and cynic extraordinaire 
 as he once again finds himself caught up in the problems of the city and the Keepers. After a couple 
 brief missions detailing a typical night in the life of Garrett the real story begins and you are 
 forced to work with the Keepers and learn about an approaching Dark Age.
  
  Thief III for the most part plays like its predecessors. Your primary concern is lurking in the 
 shadows and waiting for the right moment to steal\blackjack\backstab whatever it is you wish to 
 do. Unfortunately there are some things that have taken a turn for the worse since Thief II: The 
 Metal Age: one would be the remove of the rope\vine arrows and replacing them with climbing gloves, 
 another is the lack of water that you can actually swim in, and last but not least the game has 
 been dumbed down some by making the creep mode absolutely silent and the addition of being able 
 to lean against the wall. Leaning against the wall makes you practically undetectable unless a 
 guard actually walks up to the wall, and even then they sometimes dont notice anything. The levels 
 in Thief III are also small and split into two parts connected by a form of blue swirling portal 
 which tends to ruins the immersion. Also the game now features the ability to walk around some 
 parts of the city in between missions and do side quests and mug people in the streets.
  
  The graphics in Thief III are excellent; character models and textures are detailed and there are 
 dynamic shadows which makes the game world feel more real than the first two Thief games since 
 there were no shadows to speak of. Thief IIIs graphics arent Doom 3 quality, but they are definitely 
 one of the games strong points.
  
  The audio is good, the music is ambient like the first two games and the sounds are adequate for 
 what is needed in the game. The voice acting is roughly the same as the first two; excellent that 
 is. Stephen Russlle once again returns as the voice of Garrett and the dumb guard who is commonly 
 referred to as Benny as well as some other familiar voices along with a cast of quality new ones.
 
  
  Thief III: Deadly Shadows is a worthy follow up to Thief: The Dark Project and Thief II: The Metal 
 Age. Thief III misses the mark on a couple of areas, but it manages to tell a better story than 
 Thief II, and bring most of what made the past Thief games so great into a more up to date engine. 
 All Thief fans should try it, and even casual gamers should give it at least one go; its not perfect, 
 but its one of the better stealth games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  Thief is tops in my books in several aspects. It probably has the BEST story of any game, with 
 cutscenes that are ENGAGING, and actually add to the game, rather than the usual which you just 
 want to fast forward. The game feel and graphics are spectacular. You really feel part of the environment. 
 The focus in this game is sneaking, not big fights, which may not appeal to your usual click-fest 
 fan, but this was actually a huge bonus for me. Several of the chapters in this game were downright 
 SCARY, don't play at night with the sound on high.. (which means DO) ! 
  
  Only thing which needs improvement is the mapping system, the in-game map is pretty much useless. 
 You cant tell where you and where you need to go.
  
  I hope they develope thief 4, this game ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerEcho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  If you've been a huge fan of the original Thief titles, then like me, it's hard not to expect too 
 much from this this game. Being the classics that they were and following the long hiatus in the 
 wake of Looking Glass's tragic departure, this one had some large shoes to fill indeed. And fill 
 them it does, but with a few caveats.
  
  BASICS
  
  Veteran Thief players should be able to pick up right where they left off, as most of the core 
 elements from the originals have returned. For the uninitiated, the player resumes the role of 
 the Garrett the master thief, who pilfers from the wealthy (and whomever he feels like) and redistributes 
 it to himself. Smug, cynical, and downright impossible to catch, he's the last one to volunteer 
 to be a hero, but as fate would have it, by the start of this game, he would have already saved 
 the world twice. Garrett's fighting abilities are no better than the next taffer, and he's built 
 like, well, a thief, so the object for most of the game is to lurk about in the shadows and avoid 
 contact with anything that moves until you are ready to ambush them. 
  
  THE THIEF
  
  In game, Garrett talks, moves, and responds as he should (they've brought back the same person 
 for voice overs) . The available controls stay the same. Garrett can walk, run, creep, crouch, climb, 
 and mantle over objects in similar fashion as before. Aiding him are an arsenal tools; some more 
 exotic than others. The blackjack is back, most will be pleased to know. As are the assortment 
 of arrows: broadhead, water, fire, moss, gas and noisemaker (I still found the latter to be completely 
 useless though) . Fans of the original will not be please to know however, that the rope/vine arrows 
 have been replaced by a pair of climbing gloves (which you don't have access to until later in 
 the game) . Bad move on the developer's part, in snubbing one of the coolest and most versatile 
 aspects of the classic in favor of something more befitting a clumsy burglar. The sword has also 
 been replaced by a dagger, which isn't nearly as bad a decision, though some might miss the range 
 in a combat situation. Most of the side items (mines, potions, flashbombs, etc.) are back as well; 
 the exceptions don't have a huge impact on the gameplay. Finally, Garrett can now zoom in onto 
 objects afar with his artificial eye at will, eschewing the need for a remote.
  
  MECHANICS
  
  The world of Thief, which is a rather original hybrid, crossing medieval Europe 
 style and sensibilities endowed with post Industrial Revolution technologies, returns with a new 
 engine. The graphics, while a huge facelift from its progenitors, still appear a little dated even 
 by 2004 standards. It's also somewhat of a system hog. The little details they've added are nice 
 however, like the bobbing of Garrett's head and hands. Ion Storm has also introduced an optional 
 3rd person perspective to the game, where you see Garrett from behind. Some might disagree, but 
 the lure of the Thief series has always been immersion, and taking the player out of Garrett's 
 own perspective reduces that intensity and realness. Garrett's 3D model also looks quite ugly imo. 
 Furthermore, a new "rag doll" physics system is implemented in Thief 3, which is supposed to more 
 realistically emulate the effects of gravity on falling and bouncing objects. However, in practice 
 this can sometimes lead to very unnatural positions in the orientation of the bodies on the floor. 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game is thankfully graced with a very engrossing and inspired story, which is told through 
 briefing screens and cinematics in between missions. There's plenty of material here -- by game's 
 end you'll have crawled through wealthy estates, dungeons, cathedrals, catacombs, museums and many 
 other, more exotic locales. The enemies you'll meet also walk the plank from the mundane to the 
 horrific. Yes, the undead are back , but their presence is restricted. The game seems to approach 
 them very deliberately -- if a mission treads upon undead territory, the briefing will make that 
 very clear in no uncertain terms. 
  
  The AI in the game, while markedly improved from before, is still hardly anything to write home 
 about. Guards will now react to torches being extinguished; civilians will bring back help and 
 attention spans seem to be longer, but it's still fairly easy to reduce an entire castle's intrepid 
 watch to a small mountain of blackjack fodder.
  
  In an attempt to boost the apparent open-endedness of the game, the missions are connected by the 
 all-inclusive City. The City, which is divided into sections, some of which are not accessible 
 until the story progresses to a certain point, is a level just like another mission, but also serves 
 several other roles, most notably that of a home base. In fact, Garrett has a home in an apartment 
 within the City, and he returns there after every chapter in the story. In addition, the City is 
 full of places to explore, conversations to eavesdrop, citizens to mug, and shops to rob. It of 
 course, also has guards who will hunt you down with extreme prejudice if you are seen. The influx 
 of people and guards are generated constantly, so the City will never run out of them. It also 
 features several "shops" where loot can be fenced and items bought. These items now carry over 
 the course of the game instead of just one mission. All this contributes to the sense that Garrett 
 is living in a real, breathing world rather than a static, fictitious setup. 
  
  SOUND
  
  It just wouldn't be Thief without the immersive ambience that only good sound can deliver. 
 Not much more can be said here. The sound here is as good as it ever was, from the shatter and 
 splash of a water arrow crystal hitting its mark to the howling wind across a moonless sky. Audio 
 cues are everywhere in this game, which a skilled thief must use to survive. A good surround speaker 
 setup is essential to enjoy all the little nuances of positional and environmental audio in the 
 game, but a good set of headphones do a surprisingly decent job as well. 
  
  Even if you haven't played the game, you may still have heard about some of its more infamous levels 
 on various forums, namely one Shalebridge Cradle. Without spoiling too much, let's just say it 
 represents the pinnacle in the art of creating atmospheric immersion. Everything from the acoustic 
 and visual details to the storyline leading up to the stage converge to craft the perfect horror 
 -- the type that puts most of the "horror" films I've seen to complete and utter shame. Basically, 
 if you enjoy being completely enraptured in the gaming atmosphere or being scared witless by ambiance 
 alone, then that level by itself justifies the price of admission.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Deadly Shadows definitely keeps the soul and flame of its predecessors. Certainly, it has preserved 
 the look and feel of the Thief of old, for the most part. And while it doesn't introduce anything 
 significantly new or innovative really isn't the drawback that it appears to be, since it's in 
 the elements that it did change from the original that most of the problems lie. What wasn't broken 
 does not need fixing in the first place. All in all, a worthy successor to the series and a great 
 game in its own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comm_toad
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 23, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  Thief III: Deadly Shadows is the first one of this series that I have played. I normally do not 
 play FPS style games because I have a low tolerance for motion sickness. The pace of the movement 
 in this game was slow enough that I did not have this problem. 
  
  The controls were simple to learn, and using the spin wheel on the mouse to change weapons is a 
 great feature. The key combinations for moving around were quite comfortable and did not hinder 
 playing.
  
  The missions did get progressively harder, giving me a chance to hone my sneaking skills. They 
 were also different enough that I got to use most of the type of attack and defense. A couple of 
 them had excellent sound effects that made my skin scrawl. The mission on the Abysmal Gale and 
 in the Asylum were the best for creepy effects. 
  
  The only drawback to the game was the crazy way the "victims" would fall down when you knocked 
 them on the head. They looked like rag dolls falling to the floor. After a while you get used to 
 it, and even find it amusing. It was not enough to keep me from playing.
  
  Overall, this was a great game. So much that I am going to look for its predecessors and give them 
 a play too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 17, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  Ion Storm's swan song is a good one, with the run and gun action of most first-person games replaced 
 by a "sneak and bonk" conceit. In Thief: Deadly Shadows you play a not-so-common thief, instead 
 of a hulking Rambo-like commando, and you're weaker than pretty much everyone you encounter, including 
 girlie City Watch officers.
  
  So how do you survive and prosper? By doing just what the title suggests, and sticking to the shadows. 
 By using discretion, you can silently approach hostile guards and monsters or unsuspecting townsfolk, 
 and bonk them on the head with your trusty blackjack. Or you could stab them to death, but that's 
 not very nice, is it? Sniping is possible too, with a broadhead arrow and bow combination. Peace-nik 
 players can slip past distracted foes with noisemaker arrows, water arrows (to extinguish lights) 
 and moss arrows (to muffle your footsteps on noisy surfaces like stone) . Fire arrows are great 
 for slaying pesky undead.
  
  Thief: Deadly Shadows' graphics are attractive, if murky. The one problem in this area is the color 
 palette, which consists of browns and blacks. This makes the fictional middle-age world of Thief 
 quite drab. Yet everything is textured nicely and looks solid and heavy.
  
  Sound is just plain awesome. When stone statues come to life, their heavy feet pound the ground. 
 Positional audio is employed to wonderful effect, so you can hear where enemies are approaching, 
 even with headphones rather than Surround Sound 5.1 speakers.
  
  The most unintentionally fun aspect of thief is the act of body disposal. I enjoyed playing my 
 own mini-game of body stacking, in which I'd gather all the fallen foes from each level in one 
 spot, and pile them atop each other. The mounds of quivering flesh would grow quite large. Next 
 time I play Thief, I think I'll try to spell my name with unconscious guards and monsters by arranging 
 their bodies on the ground. It's also hilarious when you knock someone out, and the game's physics 
 engine makes him slump in the most painful U-shaped position ever. Face up, his head touches his 
 feet -- that's gotta hurt.
  
  But it doesn't hurt to play Thief: Deadly Shadows. If slow and methodical gameplay with a neat 
 story is your cup of tea, definitely give this title some quality seat time.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowerrr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have read almoust all fans and specs reviews about this game. And I say: they don't know 
 what are they talking about. Why? Let me begin.
  
  Almoust everyone tells, that THIEF3 is the worst game in THIEF series. I tottaly disagree. The 
 graphics are amazing, the story is almoust perfect ( better than THIEF: metal age) and you have 
 more abilities than you have ever dreamed about in previous THIEF games. Mission design is nearly 
 perfection. You'll live as a thief like you never did before.
  
  There is not much to say that wasnt said by other people earlier, so I don't bother you. But please, 
 give this game a chance - it's good, it's perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  Thief was one of the first stealth-action games to ever be made. It was revolutionary, with great 
 gameplay and ideas. Thief 2 was also an excellent game. Thief 3 continues this great game franchise, 
 but unfortunately will be missed by many.
  
  Thief 3 continues the story of master thief Garrett. The whole Thief series is set in medieval/fantasy 
 times, which I personally love. Garrett is now needed by the Keepers once more, this time regarding 
 an ancient prophecy. However, there are sinister secrets to be discovered...
  
  Thief 3 has a great story line, and the use of stealth elements is fantastic. The Thief 3 engine 
 isn't the best, though there are rag-doll physics (though the bodies are too rigid when they collapse, 
 occasionally making impossible angles) . Also, the Thief 3 engine has excellent lighting and shadow 
 effects. The music is decent, though the sound is somewhat lacklustre.
  
  Thief 3 is a game which requires you to think, a rare thing in today's gaming scene. Therefore, 
 is has not attracted as many people as other big titles. However, this is a great game, with memorable 
 moments and features. One level, an abandoned asylum, is terrifying!
  
  Thief 3 is good, yet under appreciated. A good collector should own this game, as it is an excellent 
 stealth game, with great characters, a good medieval theme and an intriguing story. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sireph
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  I have played many games in my day, and I have to say that unfortunately many of them lack a certain 
 feel, or overall style for me to really appreciate, and reccomend to friends, but Thief: deadly 
 shadows is without a doubt one of the best games that I've played this past 2004.
  Thief 3 has impressive graphics; the bump-mapping used in the environments is definately put to 
 a very good use, seeing as this game specializes in lighting. The character models are done very 
 well. Even after having played Doom 3, I was really impressed at how detailed, and nicely shaded 
 all the charaters are (especially Garrett) , and how well, and different the characters look in 
 all sorts of other lights. I should mention that I think that the game offers a unique style for 
 it's environment, which I find dark, and yet colorful, and full of personality, and really very 
 charming in its own way. I particulary enjoy the action in the game in the way that one has the 
 option to creep around and be a "sneaksie thievsie". Garrett can either go from behind and knock 
 out or kill the enemy, he can use all sorts of different items to distract angry guards such as 
 the noisemaker arrow, and the flashbomb. I feel like there is nothing that can't be done in this 
 game sometimes; you can put out fires, and torches which can give away your position, you can take 
 out enemies who are far away with your bow, climb up walls to reach hidden places, and even make 
 grass grow on the ground with your moss arrows so that you won't make any noises while running 
 across certain surfaces. These things really may not sound very impressive, but they will be once 
 you see how many ways you can change your situation, and test your creative crime skills at the 
 same time using some of Thief's nice little goodies. You can find so many different ways to get 
 past enemies, steal valuable items, and even re-play old missions with more challenging modes, 
 that I never really got sick of any part of the game (even the really annoying parts) . Sometimes 
 I find myself playing, and I feel that the action never ends, but unfortunately it felt like the 
 game ended a little too soon, even though the whole thing really must have lasted me about 25 hours. 
 In the end I felt like the game did not truly amount to it's full potential, even though things 
 got pretty crazy since thedays that Garrett was killing a few scattered guards, and stealing nice 
 shiny, valuble goodies from the corrupt for quick cash. Thief deadly shadows in addition to being 
 a genius with lighting, it can do good thing for sound effects. Even though there is rarely any 
 real music per say, there are alway creepy, or suspenseful sounds playing in the backround like 
 a kind of white noise, which to my surprise, really do enhance the Thief 3 experience. Without 
 giving anything away, there is one mission in the game which is made creepy, and pretty tense much 
 because of those little sounds. Thief deadly shadows has good voice acting and an impressive style 
 in its cut-scenes; sometimes cut-scenes are done in a lowsy, kind of grainy kind of CG movie graphics, 
 which actually look worse than the in-game graphics, but really don't get in the way of enjoying 
 the scene. Other cut-scenes are done in a very cool, memorable way which is really hard to describe, 
 but looks a little like something out of an old children's fairytale book that can move and is 
 darker, more detailed, and all grown up. There are two societies which later in the game can either 
 become allies or bitter enemies; they are: A: the hammerites (Guys that look like normal guards 
 wearing red, and carry HUGE hammers with them. They speak in old english, and worship the builder 
 god. Imagine a work-aholic weldor mixed with a 1800's puritan, and a soldier. B: The Pagans: These 
 are cave/forest dwelling tattooed people who use black magic to grow plants, and cast spells on 
 people. They look and talk just like Golem, and affectinately call Garrett such names as "Manfool," 
 "Stupid City-head," and my favorite, "Sneaksie Thievsie". Both of these groups will ask favors 
 of you to improve your factions with them so that they will give you access to their bases in the 
 city, and so that they will stop attacking you every time they see you.
  At first, this game didn't really appeal to me, but I was bored, so I decided to try the demo... 
 I got hooked. I think that games like this only come around once every few years; the lighting, 
 the addictive gameplay, and the cool atmosphere are some of the things that come together to really 
 make this game a unique, fun, and memorable experience! So if you're a gamer, and heve ever played 
 Sly Cooper, Metal Gear Solid, or even Soul Reaver, or maybe just if the game appeals to you somehow, 
 try it out. This game really has the power to grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UF_Matt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Test System
  ----------------
  PIV 2.4@3.12ghz
  ASUS P4P800 MB
  XFX 6600GT 128mb
  1gig PC3200 RAM
  WinXP Pro
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  --------------------
  Gameplay is crucial 
 to the success of the title. With the premise of the game centered upon stealth, it was necessary 
 for the developers to deliver suitable control of the character to the user. Through the use of 
 lighting, posture, and other mechanisms, your character is able to slip through the game unseen. 
 I personally found this most enjoyable and indispensible, albeit a bit tiring at times.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  --------------------
  This game arrived at a time when DirectX9 software was 
 beginning to grow. The use of reasonably detailed characters as well as excellent use of shadows 
 made the visual experience of Thief: DS very enjoyable.
  
  Sound 8/10
  ----------------
  For the sake of gameplay, sound was critical to this game. Overhearing conversations from afar, 
 approaching footsteps, and the clank of arrows hitting stone were all successfully emulated.
  
  Value 8/10
  ---------------
  The game is reasonably long; certainly long enough to entertain 
 for about a week. The problem may lie in replayability. Certain levels shine even after several 
 plays, whereas others become boring the first time around. Worth about $40 upon release, this game 
 is probably worth $20-$25 at this point.
  
  Tilt 8/10
  ------------
  While not groundbreaking, this game was certainly better than most that came out during the past 
 year. For a single-player oriented game, I found it to be quite enjoyable with fairly impressive 
 graphics considering its port to the XBox.
  
  Overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the original Thief games. They rank near the top of my list of all time favorite 
 games. As you can imagine, I was quite excited about Thief 3 coming out and was also very nervous 
 but hopeful. Fortunately, the game turned out a bit better than I expected and was definitely not 
 a disaster like the similarly developed Deus Ex: Invisible War.
  
  I have heard many people ask the question, "Is it Thief" and answer with, "That's hard to say". 
 As far as I'm concerned it's definitely Thief. The gameplay is almost the same as the previous 
 games with some tweaks and additional features. The atmosphere is very similar (helped a lot by 
 the return of the voice actor for the main character as well as at least one of the main guard 
 voices) . The story also fits perfectly into the Thief world. It continues the story from where 
 we left off and it fills in a lot of detail about Garrett's past and his relationship to the Keepers. 
 The story itself is interesting but nothing to get overly excited about.
  
  As a lot of other people have similarly said, one of my big concerns about the game was the reduced 
 level sizes and the introduction of loading zones. While they do detract a bit from the game, the 
 level sizes are not nearly as disappointing as I had expected. With the slow methodical pace of 
 the game (as opposed to a rapid shooter game) the reduced level size isn't very noticeable. None 
 of the missions are divided into more than two zones anyway.
  
  The introduction of the city is pretty interesting. It adds a lot of glue to the missions and helps 
 you piece them together. When you begin a mission you have to walk through town to the entrace 
 to the mission and when you complete a mission, you typically have to walk through town back to 
 a rendezvous point. I also liked the introduction of the factions and the ability to perform tasks 
 for them. I do think that they could have extended this idea a lot more than they did, but at least 
 it's something.
  
  I also enjoyed the idea that Garrett gains a few new skills and abilities as the game progresses. 
 I am mostly an RPG fan so that's probably why I liked that.
  
  The graphics are good. Pretty much what I expected. The environment feels so much like the original 
 games, you feel like you're playing them except they just look better. The shadows are cool especially 
 when a guard is walking around carrying a torch. The performance isn't terribly great though. I 
 just bought a brand new Radeon X800 XT Platinum Edition card and I couldn't run the game at the 
 highest resolution with decent framerates so I dropped it down to 1280x1024 which is acceptable 
 but surprising for such a fast card.
  
  Now all that said, the game out of the box has a lot of cosmetic problems to it. The game does 
 have the sense of not being completed or polished and it definitely feels that elements of it have 
 suffered at the hands of XBox requirements. The fonts in the game are ridiculously large. The HUDs 
 are more intrusive than I would like. They also have annoying glows behind them. The highlight 
 color is an obnoxious "atomic blue". And loot glint is the stupidest thing I've ever seen. They've 
 added an additional difficulity level, but removed "Don't kill anyone" from the Expert mode (how 
 I play) .
  
  The good news is that most of these cosmetic problems can be fixed by modding your game. A lot 
 of settings are stored in .ini files and a number of fans have provided texture packs that fix 
 the highlight color, remove the loot glint or just add better textures. I spent about 3 hours tweaking 
 the game before I really started playing it and I was much happier with it after that. The only 
 thing that's difficult to deal with is that without loot glint, it's more difficult to discern 
 whether or not something is loot or not than the previous Thief games. But, I got used to it after 
 a while. The TTLG forums provide a lot of help for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp5slipknot
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  Let me first state that I am a HUGE Thief fan and its my favorite game series of all time. Now 
 some may know that Thief: The Dark Project was the game that really created the whole stealth action 
 Genre. The only reason its not as popular as it should be is because it was released the same year 
 as Half-life. Then the second Game, The Metal Age was released and it pushed Thief several spaces 
 forward and gave on a nice show. This third installment Deadly Shadows pushes the genre many steps 
 forward, but also a few steps back. I'll go by each catagory to review this
  
  GAMEPLAY: I admit that the gameplay is kinda dated. This dosen't have to be a bad thing though, 
 cause if you look at it that way then Thief offers a solid sneaking game with all the classic charm 
 to it. It has more complexity to it definantly, however to people who have had their expectations 
 on the Splinter Cell or Metal Gear Solid level, they may be dissapointed. One thing I love about 
 the gameplay is the non-linar kind of feel to it. For the most part, theres always more then one 
 way to go about a mission. I especially love how inbetween missions, you explore the "hub" of the 
 game, which is the city and all its different quarters. Here you can steal whatever you want, by 
 equipment, and also take part in some little side-quests. While I think though they could have 
 had more side-quests, this still offeres some nice replay value and variety to the gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS: Without a doubt, this is not only the best looking Thief game, but one of the best 
 looking games I have ever played in a number of respects. Definantly the thing this game does an 
 amazing job at that no one should ever deny is the atmosphere, as it portrays really well the gloomy 
 dark setting of the story. Some of the levels are a bit uninspiried, and also some of the character 
 models look weird. However, the atmosphere really sucks you into the setting and gives you an amazing 
 since of gloom, especially in the "Robbing the Cradle" Mission. Without spoiling anything, I will 
 just say I have never been this scared ever in a video game. Not even Silent Hill scared me this 
 much.
  
  SOUNDS: Thief has always had some pretty decent ambiance that did a good job at setting the tone. 
 This combined with the atmosphere shows a truely admirable job. The voice acting for the most part 
 is great too, especially voices like Garrett's and Keeper Artimus in my opinion. This game also 
 has really scary sounds in the horror aspects in it, that really can chill you to the bones.
  
  VALUE: This game has some really nice production value, however this game does have a number 
 of bugs. Most notable is the A. I. difficulty bug. Heres what I mean. If you start a mission on 
 say hard, not only do the objectives change, but so do the guard awareness and skill. However, 
 if you save and reload, the A. I. skills will reset to the normal setting. This is patched for the 
 PC, though cant say much unfortunantly for the XBox players. This and a few other bugs sadly is 
 the games biggest flaw.
  
  OVERALL: While this game definantly has things that set it apart from all the other Stealth games, 
 it also has things that make it kind of dated. This game is definantly worth a try for anyone who 
 likes stealth though, because you are treated to a raw, solid genuine stealth feel and can get 
 a taste of SC's roots. Like I said, this game is kind of under-rated and deserves more attention 
 to it. I admit its not as good as other stealth games in some regards, but that still dosen't change 
 the special place it has in my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrplaid
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 19, 2004 2:25 am PT
Review:  I figured Thief: Deadly Shadows would be right up my alley. I didn't have any Thief experience 
 prior to playing Deadly Shadows (outside of playing a demo of the first Thief game years ago) , 
 but I've been a fan of the genre in spite of never having played what could arguably be considered 
 the father of modern stealth-based games (that being the original Thief) . So I'm kind of disappointed 
 that Deadly Shadows really didn't do much for me.
  The main problem with Deadly Shadows is the City hub that you have to traverse to get from mission 
 to mission. The areas are very small and the load times between them are pretty long. There are 
 some sidequests to uncover while poking around the City, but they aren't much fun to tackle because 
 you'll most likely have to backtrack through the City to complete them. Having to constantly dodge 
 guards en route to missions gets tedious, too, and makes the whole City just feel like filler.
 
  The game picks up when you enter a mission area. While the map and mission objective screens could 
 be a little more helpful, you won't spend much time lost if you pay attention to your surroundings. 
 Guards and enemies behave in a reasonably realistic manner and they have a good number of voice 
 samples. They react believably to any noises you make and they seem to see pretty well. There are 
 a few spot where it seems like you can get away with hiding right under their noses, but that's 
 not too often. If they do catch you, you'll probably want to lose them since Garrett won't last 
 long in a fight. Garrett's got some gadgets he can use to ditch pursuers or he can just outrun 
 them, but most of the time it's just easier to quickload.
  So basically the game just plays out like any other stealth game ever released. Hide in shadows, 
 wait for an enemy to turn his back, then bonk him on the head and hide his body. Repeat the process 
 until the game is over. If you're not feeling merciful, you can just pick off any enemy you see 
 by launching an arrow into their skull. Enemies get suspicious if they see a dead or unconscious 
 body, but that rarely means bad news for you as long as you're hidden. By the time I'd knocked 
 my fortieth guard unconscious, I was ready for Thief to be over.
  While the game looks absolutely gorgeous (maybe a notch below Half-Life 2) thanks to an impressive 
 lighting system and detailed character models, there are tiny graphical oddities abound. Dead or 
 unconscious characters collapse into rigid uncomfortable-looking heaps, the player's model and 
 other models tend to clip through the scenery fairly often, and the hair on some of the characters 
 just looks really strange (almost like they're wearing giant pieces of hair-shaped paper on their 
 heads [it's no wonder so many characters are bald or wearing hoods or helmets] ) . Garrett also seems 
 to have trouble jumping through certain spaces sometimes (which can be frustrating considering 
 Garrett makes a good bit of noise when he lands on a loud surface) , and certain areas that look 
 accessible aren't. Also, while some of the game's cinematics employ really cool and unique look 
 that makes them look sort of like live-action oil paintings, an almost equal number of cinematics 
 look like placeholders that never got properly animated. They're grainy, low-sample, poorly lip-synced 
 and were made using what looks like non-final in-game models.
  I expected more in terms of story, too. Everything just seemed like pretty standard dark fantasy 
 stuff to me. I didn't find any of the factions that terribly interesting. Maybe it's just the fact 
 that you have to read through the ubiquitous book passages to cull together any appreciation for 
 the world that irks me. I'm not against reading in my games, but having to pore through countless 
 scattered tomes to have any idea of what's going on got old when I was playing Morrowind. Maybe 
 I would have had a better appreciation for the game altogether had I played the past Thief games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGEC
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2004 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The demo of this the third in series sparked my interest enough that I purchased and played the 
 first two games. Exposure to the first two helps to bring the story line into focus. I found the 
 game was fairly easy even with the mission set to expert mode, one had little difficulty sneaking 
 past the guards, Money was plentiful and of limited use giving the limit set by the game on how 
 much you could carry of any particular item. I found I only purchased a few water arrows, and gas 
 grenades, which were two of the more useful items. The story moved along at a good pace, and the 
 missions were interesting and different enough in surroundings that you wanted to explore. The 
 orphanage was particular haunting. The sound produced nice atmosphere through out the game, with 
 only minor issues with the volume. There were several incidents were my character got "stuck" in 
 walls, railing and other things. Which required me to load a saved game to correct. The game was 
 enjoyable, and is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2004 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Ion Storm's new game that was released May 25 of 2004 has definitely made a lot of old Thief fans 
 happy. This new addition to the series has definitely improved Ion Storm's pride since their dismal 
 output of Deus Ex: Invisible Wars.
  
  Definitely following along the lines of the first two thief games being Thief: The Dark Project, 
 and Thief 2: The Metal Age, Deadly Shadows (DS) adds to the story right where the Thief 2 left 
 off. Many fans were spectacle of Ion Storm gaining the rights to the franchise from Looking Glass 
 Studios, because they didn't believe, or know, if Ion Storm would keep the "Thief Flavor" that 
 it has had through the past two games and hundreds of fan-made missions since the releasing of 
 the code.
  
  One new aspect that the fans of old didn't think too much about during production early on was 
 the inclusion of Third Person Perspective for the main character. Since November of 1998, thief 
 had always been played in first person perspective like any other first person shooter style game, 
 but the developers wanted to offer a new style of play while keeping the old. So, in the end, DS 
 has both first and third person perspective, and by this reviewers opinion, third person was a 
 welcome addition.
  
  The graphics in DS are a wonderful work of art. The shadows within the game are hands down, the 
 best in any game so far seen in the industry, but that's what Thief has always prided itself on, 
 hiding in the shadows. Now, in this new addition to the series, the player is allowed to travel 
 through the open city between missions jumping through windows collecting all kinds of goodies 
 to sell, while also robbing the civilians who are out walking out at night.
  
  Most thief weapons are back in the game, except the rope arrow which was replaced by climbing gloves 
 which will let you scale any stone building in town. These can be purchased early on in the game 
 and let you get into some pretty good areas to hide in case some guards see you blackjacking a 
 woman in the candle light. Hey, a thief's gotta eat right?
  
  The story in the game is like any other. One downfall to the game was the in between level cinematic 
 movies, they are definitely not up-to-snuff compared to games of this year. Almost resembling a 
 drawing being moved around a bit, such as the lips of an individual while talking, but nonetheless, 
 the story keeps you going through each mission you're given.
  
  The A. I. in the game is almost flawless. Guards will notice other guards missing, shadows in the 
 candlelight, blood spilt on the ground. Turning up the difficulty in the game will make the guards 
 notice more things such as doors that are open that were once closed. But, such as someone I know 
 always says, "Messes can be cleaned." So, if you happen to kill a guard with your dagger and don't 
 want the blood on the floor to be noticed, you can always shoot a water arrow into the spot to 
 cleanse it.
  Something that has always been a trademark of thief games is sound inside the game. Footsteps on 
 different types of flooring such as carpeting, stone, and woodwork. The sounds of the night making 
 your mind play tricks on you as you question whether the sound you just heard was a footstep or 
 an arrow being set to its string.
  
  And as always in Thief games, there is that one level that you only want to do once in your life 
 and in DS, it's "The Cradle." Think orphanage turned insane asylum where patients were tortured. 
 Now, think of crawling around in all these shadows hearing the voices of children and screaming 
 patients in the background. Not exactly something you try to play at 2 in the morning, believe 
 me. The first time I was picking a lock and thought I heard a scratching sound and looked up to 
 see a human/creature resembling something out of the movie "Thirteen Ghosts," yeah, well, I jumped 
 about four feet in the air
  
  And you'll know which one I'm talking about during the 9+ nights of missions and roaming the city 
 streets.
  
  But as always, the bad news and in this game, there isn't much. One major design flaw would have 
 to be the bug of difficultly level setting. When you save a game in a higher level difficultly 
 than normal, when you return to play, it'll be on normal. An easy thing to fix with a patch on 
 the PC, but nothing has been figured out for the Xbox version yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkling17
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 22, 2004 12:54 am PT
Review:  I'm surprised that so many players give TDS a good rating, especially if they had been fans of 
 the original Dark Project, or Thief 2. Obviously, the expectations of the market are lower than 
 ever. How can anyone who was a true fan of the earlier games possibly rate this one anything higher 
 than 8 (at best) ?! 
  
  Let's start with the good though, before delving into why the game is ultimately unsatisfying. 
 The overall concept and storyline were pretty good. Most cutscenes were 
  well done but a few didn't match up, which was disappointing. Graphics were pretty 
  good overall, 
 but rarely exceptional - which is just fine - sneaking doesn't need 1st 
  rate graphics - it does need solid gameplay, sound and immersive atmosphere. 
  
  Unfortunately, 
 Deadly Shadows is plagued with various aspects of poor implementation, 
  particuarly in gameplay. Movement and frame rates are choppy and inconsistent. I'm 
  running 
 Windows XP on a P4, 2.8MHz w/ 1 Gb of very fast DDR, and a Nvidia 5900 card. I also tried an ATI 
 9800. Even still - performance is nothing short of mediocre. I had to reduce game to 800x600 at 
 best to have halfway tolerable frame rates (and truly it's still only halfway decent) . This is 
 inexcusable!!! It's obviously a Xbox port, whereas it's predecessors are strong PC games. With 
 any other game, I could be 1024x768 or higher w/ all effects on. You never feel like you are really 
 sneaking along smoothly. Deus Ex: Invisible War suffers the same way. 
  
  You already know that there's a "city", as well as mission levels. Mission levels are quite small, 
 but almost tolerable most of the time. The city levels are absolutely tiny, which is obscene and 
 tragic, since they could obviously be as large as the biggest mission levels. 
  
  The AI is a huge step backwards. Guards are super dumb and unaware. In the previous 
  versions, 
 there was a nice balance of how much noise you would make on various 
  surfaces, given your rate of movement. I used to cringe when I knew that I had to 
  navigate 
 across an open expanse of tile. Not anymore. So long as you are in crouch-mode, you can move and 
 do just about anything without being noticed. Pitiful! And if you ARE noticed, just run a bit and 
 the guards will quickly get tired or uninterested. So, there's rarely any time that you feel in 
 danger or immersed. 
  
  Dynamic lighting looked good but could have been so much more - they could have leaned into corners 
 to check them out, etc. The zombie design was quite disappointing. They weren't creepy or scary. 
 
  
  The addition of climbing gloves is nice, but again poorly implemented - just a little ledge and 
 you are stopped and forget going around corners. Unless the map designer 
  specifically thought to build something in for their use, they were usually wasted. Even still, 
 ok fine - but why did you TAKE AWAY THE ROPE ARROW?!!! There would have been numerous places that 
 a rope arrow would have come in handy and given gameplay a more visceral open experience. 
  
  Most maps are really nice to look at, but again too darn small. The asylum level is 
  really 
 exceptional and fairly well-sized. It's tragic that more levels weren't given 
  similar consideration and thoughtfulness. 
  
  As far as loading times go, they seemed ok to 
 me. I wasn't concerned about a few 
  additional seconds of loading time so much as what the experience was like after the 
  loading 
 was done. 
  
  Bottom line is that they dumbed most of the game down to the point that any true fan 
  will be 
 disappointed. If you can pick it up for $15 or less, fine. But, don't expect 
  too much and don't pay too much for this one true believers! Honestly, you'll likely 
  have a 
 more fun time playing the better fan-made T1 or T2 missions than with most of Deadly Shadows. 
 
  
  Advice for Looking Glass - if you are going to design for Xbox, then REQUIRE THAT A 
  MEMORY UPGRADE FOR XBOX IS NEEDED TO PLAY THE GAME, or that only the newest Xbox system can handle 
 it. You know what - Xbox owners can darn well afford to buy an extra memory kit or newer system 
 to play the newest best games. Many of us PC game players upgrade our systems regularly - they 
 can do the same!!! This will be the last time I buy a ported Xbox game that is dumbed down. Ongoing, 
 if future reviews indicate poor performance for PC users I won't buy the game, period. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 10, 2004 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game to play, but the mechanics of the game are a bit too easy, even at the end. 
 In games like this I like to essentially be forced to do some of the extra quests simply because 
 I could not possibly complete the game without becoming  
 than simply following the story line from begining to end will allow. In this game I kept saying 
 to myself - "OK, now it is going to get hard, I'll have to do some of those side-quests, maybe 
 even choose which one of the factions I like better to get more loot." Unfortunately, that time 
 never came in this game.
  
  As readers of my reviews know, I do not care too much about graphics and the like. What I care 
 about is character and character development. This game does have good characters. Garrett is interesting, 
 and some of the people he interacts with are good too (in particular Orland) . However, the game 
 is not so good in character development. In fact, the only people who change character based on 
 the events around them are the secondary characters (Orland, the little interpreter girl, etc) . 
 Garrett remains his self from the beginning to the end, and none of the choices he makes or any 
 of the things he sees appear to change him at all. At the start he is a thief, at the end he is 
 a thief. I thought the most interesting interaction Garrett had (and the one most likely to produce 
 some emotion in him other than detached self-righeousness) was with the eyeball.
  
  Despite all that, this is still a fun game to play. There is something to be said for indulging 
 your clyptomaniacal urges from the comfort of your own home. For one thing, jail time is a drag, 
 and really cuts down on your gaming time. So, if you can - steal this game - it is worth playing, 
 but may not be worth buying!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fraggy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2004 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of only a few games over the years that I have played again right after finishing 
 it the first time. The story if great along with many differant side missions you can decide to 
 accept or just stay with the main story line. The graphics are good as is the sound and atmosphere. 
 Just be sure to turn off all the lights and turn the sound up when playing the craddle mission, 
 Man! that was creepy! This was a great follow on to the original thief games. The little girl at 
 the end trying to rob Garrett's pocket was a great way to end the game. Will she be Garrett's prodigy 
 in an upcoming game? The only small flaw in the game was the rag doll effect of the AI when someone 
 would die. Other than that cudos on a fantastic game and playing experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodyJamesVarty
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 14, 2004 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok I should tell you that I own this game but have not gotten to far. But that is only because 
 I cant stop fooling around with this game. Its alot like a giant sand box full of fun. My favorite 
 thing to do is to run around killing people going to jail and killing the gaurds and the prisoners. 
 I love the rag doll stuff to, throwing bodies every where just to see the differnt ways they will 
 fly and fall. Tossing them onto table full of stuff is fun to. Cause the corpses nock everything 
 down. Its pretty funny and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbrae
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2004 2:11 am PT
Review:  Thief was a trend-setter that changed the face of gaming and help foster stealth focused games. 
 Thief 2 was just as stellar and continued with solid game play and awesome character development. 
 When Looking Glass Studios closed its doors, I wept. Having the series picked up was a great day 
 for gaming and Warren Specter was probably one of the best people to do so.
  
  Although, not as unique as the original, Thief: Deadly Shadows works well as continuing the game 
 play mechanics and storyline that made the game great. Warren's sandbox-type game preference works 
 well in the Thief universe and makes the very game enjoyable. The Deus Ex engine is not the best 
 in the world with sluggest performance and unrefined interface, but can easily be overlooked once 
 the game picks up pace and can look very good at times.
  
  Those new to the series might find this game unremarkable; however, fans of the series will definately 
 appreciate the feeling of clenching that old leather blackjack in the shadows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortuus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2004 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I remember spending the last few days before the release date with nothing on my mind but the new 
 Thief game. I remember spending half of the days in the Through the Looking Glass IRC channel, 
 listening tentively to Dan's early encounter with the final build of the game. My local game store 
 did not receive the game on time, so I even drove 40 miles to the nearest Gamestop to get my hands 
 on the game.
  
  When I got it, I was not dissapointed by any means. The graphics are solid, the gameplay is a blast, 
 the atmosphere is absolutely perfect, and in a nutshell, it really does feel like Thief. Now, that 
 said, the game isn't perfect. 
  
  I know that by this time what I'm about to say is cliche, but the game was heavily consolized for 
 the Xbox. Because of the limitations of the Xbox RAM (a whopping 64MB) , the levels are *much* smaller 
 than they should/could be. In the first two games, the levels were absolutely massive. Thief: Deadly 
 Shadows had a very talented development team and I am confident that if the game had been solely 
 developed for the PC, they would have produced massive levels to match this game's predecessors. 
 Also, there is the new feature of 3rd person view. Although it was obviously implemented with the 
 console in mind, this view is optional, so I won't really complain about it. Just know that the 
 difference in gameplay between first and third person views is like the difference between night 
 and day; third person view just doesn't feel like a Thief game.
  
  I absolutely love the story in the game. It fits perfectly in with the first two games and has 
 plenty of mystery and twists. Having played the first two Thief games, I can't say for sure that 
 new comers to the series would fully understand what is going on, but the game contains a rich 
 history in the form of conversations and books that I feel would adequately fill in the back-story.
 
  
  The AI is incredible (yet goofy at times) . The complexity in how guards and civilians react to 
 your actions is astonishing and a vast improvement over the flat-out dumb AI (good for its time) 
 of the first two games.
  
  The gameplay is a bit unpolished at times. Every once in a while, you will encounter a glitch that 
 you can't help but notice. Sometimes you will fall through the walls or floor into the nothingness 
 away from the map, though this is very rare; it happened to me only twice throughout the game. 
 In the first games you were practically encouraged to do something the developers didn't intend 
 for you to do and you would always find something of interest as a result. In this game, if you 
 do something the developers didn't intend for you to do, you're going to brake the game. I blame 
 it on the engine the game was built upon, it's the same engine Ion Storm used for Deus Ex: Invisible 
 War. The Dark Engine, the engine in which the first two games were built on, is very stable, though 
 now, very outdated.
  
  Lastly, the atmosphere. This is the gem of the game. In one of the levels, in which you must explore 
 a desolate insane asylum, I actually fell out of my chair because I jumped so high. When you play 
 the game, you get sucked into the Thief universe. This is why there are so many people still playing 
 the older Thief games. The atmosphere of these games are their lifeblood and Thief: Deadly Shadows 
 is drenched in it.
  
  One last complaint... there is no SDK! Thief fans have pleaded with Eidos to release an SDK for 
 Thief: Deadly Shadows so that fans can create their own content such as missions, city sections, 
 etc. but so far, no luck. As of this point in time, it seems that Eidos has no interest in giving 
 us the SDK.
  
  Bottom line... this game is a must whether you are new to the series, a veteran, or even new to 
 the genre. This is a great game and I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyBabySitter
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2004 1:22 am PT
Review:  This is not my fullest review. I'm not too tired to write a review and I should never review any 
 game while not giving it my all, as games never let me down so I shouldn't put them on the shelves. 
 My eyes ache from not enough sleep and if I take any Tylenol for headaches then I'll fall to sleep 
 in 2 hours. Please enjoy my very first game review.
  
  I'm new to the Thief series and after playing the free demo for the first time I wasn't so sure 
 if I should play this game or not. I'd played only half of the 2nd Thief title (fake copy from 
 the black market) and I realized how deep this concept of the Thief series had struck me. When 
 I bought this game, Deadly Shadows, I had waited until the price dropped down to $29.99, to make 
 sure I don't waste money by not getting enough long hours of gameplay from it, "Bang-for-the-Buck." 
 I knew what I was getting into, the first & third person gameplay, the slow & fast action elements, 
 the Deus-Ex engine (amazingly beautiful and well crafted for physics) , and most of all the audio.
 
  
  Gameplay is great, not too complicated and not too boring. I played it for almost two weeks, only 
 7 hours a day for this game.
  
  Graphics, I enjoyed the engine by playing it as if I own this game... since I bought it I shouldn't 
 have to worry about rushing through it on the first two days, but if I do then I know there's some 
 replayability in the box. When the story is supposed to end and the game seems to go on forever 
 then that's when I know to play the game like I'm in that world and not just playing through it. 
 The action and nosing around as a thief can either be fast or slow, depending on how you want to 
 play it. Sometimes I'm not in the mood to play a certain game because I may be too tired to get 
 excited, which isn't fair when you want to relax inside some other world but you can't because 
 you're eyes ache from getting up to early. However, the graphics engine makes the world seem soft 
 on the eyes, so prolonged hours of gameplay in Thief won't hurt you so much. And I never got stressed 
 from playing this game because if I found myself doing any mission the same way again, I never 
 got bored because of the beautiful graphics.
  
  Story, the entire game script is outstanding. The story in this game is probably what kept me coming 
 back to it night after night, and sometimes during the daytime.
  
  Sound \ Audio, the most impressive audio I've ever heard in the action genre (don't count the first 
 person elements in Rainbow Six, that's an entirely different discussion, although it sounds amazing) . 
 Sound goes with its graphics very well, and the gameplay supports both. Audio quality was mind-blowing 
 (not necessarily "Jaw-Dropping") . There's only one way to enjoy this game to the fullest, both 
 on the Xbox and PC (or Mac) , play Thief with a good sound setup, it's a must.
  
  Conclusion, you can play this game in third or first person. The engine supports amazing (not crisp) 
 graphics and surprising audio quality. The storyline is quite revealing and will let you go with 
 relief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomahawk22
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 3, 2004 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, and really delivers a fun, stealthy entertaining experience. The lighting, 
 shading graphics are amazing. The Captain's mansion level has a great thunderstorm with lightning 
 that jars the room and candlelight shadows. It's definitely a lot of fun sneaking around, stealing 
 stuff, eavesdropping on conversations. As another reviewer complained, yes, there are some AI quirks 
 from time to time, but they definitely do not hurt gameplay. I threw a book over a guy sitting 
 in a chair's head and he didn't notice, but almost 99% of the rest of the time the AI is on your 
 tail. Plus the guards will say funny things like "c'mon out, i can't get you now but someone else 
 will!" etc. While this game may not stay forever on my hard drive like Civilization or Counterstrike, 
 it's a great game and I highly recommend it. It wont stay because its excitement is in sneaking 
 around the FIRST time, etc.
  
  Gameplay: Fantastic, very fun, interesting story and enjoyable to play the "Bad guy". Though the 
 other factions are so bad you don't feel guilty. I also tried playing without killing anyone in 
 the Hammer faction for a challenge.
  Graphics: Amazing. The lighting etc is fantastic, very chilling at times. 
  Sound: Fine, some 
 good background music from time to time. THe guards are entertaining, often one smart, the other 
 dull, arguing back and forth.
  Value: Very Good. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 27, 2004 6:05 am PT
Review:  BrGabriel's review really hits on the mark: the story is great but the graphic engine that runs 
 the game is very undercooked.
  
  The small levels (presumably created for the XBOX version) really betrays what made the first 2 
 Thief games fun to play and replay. Exploration isn't rewarded because you are pretty much on a 
 linear track in every mission. Blah. I would rather play System Shock 1 or 2, the first 2 Thief 
 games, or Deus Ex for PC than either this game or Deus Ex 2. 
  
  Warren Spector needs to use a different engine or get much better programmers for that engine. 
 As it is, this game is ruined by poor implementation and general bugginess. Fire the programmers. 
 Fire the programmers. Fire the programmers. 
  
  I'm surprized the game was released in the state that it was and the patches aren't helping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 18, 2004 3:06 am PT
Review:  This had the potential to be a truely great game and in one respect, the plot and storyline, it 
 is great. However, I have some advice for Eidos and Ion Storm. Give those members of the team who 
 write the plotline a raise and fire the designers and programmers. Once again we have a game, like 
 Deus Ex 2, the has hugely good elements that is let down by X-box dumbing, tiny levels with hugely 
 annoying SLOW level transitions, bugs and design flaws. The stealth elements are particularly poorly 
 developed given that this is.... eeerrrr... a stealth game. Climbing is almost unuseable, except 
 in the rare places that the designers have decided to deign to let you use it; you can't slimb 
 round corners, onto pitched rooves etc etc etc. You can't crawl. etc etc. SPlinter cell does it 
 SO much better. As for bugs, even with the patched version I've lost count of the number of times 
 I've found myself sticking to solid objects, getting trappedin open boxes and unable to jump/climb 
 over said obstructions without making a hell of a racket. Overall one is left with the impression 
 that the designers and programmers focused their attentio on the "authorised" route (a very console 
 way of doing things since in stops it being too demanding) and didn't really bother with the rest. 
 Oh yes, graphics are realy pretty average.
  
  Having said all of this the physics engine works a great deal better than it did in Deus Ex 2 and 
 the sound is often highly effective. But that really is the only positive thing one can say abouit 
 the technical side of the game.
  
  A real shame since from he atmosphere and storyline side it really is quite hard to fault. Just 
 very, very frustrating to play since it could have been so much more.
  
  As I said, give the plot writers a raise and find some new designers and programmers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spuddley
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2004 11:03 am PT
Review:  It is rare that when I finish a game I feel like I have finished a good book, but such is the case 
 with the Thief series and especially Thief Deadly Shadows. This game excels at three things: immersion, 
 story telling and atmosphere. Frankly, this is the most you are really there game I have ever 
 played. I was so glad that they kept the 1st person perspective (without it, the immersion goes 
 away) . The graphics portray the detailed environments so convincingly, I felt like I was exploring 
 a real city. However, sound is where the game really draws you in. I have yet to play a game that 
 uses sound better to put you on edge. It was also good to see that this chapter in the Thief series 
 carried on the deeper story line that fans of the series expect. I truly believe it would make 
 a good book. Finally atmosphere. Again, no game does this better. The  
 environments never stop being fascinating. The architects of the structures in the game deserve 
 an award. The outstanding environments are complimented by ambient music, which fit the various 
 scenes perfectly (Thief fans will not be disappointed) . Couple this with the immersion, and you 
 get to feel like you are in a movie (a very creepy one at times) . In summary, this game is a worthy 
 installment to the Thief series, and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2004 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Many long time Thief series fans had serious fears about the new installment of the series. They 
 feared that Thief: Deadly Shadows would be a simple, dumbed down game, like Deus Ex: Invisible 
 War. However, while TDS is simpler and easier than the previous two games in the series, it is 
 still very fun and retains important elements from its predecessors.
  
  Thief continues the story of Garrett - a master thief, who lives in a semi-realistic city during 
 what appears to be the industrial revolution (although some consider it the Middle Ages) . The game 
 takes the player through a quite interesting story and has him sneak into various places, and rob 
 them. The story is a continuation of what happened in previous 
  Thief games, and although to fully appreciate it one has to have played Thief 1 and Thief 2, it 
 is also highly gripping for someone new to the series. The world of TDS is very immersive, which 
 help the player get into the story. New to the series are the parts of the game where the player 
 is allowed to actually walk around the city. This helps the player actually feel more like Garrett 
 - no longer are the missions separated with only briefing screens to help player immerse in the 
 game. While the city maps are usually quite small, they are still a good addition to the already 
 good game.
  
  The gameplay in TDS can be considered overly simplified by diehard followers of the series, however 
 most people will find it fun. As in previous Thieves, the game still rewards highly stealthy behavior, 
 although it does not force it on player, making it easier, and at the same time still fun. The 
 AI of the opponents is good, although it isn't great. While they will chase Garrett if they notice 
 him and investigate any weird noises that they might hear, they won't do much more. This kind of 
 repetitive behavior might get boring later in the game, however due to interesting level design 
 and good story the game remains fun throughout the considerably long campaign.
  
  The graphics, as in many stealth oriented games, feature a lot of dynamic lightening and shadow 
 effects. After all, shadows are Garrett's best friends, therefore they are not only there to look 
 good, but they are actually useful. Like shadows, characters and surroundings look good. They look 
 in a specific way, similar to what Deus Ex: Invisible War looked like, and while some people might 
 not like it, they do not look excessively unrealistic or bad. Of course, that kind of graphics 
 requires a powerful computer and will cause the game to slow down in some places on some machines.
 
  
  The audio of TDS is very well done. Sounds that characters in the game make are very good, and 
 help the player in his thieving, since they can help him locate the guards, and tell what they're 
 doing. The voice-overs are also quite good, especially the narration of Garrett. The music and 
 background noises also help the player immerse in the game, or even create suspense.
  
  Overall, while Thief: Deadly Shadows in a way abandons certain aspects of the series that fans 
 loved, it still remains a good game. Any fan of the series should certainly pick it out, and others, 
 who like stealth action games won't be disappointed by it either.
  
  [Edited for the new system] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 20, 2004 5:51 am PT
Review:  A significant improvement over the previous Thief games, Deadly Shadows manages to maintain the 
 intensity and suspense necessary in a stealth action game without making the game overly tedious 
 or impossible.
  
  The graphics are very well done, and add to the atmosphere of the game. With its excellent sound 
 effects, the game knits together a world that is immersive and interesting. The voice acting for 
 the most part is excellent, with a few glaring exceptions.
  
  The game is difficult at times but not impossible. It is somewhat more difficult than rather easy 
 Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, but it has some challenging missions. There are indeed, as some 
 have complained, some odd quirks with the enemy AI, and there are still some odd contrivances within 
 the game that seem out of place (such as the main character's ability to carry huge amounts of 
 loot) . All considered, however, this is no more distracting here than in other similar stealth-action 
 games.
  
  Overall, for fans of stealth-action games, this game is definitely worth a look.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2004 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The Master Thief, Garrett has become a favorite amongst gamers since his inception back in 1998 
 with Thief: The Dark Project, which has pioneered the stealth genre since then. As a sequel to 
 the critically acclaimed Thief: The Metal Age, which incorporated a well-developed story along 
 with The Dark Project's excellent stealth elements, Deadly Shadows is a welcome addition to the 
 series. Those familiar with the two prior Thief titles might initially be upset at the inclusion 
 of the newly implemented third person view. While this does provide a different take to the game, 
 purists will want nothing more than to play in the first person perspective that has remained in 
 Deadly Shadows. If you have never played a Thief game before, the third person view has more of 
 a Metal Gear Solid or Splinter Cell feel to it. The game is played in first-person view  with 
 a third-person option available  and is divided in discrete missions of different length and increasing 
 difficulty. However, the main goal of the majority of these missions is to remove an object from 
 its current location/owner. You are a thief after all, and that's what your talent is, despite 
 many of the situations you're involved in. With the original Thief creators long out of business, 
 Ion Storm has picked up the franchise and pays many loyalties to this innovative series.
  
  To go into detail about the back-story, lore and myth that's found inside the Thief series would 
 be way beyond the scope of this evaluation of the game. Suffice it to say that the Thief series 
 is one of the most comprehensively crafted universes to be found in gaming. The characters, the 
 factions, the myths, the events; it all is brought to a rumbling boil, only leaving you with a 
 comfortable feeling of satisfaction. Everything, even material that's perhaps inconsequential in 
 the big scheme of things, is fleshed out with copious detail. When you pick up a Thief game, you're 
 not just playing a game. You plunge into that universe and become part of the story through the 
 eyes of our anti-hero, Garrett the master thief.
  
  The game is set in "The City," an unnamed urban sprawl somewhere in the Middle Ages of a fantastic 
 world. It's a damp and oppressive mass of wood and stone, with tightly packed buildings that create 
 a myriad of alleys, twists and dark passages. Also, as the game goes along, you will have the opportunity 
 to perform small side quests of sorts for both Pagans and Hammerites, in order to improve your 
 status with these factions. The City itself is also home for other people, common citizens and 
 merchants. These people have houses and businesses. Inside them, there's usually loot. You do the 
 math. Breaking into these places can be a nice way to fatten your wallet as you go by from mission 
 to mission. Passersbys on the street can also be pick pocketed, which will also add to your loot. 
 There's never a dull moment in the City. Three factions dominate the power plays of The City: The 
 nature-loving Pagans, the fanatic and zealous Hammerites and the mysterious and cryptic Keepers. 
 While both Pagans and Hammerites operate freely in public, the Keepers are secretly hidden, guiding 
 events through their prophecies. After his brushes with both Pagans and Hammerites in the two previous 
 games, naturally  if the game's subtitle wasn't any indication to you  this time it's all about 
 the Keepers. Once again our cynical and loveable thief is going to get involved and embroiled into 
 events that will turn out to be much bigger than him. 
  
  You will always try to avoid direct confrontation and you will always try to escape making contact 
 with the enemy. You are not built to fight or to stand toe-to-toe with more than one enemy at a 
 time. The emphasis is placed on stealth. On accomplishing your objectives without being seen or 
 detected. Get in, remove the loot, and get out. Simple, clean and above all, safe. If you prefer 
 more action-oriented titles, this will not be your cup of tea, trust me. The pace is slow and combat 
 is really something you should strive to avoid, whenever possible. Another point to be noted about 
 enemies is the relatively poor enemy AI. The enemies have their patrol paths and they will not 
 deviate from them unless alarmed or alerted, which makes them very easy to trick and take advantage 
 of. Once you know the paths, it's only a matter of picking the right spot to jump on them or evade 
 them. In addition, when you disarm a guard by striking him three or four times, the AI will go 
 haywire and collide into a wall and "run in place" until you finally subdue them. If the enemies 
 acted randomly and had better detection of their environments, the experience in defeating them 
 would be much more rewarding.
  
  To aid you through the game, you count with a relatively small variety of weapons and tools at 
 your disposal. On the weapons side of things, you only have three. There's the Blackjack, a rotund 
 type of garrote, which does little damage in combat, but is the weapon of choice to knock the lights 
 out of unsuspecting enemies and render them unconscious. You also have a small dagger, which will 
 be your main defensive weapon in close combat and can also be used to backstab a distracted enemy 
 (or citizen) . Finally, you have a bow and a variety of arrows, which serve different purposes. 
 Of course, you can fire broadhead arrows when you're just going for the silent, ranged kill. A 
 well-placed headshot with one of these will instantly kill most enemies. You can also shoot water-tipped 
 arrows, useful to put out torches, candles and chandeliers at a distance in order to remove the 
 illumination of the area you're about to progress into. There are also moss-tipped arrows, which 
 will soften the sound you make while walking over it; fire-tipped arrows that explode on contact 
 can take out most enemies in one shot. Also in your arsenal are Gas-tipped arrows, filled with 
 sleeping gas. To complete the well-equipped thief look, you have noisemaker arrows. Fire them to 
 a distant clearing past the guards and they will make a racket, attracting the attention of the 
 guards towards the spot, and away from the area they were guarding. As far as your tools, you carry 
 a lock picking set, and a variety of items including oil flasks, health potions, flashbombs, gas 
 bombs, holy water (this desecrates the undead) , and exploding mines. To complete the equipment 
 you can acquire a pair of climbing gloves, which will enable you to climb up and down any vertical 
 surface made of wood or stone. They're invaluable to reach that window. However, the climbing gloves 
 are no match for the Deadly Shadows' predecessors Rope Arrows, which is pretty self-explanatory.
 
  
  The City itself, where you will spend most of your time when you're traveling from mission to mission, 
 simply has a very nice aesthetic appeal, but lacks quite a bit of intricate detail. Medieval architecture 
 dominates the City in the shape of massive stone and wood constructions over cobbled stone streets. 
 Torches and a few lamps provide the illumination, creating a somewhat misty, dirty and eerie mood. 
 To top things off, the City is starting to see the first signs of industry creeping in, it's in 
 the form of piping and metal conspicuously placed. The dynamic lighting is a determining factor 
 between a dead guard and a dead Garrett. You will be able to see if your head is receiving any 
 torchlight when you're settled behind and a crate, if this is the case, prepare to un-sheath you 
 dagger.
  
  Unfortunately, Thief: Deadly Shadows' shortcomings are so bright that even the Master Thief himself 
 cannot escape the light. The City's areas are simply too small and you can't help but feel claustrophobic. 
 You'll only be walking through two or three streets in each quarter. As the game progresses and 
 you're forced to backtrack your way across the City, the result becomes irritating. To move between 
 the City's quarters you have to traverse through loading zones, which means elongated loading times. 
 The areas are so small you can travel through one of them in way less than a minute, if you know 
 where you are going. The constant loading points due to this definitely detract from the experience.
 
  
  The game looks very good. Naturally, there's been some care put towards making them work. However, 
 they do so at great expense. The overall performance is on the lacking side more often than not. 
 All that terrific dynamic shadow effects come at a price. Even on high-end systems, frame rates 
 average between 30 and 40 fps, which is low considering the graphics are by no means gorgeous. 
 It doesn't stop there unfortunately. Some areas (usually congested) can have an fps that sky rockets 
 to 70-80. Other environments, which heavily depend on a bountiful amount of real-time lighting, 
 can sink to 20 fps. The frame rate is not consistent. 
  
  The game's cutscenes are a mixed bag. Some of them are of an astoundingly high visual quality, 
 reminiscent of a masterfully detailed, hand-painted look. The introductions to the main Pagan and 
 Hammerite missions are examples of these. However, for some reason, most of the other cutscenes 
 seem to be crudely done, with blocky polygonal characters and blurry textures. The player might 
 feel at a loss to why Ion Storm couldn't choose one style of cutscene and stick with it throughout 
 the game. 
  
  The sound is definitely one of the high points of the game. First, the music is very subtle most 
 of the time and finds its way to a prominent position without you getting beat on the head with 
 it. It serves as a dark and brooding backdrop for your thieving capers. But it's the ambient sounds 
 themselves that are fantastic. Stephen Russell, the perennial voice of Garrett, deserves obligatory 
 praise for his brilliant voice acting. In this day and age where voice acting is more often than 
 not overlooked or given little consideration, it's a pleasure to hear in this game. Not only are 
 the main story characters well acted, but almost every other character in the game have good scripts 
 as well. From drunken guards to snotty landlords, passing through the warped mystic voices of the 
 Keeper monks, the casual conversational tone of citizens passing each other on the streets and 
 the fanatic Hammerites reciting holy passages. They all add to the believability of the City as 
 a living environment.
  
  The physics in general do not seem to be simulated very well. Removing a candlestick from the top 
 of a pile of boxes, for example, will cause the whole pile to tremble and shuffle, as if the boxes 
 were made out of sponge. On a couple of occasions as well, picking up something from a table causes 
 the table to briefly lift itself upwards after removing the weight of the object, as if the table 
 was filled with helium. Of course, these seemingly light and objects are completely unable to be 
 pushed by your character, which may leave some players stultified.
  
  Surprisingly, the game takes a good 20-30 to complete. However, it takes the entire first half 
 of the game for the fun to really kick in to high gear. Ion Storm has redeemed themselves after 
 their release of the disappointing sequel, Deus Ex: Invisible War. Though, a player might wonder 
 what could have happened to Thief: Deadly Shadows if Ion Storm had took the time out to fix the 
 goofy physics and odd AI reactions. Either way, there is much fun to be had for both Thief veterans 
 and new comers to the series.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDesigner
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 5, 2004 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Years ago, when the first Thief came out, it was pretty damn cool. Stealth games were still pretty 
 new to the scene, and it was exciting to sneak around in the shadows, knocking out guards and looting 
 castles.
  
  Fast forward to 2004. We've got Metal Gear Solid, Splinter Cell 1 & 2, and who knows how many other 
 stealth action games out there. So does Thief: Deadly Shadows have much to offer? Not really. Splinter 
 Cell has definitely raised the bar as far as stealth action goes, and Thief can't compete. Yes, 
 Thief does have a great story behind it, and the voice acting is pretty good too. But gameplay-wise, 
 besides a few of Garrett's cool gadgets, there's not much to this.
  
  The graphics borderline on crappy. The textures don't look so hot, and I recall Splinter Cell running 
 smoother than Thief. What is it with Ion Storm and their choppy games?? Deus Ex Invisible War was 
 the same way.
  
  Hopefully Ion Storm will do some freshening up in their company and hire some new artists and game 
 designers. The company seriously needs it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth3679
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 5, 2004 4:52 am PT
Review:  Whoa, with a game this good who needs the Metal Gear Solid series! First of all you will feel invincible 
 with the game AI. Merely hopping on a table will render you immune to guards, who are reduced to 
 lines such as "Hey you Getter down from there!!" and "Your in big trouble mister!!". Now on the 
 other hand if you don't enjoy tables, you can simply run past 95% of the guards, who will quickly 
 lose track of you and return to their dumb normal lives. Once again you will feel invincible with 
 such an "amazing" game AI. Running into more then one guard?? Simply start hacking away at one 
 while the other watches and stands there idle. After you have disposed of the pesky guard, feel 
 free to proceed to his buddy. Another added bonus, civilians you will blugene will cry out classic 
 Shakespearan lines such as "Ummm, I have to be somewhere right now, Argghhhhhh" and "Help, he'll 
 kill us all!!". Are those pesky candles and fireplaces getting in your stealthy way? Simply use 
 a water arrow on them, regardless of whether anyone is standing next to it or between you and the 
 light source! 
  
  In conclusion, with game AI like this, you will feel like a beta tester minus your fifty bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L7L
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2004 2:13 pm PT
Review:  At first I was concerned that this game would not live up to its predecessors, but after completing 
 Thief: Deadly Shadows, my worries were for not. Ion Storm did an excellent job of fine-tuning the 
 engine from Deus Ex: Invisible War. Most bugs were worked out and the graphics were improved. But 
 instead of making a comparison between T: DS and DX: IW, let instead concentrate on the game at hand.
 
  
  Lets start with some of the faults and bugs. The most obvious bug that I ran into on several occasions 
 was one where Garrett's body seemed to float and jumping became deactivated. It was as if Garrett 
 was in a constant state of falling, even though he was on the ground. This was caused by jumping 
 to or from walls or jumping over small ledges. I am sure that this will be fixed in an upcoming 
 patch. Another fault that people seem to have is that you can knock out two guards standing next 
 to each other as long as they don't see each other. But in my opinion, this is not really a fault, 
 but rather a carry over from the previous two games. The last thing I would like to mention is 
 the shadowing. Although extremely innovating in terms of movement and flicker, still quite unrealistic. 
 In the real world, shadows don't have crisp clear edges. Also, you can see wall sections were the 
 light would stop suddenly.
  
  Now on to the good stuff. The levels are beautiful, the artist obviously spent a tremendous amount 
 of time getting all the details and bump mapping to look right. For those who don't think this 
 is true, you obviously haven't been to the Shalebridge Cradle mission yet. This mission is by far 
 one of the best and scariest that I have ever played, in any game. The sound is absolutely amazing, 
 but in the SC mission, it shines. The town areas in between the missions are a love/hate relationship. 
 It is wonderful how they tie the story together and allow the player to do there own thing in between 
 mission, but on the other hand, sometimes you have to go through three load screens to get were 
 you want. In addition, the story is excellent and slides right along side with the other Thief 
 games. I am hoping that Ion Storm didn't right themselves in a corner so that they can make another 
 Thief game.
  
  So here is the lowdown:
  Gameplay - The gameplay is almost exactly like the previous Thief games with the exception of a 
 few new toys (and the removal of a few as well) , I rated this an 9 do to the many load zones through 
 the game.
  Graphics - While not excellent, they are great. Some of the shadowing effects could be better, 
 so it gets a 9.
  Sound - The sound is top notch, especially on a surround sound system. It definitely adds to the 
 tension of a first person sneaker. A 10!
  Value - Finally a game that takes longer than a day or two to beat. It is absolutely worth the 
 45 bones for the PC version. Another 10!!!
  Tilt - IMO, I think Ion Storm should have stuck with just a PC version; there are several obvious 
 sacrifices to make it for the XBox, most notably, the mass amounts of load screens. So in protest, 
 I give it a 9.
  
  If you are expecting a fast paced, kill everyone ask questions never sort of game, T: DS might not 
 be for you. But if you like sneaking around, tension building, covert sort of game, Thief: Deadly 
 Shadows is a must.
  
  ~L7L
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2004 5:18 am PT
Review:  Could it be? That the same studio and publisher that made Deus Ex: Invisible War also made Thief: 
 Deadly Shadows? Apparently, it is, since the former was a flawed and mediocre effort, and the 
 latter stands out to me as the finest stealth/action game of the past five years. If, for some 
 reason, you have hesitated to buy this game, then hesitate no longer. 
  
  Technically, you dont have to have played the first two Thief games to play Thief: Deadly Shadows, 
 but the story and atmosphere tie so closely with the first game, that you probably should. The 
 story in Deadly Shadows is great from beginning to end. So while the levels provide you with 
 an interesting challenge, the story is what makes this game addictive. The suspense begins to build 
 early, and it never really stops until the story ends, although the very end is slightly anticlimactic. 
 The game provides a sense of mystery that few games manage to do, and then it wraps it all up in 
 a very satisfying manner. In the final cut scene, the game ends the thief trilogy by bringing it 
 full circle.
  
  The stealth mechanics for the game are well-refined. Generally, stealth works great here, and the 
 trial-and-error that you find in the Splinter Cell series is nonexistent. This is mostly due to 
 the inclusion of items like flash bombs and sleeping gas arrows, which let you escape from a tight 
 spot. Unlike the previous Thief games, these items are abundant and somewhat cheap, so you can 
 use a lot of them without running out. Of course, there are exploits in the game, just like every 
 other stealth game. Yes, shadows hide you a bit too well and yes, the guards are all lazy. This 
 makes the game too easy, unless you play on the hardest difficulty level or self-impose a no-kill 
 rule. You also will have to refrain from using the third-person viewpoint, which has little value 
 besides providing neat-looking screenshots. However, it keeps the game from getting boring or frustrating, 
 which can be a problem for stealth/action games, since they tend to move along slowly. 
  
  The suffocating, creepy atmosphere of the first Thief game makes its return here with a vengeance. 
 The atmosphere is greatly enhanced by what I believe is the greatest ambient sound to ever grace 
 a video game. If you have an EAX-capable sound card, then the sound of the game is so perfect, 
 that youll forget that you are playing a game. The sound contributes to a general sense of foreboding 
 and danger that I havent experienced since System Shock 2. The excellent voice work doesnt hurt 
 either. There is a ton of content here. The number of voice-acted lines and sound bites rivals 
 games like Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Deus Ex. You can go a long time without hearing guards 
 AI barks repeat, although many of the voices sound the same. You also get to overhear a lot of 
 conversations. Some are funny, and many contribute to the storyline. All of it is top notch. There 
 isnt one B- voice performance in the game.
  
  This game definitely suffers from being co-designed for the X-Box. Namely, the sizes of the maps 
 are very small. Every mission has to be divided into at least two small zones. Plus, many areas 
 feel tight and cramped, and the game doesnt reward creativity like the previous two did. The levels 
 are still good, but most of them are somewhat plain. The rope arrows are gone, but it doesnt matter, 
 since the small level sizes pretty much prevent vertical thinking. The game also suffers a bit 
 from a dumbing-down effect in some places. The most notable is the tendency for the game to constantly 
 tip you off to special items of loot with conspicuously placed notes. Basically, you find books 
 and letters everywhere out in the open, which give you obvious hints on what should have been secrets. 
 There are still a few hard goodies to find, but the over-reliance on this mechanic removes a lot 
 of the satisfaction from finding special items. One more slightly annoying problem in the game 
 is the HORRIBLE implementation of rag-doll physics. The way that bodies bend like Silly Putty is 
 a distraction, and one of the games few immersion-breakers. The game would have been better off 
 with motion-captured animations and simpler physics.
  
  Thief: Deadly Shadows ends up being a long game. It took me over 30 hours to get through it, 
 searching every nook and cranny and trying not to kill anyone. In this time, I rarely got bored 
 or tired of the game. Regardless of how you play, there is a ton of content here, in stark contrast 
 to games that only give you an 8-hour campaign. Once you play this game, its easy to recognize 
 that a lot of people who worked on the first two games also worked on this game. Deadly Shadows 
 is more than worthy of carrying the Thief name. The X-Box may have kept this from being Game 
 of the Year, but at least it didnt keep it from being great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merlin19783
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 2, 2004 1:01 am PT
Review:  This is what happens when a games designer sells his soul to the XBOX. First Deus Ex 2 and now 
 this great pedigree, watered down and dumbed down graphics and controls. The levels are also tiny, 
 just so the XBOX's small amount of RAM can keep up. I have a top end PC and when done right, ie 
 Farcry, games on my PC make you realise just how much we can do with graphics these days. Don't 
 get me wrong, I know gameplay is the most important factor but when you have looks and gameplay 
 you are on the way to a winner. I have just finished playing Splinter Cell 2 and this game shows 
 how a stealth game should look and feel. I admit that it isn't perfect but at the end of the day 
 I can forgive any minor bumps because I can see the designers have really tried, and it shows. 
 Wake up and smell the coffee Mr Spector, this series was made on the PC and you have just sold 
 us out in order to jump on the mass market cash cow which is the XBOX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rowedahelicon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 1, 2004 1:13 pm PT
Review:  While it doesn't live up to its predecessors, it's a damn fine game in its own right.
  
  Gone is that wonderful vibe of the past games -- the night sky, black as pitch above your head, 
 shadows thick and pulpy, the feeling that you have the freedom to accomplish anything and get into 
 any place if you put your mind to it, and that incredible immersive quality that makes you forget 
 it's just a game. All gone. By comparison this game is a weak immitation. Nothing is quite as good 
 as the game deserved. The speech writing, the cutscenes, the missions, story, the enemies, the 
 sounds... it feels like a bunch of talented, amateur fans got together and tried to immitate the 
 original game to the best of their ability rather than a true successor.
  
  However - the game is a wonderful thing in its own right. If you're new to the series, you'll likely 
 enjoy it, though I'm not sure you'll understand it or at least fully appreciate its elements. If 
 you're a veteran, you'll likely see it as a weak immitation but still enjoy it as its own thing. 
 Either way you'll find value here. It's definitely worth the money you pay for it. Just don't expect 
 it to be a work of genius. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maple511
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2004 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This certaintly isn't another Deus-Ex 2!
  
  I was somewhat disapointed with Deus-Ex 2, despite enjoying the game. Here's a short comparison 
 between the two:
  
  The engine wasn't polished (Thief 3 is quite polished)
  
  The story wasn't nearly as cool as the original (Thief 3 has a good story and dialogue)
  
  
 They messed up what was a great control set. (Thief 3 has minor diferences. My only major gripe 
 is the absence of the rope arrow. The climbing gloves are OK, but why omit the rope arrow? Both 
 would have been better. I really like the new lock picking mini-game. It's an easy procedure, designed 
 to stall, but there is a tiny bit of skill involved which is a nice addition. Mostly though this 
 is the same Thief we know from previous games, no wacky, un-needed changes.
  
  X-Box constraints required the omission of large areas (Thief 3 suffers from this as well, however 
 it just doesn't seem to change the atmosphere the way it did in DX-IW. No big deal, but it would 
 be nice if the level designers didn't have this constraint.)
  
  Invisible War was short and branching. (Plenty of gametime in Thief 3. Gameplay is linear for the 
 most part, I don't feel that non-linear gameplay has reached it's time yet and would just as soon 
 keep it linear until then.)
  
  DX-IW was innovative in a lot of ways, but was rushed to market and ended to soon. Thief 3, in 
 contrast, is polished in the way I expect from an outfit like Ion-Storm (and Warren Spector for 
 that matter) . I have noticed that shadows are sometimes stark when they should be softer considering 
 the distance and light source, but overall the lighting is top notch and adds a new dimension to 
 gameplay. I can't imagine complaining about it. Several people have complained about the free mode 
 being dull and the fact that you can accumulate supplies. Free play, though enjoyable, it totally 
 optional and is in my opinion, a nice addition. And if you don't want to carry 20 health potions 
 around... don't buy them. 
  
  Minor Gripes: You can't move while leaning, and you can't lean forward. Both of these issues could 
 be resolved in a patch, of course. Loading scenes during a level just ain't cool (yet another X-Box 
 compromise) . To Ion's credit, the load times are short, however just seeing the zone detracts from 
 the atmosphere. Someone else also pointed out that time freezes in the going-from area when you 
 zone, meaning that if you are chased through a zone, you can count on that person to be right there 
 waiting if you zone back. This hasn't happened to me thus far, but it would be nice to see some 
 kind of fix for this. No water. This really isn't a big deal for me, though I can't understand 
 why such a new engine wouldn't support it. You can't left-click-hold and hold the blackjack over 
 your head. Not a big deal, but I thought it was a cool touch to the previous games. These are the 
 gripes I can think of. None of them really detract that much from gameplay, with the exception 
 of not being able to move while leaning. It would be nice to be able to move closer (or away from) 
 a corner while you're leaning. 
  
  On to the good. Everything else about this game is superb, and this game was well worth the wait. 
 Awesome story, graphics and sound. The tension of being a thief is still there in spades and the 
 engine runs smoothly on my 5900XT. Some games come out and get critically acclaimed when they are 
 one in a dozen. Even with games like Splinter Cell and Metal Gear, this game not only stands out 
 with a unique concept, but it also at the height of it's genre. 
  
  However, I had to give the Tilt a 9 (as opposed to a 10) . Thief 2 was totally uncompromising in 
 terms of gameplay. Thief 3 has all the little quirks I listed above, and I could probably think 
 of more. This is, of course, due to the new engine and it's apparent limitations. It's not enough 
 to ruin anything, but I thought lowering the tilt would help make the point that Thief fans do 
 notice these things.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excalibur
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2004 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I must say that this game is a great addition to the original Thief Games by Looking Glass Studios. 
 Some minor glitches and sluggish movements from time to time prevent me from giving it a perfect 
 score, but otherwise, it rocks! I've been playing it for about 6 hours and am only on the 3rd mission. 
 I guess I'm really thorough. The quality and quantity are really here in Thief: Deadly Shadows. 
 Any fan of the franchise should pick up this title. If you are not a veteran of the Thief games, 
 this would be a good game to make you one!
  
  Excalibur 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraki
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2004 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Overall a very enjoyable game. Much like the previous 2 in gameplay style, but only to a point. 
 There are some very noticible differences. For one, they have added many methods of escaping after 
 being seen, which i'm not sure improve gameplay. I have found a few bugs with the AI not seeing 
 me in the dark when i practically bumped into them, not very realistic, especially at the highest 
 difficulty. I don' think i can properly review the graphics in this game because on my computer, 
 (p4 2.8gHz HT, 1gig ram, 128MB Radeon 9200) i have to have the resolution turned ALL the way down 
 to get any kind of smooth preformance, but i imagine it would look amazing with a newer video card.
 
  
  All in all i would recomend this game to anyone who has ever enjoyed stealth games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yobasux
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2004 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game, it still feels like the originals, the cutscences are even better, It also ties 
 some of the previous storylines together.
  The game looks from ok to excellent depending on your machine and the level. I got through it using 
 only about 6 water arrows and a few flash bombs, and only killed 2 people. Im pretty sure it will 
 be possible to not kill anybody and not use any items. This is possible because of the many routes 
 through the levels and ways to play.
  If you like the previous thief games and have a reasonably good pc or xbox then get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 29, 2004 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay satisfies a Thief purist. Graphics make me wonder how the hell Ion Storm could make the 
 Unreal engine look so poor and tax hardware so much (compared to UT03/04) . The game detects my 
 Radeon9800PRO and claims it'll use PS v1.4 - great, but where are the PS effects??? *MOST* of the 
 lighting and shadowing effects are almost-laughible... since when should a character's personal 
 shadow cast an opaque/black hole of a shadow on walls??? Game menu system is OBVIOUSLY biased towards 
 Xbox (thanks to that idiot @ ion storm, Spector) and doesn't work well, nor function quickly. I'm 
 not as-dismayed as the GS reviewer over the lockpicking change and so far that goes for the selling/buying 
 system - makes more sense (to me) than to be given a limited option of what to sell, etc. For as 
 fast as the loading times are for me (on a rather slow computer, too!) I wonder why more of the 
 scenes aren't preloaded - except graphically, this game doesn't seem to tax my PC whatsoever. All 
 that complaining aside, the sound is top-notch, once again (oh how I wish other developers would 
 follow suit!!!) and the gameplay satisfies. Not sure about the storyline - haven't finished (nowhere 
 close yet - I savor the Thief games to be sure!) yet. Oh yeah - 3rd person view? What a FARCE! 
 Chalk that up to Spector (again) who doesn't A.) know how to polish a game (and admits it) and 
 B.) thinks he knows what we want and can't leave well enough alone. Hey Spector - how do explain 
 light sources emitting from behind stone walls?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStorm
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2004 5:56 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long wait, over 4 years waiting for the master thief to return. Now the wait was 
 over. After playing Deus Ex: Invisible War I feared for Thief 3, I was now thinking that they may 
 have simplified the gameplay for other reasons as well. But not to worry, Thief fans and even non 
 Thief fans should definatley buy this game. 
  
  First the gameplay. The thing about Thief since the first time I played it in late 1998 was that 
 there is no game like it. Even Splinter Cell, and all those other wannabe's just don't have the 
 "feel" that Thief has. Thief is as Warren Spector said, it is it's own genre: "First Person Sneaker" 
 It had been years since I last played Thief and Thief 2 and it took me a while to get back into 
 the groove, it just goes to show that this is really a different kind of game. So the gameplay 
 in this has been improved, and though some say it's not unique enough I say bull. This series has 
 it's own gameplay style and there are only two other games like it, Thief and Thief 2. And still 
 to this day they are just as fun.
  
  As well for the story, I don't want to spoil any of it, but man I love the feel and texture of 
 the stories in Thief. They are just so unique and different feeling. And you fall in love with 
 all the characters. The story is so captivating it will keep you entranced through out the entire 
 game.
  
  How about length? Well I was suprised to see it is actually quite a long game, even longer I found 
 then the first two, which is a good thing, never can have too much Thief. Even though with no Multiplayer 
 it is still a wonderful fufilling experince.
  
  And of course sound, this is something that all the Thief games have excelled at past any other 
 game, Thief is a game reliant on sound so much, and it is nothing but the best. I love the music 
 during cinematics as well. And out of my 16 years of gaming I still find Garrett to have the coolest 
 voice out of any video game character.. EVER. His voice is so dark and yet heroic, it's a perfect 
 fit for the character.
  
  Graphics? I have heard some complain about them, but Thief has never been about blowing you away 
 with graphics. But the graphics that are there are great, still the same feel of the first two 
 Thief games, that dark cool environment that just sends chills down your spine. The lighting is 
 very impressive, though glitchy at times it is still impressive, and really adds more to a game 
 that's core is based around light and dark.
  
  In the end Thief: Deadly Shadows is a great game, and worth anyone's purchase. 
  
  Highs: Garrett 
 is back in his full glory, gameplay is tweaked to perfection, story is very immerisve. Just pure 
 fun, and sound that will make you drool.
  
  Lows: Mad that they did not call it Thief 3: Deadly Shadows. Some glitches in graphics and lighting 
 are noticable.
  
  Bottom Line: This is a great game, and easily the best game I have played in years, but remember 
 only play this game in the dark, and 5.1 sure does make it more of a game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2004 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing for about 45 mins and have the following comments.
  
  The atmosphere is excellent and very well done, along with of course, the audio which has been 
 ranted and raved about. The story apprears to be well done and I'm looking forward to getting into 
 it more.
  
  The graphics are very good, but not cutting edge like Farcry. If you're running an ATI Radeon there 
 are a lot of 'glitches' persay. The kind of thing where you see a shadow or image and if you turn 
 or tilt one way or another it redraws/vanishes. I updated my 9700 Pro to the latest drivers today 
 to no avail.
  
  Performance is decent. I run maxed out at 1600x1200 and it's decent on a P4 3, Radeon 9700 Pro 
 128MB, 1GB RAM. I have seen the framerate drop in some areas, so if you're lacking in RAM and have 
 a mediocre vid card, you'll have to downgrade the res.
  
  I'd have to agree with the previous post. It does have somewhat of an XBOX 'comprimised' feel to 
 it. I agree that the PC is the superior gaming platform and do prefer PC games, so it's a bit of 
 a shame, but not evident enough to ruin the game by any means.
  
  Overall, it's a well done title and I'm sure I'll enjoy it the more I get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krish4479
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2004 12:37 pm PT
Review:  After the events of four years ago and the long wait, I can happily say that Thief: Deadly Shadows 
 was well worth the wait. T: DS met my expectations and than exceeded them with a new non-linear 
 level design and gameplay similar to Deus Ex. The maps and levels are an absolute sight to behold. 
 The NPC's and enemies have so much detail and depth to them. The game is much more challenging 
 than the previous games in the series. There are even some elements that took me by surpise such 
 as the shop modes and talking shopkeepers.
  Excellent job ION Storm, keep up the good work, and hopefully we'll see another great sequel!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drkstlkr
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2004 11:57 am PT
Review:  Being a long time fan of Through the Looking Glass studios, I was very excited when I heard that 
 the Thief licensing had been picked up by Ion Storm. A long time coming, Thief: Deadly Shadows 
 is an excellent continuation to the series. For those that have not played the previous two games, 
 you play the role of Garrett, a master thief. The objective to the game starts out fairly simple: 
 break into a building, steal some loot, escape, and sell it to a fence. As with the previous games 
 in the series, the plot kicks into gear and things tend to get much more complicated. What kept 
 the Thief series from monotony is the fact that the game is very anti-combat. Similar to other 
 stealth FPS games, you do best to avoid getting into combat. To do this, you have an assortment 
 of tools, most of which are carry-overs from the first two games: A blackjack to knock people unconscious 
 after sneaking up on them, a bow with multiple arrow types, to lock picks and wall climbing gloves. 
 This reverse thinking may be a challenge for those that have not played these types of games before, 
 especially in a low tech environment where things like night vision is not available.
  What is different about Deadly Shadows is in the execution. Instead of a level structure, the game 
 has more of a open-path to it. After finishing the first few missions, you are actually placed 
 in The City to get from one mission to the next. During this time, you have to deal with the 
 City Watch who will attempt to arrest you on sight. You are also free to pick as many peasants 
 pockets as you can get away with. It is a creative change to the Level philosophy behind the 
 previous two games. The other major new addition is the third person mode. While most previous 
 Thief players will choose the first person mode, the new view does have the advantages of letting 
 you see where Garrett is standing much easier. This helps in the first mission when you have to 
 sneak between two tables and dont want to knock a chair over alerting people to your presence.
 
  The game has come a long way from the Dark engine of yore. T: DS, sharing a similar engine code 
 base with Deus Ex: Invisible War, has a much more realistic and immersive game environment than 
 in the previous games due to the modern game engine. Early in the first training mission you walk, 
 creep actually, down a hallway. Halfway down there is a bared window with a lit fireplace. The 
 engine actually casts realistic shadows on the wall from the bars that move as the fire flickers. 
 It is important to note not only where the dark spots are in buildings for you to hide in, but 
 to be aware of where your own shadow falls because it can give you away. Fortunately, you have 
 a limited supply of water arrows which will douse open flames giving you more options.
  Sound also plays an important role during your urban spelunking, and Deadly Shadows again makes 
 good use of Creatives EAX extensions. Running creates more noise than creeping, and ground types 
 also have an effect. Wooden walkways and stone paved roads are much noisier than carpet and grass. 
 It is both a blessing and a curse, because it gives away guard and peasant movement just as easily 
 as your own. Fans of the previous two games will also get a kick out of some returning voice actors, 
 most notably Garretts voice and a few of the guards. You also pick up more information about missions 
 by eavesdropping on conversations.
  The game is not perfect, and does carry a few flaws onto the shelf. First and foremost is the system 
 requirements themselves. Pixel Shading 1.1 is a requirement for the game to run, which eliminates 
 most 3D enabled laptops, integrated video, and older or the budget line of current nVidia and 
 ATI graphic cards. 256MB of RAM is also needed, although I would recommend having 512 or more, 
 and at least a 1.2 GHz processor. Also, you must have Windows 2000 or XP, no other versions are 
 supported. While not quite a flaw, it is definitely a large leap forward in requirements from the 
 previous two titles. I myself hit problems with the copy protection built into the game due to 
 CD-ROM incompatibility which causes the game to take much longer to start. Ive read reports of 
 others having problems getting the program to install from disk switching problems. While workarounds 
 do exist, these seem like problems that should have been easily found before the game hit the shelves.
 
  There are a few other nagging problems in the game itself as well. As the official reviewer pointed 
 out, two guards can be following each other, you can knock out the one in the back, and the first 
 guard just continues on his patrol. There are some problems with the walk and creep modes as well. 
 Creeping to a location to perform a special action (Such as picking up an item) will cause Garrett 
 to forget that he was creeping, even if you never let go of the Ctrl button. The game engine 
 has far too many zone spots as well, which look like dark, sparkly vortexes. It really pulls away 
 from the immersion of hitting load screens halfway through a mission. There are no patches at the 
 time of this review, but I would expect some to be released soon in true Thief tradition.
  Outside of a few nagging issues and heftier (If not picky) system requirements, the game is a great 
 play for fans of stealthier games and the Theif series. If you are a Thief fan or looking for an 
 interesting twist on Splinter Cell, I highly recomend picking up a copy. For those looking for 
 Farcry type action, this may not be the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 26, 2004 5:07 am PT
Review:  The original Thief may have established the first person stealth genre, but stealth in that game 
 made a lot of sense. You were a thief and therefore you would obviously want your presence to be 
 concealed.
  
  The concept has been abused by a lot of games so, almost to the point of ruining the game. The 
 original Noone Lives Forever is an example that springs to mind where the game was pretty much 
 crippled by it's stealth missions. You see stealth didn't make much sense when you could just shoot 
 the 4 or so guards. They altered the sequel so stealth was beneficial to the player rather than 
 mandatory, and as a consequence it ended up being one of the best games of all time. The Deus Ex 
 games to me are the perfect example of how the option of stealth should be implemented.
  
  I am sick to death of stealth missions in First Person Shooters. The release of this game will 
 appeal to those who enjoy stealth obviously, and that it is why I have ranked the gameplay a 1. 
 Even though stealth makes sense in this kind of game I still hate stealth with a passion. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
