-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ThreadSpace: Hyperbol
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/threadspacehyperbol/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative concept with a deceptive amount of gameplay depth.
 Nice blend of tactical strategy and all-out shooting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Virtually no single-player game.
 Slow pace, with too much emphasis on defense.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 48 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: iocaine studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jul 12, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even with some game-balance issues, ThreadSpace: Hyperbol is an interesting combination of action 
 and tactics. 

  ThreadSpace: Hyperbol his one of those deceptively deep games. It seems like the quintessentially 
 simple arcade game at first blush, but eventually reveals itself to be one of those easy-to-learn, 
 hard-to-master challenges capable of sponging up your spare time. Even though some pace and balancing 
 issues -- along with the near-complete absence of a solo mode of play -- mar the otherwise shiny finish 
 of this tactical shooter, the game remains intriguing both for its promise and for what it does 
 right.  

           Battles boast lots of pyrotechnics, if not much in the way of actual action.      

 
  Developer Iocaine Studios began with the simple turret-shooter concept, which is practically as 
 old as time itself, and tricked it out with strategic elements. The game is played in deep space, 
 albeit on the two-dimensional planes of interstellar interstate highways called hyperchannels, 
 which were left behind by an ancient civilization. These outer-space landscapes look a bit like 
 the computer scenery in  Tron  due to their flatness, sparse details, and reliance on cartoony 
 neon colors (a resemblance accentuated by the techno score and metallic weapon effects) . You pilot 
 gun-turret ships across these Lite-Brite battlefields, constantly rotating and occasionally moving 
 both to take cover and to get a good firing line on enemies. Controls are elementary. Selecting 
 a projectile to fire is handled by clicking on an icon on the left and bottom of the screen, while 
 actually firing is taken care of with the left mouse button. Most missile functions are activated 
 with a tap of the spacebar, and the camera is rotated with the mouse and the WASD keys. If you 
 can't figure everything out on your own, an extensive series of tutorials lays out of all the particulars. 

  Gameplay options are somewhat blah, though. Aside from the tutorials and a couple of time trials, 
 the only solo modes of play are skirmishes against bots. Changing the difficulty setting is the 
 only option here, so single-player gets dull fast. The bots generally aren't very bright, and on 
 the lower two settings they're stupid enough that they regularly blow up their own ships, and can't 
 seem to hit the broad side of a barn when firing at you. This means that your only real choice 
 is multiplayer, which also doesn't offer the greatest selection of modes. The gameplay types are 
 old chestnuts such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, last man standing, and destroy objective. These 
 games are livened up with the inclusion of three factions that influence your starting ship (there 
 are five core ship classes that have varying capabilities when it comes to engines, projectile 
 speed, and so forth) , as well as a persistent-world gimmick in which you vote on systems to continue 
 an ongoing war, and finally the ability to earn credits for ship upgrades.  

  Of course, interesting options don't matter much when few people are playing online, and the Hyperbol 
 servers are largely deserted most of the time. Normally you can find only a single competitive 
 match with human players, and the handful of constantly running trainee games are almost always 
 filled with nothing but bots. So you're left with the depressing choice of either playing a multiplayer 
 version of the solo game, complete with the same old dumb bots, or jumping right into the deep 
 end against experienced high-level players who will mercilessly blow you to bits with their seriously 
 upgraded ships. You too can eventually move up in level and gain access to tricked-out ship hardware, 
 but advancement is painfully slow for beginners because the deck seems stacked against you through 
 the first few hours of play.  

  No matter what selection you make, the matches favor defense. There are lots of options that enhance 
 the strategic side of battles, maps are loaded with cover, and you can't move very far or very 
 often due to limited engine fuel as well as slow weapon- and engine-recharge rates. Destinations 
 have to be chosen carefully, given that you're inevitably stuck in your new spot for a few seconds 
 while your engines rev up enough for you to move again. So if you make a mistake, you can leave 
 yourself wide open to withering enemy fire for what seems like an eternity.  

  Weapons add to the sense that you're taking part in sci-fi trench warfare. Offensive projectiles 
 such as rockets, cluster bombs, detonation bombs, and even the nuclear option presented by hyperbols 
 and hyperplasms take second place to the many defensive choices. Certain nifty options make it 
 more sensible to sit back and hope for a bit of good luck than to charge the enemy, including weapons 
 such as the singularity generator, which sucks enemy projectiles into black holes, as well as the 
 repair drone that can be used to fix up ships, the energy fences that create de facto walls, and 
 the missile-deflecting shockwave. Furthermore, projectiles can be set up to angle after launch, 
 so you can hole up behind objects and still curve shots right on target. So after an initial jockeying 
 for position, you inevitably wind up with nearly everyone hunkered down behind cover, well protected 
 by black holes and energy fences, blasting away and waiting for the other guy to screw up.  

           Gaudy hyperchannel battlefields have a look reminiscent of a spruced-up Tron.      

 
  Still, matches feature an interesting blend of methodical movements and fast-paced shooting. Sixteen 
 players can take part in games, and the cramped maps generally feature few truly open spaces, so 
 precise tactics are frequently interrupted when you either run into a wall or wander into the firing 
 line of a foe that has some hyperbols loaded up. There are so many options here when it comes to 
 projectile deployment that it's always tempting to keep playing to try to figure out good tactics 
 to get past all of the seemingly rock-solid defenses that can be constructed. Also, matches with 
 experienced players who really know what they're doing raise the bar. If you play a few games with 
 veterans, you soon begin to see the importance of teamwork, both when coordinating attacks and 
 when working together to defend one another. (Buddies who know what they're doing will often help 
 you out with some repair drones when you're helpless and taking enemy fire) . As mentioned above, 
 there is a lot of depth here; it just takes some time to explore it, and this process is slowed 
 down by the lack of games for all player levels.  

  As a pure multiplayer game, ThreadSpace: Hyperbol is a bit overpriced even at $20 on Steam. But 
 despite the balance issues and the almost total absence of solo modes of play, the innovative and 
 addictive concepts presented here are worth checking out, even if the game as a whole isn't quite 
 ready for prime time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mjranck
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  It is difficult to get to interesting bits in the game, upgrade hardware and so on unless you play 
 the bots, which is not at all interesting. It is just Another Dark Space with experienced players 
 preying on everyone else. Too exclusive for me. Those waiting for other less experienced must feel 
 so powerful when they take you out. It surely does not have great appeal except to a very small 
 group of insiders . It is difficult to get to interesting bits in the game, upgrade hardware and 
 so on unless you play the bots, which is not at all interesting. It is just Another Dark Space 
 with experienced players preying on everyone else. Too exclusive for me. Those waiting for other 
 less experienced must feel so powerful when they take you out. It surely does not have great appeal 
 except to a very small group of insiders . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Thread Space Hyperbol is the first game to be made by Iocaine Studios. It is essentially a tactical 
 space combat game, where you team up with other players online to help win a galactic war. While 
 the game's occasionally awkward controls make it so this game isn't meant for everyone, Thread 
 Space Hyperbol's gameplay is so addicting, that anyone who is willing to dive into it is in for 
 a treat.
  
  Hyperbol is a multiplayer focused game, so there is little to no options for single player. The 
 game has a good tutorial, along with a few pre-set skirmishes against the AI, and that's it for 
 single player. It would of been neat to see a single-player campaign come with Hyperbol, especially 
 since the game's AI is actually surprisingly good, although it tends to be a little slow to react 
 at times. But Iocaine decided to focus purely on multiplayer instead, which is just fine, for the 
 game is best online anyway.
  
  When you go online, you'll have to make a profile for yourself using the Starport system. Once 
 you've set your profile up and edited your ship to your own liking wih your starting funds, you 
 can go online and fight alongside and against other players. There are a few quirks in this system 
 that just seem plain odd however- for example: you have to pay money- just to change the name of 
 your ship... Also- due to the general obscurity of the game, there are very few players online. 
 Despite this however, there is surprisingly almost always one good server available to join.
  
  The actual gameplay in Hyperbol is immensly addicting. You start by choosing a surface point 
 (spawn point. Whatever) . Once your on the battlefield, you must deploy a production station to 
 create your projectiles. The production station can make up to 6 modules, which produce your weapons, 
 so if you take 1 of each kind of module (there are 6 modules in all) , you'll be able to work with 
 every weapon available, or you can try other combinations so you get more of a certain group of 
 weapons instead. The game offers you quite a lot to work with since there are about 18 different 
 weapons to use, so that makes for quite a lot of tactical possibilities. Many more if you count 
 upgraded weapons. There are also ship forms which allow you to change your ship's capabilities 
 on the fly. For example, you could switch to repair form to repair yourself and teammates nearby 
 automatically. The neat thing is though, the game's ships are all balanced- for they might be perfect 
 with one of the game's many stats, but that means they suffer with other stat lines. So how you 
 play will help you figure out how you want to edit your ship.
  
  The combat tends to get quite tense, as you can't move at will in this game. so you really need 
 to know what each weapon does in order to succeed in this game, as every weapon has a counter that 
 you need to take advantage of. If there are any problems here, its that the complexity of the tactics 
 required in this game result in a kind of steep learning curve. However, anyone who can get past 
 this will have a great time online. The last issue to be unfortunately mentioned however is that 
 lag can be crippling in this game. This is NOT a game you'll want to be playing with a weak connection.
 
  
  The game's production values are merely decent. The graphics in general are colorful, the projectiles 
 all look good, and there are some really nice explosions. Other than that though, nothing really 
 special here in the graphics department. Sound wise- the game has some good weapon effects, with 
 hyperbols giving a satisfying BOOM, and actual shooting sounding decent. The music fits the game's 
 theme, but there's nothing outstanding here.
  
  In the end, Thread Space Hyperbol is not for everyone. The steep learning curve of learning all 
 the weapons will undoubtedly drive away some people, and the complete lack of a dedicated single 
 player mode is disappointing. But anyone who can get past the game's flaws will undoubtedly enjoy 
 Thread Space Hyperbol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edispilf
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  I'd like to keep this fairly simple and just add on what the other two post have already said.
 
  
  The game is highly addictive, and a great little game for the price. I'd warrent that it out paces 
 some of the other Indie games that gamespot has already reviewed. Why they won't take a look at 
 this game is beyond me. Otherwise most of what the other two reviews have stated is about how I 
 feel on the game. However, i did notice that they left out how polished the game is. A big plus 
 in my opinion. Not only is the game fun, addicting, stratigic, customizable ships, fast paced, 
 but it also comes packed with a bunch of little addons that go a long way. From a great developer 
 website, to the starport website which keeps track of all your stats and ship designs. They've 
 also added in game chat, and achievements. For the cost I'd recommend this game to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8-- bit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is different that anything else, it takes the strategic elements of turn based games, 
 combines with the tactical elements of real time games, and infuses it with a unique spin on attributes 
 and weapons.
  
  Every weapon in Hyperbol is useful in it's own way. You are able to specialize in weapons from 
 turrets to missiles to energy walls. It's easy to find a build that's just right for your play 
 style, whether it's defensive, offensive, or something in between. Aside from the weapons, there 
 are ships with varied statistics, modules to adapt them, and forms such as stealth to spice up 
 gameplay.
  
  The heart of the game is objective mode, where 2 teams face off in a map with unique goals and 
 win conditions. Modes such as deathmatch are also available, and can be very entertaining.
  
  Prices of upgrades and ships are controlled by the territory that your faction owns. Each win 
 that you get in objective furthers your factions advancement and territorial expansion, and can 
 lower prices and open up new things to buy.
  
  If you find yourself getting badly beaten in the beginning, remember that we all went through it 
 :) , learn from your opponents, and some day they'll be on the receiving end or a hyperbol!
  
  It's fun, it's fresh, it's from a company that will pump out new fresh games if they get the 
 resources (one guy is ex-blizzard!) , and it's worth 20$ any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dburg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Threadspace: hyperbol is a new genre combining both FPS and strategy elements into a polished game 
 that should not be overlooked by anyone. The gameplay is amazing, its a new genre that anyone who 
 plays will most likely be addicted, due to the countless amount of strategies very fun physics, 
 and trying to out think your opponents. The gameplay involves spawning in, deploying a production 
 station and moving around the field and blowing up your enemies with 6 different modules. There 
 are 3 offensive modules, 2 defensive modules, and 1 support module. You can build more of one module 
 to hold more of it and build faster using it. One module that you build can become level 2, which 
 allows you to build much more powerful projectiles of a certain type. A level 2 hyperbol will now 
 have tendrils that deal out damage to nearby objects as it moves. A level 2 tactical detonable 
 bomb will then have an aftershock that will deal AoE damage to all nearby units, which can require 
 you to build your self-defenses farther away from yourself, or pay the death price. Your ship has 
 16 stats that can be changed with parts bought over Starport, Threadspace's online community. As 
 one stat is changed, another is affected such as if you increase projectile speed, projectile damage 
 is lowered. These parts help your ship specialize in one general area, projectiles, AoE, Engines, 
 ETC. More parts are unlocked as your faction captures more areas in the Threadspace galaxy by winning 
 objective type maps. These parts can also be bought off the black market but at a much higher price 
 (5 times as much) .
  
  Forms are another object that can be bought from starport. Forms are like power-ups that boost 
 certain stats such as engine recharge and firepower.
  There are also 3 special forms, deflectile, repair, and stealth. Deflectile allows your shots to 
 bounce off objects up to 3 times. Repair for creates a repair area around you that will repair 
 nearby objects that belong to your team. Stealth turns your ship invisible but at a significant 
 loss in engine power, projectile power, and projectile build-rate. Your projectiles can be spun 
 and redirected to hit opponents around corners. You can also deploy repulsors to create artificial 
 gravity that will push objects that get within its AoE, or create a black hole that will eat up 
 any projectile that gets caught in its AoE. The repulsor can also be inverted using a scrambler 
 and it will pull objects into its center of gravity, and the black hole be destroyed using a disrupter. 
 This game has an immense amount of stratagy that requires a lot of timing, skill, and concentration, 
 which causes a steep learning curve of 1-2 hours and a lot more time to learn the best ways and 
 techniques of using each module.
  
  Games can be as large as 16 players, 8v8 in team elimination and Objective and deathmatch and arena 
 holding 8 players as a default. This game can require teamwork in order to take out the opponent's 
 team or finish your objectives. Overall, this game is great for people looking for an FPS game 
 that requires strategy and reflexes to become a great player. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
