-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Thrillville: Off the Rails
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/thrillvilleofftherails/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of stuff to do.
 Accessible for children, yet fun for adults.
 Most of the minigames are lots of fun.
 Everything in your park can be played or ridden.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not a great-looking game, and the frame rate could have been better.
 Could have been a little more challenging.
 Some minigames won't feel fresh to anyone who played the first game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 106 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Frontier Dev.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 9, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thrillville: Off the Rails makes every part of building and running a theme park great fun. 

 
  Many games promise that they're "fun for the entire family," but very few actually deliver an 
 experience that can be enjoyed by both kids and adults alike. Thrillville: Off the Rails is one 
 game that makes good on this promise. Whether building your own amusement park or playing the games 
 and riding the rides, there's never a shortage of ways to have fun. Thanks to the inclusion of 
 50 minigames, Off the Rails is one of the better party games out there as well.  

  Thrillville's single-player campaign places you in the role of a theme park manager. Your goals 
 include making the guests happy, ensuring the critics give your park a fair shake, and preventing 
 a rival theme park from ruining your park's reputation. You start off with one theme park broken 
 into three distinctly themed areas. As you complete missions like playing minigames, building certain 
 rides, and managing staff, you're awarded thrill points, which eventually unlock new parks, each 
 with its own theme.  

           Most of the minigames are really fun.      

  There are simulation aspects to Off the Rails, but nothing as deep as other "Tycoon" games. Sure, 
 you can set prices, run advertising campaigns, and even borrow money, but there's very little benefit 
 to be gained by doing so, and money is never a problem. Most of your time will be spent placing 
 rides, stalls, and games, and, of course, building coasters. Placing new attractions is a piece 
 of cake: Scroll through a menu until you find what you want to place, locate a good spot, and press 
 a button to drop it into place. Unfortunately, you're a bit limited as to where you can place buildings 
 as well as how many you can place. Each building consumes power, and each of your park's three 
 areas has a limited amount of power available. This seems to be the game's way of making sure the 
 frame rate can keep up, but it's frustrating to have the room and the money to build something, 
 only to be told that there's not enough power available. This doesn't ruin the game, but it would 
 have been nice to be able to place more stuff.  

  Building coasters is surprisingly simple. If you're not into designing your own roller coaster, 
 you can purchase prebuilt rides with the press of a button. But that would mean depriving yourself 
 of one of the game's best aspects. It's really easy to build a crazy coaster. All you have to do 
 is pick what type you want (wooden, hanging, flume, and the like) and then start dropping pieces 
 into place. The interface is intuitive, and while the camera can sometimes be frustrating and the 
 auto-track-completion rarely finds a solution to ending your ride, you can complete your first 
 coaster in a matter of minutes. Of course, you're going to want to make your signature ride a memorable 
 experience for your guests. This is where the "whoa" pieces come into play. Flaming hoops, brick 
 walls, loops, corkscrews, and more can all be added by choosing a whoa piece from the menu and 
 dropping it into place. You won't want to go too crazy, though, because you don't want the ride's 
 nausea rating to be too high. Actually, that's not true. While your guests may  think  they don't 
 want a ride that's too insane, what better way to end a ride than by not ending it? By not connecting 
 your track back to the station, you can create a "crash coaster." This is exactly what you think 
 it is -- the car reaches the end of the track and flies right off. It sounds insane, but because 
 you parachute gently to the ground, the kids love it, even as their parents watch in horror from 
 the ground.  

  Building rides is just a small part of the Thrillville experience because everything you build 
 can be ridden or played. There are 50 minigames included here. Many of these are knockoffs of arcade 
 games like Gauntlet, Offroad, and 1942, but there are some original games to be found and most 
 of them are a lot of fun. First-person shooters; puzzle, racing, and flying games; platformers -- you 
 name it, it's here. You can play these minigames anytime you like, and you can even play them from 
 the game's main menu in a party game format. The game does a nice job of integrating them into 
 the campaign. You might need to get a high score in a particular game so that you can win a prize 
 with which to bribe a critic, or you might need to chase off some annoying robots that hack your 
 attractions so that they can ride for free by shooting a bunch of them in a futuristic first-person 
 shooter. These missions come along just often enough that you'll appreciate the break from running 
 your park, but not so often that you'll feel like they get in the way.  

  It's how the game balances all this variety that makes Thrillville so much fun. Everything makes 
 sense -- you're not just doing minigames for the sake of doing them. If you need to train an entertainer, 
 you do so by performing a dancing minigame. Should you need to fix a ride, you do it by connecting 
 wires in a somewhat difficult, but still fun, minigame. Even figuring out what you're doing right 
 or wrong is handled smartly. You can talk to any patron about a number of subjects, but if you 
 don't feel like yapping to everyone in sight the game will let you know the more important stuff 
 by having park-goers shout out their problems as you walk by. When you've heard a dozen customers 
 complain about not being able to find a drink as you've walked from one end of the park to the 
 other, well, you get the idea, it's time to build a drink stand. Off the Rails also achieves a 
 good balance between being fun for adults as well as children. It's not a particularly challenging 
 to build a cool park, but that doesn't really matter because the fun comes from playing minigames 
 and building the most over-the-top rides possible. While the campaign mode is technically single-player 
 only, it's fun to play with another person. It's not hard to envision parents handling the controls 
 while younger children detail just how they want their coaster built.  

  Thrillville isn't a great-looking game. In fact, it barely qualifies as good looking, even on the 
 PC and the Xbox 360, where it looks the best. It has a cartoonlike style to it, and there are lots 
 of bold, bright colors to be seen. The 15 or so areas of the parks each have a unique design that 
 might not be supercreative (there's a beach town, a snowy mountain, a futuristic area, and an underwater 
 section, to name a few) , but they all serve to make each park feel like its own special place. 
 It's fun to customize your rides' themes and colors, even if they don't have much of an effect 
 on your park's success, outside of a few specific missions. Though the game isn't filled with detailed 
 textures, lighting and particle effects, or anything else that should push a console to its limits, 
 Off the Rails doesn't run perfectly on any system. The 360 and PC versions have some frame rate 
 hitches; the Wii version runs fairly well (and uses motion controls to let you build your coasters) 
 but has some nasty aliasing issues; the PS2 version is aliased and runs pretty choppily; and the 
 PSP iteration suffers from some long load times and a sometimes stuttery frame rate, though it 
 does let you play multiplayer via Wi-Fi, which is nice. None of these technical issues ruin the 
 experience, but it's worth noting that the game would have benefited from some sharper visuals. 

           Don't worry -- in this world, crashing coasters are considered cool.      

  At least the game sounds good. The older crowd might not dig the soundtrack, which sounds as if 
 it were ripped straight from Radio Disney, but the music fits the game's lighthearted feel. The 
 voice acting is solid, too. There's a surprising amount of dialogue in the game, and while the 
 conversation options might not rival those in Mass Effect, there's a lot you can find out by simply 
 walking up to someone and talking to them.  

  You can spend hours building your park, or you can just play minigames; you can play alone, have 
 someone play the role of advisor, or get a group of people together and play the minigames like 
 a party game. It's how everything comes together that makes Thrillville: Off the Rails such a good 
 overall experience and one that truly is "fun for the whole family."     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WayneSikes49
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Obviously LucasArts needed pre-holiday revenue to push this uncompleted game out the door. I'm 
 a senior game developer and know when to say 'it isn't finished' and this game was not properly 
 finished. Obviously it was not tested well. Too many crash bugs, horrid camera movement, and bad 
 collision detection. Just another potentially good game pushed out the door too soon. I notice 
 there's no patches and ordinarily a game with this many problems would already be patched at least 
 once if not more. Looking at the forums I see many complaints of random crashes. I expected more 
 from LucasArts with a game such as this.... Don't waste your time with this game. Combo packs of 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 are the same price right now - purchase that instead. It's not quite as 
 kid-friendly as Thrillvile but it won't leave you annoyed with all the crashes and disorienting 
 camera movement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowmasterx07
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  A good family game, the graphics, the music are excellent, and the gameplay is variable because 
 the mini-games. If your are looking for a game for your famliy or even your girlfriend, this game 
 is for you. The difficulty is ok, the time that you need to learn the basics is low (1 hour) . I 
 brought this game 2 days ago, and i'm playing it with my girlfriend and with other people. About 
 the graphics, are excellent, but you may need a high end video card to fully enjoy the graphics, 
 the games requires a geforce3 as minimun but i don't that card could work well, i recommend 8100 
 and up or the new ATI. About the music, well the game have several genres from soft rock to "almost" 
 Metal, also contains carnival-like music but with a small touch of Rock. I recommend you this game 
 if you like to spend time with your family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Thrillville. Your mission is to make a theme park work. The rides, the atmosphere, the 
 people happy. There's so much to do here you don't know where to start. The merry-go-round, the 
 slippery slide? Nope lets make a rollercoaster that goes into the clouds, then throws you at the 
 ground with all the gut wrenching feeling of an astronaut strapped to a rocket. But wait you can 
 actually go and sit in the ride and watch it for yourself, cue, the motion sickness tablets. This 
 game is load of fun.
  
  You start by picking your park you wish to start in, your given a story about being this young 
 up and coming theme park manager and away you go. Each section of the park has themes to it, driving, 
 space, western etc
  Your ride will vary from section to section but to begin with your in the driving section with 
 plenty to do and see. You can interact with anyone from which you can gain sub-missions, give them 
 gifts and get feedback. You've got to keep the people happy with the biggest and baddest rides 
 (although some will complain about the fear-factor) , the sections have places where you can build 
 your rides, rollercoasters and other buildings that you'll need, toilets, food, drinks, souvenirs. 
 Once placed you can trick-it-out and change the colours or change the theme of the ride. There's 
 a clever interaction system that will tell you what going on around your park and how every person 
 is feeling. You'll need to hire some staff to cleanup, entertain and occasionally do promotions 
 for you. Its like playing Sim City at ground level. 
  
  Overall the games plays well and there's so much to do you'll be spending hours keeping everyone 
 happy and earning some cash. However the graphics are not as detailed as you've have hoped, the 
 motion sickness can certainly affect you once you've gone on a few rides so do spend all day on 
 them. The sound effects and music emanate the exact atmosphere of being at the fair with people 
 screaming, people stopping and talking to each other and 100s of screaming kids running around.
 
  
  Anyone can play this game, just build, ride and enjoy the festival.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormster21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Thrillville: Off the Rails! is a snazzy title that brings the booming mini-game compilation market 
 and marries it beautifully with a theme park sim. They do this very well, but a few things get 
 in the way of making this title what it truly can be. First of all, the game really doesn't deviate 
 from the first too much. there are more mini games and some of em have been retooled but most of 
 em are carbon copies of games from the original. The main thing that is different is the themes 
 of the parks. This is not really a bad thing since the first game did a number of things right, 
 and any changes have been for the better, it just would of been nice to see a little more difference 
 between the titles.
  
  The game handles very well, all the games are very responsive, and kick the crap out of any mini 
 game you will find on other compilations , some you could actually play for hours. The reason behind 
 this, is frontier did a great job mimicking classic arcade games, there is a node to gauntlet, 
 bust a move, a rather fleshed out FPS and some great side games that put some great spins on old 
 classic carnival games, great stuff!
  
  The graphics of the game do the job and keeps the PC running and a good frame rate even on lower 
 ended machines meaning that it can be played by just about anyone. The 360's version is probably 
 the best version out there due to the excellent controls on the 360 pad and the HD visuals. The 
 PS2 and Wii version look similar to the first game with a few minor upgrades. The games main scenario 
 will take about 10 to 15 hours to complete, add about that much if you want to finish every mission 
 in the game. The replay value is great for multi player in party mode, or just to get a fix on 
 your favorite mini game. The game does a great job in doing away with some of the more tedious 
 micromanaging like in Roller coaster Tycoon but still gives you a decent degree of flexibility, 
 one complaint is that you are limited to 3 building zones within each theme of a park so the park 
 layout is the same every time you play and cannot be changed. Also the layout of each theme park 
 seems to be identical to each other which gives a small sense of repetitiveness, and you will have 
 played all the games by the time you opened the 3rd park. These few gripes are enough to keep the 
 game from being truly stellar but Thrillville: OTR is still a great game that is worth entrance 
 fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpapazdo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Playing games in the game is pretty cool.
  Background music for this game is possibly the best on any game in my opinion.
  
  Graphics 
 are not Half Life or Halo standard.
  But, the water looks amazing in this game. (Like MS Flight Simulator X)
  But graphics are terrific 
 and are next gen for PC.
  
  Everything you do in this Thrillville is a game. From training stuff to serving customers. There 
 is a game in this game for everybody.
  
  This game isnt very serious at all like the Rollercoaster Tycoon series. In this game you barely 
 have to do any thinking which is great for me.
  
  Great game to have for Families. But really everyone would enjoy Thrillville Off The Rails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wep
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Well just got the full version today hoping to have the same fun that I had in the past with the 
 Rollercoaster tycoon series ........ and definitively NO!! For starters the PC version is just 
 a straight port from the 360, if you don't have a 360 pad the mouse and KB controls just suck, 
 it have good collection of mini-games and some colorful graphics but not so much to offer if you 
 are (like me) interested in a more deep economical simulation.
  
  Graphics: Nice and colorful, a big big improvement over last's year xbox version, but too cartoonish 
 in some places. Solid frame rate on my system.
  
  Gameplay: very easy mini-games and gamepad oriented controls makes it a child title
  
  Sound/Music: 
 nice sound effects and good music
  
  It's a 7.5 for me, may be the 360 version scores better because for a console game is good, just 
 not for PC game from the same people that made RT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosGallosno2
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  I just played the demo for PC and was NOT too happy. You have to use the mouse to select an action, 
 ie Picking the option to set-up a game, stall, or coaster, but you CAN'T move/look around in the 
 world using said mouse. There is somewhat of a Free Cam while you build a ride, but it's VERY limited 
 to what you are able to do. Everything is done via the keyboard, and can get quite annoying if 
 you're used to Roller Coaster Tycoon or any of The Sims games. Also, even though I tried and tried 
 (maybe it's just me) but I couldn't find out how to build my own ride. Yes, there is a small tutorial 
 on how to do it, but I couldn't figure it out, and was way more complicated without the ability 
 to use a mouse. The mini games are quite fun, and there are even some modeled after those found 
 on the Mini-clip site. For a kids game (strictly for young ones that don't use a mouse too often) 
 this is a pretty good game, but the poor control scheme just makes it difficult to play. The music 
 is pretty good. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
