-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Throne of Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/throneofdarkness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.1, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 271 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Click Ent.
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 24, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The influence of Diablo on Throne of Darkness is clearly evident -- but while Throne of Darkness may 
 be similar, you'll find that the Japanese setting isn't its only distinguishing feature. 

 Japan is a country with a rich history and its own fascinating mythology, and Throne of Darkness 
 uses these as a basis for a hack-and-slash action RPG set in a fictional medieval era in the country's 
 past. Featuring countless battles and plenty of exotic treasures to be found, Throne of Darkness 
 is the first effort by San Francisco-based Click Entertainment, a company cofounded by two developers 
 who previously worked on Blizzard's extremely successful mid-'90s action RPG, Diablo. The influence 
 of the original Diablo on Throne of Darkness is clearly evident in the game's isometric perspective 
 and emphasis on combat -- but while Throne of Darkness may be similar, you'll find that the Japanese 
 setting isn't its only distinguishing feature. Though it has few real role-playing elements to 
 speak of and though some aspects of its gameplay aren't well implemented, Throne of Darkness does 
 succeed in offering plenty of good-looking combat sequences, which are repetitive but interesting 
 nevertheless.           Seven samurai are yours to command in Throne of Darkness.    

  In Throne of Darkness, you'll take command of the loyal samurai retainers of one of four Japanese 
 clans, each of which has a similar goal: to rid the land of the Dark Warlord Zanshin, an incredibly 
 powerful demon warrior that resides in his own fearsome fortress. The recently awakened Zanshin 
 has already corrupted the countryside -- it's all become shrouded in darkness and filled with nefarious 
 beasts, ogres, bandits, and undead. Only the four clans' samurai warriors, as well as their respective 
 daimyo masters, remain unaffected. To save the land, you'll have to guide your samurai all across 
 the country, fighting evil, gaining new skills, and finding new and better equipment. You'll take 
 on some side quests in your search for Zanshin. These are good diversions, but they're as straightforward 
 as the rest of the game and usually just involve going out of your way to kill one fiend or another. 
   

  The clan you choose has little effect on the game -- you'll have the same seven classes of samurai 
 at your disposal, regardless. These include the leader, a venerable and charismatic warrior; the 
 aptly titled brick, a giant of a man; the archer, master of kyudo, the unique Japanese bow-and-arrow 
 style; the swordsman, who's exceptional with a sword in each hand; the berserker, a brutal fighter 
 who prefers polearms; the ninja, a versatile assassin; and the wizard, practitioner of the occult. 
 These characters are distinguishable by their individual appearances, by the weapons they can use, 
 by the spells they can learn, and by their starting statistics for attributes such as strength, 
 dexterity, and vitality. In reality, they can all become quite capable in battle, and many of them 
 share analogous roles, making them not so different in practice as you might hope or expect. Still, 
 Throne of Darkness' most interesting feature is that it readily lets you command any combination 
 of up to four of these characters at any given moment, and thanks to your daimyo's magical powers, 
 you can easily and almost instantly swap different samurai in and out of your active group.    
        The Japanese theme is well maintained throughout the game.    

  Having to direct four characters in real time may sound like a tall order, but in truth, you directly 
 control just one while the computer handles the others. This makes Throne of Darkness play somewhat 
 similarly to another Diablo-inspired game, Darkstone, a hack-and-slash action RPG from 1999 that 
 lets you play with two characters at once. Of course, Throne of Darkness lets you manage even more. 
 At any time, you can quickly switch your control from one samurai to the next, and injured samurai 
 can be teleported out of action and replaced with one of their fully rested comrades -- this unique 
 mechanic is central to the combat in Throne of Darkness and gives the game a distinct feel. Combat 
 itself is simplistic but frantic since it plays out so quickly -- you just left-click your mouse 
 on targets repeatedly to swing or shoot at foes, and alternately, you can use the right mouse button 
 to cast a variety of magic spells. Also, you can easily switch between two sets of weapons at the 
 touch of a hotkey -- for instance, from a razor-sharp katana to deadly accurate shuriken -- but you'll 
 usually have just one weapon per character that you'll prefer to use.   

  The game's interface can be a bit confusing at first, but it actually works quite well for the 
 most part, once you get the hang of it. What's called the "daimyo interface" is easily accessible 
 with a keyboard hotkey, and it's here that you can swap samurai in and out of your group just by 
 clicking on their portraits. Samurai not in your group slowly regenerate their health and "ki" 
 points, which are used for casting spells. Teleporting samurai back and forth uses up some of your 
 daimyo's ki, which constantly recharges. The daimyo can also resurrect slain samurai, though this 
 is particularly taxing for him -- if many of your samurai are killed in a difficult battle, you'll 
 have to wait a while before you're back in force. Each samurai has his own unique character stats 
 sheet, item inventory, and spell list. Separate interface screens are also available for dealing 
 with the blacksmith, who can repair your items, make new ones, and customize old ones by combining 
 them with magical components for a fee; and the priest, who can identify artifacts, purify cursed 
 items, and offer your magical goods to the gods in exchange for more spell knowledge. The blacksmith 
 and the priest become available early in the game, and you can magically trade with them at any 
 point, much like the way you can switch samurai. You can also call up an unobtrusive minimap that 
 will float in the upper left-hand corner of the screen, though unfortunately, you can't scroll 
 this map to help get your bearings, and your own view is always locked on your samurai. At least 
 you can resize the map to your preference.    

 Throne of Darkness has a battle tactics feature that looks promising, but it ultimately doesn't 
 work well and can just as easily be ignored. The game lets you issue a variety of preset tactics 
 that are named after animals, such as "frog" and "centipede." These tactics are selectable from 
 a prominent green button on the interface panel, and triggering them causes your characters to 
 change positions relative to one another and possibly switch weapons or switch between an aggressive 
 and a defensive combat posture. However, while names such as "frog" and "centipede" may be in keeping 
 with the game's far-eastern martial arts theme, they're not exactly intuitive. Indeed, in practice, 
 none of the tactics make any kind of sense. They just throw your samurai into some arbitrary pattern. 
 Not unless you right-click on each individual tactic and take note of where it's putting whom and 
 what it's making whom do will any of these prove remotely useful. Even if you eventually find a 
 few that you like in theory, their value is still pretty limited -- your samurai will lock themselves 
 into the same relative position every time, and unless you manually rotate the formation and reset 
 it, they'll stay where they are. This makes it difficult to maintain formations that protect weaker 
 party members like the wizard, since you'll need to readjust the formation every time you change 
 direction.           Various subquests will become available along the way.    

  There's an option to create your own tactical formations. You can reposition the samurai, set their 
 posture to aggressive, neutral, or defensive, and specify whether you want them to use a melee 
 weapon, a ranged weapon, or a spell. This feature seems promising too, but it's actually very limiting, 
 or at least it seems that way since the computer is rather single-minded in how it controls your 
 samurai. Computer-controlled samurai using ranged weapons or spells will just stand there and fire -- they 
 won't try to keep their distance or dodge enemy attacks. Also, magic-using samurai will repeatedly 
 cast the one spell that you've selected for them. This particular shortcoming ends up making most 
 of the game's dozens of spells all but useless in practice -- a frustrating fact, since all the samurai 
 have the ability to use magic and should have been better-equipped to take advantage of it.   

 
  Some of the game's spells are clearly meant to be complementary -- for instance, some temporarily 
 increase your attack speed, while others lower the resistances of your enemies. But it's just not 
 practical to quickly switch between different spells in battle, partly because only four universal 
 spell hotkeys are available and mostly because computer-controlled samurai will use only one spell 
 at a time, in place of their standard attack. In the end, about the only viable means of using 
 spells in battle is to take direct control of the wizard character. It's unfortunate that the magic 
 system and the computer artificial intelligence in Throne of Darkness are lacking; otherwise, the 
 game could have had some real strategic depth to it if the tactics editor were more robust and 
 gave you some meaningful "if... then" choices for customizing your characters' behavior in different 
 situations. As it is, the tactics feature is more or less extraneous, and the same goes for many 
 of the game's spells, which aren't well balanced besides being hard to use -- you'll find that some 
 are much stronger than others, so you'll fire these off occasionally and just leave the rest be. 
           Magic can be useful, but casting different spells is cumbersome.    

  The fact that the computer doesn't effectively control your characters means having seven of them 
 to deal with becomes a double-edged sword -- all the samurai make the game interesting, but managing 
 them can be a chore. That is, you'll end up spending about as much time looking at your characters' 
 inventories and stats as you're spending in battle. Characters gain experience levels individually, 
 and you'll get to assign points to their core attributes and learn or improve in various magic 
 spells whenever this happens -- and having seven characters gaining experience from battle means 
 it'll happen very often. You're also constantly finding new stuff during the game -- and deciding 
 who gets to have what can be a laborious process, even though it's usually fun. What complicates 
 matters is that, especially early on, your equipment can easily break, so you'll need to have the 
 blacksmith individually repair each damaged item. Repairs cost a small amount of gold, but unfortunately, 
 for some reason, the samurai don't share their wealth, so you'll often have to pass money from 
 one character to the other just to complete a simple repair. Constantly having to fix helmets and 
 gloves and move money around sounds about as fun as it is. Another ill-conceived design decision 
 is the inclusion of a charisma statistic for each character, which simply determines how much of 
 a discount that character gets from the blacksmith and the priest. The leader starts with a huge 
 charisma bonus -- you'll end up making him the middleman for all your exchanges, but the designers 
 might as well have just taken the middleman out of the process.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Throne of darkness is a japanese like game where you control samurais.
  The control mechanics suck and its hard to master more heroes
  at one time.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  +Unfamiliar new feature of controlling more heroes at the same time
  +Some nice skills
  -Boring campaign
  -I hate the heroes
  -Level design is poor
  -To similar to Diablo in lots 
 of ways
  
  Graphics:
  +Cartoon- like, makes it less similar to Diablo
  -Poor level design
  -Boring graphics
  
  Sounds:
  +There are nice japanese sounds
  +/- 
 Decent japanese music
  
  Value:
  +Well overal its very similar to Diablo which is good
  -Boring campaign and story
  -Hard to master this game and control it
  
  Tilt:
  -Too similar 
 to Diablo
  -Difficult controls
  -Boring story and campaign
  
  If you are really excited about buying a very similar diablo game,
  i say take your chance.
 
  Otherwise leave this one on the shelves.
  Bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shroompie
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 21, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is HARD. It also sucks very bad most of the time. It's very disappointing. The graphics 
 have a nice 2d feel to it, but when you put on armor or weapons on your characters, nothing really 
 changes except the later armor- but it's still nothing new. The gameplay is a  
 fest at its best. There is so much clicking and micromanagement. There's also a lot of waiting- 
 waiting for someone to heal up at the dojo, or waiting to get enough of that purple stuff to revive 
 someone. It's an alright game worth checking out though- I paid $4 for it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Throne of Darkness plays much like Diablo but has some new takes on the gameplay, mainly by making 
 you head honcho over a team of seven warriors, out of which up to four can be present on the screen 
 at any given time. You will send them back and forth using teleportation spells throughout the 
 game, allowing the wounded to heal at the base camp. The restrained environment is a beautiful 
 Japanese mythological countryside and the peaceful music sets the mood perfectly. 
  
  There were a few game concepts that struck me as ill-advised. Controlling four bloodthirsty warriors 
 in battle is no small task as they fan out into different directions, being ganged up on by enemies 
 instead of joining forces. The available attack patterns for different strategies were not very 
 helpful, the result would inevitably lead to one key warrior getting overrun every single time. 
 Back to micromanaging.
  
  My major gripe though, comes with the services offered by the blacksmith and the priest. First 
 you need to seek out precious raw materials prying them from the hands of vanquished foes. Second, 
 you have to amass a hefty amount of money to have the services carried out and on top of that you 
 will have to wait a token amount of time for the creation of the magical item or whatever to be 
 manufactured. For more exclusive items this can easily take a couple of minutes. Now, imagine you 
 would like to refit a number of your warriors will new armor and weapons and you begin to see how 
 much of your time will be spent waiting for these services to be finished. Absolutely ridiculous!
 
  
  On the whole though, if you can put up with these little hassles and are fond of Diablo-style clickfests 
 I think you will have a good time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alichino
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out in 2001 or so it was following on the tails of Diablo and it shows. There 
 a few shadows that as a designer you dont want to fall into: a first person shooter that follows 
 a mineral scientist named Morgan Beeman or a Japanese version of Diablo.
  
  This is not to say that Throne of Darkness is a bad game, on the contrary, it is at least average 
 and playing it will at least entertain the party. 
  
  The basic premise is again, very well lay out by Gamespot and need not be regurgitated here.
 
  
  You are a member of a group of adventures. You can select which one of the members you want to 
 act as and can change the selection at anytime. The rest of group follows you about and fights 
 the enemy without any instigation from you.
  
  As you progress in the game, hacking and slashing by simply repeating multiple left clicks on a 
 target (right mouse button moves your character) , you will find items that increase your weapons 
 and armor, just like any other dungeon crawl. You will increase the levels and skills of your members, 
 just like any other crawl. But one good point is that you have access to not only the four people 
 in your immediate group, but also a few others, whom you send back to your Daimyos Throne room 
 too, um, rest. After all, battling demon lords is hard work.
  
  The logic behind this is two fold: one it makes it harder to die, as you can send for one of the 
 resting NPC at any time (as long as you have enough magic to call for the unit) and two, sometimes 
 you have to have a particular unit with you in order to uncover a sub-quest or to finish a sub-quest. 
 Frankly, and this just my opinion, the sub-questing is what makes this game interesting. It was 
 probably the most enjoyable part of the game.
  
  I was probably the only one, but I enjoyed the voice talentit was campy. It was clever. It was 
 intoxicatingly simple. but Im not that smart. I wonder if Im playing a game or watching 70s 
 television.
  
  There is one major drawback, but I cant in good conscious just blurt it out here in this review, 
 as it would be considered a spoiler. Let me just say that if you plan on playing this game, do 
 NOT expect to walk away from the ending with any kind of sense of accomplishment.
  
  But there is always multiplayer to renew your spirits (as I dont have a magical throne room to 
 retreat to) . The multiplayer section of the game allows the four different Daimyo houses to work 
 in harmony to defeat the evil dark lord. One of the excellent abilities of the multiplayer is that 
 your saved characters actually transfer to online. So your level 26 ninja is a level 26 ninja, 
 with all of his gear and abilities. Sweet! But multiplay is pretty much more of the same as in 
 single player and Ive never had the time to invest in finding out how the mutliplay ends. 
  
  I found that the game would sometimes stutter as my party would move around the world or during 
 large encounters and that was back in 2001 when the game came out. On a modern system Im sure 
 it would have no difficulty, albeit, you still have to conquer the Diablo hurdleand that said, 
 buy Diablo first. Then Diablo II. If you still want to crawl around in this angled 2D hack and 
 slash, search Ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  I really was not too impressed with Throne of Darkness. It's not that bad of game, and it did keep 
 me entertained for a few hours, yet it does nothing to make me want to play it again. 
  
  Throne of Darkness is a party based RPG with decent sound and graphics, though they're a little 
 plain. There's nothing that will really catch your eye, you'll just be mindlessly hacking through 
 plain / boring enemies to get to a plain / boring boss. 
  
  Gameplay isn't all that bad, but it could have used alot more. There are 7 characters you can have 
 in your party, but only 4 can be used at one time. You have a certain 'mana pool' that you can 
 teleport any guy back to your base, or resurrect them or heal them, etc... which seems a little 
 cheap, but the game is pretty difficult. 
  
  Combat isn't too interesting, you control one of the 4 members of your group while the computer 
 controls the other 3. Many times I felt *I* was the one holding the group back. I would be stuck 
 on one enemy while my other party members were slaughtering anything they faced. Maybe I just suck, 
 but I don't feel like getting better at this game anyways. 
  
  Again, this game isn't horrible, but I couldn't recommend this game to anyone. There are numerous 
 other games out there that are more entertaining, and as such, more worthy of your attention / 
 money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
