-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tigerwoods2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 465 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: Headgate
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Sep 22, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 is quite probably the most entertaining and enjoyable golf game ever released. 
 

  In the mid- and late-1990s, PC golfers had a half-dozen top-shelf simulations from which to choose. 
 But when the tech market and the economy took a tumble, at the turn of the decade, so did computer 
 golf. Today, there are just two serious contenders: Microsoft's Links and EA Sports' Tiger Woods. 
 Fortunately, they're both exceptionally good. In fact, the latest version of the Tiger series, 
 Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004, is quite probably the most entertaining and enjoyable golf game ever 
 released. Though not quite as clinical as Links, it builds upon last year's impressive edition 
 in several key areas and adds enticing new perks, such as an improved career mode and fully customizable 
 golfers. For pure on-course excitement and graphical wizardry, Tiger Woods 2004 will be awfully 
 hard to beat.  

          With Tiger Woods' "game face" feature, creating a fully customized persona is very easy 
 and tons of fun.     

  Let's look at the raw numbers, which, for this year's iteration, are extraordinary. For starters, 
 the game offers an amazing 18 courses, including veteran venues Bay Hill Club &amp; Lodge, Colonial 
 Country Club, Pebble Beach Golf Links, Poppy Hills Golf Course, Prince Course at Princeville, Royal 
 Birkdale Golf Club, Sahalee Country Club, Spyglass Hill Golf Course, St. Andrews Golf Links, TPC 
 at Sawgrass, and TCP of Scottsdale. New for 2004 are Couer D'Alene and its floating green, the 
 intimidating Bethpage Black Course, Hawaii's gorgeous Kapalua Plantation Course, Pinehurst No. 
 2, Virginia's The Highlands, and TCP at Avenel. And if 17 real-life locales aren't enough for you, 
 you can always engage in a little fantasy. Born from the minds of the programmers at developer 
 Headgate Studios, and existing only in the digital world, The Predator is a stunning and treacherous 
 imaginary course set in the wild undergrowth of the South American rain forest.  

  Once you've determined your setting, you'll want to decide on your virtual persona. Tiger Woods 
 2004 gives you plenty of decisions here as well, offering no less than 14 touring pros, including 
 the enigmatic and talented Vijay Singh, the long-hitting John Daly, and, of course, Tiger himself. 
 That the only LPGA personality to make the grade is the young and attractive, but unproven, Natalie 
 Gulbis is interesting, to say the least.  

  Yet predesigned players are just part of the story. For Tiger Woods 2004, Headgate has devised 
 a golfer creation facility that's second to none. Dubbed "game face," this nifty system allows 
 you to construct the entire physical makeup of your custom golfer, piece by piece. You'll start 
 with the head, where you'll decide on such minute details as eye shape, facial hair color, chin 
 size, and eyebrow placement. Moving on to the body, you'll choose whether you're a muscle-bound 
 oaf, a skinny waif, or something in between. You'll attire your computerized image and even add 
 accessories, like wristbands and eyewear. And you'll make your adjustments graphically, morphing 
 your alter ego via a comprehensive series of sliders and buttons. To increase the size of his forearms, 
 for example, you'll move the forearm slider to the right while witnessing his incredible growth 
 spurt in real time.  

  Though some will undoubtedly use the game face feature to concoct hideous creatures that have no 
 place on a golf course, others will use it in the way it was intended -- to duplicate their own physical 
 appearances. The fact is that Tiger Woods 2004 is the first golf game to allow you to re-generate 
 yourself digitally, and the results can be quite remarkable.  

  Like last year, Tiger Woods delivers an impressive roster of golfing opportunities. For many people, 
 the key to the game will undoubtedly be its five levels of difficulty. In rookie mode, virtually 
 anyone -- even ultra-newbies -- can get through a round of golf without too much shame or grief. At 
 the intermediate level, those little hooks, slices, and incorrect reads that scarcely affected 
 your shots in rookie mode will really begin to take their toll. At the top -- expert level -- any deviation 
 from perfection will show itself. Here, all forgiveness is out the window. You're compelled to 
 delve into the game's finer points and make use of your entire arsenal of shot-making weapons if 
 you ever hope to stand a chance of a decent showing.  

  As usual, Headgate offers both two- and three-click traditional swings and a mouse-motion variant. 
 It is the latter of these, the TrueSwing (pioneered by Headgate in Sierra's gone-but-not-forgotten 
 PGA Championship) , that is the real star of the show. Enacted by your golfer in real time, and 
 duplicating the same sort of motion you'd use when swinging a real club, TrueSwing has come of 
 age and is now so perfectly programmed that it must be considered the preferred method for serious 
 golfers.  

  In Headgate's version of the mouse-motion swing, the tempo and pace of your entire backward and 
 forward movement has an impact on the final result. So too does the point at which you stop the 
 mouse, the length of the movement, and the amount of side-to-side deviation. You can even opt to 
 perform horizontal side-to-side TrueSwings if your desk is too crowded to allow vertical up-and-down 
 mouse movements. After your shot, the game delivers painstaking analysis of each factor of your 
 swing, thus allowing you to work on perfecting the speed of your backswing, the general tempo, 
 and/or the side-to-side variances.  

  When you're finally ready to take to the links, Tiger Woods 2004 really begins to show its stuff. 
 Perhaps you'll open with a few minutes of practice on a putting green, driving range, or chipping 
 area. Maybe you need to perfect a given hole on a given course. No matter what you want to do or 
 where you need to do it, the game will oblige.  

  Newcomers will undoubtedly want to engage in a little competition. They may do so by selecting 
 a casual round and then choosing their favorite game type. Tiger Woods 2004 offers more than a 
 dozen game options and scoring variants, including skins, scramble, shootout, Stableford, and the 
 nifty skills competition.  

          The most exciting golfer of all time launches a massive drive from the first tee at Scottsdale. 
     

  For all the trappings of a televised PGA event, tournament is the way to go. Here, you'll battle 
 against a full roster of competitors. Those fairways and greens that seemed a little lonely in 
 the casual rounds are now packed with cheering (and groaning) spectators. In fact, the fully 3D 
 fans of this year's edition are easily the most convincing of any golf game to date. Add the new 
 announcing tandem of real-world broadcasting icons Gary McCord and David Feherty, who trade banter, 
 offer advice, and generally deliver far more accurate and believable commentary than last year's 
 Feherty-Bill Macatee duo, and the ambience becomes very convincing indeed.  

  Advanced players will want to take the big step beyond single tournament play, entering a full 
 season of events. Three seasons are offered by default, but you can add events, alter the rules, 
 and generally customize the structure to suit your preferences. However, if you really want to 
 see all that Tiger offers, you'll want to enter the game's career mode.     

  By jumping into a career, you get to experience a feature set not offered in other golf games. 
 You'll begin as a poverty-stricken chump with a lot of desire but very little skill, and thereafter 
 you'll work your way up the ranks. You'll compete at an amateur level at first, where your opponents 
 are really quite horrendous, flubbing shots and knowing virtually nothing of course management. 
 Furthermore, the game tends to be seriously forgiving at this lowest level, allowing your drives 
 to fly straight and pure and your eight-foot putts to consistently drop into the cup. As a result, 
 you'll soon be well on your way to advancing to the next level, where things begin to get considerably 
 tougher.  

          Featuring dazzling scenery, dramatic camerawork, and believable galleries, Tiger Woods 
 2004 is the prettiest golf game on the market.     

  What makes Tiger's career mode so intriguing is its seemingly limitless versatility. You don't 
 simply play a series of standard 18-hole events; you do whatever it takes to win money and advance. 
 If that means accepting a closest-to-the-pin challenge from some club monkey at the local practice 
 facility, you do it. If you're asked to enter a long drive competition, you do that too. If Ping 
 offers you a sponsorship deal, you grab it and don as much Ping apparel as possible. Nine-hole 
 skins games, hazard extrication, recovery challenges -- it's all here. Along the way, you'll win 
 trophy balls, gold medals, and, of course, money. With the extra bread, you can buy lessons and 
 enter more competitions. You'll also pick up skill points, which you'll then use to turn your mediocre 
 short-hitter into a menacing long-ball pin-seeking machine. Of course, it is imperative you do 
 improve, as the shot-making becomes that much more difficult in the following levels.  

  Unfortunately, the career mode is still not all it could be. Lessons, for example, are not particularly 
 informative. Take the flop shot, for example. You'll head to a given fairway, where the proper 
 application of a flop shot is curtly explained in a single paragraph of text. You are then told 
 to flop your way on to the green. Rather than slowly learning the proper flop technique through 
 practice and drills, you are suddenly and magically able to do it. Total lesson time: 30 seconds 
 or so. Granted, the lesson costs you a few hundred dollars of your winnings, but it just doesn't 
 feel right buying your way to better golf.  

  And, strangely, the career doesn't offer a season-by-season schedule of tournaments. It actually 
 feels somewhat ad hoc, preferring to keep you constantly entertained by its unusual parameters 
 rather than ever delving into the career of a PGA player. Though definitely fun and exciting, it 
 never allows you to feel the rigors of real life.  

  Conversely, the game's presentation leaves little to be desired. Building on last year's exemplary 
 effort, Headgate has created the prettiest golf game to date. It's tough to say what's more impressive -- the 
 golfers or the environment -- but both are superb. When you first take to the course, you're immediately 
 struck by the fluidity of your golfer. In a perpetual state of movement even before he strikes 
 the ball, he effectively replicates all the machinations, all the twitches, and all the preparation 
 of a real pro. His real-time swing is smooth and accurate, and it's noticeably varied, depending 
 on his position and the lie of the ball. The animations become even more impressive after his shot. 
 If he is moderately successful, he may tip his hat to the appreciate crowd. If he pulls off a long 
 putt or drops one on to the green from 250 yards away, he'll pump his fist, look triumphantly to 
 the heavens, and perhaps do a little jig. You'd swear you're watching a televised broadcast, except 
 your golfer looks so much like you that you know it can't be.  

  The environments are, in a word, fantastic. Flags flap in the breeze as flocks of birds fly overhead. 
 The sun gleams and emits the most convincing lens flare. Animated translucent fog banks skitter 
 across the fairways, and surf pounds up against the shorelines, sending clouds of foam skyward. 
 Individual rain droplets flitter down on the course, thus impeding your ball's ground movement. 
 At sunset, everything takes on a warm orangey hue. It is a superb show that must be seen to be 
 appreciated.  

  To further enhance this incredible visual spectacle, Headgate has incorporated the most stunning 
 camerawork to grace any golf game. When you launch a drive, the camera follows the ball through 
 its flight path to its final resting position, over the treetops and down close along the grass. 
 If it's a particularly good shot, you'll see an instant replay -- perhaps from a reverse or aerial 
 position -- that adds even more drama to the proceedings. Prime putts are often shown from a magnified 
 ground level perspective -- up tight to the hole with your own gleeful image prancing proudly in 
 the background.  

  Though Tiger Woods 2004 doesn't follow the traditional Links approach of multiple concurrent cameras, 
 most golfers will find they won't really need them. Aside from the standard overhead map positioned 
 on the right side of the screen, players can move the fully customizable main cam to virtually 
 any position within that particular hole. Reverse views, distant aerial perspectives, remarkably 
 tight close-ups of the stance and the lie -- it's all possible. Once you've settled upon a given 
 perspective, you can switch to that view again, on any subsequent hole, by merely clicking the 
 right mouse button.  

  Tiger's latest soundscape is solid. As alluded to earlier, Feherty and McCord are informative, 
 rarely annoying, and sometimes downright funny. The sheer number of commentary sound bytes has 
 been increased from previous versions, and the chances of hearing erroneous remarks have been dramatically 
 lowered. Ambient effects are varied and believable. There aren't too many birds -- as was the curse 
 of many golf games of the past -- sensitive crowds, or running water sounds. Galleries do tend to 
 overreact on some shots and underreact on others, but it's not too distracting.  

          Tiger Woods' instant replay tracks the ball throughout its flight path, delivering vivid 
 aerial perspectives of courses like Pebble Beach.     

  Even with its multitude of options and game types, players will want to occasionally seek out a 
 little human competition. For its latest golf effort, EA Sports has ensured this is easy to do. 
 Whether you prefer hotseat, network, or Internet golfing, the game obliges. Certainly the quickest 
 way to drum up a willing partner or four is through the EA Sports Online service, where we found 
 no shortage of evil people waiting to whomp us on any given course. The game proved solid as a 
 rock, through our cable connection, though we couldn't help but wonder how some of these players 
 got so darned good.  

  With Headgate now firmly in command of the Tiger Woods series, it has taken the game to new heights. 
 Not a quantum leap forward from last year's installment, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 nevertheless 
 cleans up a few problem areas and adds several welcome amenities. Links veterans may argue, but 
 the title for the most entertaining golf game is most definitely in Tiger's corner.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -The True Swing Analog works to perfection in this game. The ability to create a slice and draw 
 with your mouse, and the ability to change the sensitivity of the mouse makes this the most realistic 
 golf game of its time.
  -Amazing graphics. Period.
  -The sound may not be extraordinary, but at least things are more on key. For example, the crowd 
 cheers at the appropriate times, whereas the crowd in the console version will go from complete 
 silence to screaming like maniacs just because I hit a 300 yard drive.
  -The career mode is fun and intuitive, and features loads of different game modes.
  -There are 
 many more ways to play golf in the PC version than there are in the console version. Some of these 
 include bloodsome, scramble, and shootout.
  -As always, the create-a-golfer interface is great.
  
  The Bad:
  -Online play comes with 
 a fee.
  -The game actually didn't support my graphics card, so I ended up playing with the hardware graphics.
 
  -Some of the crowd reactions tend to be delayed, but at least it's not as bad as the console versions.
 
  
  I don't own any of the other Tiger Woods PC games, but this one blew me away. I couldn't believe 
 how realistic that game controlled and how much depth there was to the gameplay. I would recommend 
 this to anyone with a passing interest in golf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippofoe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok. E. A. sucks balls. period. chances are if you're reading this that you're disgusted with E. A.'s 
 TIger Woods 2005 and 2006. you've realized what smoking piles of crapola they are -- that they 
 took the great game of golf and turned it into some sort of arcade turkey on steriods. tired of 
 shooting 56's on a regular basis? tired of being a rat that presses a button for cheese? dont want 
 to spend a hundred hours developing a golfer? dont want to see your avatar breakdance when it makes 
 a birdie?
  
  Tiger Woods 2004 IS THE GAME FOR YOU!
  
  HOW? TW 2004 has a simulation mode -- and with this simulation mode i've managed to play well over 
 500 rounds of golf and -- get this -- my average score is 71.2, average drive is 293, greens in 
 regulation 60%, up and down 55%, and 1.54 putts per green.
  
  if these stats appeal to you -- YOU = A Sim Golfer, then TW 2004 is the game for you.
  
  HERE's 
 the trick --
  
  1) select a 2w instead of a driver, and hit the ball lower off the tee.
  2) use the EA sports one peice ball
  3) select the forgiving iron shafts (the ones that produce 
 greatest error with a mis-hit)
  
  4) do not adjust the ball flight of any other shot aside form the driver -- just hit the ball in 
 the middle of your stance (thus you hafta deal with in-between club shots and be much more careful 
 of spinning the wedges) .
  
  5) only use the sand wedge to chip
  
  6) play on as fast the greens as the course can handle.
  
  follow those six little steps and 
 you can turn TW 2004 into a SIM Golf Game. you can experience the JOY knowing a 67 is a GREAT SCORE. 
 you can take pride in knowing your stats will be very simular to a real PGA tour player!
  
  did i mention TW 2004 has more golf courses to chose from than TW 2005 and 2006? did i mention 
 the graphics are STILL within 97% quality of the TW 2005 and 2006? Did i mention you can pick this 
 game up in a dustbin for $10?
  
  so -- poor golf simmer wh has been shat upon by EA sports all these years, go out there and exploit 
 this loophole and get some revenge!
  
  FORE!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jord99
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  My opinoin is that this golf game should not be played by no one, it angers up the blood way to 
 much.
  
  The game play is so horrible. Wow i hit the ball, it went far. Wow i hit the freken ball again 
 its almost in. Holy crap my grandma can make a better game than this. Usally golf games have some 
 nice touches to it, like if it is a important shot your heart starts to beat faster, but no not 
 in this game. 
  
  The graphics are not bad, but the environment is just so bland and boring. There is not even a 
 bird to see. If you have a good computer it will look pretty good, but if you have a normal computer 
 like most people it wont be very satisfying.
  
  The sound is one of this games worst points. The commentators are unenthusiastic and just sound 
 so boring. The audiences in this game are horrible, sometimes the clapping sounds very unreal. 
 The freaken clapping.
  
  The value is not bad either, mainly because of the online play. Also you can just play a game of 
 golf any time on any course. But doing the same thing over and over again gets really repetitive 
 .
  
  I think if you like golf either get this game on the ps2 which is a lot better game than the pc 
 one or just get a cheap set of golf clubs and play at your local golf course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ds_Bloodlust
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The music is really good. The gameplay is fun and very challenging. The graphics were good. The 
 various real players you can be is fun. I believe that the controls were easy and that after a 
 while the game really started to grow on me. I liked the daily challenges that were available and 
 advancing my characters stats and collecting items. Overall this game wasnt revolutionary but it 
 was still fun and not a bad buy. Try it and maybe you will like it. It does not cost a lot anymore 
 and can still give you the golfing experience you desire. So just keep playing and you will be 
 surprised a the fun you could have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  This is the perfect golf sim. Period.
  
  Ok, so I have to give reasons why. Well first and foremost we'll look at the graphics. To be honest, 
 I'm yet to come across any game in any genre that looks as realistic as Tiger Woods 2004. 17 of 
 the world's greatest courses are digitally recreated to near perfection. With the graphical settings 
 on full (the game should ONLY be played with the settings on full) , the level of detail is outstanding. 
 Individual blades of grass are visible, the spray of the ocean is finely detailed, the movements 
 of divots/grains of sand when you take a shot are completely believable, and the virtual recreations 
 of PGA tour pro's are so accurate that you'll have to check whether you're looking at your computer 
 monitor or the TV screen.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic, with the "true swing" mouse method of taking shots tuned to perfection. 
 To nail your shots using the mouse requires the same considerations as taking a shot in real life 
 - a smooth back swing, followed by a swing that is controlled, properly paced, straight and fluid. 
 The little nuances that would affect your swing in real life, such as deviance or hesitation will 
 accurately affect your in-game swing. The recreation of a golf swing is as perfect as you can get 
 without plugging your 4 iron into your PC.
  
  Tiger Woods 2004 also sells on its new "game face" feature, that allows you to create characters 
 within the game. This feature is remarkably detailed, with the ability to alter miniscule details 
 on your character. You use sliding bars to proportion the slightest details of your creation. It 
 is possible to accurately recreate yourself on the screen to such realism matched only by the character 
 creation facility within The Sims 2. The one feature that you cannot control is height. The only 
 reason that I pick up on this is that in every other respect the facility is perfect, meaning that 
 omisions are glaringly obvious.
  
  There are a variety of different modes that you can play in, from career mode that will take you 
 through a whole host of competitions from amateur to PGA pro, allowing you to earn money and improve 
 your golfers stats along the way; to simple one off rounds or practice sessions. It is also possible 
 to play in PGA seasons, entering different tournaments and progressing from season to season.
 
  
  The sound in Tiger Woods 2004 is good, with realistic effects that blissfully are not overused. 
 The crowd are accurately represented and applaud and cheer realistically. The commentary is well 
 scripted and delivered, though at times a little inaccurate - particularly as regards to putts. 
 This can be overlooked though. The music during menu screens is pleasant, non-intrusive, and will 
 take you away to lazy days on beautiful golf courses.
  
  There are no bugs in the game, which is pleasing, though in all honesty what we expect from EA 
 Sports as leaders in the sports sim market.
  
  So in all this is a fine game, and undoubtedly the best golf sim I have played to date. Graphically 
 it is in a class of its own, offering unparalleled realism. The sound is pleasing, and the new 
 features such as "game face" are really well implemented. The "true swing" method of taking shots 
 has been perfected in Tiger Woods 2004, meaning that this is the closest you'll get to a round 
 of golf without actually setting foot on the course! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  First things first - I'm a novice golfer and have little experience with golf games. The most time 
 I've spent on any golf game (until now) has been NES Golf. :) 
  
  With that said, I cannot believe how entertaining Tiger Woods 2004 is for me! This game is non-stop 
 fun with a *lot* more "flair" than Links2003. Lots of hype behind Links2004, but I don't have Xbox 
 and until I play it on PC, TW04 is *it* for me!
  
  I didn't think I'd enjoy its build-your-character even half as much as I did. There are more options 
 on how your want your char to look than I thought I'd even want to fiddle with, but it was actually 
 quite fun. And you can completely change your char's appearance at any time, which is nice, although 
 a no-brainer.
  
  Hey, all I can say is "This game is F-U-N!" 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lennyroger
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I have tried 2002, 2003 and now Tiger Woods 2004! This is the ONE.
  
  Gameplay - The best gameplay by far, you have to play for a while in order to become a Master of 
 the game. I don't think I should be able to pick a game and shoot 10 under. This game makes it 
 hard to do that. 
  
  Graphics - Best in series. The Gameface feature and swing animations are fantastic. The lightling, 
 grass look, the water, It all looks incredible.
  
  Sound - Best in series. The crowd doesn't over cheer. That is a big issue with me. On the playstation 
 2 game, the crowd cheers like you won a tournament everytime you make a putt.
  
  Value - This game has a lot of replay value. The simulations, season mode, online mode. The possibilities 
 are endless. 
  
  Tilt - BUY IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2004 2:41 pm PT
Review:  My very first Golf Experience. You know I don't play golf but I just started to pick it up 2 weeks 
 ago. Then I was in Best Buy and I see this game for $19 and thought to myself that this would probably 
 help me understand the game a little more. I have never played a golf PC game nor in real life, 
 but let me tell you I love this game. I am so into golf now its crazy. I think this game has all 
 the exciting elements to it.
  1) great graphics
  2) great gameplay
  3) you can create players and challenge to make money
  4) there are world tours
  5) the sounds 
 are pretty good
  
  overall this is a great experience and the only reason i didn't give it above 9.0 is that i would 
 think it could be better by you having more control in challenging people, etc.
  
  but from a newbie this is an amazing game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2004 4:11 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 is by far the best golf game available for the PC. The last version I 
 had was Tiger 2002 and this game is a quantum leap ahead of that. From the beginnings of your game 
 where you can create your own golfer in minute detail to the experience system and the tour matches 
 every facet makes you feel like you are a part of something much bigger than just a PC golf game. 
 With courses that unlock and get tougher as your career progresses, challenging side matches and 
 objectives to complete and glorious graphics this game is simply a joy to play and will likely 
 soak up hours of your time. 
  
  There are some glitches worth mentioning. To start with, unless you really feel it adds to the 
 game, turn off the commentary. It is repetitive, the 'hints' are often wrong (particularly when 
 it comes to the line on a putt) and to be honest the two commentators are simply annoying. Maybe 
 next time they'll get someone like Peter Alliss to do the commentary and add a bit of wit but Feherty 
 and McCord just aren't funny. Then again, golf isn't a game that needs commentary when you are 
 playing it for real so who cares, right? Once in a while you'll also get a wedge in your hand when 
 you're putting and can't get rid of it but this is minor as you still putt the same way, or you 
 swing and appear to take an 'air shot' but these are just minor graphical glitches and don't really 
 affect the gameplay. Apart from these minor inconveniences the game is flawless. If you really 
 wanted to be critical you could pick on how poor the 'big-name' opponents are in the early stages 
 but if they were any tougher you'd stop playing and anyway, they get much tougher later in the 
 game. 
  
  Other than improving the commentary and the 'face-maker' (which is already excellent) to give a 
 closer approximation of your own face, I honestly don't see how this game can improve beyond this 
 release. Congrats to all at EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detr1
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 10, 2004 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is maddening. I suspect that it was released early to beat the Cristmas rush. This is 
 the first golf game I have owned for the PC. I do like it and it has many bells and whistles but 
 the bugs I am finding are driving me crazy. To name most I can remember:
  
  1. I am currently playing against Tiger and Vijay in a skins game. I am up 10 holes to 2. I have 
 accumulated $500,000 with 6 holes to go. Somehow the game has moved ahead to the 18th hole and 
 it keeps erroring out when we are through with the hole (we should be on the 13th) . It kicks me 
 out of the game after one of us wins the hole EVERYTIME. You invest way too much time in these 
 matches to restart them each time this happens.
  
  2. The opponents have NEVER hit a tree once they hit into the trees. They can hit out of a forest 
 and come out unscathed. You do not have that advantage and must battle all branches.
  
  3. You hit branches you cannot see. I've hit long drives off the tee only to see them hit a branch 
 which wasn't seen from the box (branches which weren't visible appear as you track your balls flight) .
 
  
  4. The background (trees, water, mountains) can be seen on some fairways and green. Try putting 
 when you can ONLY see water on the green and a silhouette of the cup (you cannot see undulations 
 in the green and must putt blindly) .
  
  5. The announcer says HE when a female is playing (I know that's minor) .
  
  6. The announcer 
 says "that's not going to get there" and the ball goes past the hole.
  
  7. You're on the gren putting and the game auto places a wedge in your hand (which you CAN putt 
 with) .
  
  8. The announcer says "that shot will break right" when it breaks left. Be careful to read the 
 green yourself.
  
  Note: I have a very good system with the latest hardware and software. I play numerous games and 
 rarely have any problems. These issues occur seldomly but they DO occur (I probably have 30 hours 
 of gameplay) . All problems can be dealt with except the one that makes the machine crash.
  
  Bottom line: The game is fun but I think it was released too early. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2003 6:22 pm PT
Review:  First things first - I'm a novice golfer and have little experience with golf games. The most time 
 I've spent on any golf game (until now) has been NES Golf. :) 
  
  With that said, I cannot believe how entertaining Tiger Woods 2004 is for me! This game is non-stop 
 fun with a *lot* more "flair" than Links2003. Lots of hype behind Links2004, but I don't have Xbox 
 and until I play it on PC, TW04 is *it* for me!
  
  I didn't think I'd enjoy its build-your-character even half as much as I did. There are more options 
 on how your want your char to look than I thought I'd even want to fiddle with, but it was actually 
 quite fun. And you can completely change your char's appearance at any time, which is nice, although 
 a no-brainer.
  
  Hey, all I can say is "This game is F-U-N!" 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flip807
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2003 4:36 am PT
Review:  Ive been following this series ever since the first release and I must say it just keeps getting 
 better and better. TWPGA2004 really keeps you busy and it gives you the sense that youre earning 
 your keep. The tournament modes are challenging and the world tour is not for the faint of heart. 
 It will indeed give you a challenge and you really have to play from tee to green just like you 
 would in real life. The practice mode is cool, you just knock some balls around at the range and 
 then you have the chance to bet on your skills with a random opponent in random outings such as 
 putting, chipping or driving or all around challenges like best approach etc. The fact that you 
 can completely customize your golfer is a plus as well. Did I mention graphics? The graphics are 
 superb. Good luck trying to find the jaggies here. EA has earned their fee for the game this time 
 for sure and I look forward to the next installment of this series. After all it is Tiger Woods 
 name so they know they have to make it more than just another golf sim. What I would like to see 
 in the future is much more commentary like another discs worth and maybe even some sort of trick 
 shot mode where you can learn how to bounce the ball around on the club face, hit backwards etc. 
 Keep up the good work and Ill see ya on the links next year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
