-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tigerwoodspgatour07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More challenging than the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions.
 Best create-a-character around.
 Gameplay is as enjoyable as ever.
 Plenty of licensed golfers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not a whole lot different than 06.
 Progression through the game is done at a snail's pace.
 David Feherty and Gary McCord have worn out their welcome.
 No course editor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 250 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Oct 10, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's very little that's truly new in Tiger Woods 07, but it's still a good game. 

  With Electronic Arts focusing its energy and resources on next-gen consoles, there hasn't been 
 a whole lot to look forward to with this year's crop of sports games on the PC. Rather than add 
 radical new gameplay ideas or revamped visuals, the developer seems to be content to simply toss 
 in a few new game types or subtle control changes, and then send the games off to the factory. 
 Such is the case with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. It has different courses and a few new play modes 
 this year, but ultimately, little has changed.  

           Tiger Woods 07 is just as enjoyable as 06, which was just as enjoyable as 05, which was 
 just as enjoyable as....     

  There's certainly no shortage of ways to occupy yourself with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. You can 
 select from a number of different match and scoring modes, including stroke play, match play, skins, 
 practice, stableford, alternate shot, scramble, and four-ball. New this year are bloodsome and 
 greensome matches, both of which are team-based best-ball events. After you and your teammate hit 
 your shots in greensome, you get to pick which ball you're going to play; in bloodsome, your opponent 
 will choose which lie you'll use. If your interests lie in more-traditional golf, the PGA Tour 
 season, which has more depth on the PC than on consoles, will offer you plenty of challenge. You 
 can start all the way at bottom as a no-name weekend hack, and eventually work your way through 
 Q school to the PGA.  

  Most of the new events this year are designed around multiplayer play, though you can play them 
 against the CPU in team tour. Team tour replaces last year's ridiculous time traveling rivals mode. 
 Now, rather than going back through time to play golf, you'll travel the world, taking on fictitious 
 golfers and PGA professionals. As the name implies, team tour revolves around team play and not 
 just the exploits of your created golfer. As you win events in team tour, you're able to add vanquished 
 foes to your team and replace less talented team members with better golfers. Unlike on the PlayStation 
 2 and Xbox, you can't upgrade your teammates' abilities after wins. You do earn points for yourself, 
 which makes this the best place to upgrade your golfer before heading out on tour.  

  If you grow tired of playing solo, you can head online for a greater challenge. There are daily 
 tournaments, as well as alternate game modes, such as skins, scramble, four-ball, alternate shot, 
 and the skills competition. For the most part, everything ran smoothly when playing online, and 
 being able to play while your opponents are playing really speeds up a round. There's a small amount 
 of ESPN integration, but it's limited to a ticker that runs across the bottom of the screen, short 
 text news stories, and brief ESPN Radio SportsCenter updates every 20 minutes. These features are 
 available only if you're in an online lobby.  

  The thing that makes these game modes so addictive year in and year out is the ability to create 
 a golfer and make him the greatest golfer on the planet. Tiger's unrivaled character creation mode 
 is back and is as deep as ever. There are subtle changes to the process this year, but by and large, 
 it's the same as in Tiger Woods 06. If realism's what you want, you'll love that it's a breeze 
 to create a golfer in your spitting image, and you're limited only by your imagination when it 
 comes to making zany, off-the-wall characters. Should you grow tired of your golfer's appearance, 
 you can go back and change it at any time, or simply purchase the brown paper bag from the pro 
 shop and stick it on his noggin. After completing a round or challenge, you're given points for 
 individual attributes, based on your performance. These points can then be used to upgrade your 
 golfer's skills. You'll also earn money for your wins, which lets you purchase new clothes and 
 equipment. The more expensive the gear, the better it is, but here there are no equipment modifiers 
 to worry about.  

  If you just want to stick to the pros, there are 21 professional golfers (and host of created characters) 
 in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. The list includes the likes of Tiger Woods, Stuart Appleby, John Daly, 
 Jim Furyk, Retief Goosen, Vijay Singh, and Mike Weir, among others. For the first time, there are 
 two LPGA golfers to pick from -- Natalie Gulbis and Annika Sorenstam. There are just 12 courses in 
 the PC version of the game -- far less than the 21 that are included on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox. 
 A number of courses return from last year, but there are some noteworthy additions -- Aviara, Riviera, 
 The National, The K Club, and the ocean course at Kiawah Island. There's no course-designing tool 
 in the game, and at the time of this review there is no course editor available for download on 
 the game's home page. Resourceful players will find a large number of downloadable courses available 
 on third-party sites, but these courses aren't officially supported. On consoles, the "dream course" 
 feature lets you put together a course using holes from any of the courses in the game, but even 
 that underwhelming tool is absent here.  

          Creating your own golfer is still one of the game's highlights.     

  As for how the 
 game plays -- it's as enjoyable as ever, but you'd be hard-pressed to tell the difference between 
 Tiger Woods 06 and Tiger Woods 07. The Tiger Woods series has never been thought of as particularly 
 challenging on consoles; the same cannot be said for the PC. Because your golfer doesn't start 
 off with the ability to perform certain shots, it's quite a bit more challenging. You'll have to 
 take lessons to learn how to hit a flop shot or a bump and run, put spin on the ball, and perform 
 a power shot. It can be frustrating to not have all of these abilities initially available, but 
 there's no question that you'll become a better video golfer for it. Lessons are unlocked by applying 
 skills points to your golfer, but there's no clear way to determine how many points you need to 
 spend to unlock lessons.  

      

  It's nice to have a challenge, but there a number of times when the game is more frustrating than 
 it is challenging. Many areas of a course that normally wouldn't be out of bounds in real life 
 are designated as such in the game. As a result, shots that are near the water, but still on dry 
 land, are often deemed unplayable. On the other hand, there are other instances where you'd want 
 the ball to be considered unplayable, but it's not, and you're left to hack away at the ball in 
 the brush. As if it weren't difficult enough to hit the ball out of foliage, an invisible force 
 field surrounds trees and plants, making them even more difficult to contend with. It's also curious 
 that the angle of a ball's lie doesn't have much, if any, effect on its trajectory.  

          The light bloom and depth of field effects are just a tad overdone.     

  There are 
 a number of different control schemes. Veterans of the series on consoles will be right at home 
 with the analog stick shot control, which works by pulling down on the stick to start your swing 
 and then pushing forward to strike the ball. Because the swing is so fast on the PC, the analog 
 swing isn't nearly as satisfying as it is on consoles, but it technically works fine. The mouse 
 is used for two different control schemes. "Trueswing" control has you pull the mouse toward you 
 to initiate your backswing, and then move it forward to swing through the ball. An alternate method 
 where you move the mouse right to left is also available. The trueswing controls manage to be easy 
 to learn, responsive, and fun. You can also use the mouse for the more traditional two-click or 
 three-click timing-based swing, but after using either of the other methods this feels boring and 
 unsatisfying. On the greens, Tiger 07 strikes a nice balance with a putting system that's easy 
 to learn, but tough to master. Instead of caddy tips or the ideal putt cam from the console versions, 
 the only tool you have available to help you sink a putt is a colored grid overlay. If you're playing 
 a round with announcers, they'll give you helpful advice on which way the putt will break. This 
 method works quite well, though it would be nice to have beads that move along the grid (like in 
 the console versions) to help you read the undulations of the greens better. Having a little more 
 control over the power of your putt when using the analog or trueswing controls would have been 
 particularly helpful when the greens are dry, since it's so easy to blow a putt right past the 
 pin and off the green.  

  Tiger 07 looks virtually identical to Tiger 06, which is to say that it looks quite nice, but also 
 that the visuals are showing their age in spots. Both the created characters and the professional 
 golfers look good, if not a bit cartoonish. The golfers each have a unique swing, which makes them 
 not only look different but also play different. The team tour mode is a great way to experience 
 this because you're often playing with as many as four different golfers in one round. Courses 
 also look very nice. Vibrant colors, crisp textures, and little touches, such as flocks of birds 
 flying over the green and flowing waterfalls, make each course beautiful. From a technical standpoint, 
 the frame rate is mostly steady, but it does hiccup from time to time -- especially with all the 
 graphic accoutrements enabled. Even if they aren't affecting the frame rate, you'll probably want 
 to turn a few of the effects off -- particularly the light bloom and depth of field. Neither effect 
 looks good, and they're both used too liberally. The camera is rarely a problem, but it can be 
 difficult to get a good view when you're among trees. Owners of widescreen monitors will be disappointed 
 to learn that there's no widescreen display option.  

          Team tour replaces last year's rivals mode.     

  Most of the audio in Tiger Woods 
 07 sounds good -- or as good as can be expected from a golf game. The crowds are lively and react 
 with enthusiasm to a great shot. David Feherty and Gary McCord are back and seemingly have nothing 
 new to say. The commentary plays it too straight in a game that's otherwise full of personality. 
 At least they are helpful here, giving you much-needed information on the path your putts will 
 take. For the most part, their observations are accurate, though they'll occasionally praise you 
 for hitting the ball in the rough and chastise you for what ends up being a perfectly good shot. 
 Should you choose to forgo the announcers, there are lots of ambient noises to listen to instead. 
 You'll hear birds chirping, planes flying overhead, and on Pebble Beach, the sea crashing into 
 the cliffs. The included soundtrack is nothing to write home about.  

  Tiger Woods 07 is a good game, but it's so similar to last year's version that the question "Does 
 this game really need to be a yearly release?" should be asked. You get a few new golfers and courses, 
 but the whole package is roughly the equivalent of an expansion disc. If you own Tiger Woods 06, 
 there's little reason to pick up Tiger Woods 07, unless you're just dying for new content, minimal 
 as it may be. That said, if you've never played a Tiger Woods game before, or you've been away 
 from the series for a few years, Tiger Woods 07 is well worth a purchase.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty sad, and tired game. The graphics are pretty good, but nothing special, the sounds 
 are dated and the I'm really tired of the same on commentators. The game play hasn't changed in 
 years, and though it's easier to get into the game, it seems pretty straight forward, but some 
 of the camera angles seems odd, and it's really hard to make a good decision on the next shot. 
 
  There is just not enough to this game to make it fun to play, there isn't that many courses, and 
 there is no course builder at all. This game has pretty much taken a few steps back just like most 
 of EA titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods pga tour 07 is one of the best golf games I have ever played. The graphics is awsome. 
 If you like golf you will like this game. Ea sports games were always good games. It has a good 
 choice to make your golfer like you in game face. I give this game a 10 out of 10 rating. I spended 
 alot of time playing this game. I have also played this game online at ea. com. Golf is one of my 
 favorite sports. Also this game is amazing. This is my 5th review that I have written. I hope that 
 you liked my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranthon007
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I like the Tiger Woods PGA Tour Series. The game face and graphics as well as the equipment and 
 RPG ability leveling is quite cool. My biggest gripe with the game is the differences between intermediate 
 level and advanced. On intermediate I can shoot about 9 to 10 under per 18 holes. I usually crush 
 the PGA Tour opponents by 20-30 strokes. But put it on advanced and I loose by 20-30 strokes. There 
 should be less of a difference between these two levels and expert should be set as advanced. Other 
 than that a course editor and more courses period would be great. 2 of the 12 courses are impossible 
 on any level (Central Park and Emerald Dragon) . After playing for several weeks the same courses 
 get boring. In sum a course editor that is easy to use would be awsome as well as more control 
 over the difficulty setting (i. e. make the NPCs play better not make every shot harder and less 
 forgiving) . I dont care about a graphics update seeing that I am poor and will not have the money 
 for a new system for a couple of years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicholasdallen
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  Initially it's tempting to give Tiger Woods PGA Tour '07 a good review merely based on the vast 
 improvement of Team Tour mode over last years. However, '07 has numerous problems that temper the 
 success of the release.
  
  First of all it's buggy. Just go over to the EA forums to see how frustrated people many people 
 get just to try and get the game running. Once you do get it running some bugs also crop up.
  
  The audio commentary suffers from the same bugs it has for years. Announcers will often make 
 inaccurate statements about This is fairly minor bug, but the fact that it has gone so long without 
 being corrected is just embarrassing.
  
  The A. I. has not seen any improvement either. It seems as though there was little testing to see 
 if the A. I. could play some of the new courses competently.
  
  Additionally TW lacks the key utilities that PC golfers have come to expect as standard in games: 
 a career (season) editor and a course editor. These omissions severely limit the reply value of 
 the release, particularly with the limited number of courses the PC version ships with.
  
  Finally there is just an all out lack of innovation. Browsing forums I've seen users requesting 
 things like caddies, improved game mechanics, larger galleries, etc. It seems like every year EA 
 comes out touting a new game mode or new special feature, but really a lot of golfers just want 
 a bug-free game with solid tour mode. In the five years that they have been unrivaled in the Golf 
 market they have failed to deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Completely amazing.
  
  Graphics are beautiful, gameplay is terrific. I could play this all day and night. With other users, 
 I hear that the swing part of the game is the most frustration part. I have one thing to say Track-Ball 
 Mouse !!!!
  
  The track-ball mouse is the cure all for the Tiger Woods PGA Tour Swing frustration issue. Complete 
 natural flow of the swing. Gotta love it. I love the tutorials also that are able to be unlocked 
 during your gameplay experience. Granted its normally 3 tour games too late when they offer the 
 lesson to your character, but fun nonetheless.
  
  If you get the chance to pick up this episode of the Tiger Woods series, definitley get it. You 
 will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aygol
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, actually nothing changed from 06, 05, and 04. It's still the same. Well of course it has 
 some good graphics, and good gameplay, but it's a complete disappointment. The commentary is really 
 boring, like you always hear that he says What do you have? 
  Actually there is no music in this game, and all you can hear is a boring techno song, and it has 
 no end.
  Graphics are pretty good, and Gameplay is still very good, and as you can see, I gave them an 8.
 
  About the sound and music, I should give it less than 3, but I gave it a 3.
  For the value, I don't recommend to buy this game if you have 2005, 2004, or 2003. So, Value should 
 be zero, but I gave it a 3.
  I think I should rate it less than 4.7 but it's not a bad rating for this game. So, I gave it 4.7, 
 and rate it as a poor game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Tiger's latest game for all current-gen systems is, as you are probably expecting, remarkably similar 
 to last year's effort. In fact, the developers at EA seem to have got to the stage where they can 
 only make the game feel new, by removing perfectly good game modes and replacing them with new 
 ones - for better or worse. What's more, without new rosters to worry about (a few new players 
 on the tour isn't quite the same as the changes that happen in the English Premier League each 
 season) , unless new courses are added, these yearly releases seem more and more pointless; although 
 I'm sure this is a view on which EA differs.
  
  As ever you get to create your ideal golfer (or circus freak) , making him or her as close a resemblance 
 to yourself as you feel comfortable with, while obviously trimming off a few pounds and adding 
 a few inches to your height. Once you've tweaked every inch of your appearance, you need to spend 
 your meagre experience points to give your player some basic skills, and then you're ready to take 
 to the Links.
  
  Perhaps EA knows that the Tiger Woods series has been on the end of some criticism in the past 
 over lack of new content, as the developers have seen fit to highlight every new addition to the 
 game. Seven new game modes are on offer this year, the biggest of which being 'Team Tour' which 
 is a direct replacement for last year's 'Rivals' mode. Tiger has assembled a team that's wiping 
 the floor with the competition all over the world, and your goal is to assemble your own team, 
 to eventually take on and beat Tiger's. Thankfully you get to play as each team member, so you 
 don't have to rely on the AI.
  
  You'll need to recruit three players in total, and to do so you need to prove yourself in a number 
 of challenge events. Winning challenges unlocks players, who can then be added to your team. 19 
 Team Tour challenges are available, and by the end you'll have to be on top form to be in with 
 a chance of winning. The Team Tour will cover most of the game modes Tiger Woods 07 offers, but 
 each mode is also accessible via the main menu, making for a huge selection of single and multiplayer 
 offerings. These include the lengthy PGA Tour mode, skill-based challenges in the Skill Zone, standard 
 stroke and match play, and a couple of new modes ideal for playing with friends.
  
  Online play is available for PlayStation 2, Xbox and PC owners and lets you compete in the modes 
 available in the offline game. It's here where you'll be able to really test out your created character, 
 who hopefully will have earned a few skill upgrades before you venture into the online world. Skill 
 points are awarded during general play, and then can be exchanged for skills in a number of areas 
 key to your player's strength as a golfer.
  
  On consoles swinging a club is as simple as it's ever been, but you get two methods to choose from. 
 The simplest is the standard left stick swing, which handles all hook and slice, as well as power, 
 in the same movement. In this standard swing mode the right stick handles where you strike the 
 ball, allowing you to hit the ball higher or lower than usual. The new Alternative swing moves 
 hook and slice to the right stick, and while this might be preferable for some players, I found 
 the standard set up more than adequate. Extra power can be added to your swing by tapping a button 
 during your back swing, and spin can be added while the ball is in flight, via a similar button 
 tapping method.
  
  On the PC Tiger Woods has always been more of a simulation than its console brothers, and this 
 year is no different. The mouse-driven swing mechanic allows for greater control and the game as 
 a whole is far less forgiving. Game modes are largely very similar, with the focus being the new 
 Team Tour, but a big emphasis is also placed on the PGA Tour mode, which is slicker than that found 
 in the console versions.
  
  The recently released ProStroke Golf demonstrated how a more advanced control system can work on 
 consoles, and playing Tiger Woods 07 does feel like a slight step back. At the same time, the controls 
 have a simplicity to them that makes the game easy to play, and there is level of depth to the 
 control and shot choice for the more serious players. What Tiger lacks in precision control, however, 
 it more than makes up for in presentation.
  
  Tiger Woods 07 is as slick as ever, and while the engine is looking a little rougher than it did 
 a few years back, it's still a solid looking game. Licensed real world Tour players look great 
 and the 21 courses (12 in the PC version) are all modelled excellently, but colours are a little 
 pale, giving the game a slightly washed out look. The usual fancy effects for certain shots and 
 situations return, although the majority of these can be disabled from the options menu. On the 
 PC the visuals are head and shoulders above those in the console games, and the courses are significantly 
 more complex. Colours are richer, textures are more detailed, and lighting is far superior, making 
 for a game that resembles EA's next-gen offering. A solid selection of EA Trax and some perfectly 
 adequate in-game audio and commentary round off a well put together package.
  
  There's no getting around the fact that Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2007 is more than slightly similar 
 to last year's game, and the game before that, with a handful of new modes and courses. At the 
 same time, though, it's a great package. Newcomers to the series will find a great deal to play 
 through, but if you own last year's game, think carefully about what you expect to find in the 
 new game before laying down the cash.
  
  There just isn't enough new content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshualbh105
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, i am a soccer and golf fan, but if i have to choose, i would rather play golf than football. 
 So thats why Tiger Woods PGA TOUR is always in my want list as my 1st choice, above Fifa 07, WE 
 and Fifa manager. And you can say, i rushed to the shop to purchase this game when i learned it 
 was released for sale.
  
  BUT! This game proves to be extremely disappointing not only because of the same, usual game play, 
 the commentary is getting boring! You can almost predict what the commentaters are going to say 
 or react! The PGA TOUR is a good feature to add in in last year's Tiger 06, but there is nothing 
 new in it this year!
  
  Team Tour is boring! I feel that it has taken a step back to Tiger Woods 2004 on xbox when you 
 go around the world, trying to beat golfers before you can beat Tiger and trust me, its really 
 boring and EA think by allowing you to add golfers into your squad, EA think it will be a big feature 
 to add in this year, but to me, it is just a copyright of a previous Tiger.
  
  The computer player sucks! When i control or play as Tiger, he can drive the ball 300 over yards 
 easily, but once i use my golfer to go head to head with me, or even partner him the Cup on PGA 
 TOUR mode, he sucks! He just drives the ball 240 yards with a DRIVER! And i am out driving him 
 by MILES! This is not only Tiger but all the other CPU PGA TOUR PLAYERS! You don't see any of them 
 hitting a Driver 200-250 yards consistently on tour right?
  
  Overall, this game needs a MAJOR TOUCH UP! I think they better contact the department that produces 
 Fifa manager and Fifa 07 and ask for tips on how to improve this old and boring gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leerogers00
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  hard frustrating... good gamplay could be better... did anyone suffer from the game being difficult?? 
 i always lose by 1 hole gets on my nerves ..... please find cheats gamespot, too hard for children 
 to play which is nt a gd thing to do when kids enjoy golf games they should make an easier gameplay 
 .... thx ea for making a crappy game hahahaha ahaha ahaha ahaha ahaah ahaahhaa haha aahhaa ahaha 
 ha trying to fill in minimum 100 words ... o yeah and aint it a bit long that if u play 18 holes 
 and lose u have to do it all again!!! its too long should b shorter or at least giv u more of a 
 chance hopefully 08 will b much better and more thought about because it is nt up to ea standards 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rarndt01
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  TW 07 is a real letdown for PC TW golf players. First off, the game comes on DVD which means much 
 slower loading times. Starting up the game is a long wait. The biggest problems is lack of attention 
 on graphics for the courses in the game. They just are not as stunning as the courses displayed 
 in the Xbox 360 console version. They are just so so. And I have an excellent video card for my 
 PC. It is a Radeon X1600 with 256 MB capabilty. Iset the game res at6 1600 X 1200 as well. Still 
 the graphics are just average. The gameplay is works well. It is smooth using the trueswing feature 
 with the mouse and you can choose just how you want to hit your ball as well and not just the club 
 selection. But there are limited pro golfers to choose from? Phil Micolson, Ben Hogan and Jack 
 Nicolaus for example are sadly absent. No golf game should be without them. My chief complaint 
 is loading time for the DVD game to actually start up. I dont know what the problem is? Does it 
 have to connect first to a online web site to get an ok first or what? I usually wait three whole 
 minutes for the game to actually start up which is really frustrating. Do I recommend the TW 07 
 over TW 06? Not really. TW 06 is the better game overall. Don't run out and buy this new one until 
 you can get it at a reduced price somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpicone
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  A total regression from TG 06. The graphics are absolutely bad as compared to the previous version. 
 I am very disappointed with this product and will never purchase again until I see a demo version. 
 A true waste of money. You would think that as technology improves so would the graphics in this 
 game, but they are horrible. There's no course architect and they eliminated the spectacular shot 
 screen that makes the screen smaller whenever a great shot is made. It's a shame they don't have 
 any competition which is what this product needs to force an improvement. Don't waste your money 
 on this piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  After playing all the Tiger Woods series, this one i have to say was a total joke. A good graphics 
 card is required. I have a 7900GT so the streaming was very smooth. Although if the trees blow in 
 the wind or not has no bearing on my score so as long as the graphics aren't horrible the game 
 plays fine. Other then the game front label saying TW 07 you would think its 06 since nothing new 
 is added. The team mode? EA couldn't get networking or multiplay down if their jobs depended on so 
 that feature i wouldn't really count on. Same courses, same golfers.
  
  One thing i was very disappointed about was the XBOX version seems to be the one where all the 
 work was done. More golfers, way more courses, alot of work was done to that version. PC Gamers, save 
 your cash don't even rent, borrow or steal this. Maybe this will teach EA to put some effort in PC 
 games and quit ripping us off with none or little content (NHL series also) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r0nburgundy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Although I love the new games, control options and overall feel TW07 has, I am very disappointed 
 in the graphics. TW07 is the Madden of golf games and it seems like EA doesn't care about the TW 
 franchise. The control options are great, but with an optic mouse or a gamepad can be very frustrating. 
 The menus and character building are still there but I think TW 05 or TW06 covered it best. Still 
 very satisfying. The graphics are the worst I've seen in any computer game I've played in the last 
 2 years. The childerens/learning games my 5 year old daughter plays have better graphics. The trees 
 have no realism, they don't sway or move with the wind, and the buildings hardly have any texture. 
 Cartpaths appear to just be a strip of grey color across the course. I love this game and this 
 franchise, but every round I play I get depressed from the lack of effort put into the appearance 
 and overall graphics on the courses. By the way, there are many bugs, but mostly in online play. 
 The bugs are minor and other than online play you don't see them too often. EA please don't give 
 up on tthis game or the TW customers. TW08 must have next-gen graphics, if not I will have to give-up 
 on one of my favorite games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpimps
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: What Can I really say the gameplay is top notch like it is every year. The game is easy 
 to get into and is very fun from the start.
  
  Graphics: The visuals haven't changed all too much from last year, but are still solid on the PC. 
 You are able to turn graphics to max with okay video card (128 mb) and it looks pretty nice.
  
  Sound: Sound is good, with the sound of the ball hitting the drivers, and the ball rattling 
 in the cup after a long put, although I felt like the menu screens were a bit quiet.
  
  Value: Probably the best EA Sports title for the PC this year, with the create a golfer mode so 
 in depth and so good, I can see people playing this for many hours. Overall: Another year of great 
 golf for EA Sports 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k822
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  TW 07 is a lot like last years game. It plays a little more difficult than last year however so 
 you won't be shooting 49 at tpc sawgrass your first round. The true swing with the mouse seems 
 a little less forgiving this year so it is more difficult to his perfect shots. The graphics are 
 improved over last year, but not significantly. The gameplay itself is still pretty much the same 
 as its been the last few years. The team challenge part is a good addition with different game 
 types other than matchplay and stroke play. Game face is still amazing. The biggest disappointment 
 is that there are only 12 courses on the pc version! True golf fans will really enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlrisk
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 13, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Review for PC Version: Okay if you've never played Tiger Woods before you might think 2007 is a 
 decent game. If you played 2006 then 2007 will leave you wondering what EA spent a year working 
 on. It certainly wasn't this game. It comes complete with all the same audio and graphics as 2006. 
 If you wish to be wowed by newness here forget it. They add some courses, some players, and a new 
 team mode, but leave untouched the PGA mode. It seems exactly the same as 2006. You can find what's 
 new about this game in other reviews, let me cover what's the same from 2006. The bugs -- Do you 
 remember having to click on shot target twice in order to get the camera to zoom ahead and show 
 you where your shot will land. Yep, that bug is still here in 2007, when you switch clubs from 
 the driver. The audio -- All the sounds are the same. The same announcer comments from 2006, leaves 
 you wishing they could have put some effort into recording something new. The graphics -- Nothing 
 has changed here. The courses in 2006 are the same in 2007. I don't mind playing the same courses, 
 but how about exerting some effort and changing the seasons and the weather. How about playing 
 the TPC Sawgrass in fall rather than the eternal summer. The clunky elements of the menu system -- 
 Why when I finish a course and earn experience must I go all the way into the Player Menu to spend 
 that experience on new skills. The trophy balls -- Yep all the same. And the list goes on. Let me 
 mention two particular graphics problems. First, you need to have 3D enabled to play. Second -- and 
 this I have found no solution for -- the play mode has about a half-inch of screen on my 17 monitor 
 that is not displayed. The Menu popup is only half displayed as a result. Still playable, but no 
 acceptable for a $39.99 game. It's as if the game is not adjusting to my monitor's resolution. 
 I've switched from 1280x1024 to EA; s recommended 1024x768 and it did not solve the problem. This 
 is a new bug for 2007, so you can take comfort in the fact that they tinkered with something graphical. 
 So will I play it. Yes, I'll play it, because it's the best golf game out there, but I'm awfully 
 disappointed at what was not done to this game. You might want to wait for 2008 or at least until 
 it hits the $19.99 rack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  the graphics, sound and make up are just excellent. in my opinion i don't see much changes from 
 pga 06 with regards to the make-up but still the gameplay is just great. golf is a sport i hate 
 watching but playing tiger woods pga tour 07 helps me appreciate the sport it a little.
  
  there isn't much i can say about the game the only thing is it's great. you may find it tedious 
 at first but as u play more you'll get to love it.
  
  trust me try it. i know u won't regret it. Tiger woods pga tour 07 just ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!. i give 
 it a 8 out of 10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
