-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tigerwoodspgatour2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More control options than ever before.
 The challenge missing in the console game is well intact here.
 Gorgeous environments, fine-looking player models.
 Game features retooled for the PC are a lot more fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game demands some hefty PC horsepower.
 Learning curve is not as forgiving as Tiger 06.
 Periodic wonky animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 30, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 7.9, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 675 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Sep 20, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiger 06 finds an excellent blend between compelling gameplay, consistent challenge, and enough 
 reward to always keep you engaged. 

  Now  this  is more like it. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 on consoles proved to be an enjoyable golf 
 game, though one that (as in previous years) considerably lacked in challenge. Luckily for the 
 fickle computer-golfing crowd, this is not the case in the PC version of Tiger 06, a game that 
 finds an excellent blend between compelling gameplay, consistent challenge, and enough reward to 
 always keep you engaged.  

          Only in golf can someone look this silly and still have massive game.     

  If you've 
 played Tiger 06 on the Xbox, PlayStation 2, or GameCube this year, you'll already be familiar with 
 many of the features found in the PC game. Rivals mode, PGA Tour mode, and the game face system 
 are all here to be played with to your heart's content. The great news is that each one of these 
 features has been specifically tailored to suit the power and flexibility of the PC environment, 
 and the result is more fun across the board.  

  Take the PGA Tour mode, for example. In the console version, this mode basically consisted of you 
 taking your created golfer through weekly and/or monthly events, playing through multiple courses, 
 and taking on all the PGA Tour pros found in the game. In the PC game, you'll still end up on the 
 PGA Tour, but just as in real life, you'll need to earn your stripes first. Instead of starting 
 out as an already-successful pro, you can take your created golfer and begin as a rank amateur 
 to hook up with your buddies on the weekends to play matches and test your skills on your home 
 course. Match types include your standard match and stroke play, along with more-involved games, 
 such as alternate shot and four-ball varieties. The challenge from your virtual buddies isn't much 
 to worry about, as you'll mostly want to spend your time just getting your stuff together for when 
 you eventually win the hacker tournament and move up to the amateurs, where the competition is 
 considerably stiffer.  

  Accompanying you as you make your way through this mode are a number of explicitly stated goals 
 you'll need to keep up with for each tour you play on. These include such goals as playing a minimum 
 number of events, achieving a certain average score on all rounds, and winning certain tourneys. 
 Beyond that, you're welcome to join in as many events as you like (provided you've got enough cash 
 to pay the entrance fee) .  

  The progression up from the ranks of weekend hacker, through the amateurs, and eventually to the 
 highest echelon in the sport -- the PGA Tour -- feels like a natural evolution that's paralleled nicely 
 with how your created golfer evolves in the game. Once you've fashioned your duffer alter ego using 
 this year's version of the powerful and fun game face tools, it's time to hit the links. Even if 
 you're familiar with the Tiger controls, however, you'll have a long way to go before your golfer 
 can play with the big boys. For one thing, you're pretty much a weakling, so it's tough to hit 
 a drive more than 200 yards in the beginning. Furthermore, specialized shot modifiers, such as 
 "blasts" out of sand traps, bump-and-run or pitch chips, and spin modifiers need to be learned 
 before being incorporated into your game. Just like last year, you can take a number of lessons 
 in specialized shots, which, when completed, will add these controls to your shot arsenal.  

  We love this player evolution feature, both in concept and execution. As a beginning golfer, 
 it makes sense that you would have to earn these kinds of shots through practice and lessons. Of 
 course, experienced Tiger fans may feel at odds with having to go through this kind of rigmarole 
 just to get your game up to speed. Nonetheless, if you can get into the spirit of the concept, 
 it makes each victory you achieve in the game that much more satisfying.  

  Rivals mode, a different spin on the legends mode found in last year's Tiger game, is a centerpiece 
 in Tiger 06, both on the consoles and the PC. And while the basic concept of the mode is the same 
 on both platforms -- you take your created golfer through golf's greatest eras, answering challenges 
 that come from unknowns and PGA legends alike -- once again the execution is substantially different 
 on the PC. Unlike the console games -- which set skills challenges apart from one-on-one matchups 
 (the latter being the only way to progress to a different era) -- Tiger 06 on the PC melds everything 
 together in a more organic fashion.  

          Your stately headquarters in rivals mode will change as you progress through the eras. 
     

  All the challenges that come your way, which are posted on the corkboard of your nicely furnished 
 headquarters (complete with era-specific fixtures) , progress you through the game in one fashion 
 or another, whether by increasing your overall rank (which can happen if you win a difficult challenge) 
 or by simply awarding you experience points that you can tack on to your golfer's attributes. That 
 said, just as in the console game, you still end up facing boss battles against golf icons such 
 as Old Tom Morris and Arnold Palmer. However, this time, these legends aren't as apt to three-putt 
 holes and drive off the tee like elderly women. In fact, most of the "human" competition you'll 
 find in the game tends to be adept on the links, and when you couple that with the uphill player 
 progression and the challenge inherent to the courses, you have a game that consistently keeps 
 you engaged by always forcing you to hone your game so you can shave off a few strokes.     
 

   

  Part of that engaging gameplay comes in the form of the huge variety of controls Tiger 06 offers 
 on the PC. Players weaned on the Links series will appreciate the two- and three-click-swing methods 
 that are still part of the package, while those who want more of a tactile feel in their computer 
 golf will like the two varieties of true-swing control (horizontal and vertical) -- a system that 
 uses your mouse as the virtual club face and the path of your mouse as the virtual swing. Even 
 the console crowd, which is used to using Xbox and/or PS2 controllers, will feel mostly at home 
 on the PC version of Tiger 06, as the game supports the use of Logitech gamepads. Unlike the consoles, 
 however, you won't find a right analog "shape stick" when playing with the gamepad.  

          Think you've got what it takes to challenge golf's greatest? Find out in rivals mode.  
    

  This amount of flexibility and control really sets the PC game apart, as not only can you play 
 Tiger 06 in a number of different ways, but also there are some handy assists to help your game 
 improve as time goes on. An example is the true-swing analyzer, which examines each swing you make 
 with the mouse (including your putts) to give you valuable feedback, including club path, speed, 
 tempo, and impact. As in real life, the vagaries of a golf swing are often simply a matter of inches -- and 
 that's no less true here.  

  All this flexibility thankfully doesn't come to the game at the cost of difficulty, because there's 
 challenge to be found here even at the novice level. As your golfer advances, though, you'll want 
 to step up your game through the difficulty levels until you finally reach expert level, where 
 all assists are off, including the putting green grid, the caddy that automatically suggests your 
 club, and club distance reminders for the sticks in your bag. Expert level is as close to real 
 golf as can be found in the game, and it will likely be the ultimate destination for those select 
 few who enjoy the more masochistic side of the sport.  

  Foursome play is the cornerstone of Tiger 06's online feature set, but unfortunately, to get there 
 you have to navigate the same kind of jumbled online menus found in the Madden PC series, complete 
 with the annoying ESPN license agreement that marks the sports broadcasting network's only appearance 
 in this year's game. Beyond that little bit of ugliness, though, online play in Tiger 06 is a lot 
 of fun. With match types aplenty -- stroke, match, stableford, and so on -- plus the ability to create 
 matches with loads of options, such as side games, variable course conditions, and swing-control 
 types, there's enough to do to keep you very busy over the Internet or with your closet office 
 mates via LAN play. Some match types take longer than others -- scramble comes immediately to mind, 
 especially when playing with nervous Nellies -- but the ready-play option lets you whip through individual 
 holes with up to three other players simultaneously.  

  If Tiger 06 doesn't enjoy a huge visual boost from Tiger 2005, it's only because last year's game 
 was so handsome to begin with. With graphical details boosted (assuming your PC can handle the 
 load) , this is one fine-looking game, especially the course environments. Once again, the finely 
 tuned graphical details that golfing fans expect are well intact here, so you'll see everything 
 from windswept grass when battling out of the high rough, to convincing water effects and elegant 
 lighting that create a sense of "place" to the game. This convincing effect is evident all the 
 way down to the weather in the game. So, for instance, tee off on a dull, gray morning at Pebble 
 Beach in the game, and just try to feel optimistic about your chances for the round.  

  These gorgeous graphics do come at something of a price, however. Even when playing on our powerful 
 gaming rig, we noticed periodic frame hiccups, some so severe as to mess up the timing of our shots. 
 Some odd swing animations -- such as a golfer's hind leg being stuck at an odd angle -- sneak in periodically 
 as well, but for the most part, if you've got the PC horsepower, it will be put to good graphical 
 use in Tiger 06. For those lacking in the spec department, well, your mileage may vary.  

          Just as in real golf, there's plenty of equipment to buy in Tiger 06. Unlike in real golf, 
 however, these clubs will probably help you improve your game.     

  Highlights on the sound front include the commentary of David Feherty and David McCord, but then 
 again, this is nothing new for Tiger fans, who have come to be used to the witty repartee and easy 
 accord between the two commentators. McCord's comments on the green layouts are especially useful 
 when playing with the putting grid turned off, as he's apt to give you important break information 
 if you listen closely. Other sounds are just as serviceable as those found in the console games, 
 though it would have been nice to hear that magical and musical "ping" sound off the tee a bit 
 more often.  

  If you have last year's version of Tiger and are wondering if this year's game is worth it, the 
 answer is yes. With plenty of control options, new courses, and compelling play both off- and online, 
 Tiger 06 challenges you to build your golf game up from the ground floor. If your choice is between 
 the PC and console versions of Tiger 06, there's simply no choice. You must go with the PC game, 
 which tempers the user-friendly learning curve of the console versions with enough long-term challenge 
 to keep you hacking well into the future.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tnation
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:15 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2006 provides an interesting take on the traditional golf games from the franchise. 
 
  
  The year specific mode (Rivals Mode) is clearly the highlight, exposing the player to many different 
 themes and challenges which keep it interesting and stimulating.
  Character creation/customization is almost unlimited (for instance I was able to make a perfect 
 Vic Macke) combined with the plethora of clothing and equipment you unlock gives you hundreds of 
 options for evolving gameplay and a unique look.
  There is a staggering amount of gameplay hours in this title, and if you can pick it up reasonably 
 priced I'd highly recommend it, just playing through Rivals Mode and a bit of the PGA Tour, I culminated 
 almost 1500 holes played.
  The gameplay is reasonably challenging (though at times does become a bit monotonous and easy) 
 with Rivals Mode forcing you to use primitive, less accurate and powerful equipment, as well as 
 constantly changing weather conditions and a widespread opponent difficulty, leading you to occasionally 
 replay a hole due to a stray stroke, or a lucky putt from an opponent etc. However, to begin with 
 it's quite difficult due to your beginning golfer being an absolute amateur, hitting inaccurately 
 and inconsistently right through to when you have high skills, and equipment and routinely drive 
 350 metres, and birdie or eagle most holes.
  
  In summary, the pros:
  - EA naming rights
  - Huge gameplay
  - Lots of variety in holes, opponents, game modes etc
 
  - Huge player customisation
  - Solid golf mechanic (don't settle for 3 click golf games)
  - Nicely rounded package with voices (I particularly enjoy David and Gary in commentary) sound 
 effects, graphics and gameplay
  
  Cons:
  - If you're not a golf enthusiast, this game could literally be TOO LONG for you.
  - Golf mechanics 
 can still sometimes shaft you (for example it is almost impossible to do a perfect power shot) 
 as well as camera angles freaking out sometimes
  - Gameplay can become monotonous in a fashion.
  
  Overall it's an enjoyable game that represents 
 the golf genre solidly, providing a huge gameplay experience, that is fun and challenging, bolstered 
 by EA's ownership of the naming rights meaning you're playing real life people and competing in 
 real life tournaments for that extra realism. Pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  this is simply a great golf video game. the last one i had was tiger woods 2001 and this improves 
 on that game in so many ways. the swinging of your golf club is mouse controlled instead of that 
 crappy power meter thing. you just click your left mouse button and pull back your mouse and push 
 forward. it comes very naturally. i have already hit a ball 300 yards! another thing that keeps 
 you involved in the game in awards. you get them every time you do something worthwhile. like get 
 a birdie put and stuff like that. this is a totally great game for golfers and non-golfers. it 
 is pretty easy to learn. and runs on just about any computer that is newer than about 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booga1134
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 4, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  I like TW05 on PS2 much better. I'm using a logitech DA controller and its really sloppy as far 
 as controlling your swing, the old mouse works better. I wish there were more courses to play also. 
 I picked TPC Sawgrass as my home course and I must've played it 30 times during my Hack year. I 
 missed manually controlling my spin as opposed to the slide rule used in this version. It seems 
 like sand shots are kinda easy too. It can be argued by me that the PS2 looks better also. All 
 in all a good game for a good price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekiller_fx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is great... I'm not really a golf lover, but this game is really fun, it worth the price, 
 and the pga tour it's great, I have beaten all records already XXXD. maybe you could find the swing 
 technique a bit hard to learn, but it isn't
  that hard, and learning it sometimes gets frustrating, but when you learn it, you would love playing 
 it for hours.
  The graphics are excellent, you can almost feel the wing in your face, the trees, the sand, even 
 the rough are incredibly realistic; the attributes and all the EA Sports Game Face is really good, 
 you can get a lot of woods, irons, etc., and if you don't know anything about golf, you could learn 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 came out as expected from the EA Sports game mill. While searching for 
 something to empty the Target giftcard my mom gave me for Christmas, I spotted Tiger Woods PGA 
 Tour 06 reduced to $9.99, perfect , I thought - and grabbed one.
  
  I have been playing Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 almost non-stop since then. Typing this review is the 
 first thing I've used my home computer for since getting this game. I'm developing carpal tunnel 
 syndrome. ;-)
  
  Gameplay
  
  Wow, this is a fantastic golf game. You can choose the 3-click style of NES Golf if you like, or 
 you can even have a simpler 2-click if you aren't much of a gamer, but I wouldn't know what those 
 modes are really like, because the mouse control a la Golden Tee is just a fantastic way to golf 
 on a PC, and I've never considered using those other modes.
  
  Graphics
  
  I don't know... The color didn't seem quite right for some reason. The models seem a bit dim and 
 the detail on the models is nothing special. No HDR apparently. The animations are well done and 
 add alot to the game. When you hit one to the pin, the screen closes to widescreen and a great 
 swoosh lets you know you've done something special.
  
  Sound
  
  Environmental sounds are fine. Sometimes if seems a bit odd that my player never speaks. A yeah! 
 once and a while would've been nice. My avatar is a lump of silent meat that can really crush a 
 drive.
  
  Value
  
  20 hours and I haven't even played all the courses yet! For ten bucks, you cannot find more value.
 
  
  Tilt
  
  I love this game. It's the best golf game I've ever played. Next year I'll have to try Tiger Woods 
 PGA Tour 07 :-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucianoJ
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I do not play golf, or waste time watching it on TV. As an owner of an Xbox and a PC, I do recognize 
 the quality of the Tiger Woods series. I've bought it a couple of times before. Between the eye 
 candy and the ease of gameplay with just a mouse, Tiger Woods 06 is a game you must have. If you 
 are a golf fan, don't buy this game expecting every course and every major name on the tour. Casual 
 fans and gamers will be satisfied with what EA has included. It looks great on my PC (Dell Dimension 
 8300, 3.2 GHz Pentium 4, GeForce 5700LE, 2 gig of RAM) . This is the second year-old EA game I've 
 picked up CHEAP at Target. (NHL06 was the other) Why buy the new version for full price if I can't 
 be sure if my aging PC can handle it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonigamon
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  I started having golf lessons and the got the game, it helped me a lot to understand the rules 
 of the game and also to know its glossary.
  
  About the game, it looks very realistic and you can play a lot of different strokes, the play fields 
 are like the real ones.
  
  It looks that is not going to end never, because you can play the different eras and the different 
 competitions to finally play the PGA, and then you can change the difficulty and start again. As 
 well as other PC games, it is not very easy to play with friends, but we tried sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmw
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS AN EXELENT GAME, WITH EXELENT GRAPHICS AND SOUND. THE PRO PLAYER CHARACTERS ARE VERY SIMILAR 
 TO THE REALLITY, SPECIALLY TIGER WOODS, OBVIOUSLY. I HAVE NOT TEST THE ONLINE GAMING YET. IN THE 
 CUSTOMIZATION CHARACTER YOU CAN DO YOUR PROFILE WITH A LOT OF CUSTOMIZATION IN THE BODY, FACE, 
 EQUIPMENT, ETC. ITS AMAZING BECAUSE THE EQUIPMENT AND ALL THE PARTS HAVE A BRAND, AND YOU CAN BUY 
 ITEMS WITH THE BRAND OF YOUR INTEREST. THE PEOPLE WHO LIKE TO PLAY GOLF WILL LIKE THE GAME TOO 
 MUCH. ITS SIMPLE TO PLAY, BECAUSE IT HAVE THE DIFERENT SWING MODES. ITS A VERY GOOD GAME. 
  100% RECOMMENDED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigglou55
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive and wonderfully frustrating, shich is right in line with the actual 
 game of golf. Building a golfer from scratch takes some time, but you just don't want to stop playing.... 
 The Commentary get's a bit stale after a bit, and the graphics are great until it starts drawing 
 the crowds. Sounds are good, and the character design area is great. Rivals mode is fun and PGA 
 tour mode is challenging. This game also works great with logitech game pads (I have the cordless 
 rumblepad) . I do have issue with the weather in some of the game modes. It rains WAY too much in 
 the game. Hopefully future patches will address this. All-in-all it's a great game and you should 
 be able to pick it up now for under $20. Well worth the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  There's no denying this is a fun golf game with plenty of options for single and multiplay. Unfortunately 
 even at full graphic detail the bitmaps are too low resolution. Coastlines are giant polygons with 
 stretched bitmaps to represent sand and rocks. The trees look nice at the highest resolution though 
 there aren't enough of them to make the course look real. The biggest graphical drawback is the 
 representations of the greens and grass. All of this looks like a few big flat textures where there 
 really should be lots of moving grass animations and shadowing to represent blades of grass. The 
 graphics are jarring and take you out of the game.
  
  Given games like Far Cry, there's plenty of opportunity to make a game with greenery that looks 
 real on medium to high-spec PC's. I think what happened here is that the game was ported to PC 
 after it was made to the consoles and the they never bothered to make the game look better at the 
 higher resolutions that the PC can do over consoles. Again, this is a great game. The graphics 
 aren't dreadful. They are behind the curve though and you will notice the deficiencies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  the graphics is so props it looks like you're watching a movie. the sound is amazing and the overall 
 features is superb. the controls are ideal for playing i didn't like golf but playing this game 
 makes it interesting. i love how they make all the best known players so relistic it looks just 
 like them they even included their unique character. can't wait to see what tiger woods pga 2007 
 has to offer. a great game. try it if you don't believe me. you'll love it. this game deserves 
 a 9 out of 10. again i say very great game for ea games who always releases the games you expect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TallicaFan2005
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up for $20 at CircuitCity along with a Logitech Rumblepad 2 (very great controller) . 
 The first thing I noticed is that the game is very different from the last Tiger Woods game I played 
 (TW 2004 on Xbox) .
  
  The first enjoyable difference is the career mode. In this PC version it was a ton of fun and still 
 very challenging. You start out just golfing with some buddies, then get on an amateur tour, then 
 the EA professional tour and lastly the PGA Tour. The whole experience is a lot of fun.
  
  The graphics look nice and set up the right environment for a golf game. Sometimes the golfers 
 get all weird and end up in strange animations but it's not a turn off.
  
  The courses are accurate and amazing to play. They did however drop my favorite course from previous 
 games, the Highlands. There is an ability to create custom course by downloading the tool from 
 the website which is neat (however I haven't messed with it) .
  
  The physics in the game seem accurate. In the console versions I've played (99, 2003, and 2005) 
 the game felt arcadey in some areas, such as the spin being able to be controlled on the fly. 06 
 for the PC fixes the system making it much more realistic which is a plus.
  
  The multi-player is fun as always but there aren't the 'quick fun' modes in previous games.
  
 
  Another minor fault is the commentary is somewhat lacking. They basically took all of the phrases 
 from previous games and added a few. If you've played the previous games you'll find hearing those 
 same phrases you got tired of before quite a bit again in this version. Also the EA Trax is VERY 
 lacking. There are about five tracks, and only one real song. 2004 featured an incredible soundtrack 
 including one of my favorite bands, Brand New. However since this is a PC game, the ability to 
 customize your music is there.
  
  Tiger Woods has been the best golf-sim on the consoles, and it carries over to the PC. For only 
 $20 there is no reason this game shouldn't be in your library as a sports fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  The last TWPGA tour game i played was 2002.. After that i didnt buy it anymore thinkin that the 
 game must be crap.. But i was wrong.. PGA Tour 06 is the best golf game i've ever played!!
  
  THE GRAPHICS: arent that perfect compared to the 360 version.. The environment is well detailed. The 
 moving trees, the moving grass and the patches for every shots makes u wanna play the game even 
 more...
  But the characters arent that nice..
  
  THE SOUND: it's really good.. there are different ball hittin sound everytime u hit the ball, the 
 crowds are responsive and that makes the game good to play as well.. The crowd will clap for you 
 if u had a good shot, but they will like oh!! if u had a bad one, but yet some stil lclap for u cuz 
 that's an effort..
  and the ball landing sound is perfectly done..
  
  THE ANIMATIONS: arent that much though.. and do not correspond well to the type of shots u have,, sometimes 
 the golfer's reaction is a bit late even though the ball has entered the hole. But overall is ok. The 
 frustation part is kinda funny.. LOVE IT!
  
  THE CREATE A PLAYER MODE: it's the most fun thing to deal with!! the creation mode is very detailed..!! 
 U should give it a try.. then u know wy i said so.. and of course if u play well with the creation 
 tools.. you can have your face in it, your families, friends or even celebrity!! It's really flexible.. well 
 done EA!
  
  THE SEASON MODE: It's really exciting, but of course requires a lot of patience.. U can start a PGA 
 Tour straight using Tiger Woods or any other Professional golfers, or u can simply create a golfer 
 and climb your way up to meet the PROs.. then u need to take golf lessons to mster your shots, and 
 increase the rest of your abilities.. You need to play a lot of golf in order to have the experoence 
 points where you can increase your abilities.
  
  And also u can download a course architect tool from the official EA Sports website to create your 
 own golf course!!
  
  And the biggest difference is th ANALOG STICK!! YES!! It supports Dual Analog control controller 
 for the PC!! That's the most wonderful part!! You can swing your golf club by controlling the analog..!! 
 it's a very nice experienced!! U can time your shots perfeclt by using the analog!
  
  But bare in mind that, there arent many different golfers and courses.. but of course.. u can always 
 create your own.. But the PC version is the best if you have an analog controller.. and it has more 
 courses and golfers than the Xbox360 version!!
  
  I'm not a golf fan.. but to be honestly, i love this game..
  I played Fifa games, NHL, rugby, madden 
 and this is the most realistic simulation of all the series above..
  
  You guys should check it out!! I hope 07 is better!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_w_91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Tiger Wood PGA Tour is back again with a big improvement from last years 2005 edition. This year 
 has the same baselines with the "Legend" Section but offers a variety of more PGA golfers and improved 
 Gameplay. I think the game is top class and is very enjoyable for golfing fans and non golfing 
 fans. The Season mode is the same but still very much enjoyable. Next Years Tiger should improve 
 on this but this 2006 edition was brilliant and I enjoy playing it.
  
  In 2007 we can expect much of the same but with added tweaks possibly a enhanced roster and graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  The game is really fun yet really annoying When I first started playing I was a little discouraged 
 with my players abilities, however once you get the feel of the mouse and the hook and slice options 
 it becomes fun. While there are a few glitches here and there with invisible trees and crazy grass 
 the graphics are fantastic. I would say my favorite part has to be the addict-ability of the game. 
 I found once I got on a role (no pun intended) it was really hard to put the mouse down. In the 
 end, I would say TW 2006 really does justice for the game of golf. Especially for those of us who 
 are unable to hit the real courses as much as we would like. With that said, this game is a definite 
 must have for the true golf fanatic. Keep up the good work EA! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurrieG
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Great game with great graphics. You dont need to be a golf fan to enjoy tiger woods 2006. I was 
 not a golf fan but when I played the game it got me into golf now I watch it on the tele and its 
 quite a fun sport I would say.
  
  The golf courses are quite good. Nice touchs to it. There are some really hard courses which may 
 take a while to master.
  
  Also the game has alot of different game modes like stroke, skills, skins, and shootout also others. 
 My favourite mode is stroke.
  
  The AI of the computer opponents are quite good. Well you can set the difficulty level to hard 
 or easy.
  
  I preferrer this game to the mutiplayer than the single player but the single player is good as 
 well.
  
  
  Great game I say. Best golf game ever so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codizzle42
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is a fun, and good looking game. This game takes a lot of computer power 
 to run if u want the graphics all the way up. I have the graphics turned all the way up and they 
 look pretty darn nice. One thing i would like more from the sound aspect of the game is more realistic 
 golf sounds. For one when the driver is hit it doesn't really sound like a driver it sounds like 
 an iron, maybe this is because i haven't gotten my power up too high yet, I dont think that this 
 is the case however. Other than that though the sound is pretty good, other than a few little things 
 here and there. I haven't tried the multiplayer yet, but im sure the gameplay is the same except 
 for the fact that you are playing against another human. The tour mode is very nice because u have 
 to work your way up the ranks all the way from the hacks to the best of the best.. All-in-all this 
 is a very fun game whether ur a golf fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7lip
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  this is the first tiger woods game i got for pc, 2004 and 2005 i got for gamecube. i always was 
 intregued by the mouse swing, it seemed to me it would make the game soo much better and immersive. 
 it does just that. 
  
  now it may seem like i put most of the focus on the swing mechanics, and that it is much better 
 then console swinging ( wich many here proboly have been with pc versions since like 1999, so they 
 dun care) . but the fact is, you dont throw golf balls, you wack 'em with expensive sticks. 
  
  the fact that it is so simple to pick up and yet a toughie to master makes this game great... 
 any kid can pull back and push forward a mouse; but can they gague how much power is required? 
 how quickly or slowly to pull back the mouse? i highly doubt it untill a few rounds are complete. 
 
  
  even to a non golf fan. i suck at real life golf and its rediculously boring to watch. yet i love 
 this series to death. go give your local shop 20 bones and immerse yourself in what you hate; i 
 bet you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yzergod
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  TW06 from EA sports is not a bad game, but its really no different from previous releases. If you 
 own TW04 or 05, and dont play online, save your hard earned money, you are not missing out. They 
 claim New Courses, but the courses are previously released on other versions, guess taking them 
 away for a year or 2 classifies them as new now. It is by far the Best Golf Sim out there, as there 
 is no real competetion in that catagory. But EA has shown a complete lack of what the customer 
 wants. Each year since TW03, the game hasnt changed, and features keep disappearing. The Play by 
 Play voices have been the same for 3 years now, with the occassional new clip (rare) . I am overall 
 completely disappointed in TW06, and if it wasnt for friends i have made online since TW99, i wouldnt 
 have bought this. The online part (EASO) is a complete joke. Disconnections, low room numbers make 
 it hard to enjoy the game. I personally dont have any disconnects, but they are there as seen on 
 EA's own message boards. Until EA Sports has some competition like they did before with Links series, 
 dont expect them to change a thing in future releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I've never been terribly happy with golf games because they never seemed to hold my interest for 
 long. But the newest edition of Tiger Woods PGA Tour managed to do so.
  
  The experience system in the game is absolutely excellent, pushing you to work hard to gain the 
 skills necessary to move up in the rankings. It's extremely flexible (almost TOO flexible) character 
 creation system is a lot of fun, even if the accessories, etc. don't effect the game. It's nice 
 to be able to make your character unique and your own.
  
  It will take you a while to build up the experience as well, unlocking lessons and other items 
 as you go. On the whole, it's an excellent way to keep you playing, since the number of courses 
 isn't spectacular.
  
  If the number of courses isn't spectacular, the presentation of the courses that are in the game 
 is just plain wonderful. The courses are detailed and, in my opinion, beautifully done. One thing 
 that bugged me, though, is that the spectators almost always seemed to be wearing the same clothes, 
 which made it seem monotonous. Given the variety offered in clothing and outfitting your own character, 
 it seemed odd that all the spectators seemed like fashion clones.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the game gives wonderful feedback about your golf swing to tell you exactly 
 what you did right or wrong, which I found interesting and helpful. In fact, it is the best guide 
 to improving your game. The holes range from easy to difficult, depending on course conditions 
 (which, surprisingly, didn't seem to effect things as much as I thought, although wind seemed to 
 have a surprisingly realistic effect on the ball in flight) . The ball's behavior on the course 
 was extremely lifelike (in all those irritating real life ways!) .
  
  The voiceovers were surprisingly varied and actually helpful, driven as they were by what your 
 shots really looked like and where the ball was going. Sometimes they even comment on your swing 
 if your tempo was a little fast, etc. The commentary wasn't always right on, but almost always 
 was. And while it was a little repetitive, since it actually seemed to be giving information that 
 wasn't useless (the voices will sometimes tell you about current wind conditions, etc.) it was 
 never distracting or irritating as so much audio commentary in these sports games often is.
  
  Overall, I'd give this game a must-buy rating for anyone who enjoys the challenge of golf games. 
 This one is by far the best I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheegwa
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  I was a little disappointed at how much poorer the graphics were compared to Tiger Woods PGA 2003. 
 The Truswing element was perfectly executed on 2003 but on 2006 it's a bit notchy. The sound is 
 much better than 2003. The gameplay is about the same but with the poor graphics, you kind of get 
 slumped a little.
  
  I was expecting this to be much better than 2003. I'm a bit disappointed. There's a reason why 
 this game is priced so low at $19.99 whereas 2003 was selling for $39.99 when it first came out.
 
  
  Even the packaging was a little cheap. It looks like EA rushed the game out for 2006. The game 
 definitely needs more tweaking.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bueller
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  EA's Tiger Woods series has become one of the mainstays in the video game golf world. With releases 
 for multiple platforms, a robust online mode, and multiple play options, this is a game that can 
 eat A LOT of time.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Tiger Woods Series has always been pretty to look at, and TW2006 is no exception. On a PC with 
 a decent graphics card, the reflections in the water, long grasses blowing in the wind, and other 
 small touches all work together to bring you into the game. Smoothly animated players, and beautiful 
 courses help you feel like you're on some of the world's best courses. The only real downside? 
 No widescreen resolutions, and for many people, that won't even be a problem. But it would be a 
 nice addition, as more games are finally starting to add them.
  
  Sound:
  
  For the most part, the sound is well planned. With some decent licensed music, in the EA style, 
 there is some nice accompaniment to the game, and some great environment pieces in the Era mode 
 (more on that later) . However, as in many sports games, the commentary can get boring and repetitive 
 after a while, especially if you've played previous iterations of the series.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is the core of any game, and it doesn't disappoint here. TW2006 offers multiple 
 single and multiplayer modes, enough to keep you busy for hours . . . well . . . probably more 
 like days. 
  
  The basic mode is the series of tours. Starting out as an unskilled duffer playing weekend rounds 
 with some buddies and co-workers, you slowly begin to rise through the ranks, playing different 
 courses, styles, and players rising through the Amateur, EA, and PGA tours. With a decent skill 
 progression, earned through experience points rather than money in this year's iteration, you can 
 see definite improvements. 
  
  As in past games, you have EA's Game Face option to create and craft your ideal golfer. Whether 
 you spend a lot of time tweaking the golfer into a computerized version of yourself, or maxing 
 out settings to create a golfer who looks a lot like the zombie lovechild of Rodney Dangerfield 
 and Shrek, there's fun to be had there as well. And through earnings won in tournaments, you get 
 to purchase clothing and equipment to resemble your real world golf bag (or dream golf bag, in 
 most cases) .
  
  In TW2005 they had the match play against some of the greatest golfers in the world (and colourful 
 Ea characters) , without much in the way of a backstory. Now, in TW2006, they've tied it together, 
 with a time-traveling Tiger Woods himself leading you through the various eras in the history of 
 golf. Starting out with wooden clubs and leather golf balls, you make your way through history, 
 playing various challenges, matches, tournaments, and more, against players of the era, EA characters, 
 and occasionally Tiger himself. This is a fun mode that ties a lot of these extra challenges together, 
 and gives you a lot more equipment to attempt to collect.
  
  As in 2005, the online portion of the game makes finding someone to play against quite easy. With 
 new improvements allowing for simultaneous play until everyone's putting, games can now be completed 
 quite quickly when playing online. This can be a godsend for those stuck with slow players.
  
  All in all, Tiger Woods 2006 is a solid, good looking, well playing golf game. If you've played 
 past iterations in the series, the Eras mode and the updated online features are worth the new 
 purchase, and if you're new to the series, this is a great place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 881124
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  The courses looks better than ever and that we can thank the new graphic engine that makes every 
 straw of grass. The funniest thing in the games is to create your own character and start as a 
 hack and then work yourself up to the PGA tour and try to win over Tiger Woods, Vijay Singh and 
 more.
  
  But it's strange that the only woman in the game is Natalie Gulbis instead of the number one woman 
 in the world Annika Sorenstam. 
  
  The players could look better sometimes, but it's the golf that matters and it's really good. It's 
 fun to see replay over good shots. You can play custom game to choose between stroke, match, foursome, 
 greensome and more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doosuldorf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods at it's finest. Great shots great courses and even better environments. I'm glad that 
 the caddy tip was eliminated so that better players can distance themselves from the now-and-thens. 
 It will make online play even better. If only you could hit a spectator that would get some laughs. 
 I wanna say that there is alot of hype around this game,. but then again i don't. Im not sure of 
 what to say about replayablility. I play it alot and like it very much. If you have alot of friends 
 that like the older Tiger Wooods, they will love this ones aas well and then you could get a good 
 tourney going, sweet. Anyway enough with my rambling. Overall its a great advancement on the series 
 and i hope to see more to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crueber
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I had one of the first Tiger Woods golf games from EA and thought it would be a good time to upgrade. 
 Wow! Talk about coming a long way.
  
  Graphics, sounds, playability are all there with some nice extras ... playing against real golf 
 pros with names you recognize, very realistic courses, different play modes, etc.
  
  Only a couple of comments... I wish it had more canned courses to choose from (both available and 
 unlockable) ... it's also a game that takes some horsepower to run unless you turn down the graphics 
 (this wasn't a problem for my system, but you may have issues with less powerful processing/memory 
 systems) .
  
  Overall, I would recommend this for all golf fans and players.
  
  P. S. I wish they would add a utility to track your own personal golf scores and statistics that 
 you have from playing on the real links. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razgriz88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  EA has done it again great game
  Move all thing great in the previous versions and take them all up a notch
  Game Face 
  Thought 
 nothing could be improved upon but EA amazes me a new level of customization for your golfer improves 
 game enjoy ability vastly
  Graphics again EA has outdone themselves such improved golf course and environments such detail 
 unseen before in other games.
  Game play EA takes a relatively simple game play mechanic and put challenging affect to it "Easy 
 but not to easy" making game play enjoyable every time you comeback not as repetitive as past versions.
 
  Again player models are great in an improvement on the courses chosen.
  My only problem in the small number of courses on the game and I would wish to be able to Take 
 a player trough the entire PGA year all courses and tournaments from and include the master and 
 US Open and Tour Championship as events and should also improvement commentation less of the same 
 repetitive comments from the game people every year
  Ea need to make it an experience of only to the British open or the Players Championship
  But 
 beside these improvements they could make an overall great game EA didn't again
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annihilator007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is not only meant for the golf fans who are reading this. No, also the gamers who like 
 to play something else than just the ordinary shooting really need to try this game! Challenging 
 objectives and more make you play this game for a very long time. There are alot of courses you 
 can use so this should make you play for a time. Also your player is fully customizeble. There 
 are lots of clothes and atributes you can use on your player. Graphics look very good, although 
 the game is pretty heavy with systemreq. Game is very good, so try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfoote
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I didn't think it would become an instant favourite in my mind. I started 
 by creating a golfer inmy likeness. It was fun to make but some options like trying to create a 
 nose were tedious and confusing. After i had added some nice sideburns and some stylish clothingI 
 was ready to play golf. I instantly went to 'rivals' mode and did some challenges then BAM I was 
 playing golf from when it first began. 
  
  I'm talking retro clothing and clubs. Hilarious opponents . And challenges that will have you screaming 
 at your computer controlled opponents. Rivals mode is fun and amusing but if you're looking for 
 a more realistic simulation head over to the great PGA tour mode.
  
  In PGA tour mode you start off playing golf against your 'friends' then you work your way up to 
 small country tournaments then you go international. 
  
  18 Holes of golf goes extremely fast unlike in games like Microsoft Links. I strongly suggest this 
 game to anyone that enjoys either golf or huge customization / unlockables. or tony hawks series. 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeherr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The main reason to purchase Tiger Woods 06 is for the enhanced graphics and additional courses. 
 Though the game now supports the Logitech game pads, my experience is that the control is sloppy, 
 and only by taking the time to figure out how to use the Logitech sw to tighten the game pad controls, 
 will you get the control you want. I didn't bother, and stayed with the tried and true mouse control. 
 Importing the stock games from TW 04, & 05 has worked just fine. I seem to be able to play all 
 the courses from those versions in TW 06. The Game Face controls seem to work pretty well, giving 
 you a few more options for creating your avatar golfer, but not worth buying 06 for this feature 
 alone. Overall, a good game. If you own 05 though, wait until the price of 06 drops before purchasing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dls828
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed the Tiger Woods PGA Tour games every year for quite some time now. This one, like 
 the rest, was a solid game that, in the end left me desiring more. I liked this years tour mode, 
 but everything was just way too easy. Please EA, I'm begging you: Add difficulty levels! Another 
 complaint I have with this game comes from its archaic putting system. After all these years I'd 
 have expected it to improve, but nothing has been done and the system remains clunky, and flawed.
 
  Overall, however, I was yet again pleased with Tiger Woods PGA tour for my PC. Fortunately, EA 
 can always be counted on to deliver a solid, safe performance, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 is no 
 exception. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
