-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tigerwoodspgatour2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.0, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 178 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Headgate
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Oct 31, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiger Woods 2003 is prettier, more exciting, and more involving than any other golf game on the 
 market and can rightfully claim its place alone at the top of the PC golfing leaderboard. 

 
 Though fall and winter generally aren't the best seasons for real-world golf, they're prime time 
 for its digital counterpart. While both Microsoft's excellent Links series and EA Sports' excellent 
 Tiger Woods series are generally held in high regard and have contributed equally to the demise 
 of virtually all would-be contenders, each seems to be headed in a different direction. Microsoft 
 seemed content to rest on its laurels and keep changes to a minimum in Links 2003, but EA Sports 
 and developer Headgate Studios have continued to innovate and take chances. The result of all that 
 work, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2003, is clearly superior to any of its EA Sports precursors. It is 
 also prettier, more exciting, and more involving than any other golf game on the market and can 
 rightfully claim its place alone at the top of the PC golfing leaderboard.           Tiger 2003 
 offers no shortage of great camera perspectives.    

  Tiger 2003 ships with plenty of game to play, including a full 12 courses modeled after some of 
 the most famous ranges in the world. That's twice the number of both the previous edition and Links 
 2003 and quite probably twice the range of environments. In Tiger 2003, you'll find everything 
 from desert to mountain and from challenging expert courses to easy beginner ranges. You can also 
 venture to the game's driving range and skill areas to brush up on technique, import Tiger Woods 
 2001 and PGA Championship 2000 courses, or even construct your own facility with the aid of the 
 game's somewhat convoluted course architect utility.   

  EA Sports has also expanded Tiger's prepackaged golfer roster. Included are power hitters such 
 as Vijay Singh, stalwarts such as Colin Montgomery, young sensations like Ty Tyron, and, of course, 
 Tiger himself. More than a dozen touring pros and many more amateurs are available. Any player 
 may be converted from human to computer controlled or modified via the golfer customization interface, 
 and brand-new golfers may be created from scratch.   

  When you first launch Tiger 2003, you may be a bit nonplussed by the opening score, an incredibly 
 inappropriate bit of blitzkrieg rock and roll. Even those who normally enjoy the strains of heavy 
 metal may well find this choice incredibly bizarre. Nevertheless, it's one of the very few sore 
 points in an otherwise excellent game.   

  The new menu system is great, since it moves you around quickly and intuitively from one area to 
 another and reserves complex and advanced options for those who really want to access them. Even 
 the backdrop to the main menu interface, featuring a large animated depiction of your currently 
 selected golfer warming up on the course, is impressive. The game does a lot of things right, but 
 nowhere is it more impressive than in its graphical presentation. In a word, Tiger 2003 looks stunning. 
 More than any other golf game in the history of personal computing, it really helps you feel as 
 though you're there, on a real golf course.           Tiger 2003's Pebble Beach course features 
 roaring surf and glorious scenery.    

  Tiger 2003 makes fantastic use of weather and lighting effects. The game has excellent-looking 
 effects such as clouds drifting through the sky, fog on the green, flags that flap in the wind, 
 and realistic rain. Though Tiger 2003 unfortunately doesn't have environmental conditions that 
 change in real time, you can still expect to play games in early-morning sunrises, driving storms, 
 and plenty of other great-looking weather. And the game's portrayal of water is probably the best 
 ever to appear in a golf game, including remarkably realistic still water, highly detailed splashes 
 and ripples whenever you drive into a water hazard, and fantastic-looking oceans that curl up realistically 
 on the sand and rocks of courses like Pebble Beach. The game's fully 3D vegetation also looks thick 
 and lush and conveniently becomes semitransparent when a golfer is nearby so that your view isn't 
 blocked by close-up, pixelated grass.   

  Tiger 2003's golfers also look superb. Their animation is fluid and looks fully human with a full 
 range of motion, including those times when they might bend over to clear an errant chunk of grass 
 or scrape the bottom of their shoe. Unfortunately, the game does a poor job of recognizing and 
 celebrating a victory. It ends sessions abruptly and with little fanfare no matter how well you 
 did. Fortunately, spectators in Tiger 2003 are especially realistic, applauding to recognize solid 
 shots and sometimes simply giving the impression of shuffling movement.   

  To better showcase its certifiably beautiful environments, Tiger continues to offer the best camerawork 
 in the business. Unlike Links, it doesn't let you open a dozen concurrent camera windows, but it 
 does conveniently permit you to control the central cam manually, which gives you considerable 
 control over your view of the course. Much like a television broadcast, Tiger 2003's cameras zoom 
 in and out and automatically relocate to offer gorgeous and distinctive scenes that you can view 
 in their entirety by right-clicking to hide the game's interface. The game also does a great job 
 of setting up pre- and post-shot camera angles and offers dramatic and highly satisfying replays 
 on those rare occasions when you land your shot exactly right.    

 Tiger 2003 isn't just about looks, but about speed, too. It's really fast -- much faster than the 
 slower-paced Links 2003. In fact, Tiger 2003's screen redraw times and scenery transitions are 
 almost instantaneous. Furthermore, computer golfers don't "think" as they do in the Microsoft game. 
 Instead, you can expect the next player to begin his attempt within just a couple of seconds of 
 the preceding shot. If you're really pressed for time, you can even skip ahead to the next player's 
 turn with a single keystroke. Unfortunately, developer Headgate didn't bother with the ReadyPlay 
 speed game option it used in the PGA Championship series, which let you set up and shoot at the 
 same time as your opponents -- though the system wasn't exactly perfect in PGA Championship, so maybe 
 it's just as well.           In Tiger 2003, nearby foliage becomes semi-translucent so you can 
 see through to your golfer.    

  In contrast to its great graphics, Tiger 2003's audio is alternately impressive and annoying. Its 
 ambient sounds are excellent, particularly the wind and the crashing surf. The ever-present chirping 
 birds, a fixture of PC golf games, sound realistic but can be a bit excessive. And reactions in 
 the gallery are generally accurate but often overplayed -- real-world near misses don't normally 
 elicit a collective gasp. Similarly, in real-world golf, you won't hear a commentator say, "Got 
 a tough line in this bunker -- it's just buried," when the player is lining up a two-foot putt. Tiger 
 2003's announcers, David Feherty and Bill Macatee, deliver the lines in a way that, while usually 
 accurate, often sounds generic and doesn't seem to recognize unique circumstances or difficult 
 shots.   

  Fortunately, and most importantly, Tiger 2003 plays great. Headgate pioneered the mouse-motion 
 TrueSwing back in the late '90s in Sierra's PGA Championship series and has been able to put together 
 a proper rendition of it in Tiger 2003. The TrueSwing system accurately takes into account where 
 you start and stop your swing and how much side-to-side variation you apply. Though some stodgy 
 fans may prefer the traditional three-click swing, if you opt for Tiger 2003's TrueSwing, your 
 mouse is going to feel as much like a club as it possibly could.   

  No matter which type of swing you select, Tiger 2003 offers woefully inept caddy advice. It's possible 
 that Headgate might have devised such a poor assistant to challenge you to really think about your 
 next shots, but in any case, your best bet is to usually rethink the club and direction that your 
 caddy suggests on nearly every shot. Thankfully, the game's physics are generally excellent. Balls 
 rarely go where they shouldn't go, and your lie will exert an appropriate effect on your upcoming 
 shot.   

  The game also delivers more play options than any other golf game. With nearly 20 individual scoring 
 variants, including skins, shoot-outs, and a variety of brief skill-based competitions, there's 
 certainly no shortage of alternatives for quick one-off matches. If an ongoing challenge is more 
 to your liking, you'll want to investigate the season play mode, which hasn't changed appreciably 
 from that of last year's game but offers interesting parameters such as a qualifying school, a 
 full year of customizable tour events, and a few major competitions. If you opt for its most realistic 
 setup, you'll soon realize that season mode can be extremely demanding and unforgiving.   

  Tiger 2003 also has a brand-new career mode, which starts you out as a poorly financed, middle-of-the-road 
 hack with high hopes. In the course of your career, you'll undertake most anything to develop your 
 game and make a few bucks, including taking a few challenges at the practice range to earn some 
 quick money for faster balls or better clubs. You may even want to purchase extra skill points 
 or take a lesson and attempt to practice some of the game's more-complex shot-making possibilities 
 such as punches, bump-and-runs, or sand extractions. Unfortunately, these lessons are often far 
 more repetitive than they are truly instructional.   

  Nevertheless, with a calendar chock-full of events, a wide range of skill competitions, shoot-outs, 
 miniature tournaments, and much more at your disposal, the career mode is lots of fun. It isn't 
 nearly as grueling as the game's season mode, but it does offer plenty of variety. Once you begin 
 to progress and prove your worthiness, new opportunities will open up, new levels will become available, 
 and the whole thing becomes tougher and potentially more rewarding. Entry fees are more costly, 
 purses are bigger, and new skill points become that much more expensive.           The game's camera 
 can be adjusted at any time for a more dynamic or more helpful view.    

  Tiger 2003 is a joy to play in multiplayer. Playing online is an infinitely more diverse experience 
 than challenging a computer-controlled AI player, and EA Sports makes it easy to do so. You can 
 use the in-game server utility to connect, socialize, and find a partner for any of the game's 
 numerous scoring variants. You may even want to join one of several tournaments or competitions. 
 From what we've seen, Tiger 2003 is enjoyable, lag-free, and hassle-free in multiplayer. However, 
 if you're serious about playing online, you'll need to sign on to pay $5.99 a month after the initial 
 60-day trial period expires.   

  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2003 is a game that truly succeeds in placing you in the midst of a drop-dead-gorgeous 
 golfing world. It offers more courses, more touring pros, a bushel of playing alternatives, a superb 
 rendition of the mouse-motion swing, an incredible array of camera perspectives, and several welcome 
 new perks.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tHeHaUnTeD
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 2, 2003 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been a diehard Links series fan since the mid 90's. There was nothing that could touch it... not 
 even Tiger. I had read a few reviews on Tiger 2003 and had grown very curious, so I purchased the 
 game. Well, let's just say that I am now a diehard TIGER series fan and Links has no place on my 
 hard drive anymore! This game is the best... hands down. I believe that if Micro$oft doesn't make 
 a huge comeback in their Links series very soon... it will be an enormous mistake! There is no other 
 golf game for the PC that has the feel and atmosphere that Tiger Woods 2003 has, not to mention 
 the gorgeous "alive" 3D graphics... something Links has yet to deliver. It will be an interesting 
 showdown! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
