-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tigerwoodspgatour2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 30, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 478 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: Headgate
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Sep 20, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It is still computer golf's de facto standard, worthy of consideration even by those who previously 
 purchased last year's model. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 Review for PC - GameSpot                                   function 
 do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =                    After The Fact: 
  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 
 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by 
 EA. &nbsp;               

  Arm outstretched, Tiger Woods points defiantly toward the camera on the front panel of his latest 
 namesake PC golfing game, thus stealing a page from the legendary Uncle Sam "I want you!" pose. 
 But what is he really saying? "I want you... to buy this game?" or "I want you... to stop hero-worshipping 
 Vijay?" Whatever the case, Mr. Woods remains the big box office draw despite the ageless Singh's 
 incredible year and deserved new world number one ranking. Whether we'll one day have a Vijay Singh 
 PGA Tour 2006 is somehow doubtful, but one thing is clear: EA Sports' Tiger Woods PGA Tour remains 
 the uncontested champion of virtual golf, even if the man himself currently is not.  

          Bathed in the warm glow of a gorgeous sunset, this golfer tries to put one close to the 
 pin.     

  Sporting a bevy of upgrades and alterations -- including a revamped Game Face utility that may have 
 you spending more time conceiving digital players than putting them into action, the new "legends 
 tour" mode, wherein you climb a competitive ladder to square off against such luminaries as Ben 
 Hogan and Gary Player, and a nifty course-warping tool that custom converts even relatively sedate 
 venues into supreme tests of skill -- Tiger 2005 is more sophisticated and engaging than anything 
 prior. Though the game doesn't introduce any serious gameplay mechanic advancements and though 
 it remains weighed down by several quirks that become only more annoying with time, it is still 
 computer golf's de facto standard, worthy of consideration even by those who previously purchased 
 last year's model.  

  Indeed, one of the most newsworthy developments over the course of the last year is the ongoing 
 absence of a Tiger rival. Microsoft's once-vaunted Links series hasn't seen an update since 2003 
 and it does not appear to be reappearing anytime soon. As for other alternatives, the horizon looks 
 as bleak as a rainy morning at Troon. Yet even if one or more Tiger alternatives did currently 
 exist, chances are they'd simply be too inferior to effectively battle the genre leader.  

  Tiger developer Headgate Studios has been designing golf games since Sierra Entertainment's 1997 
 release, Front Page Sports Golf. In Sierra's subsequent long-running PGA Championship Golf series, 
 Headgate really came to life, fashioning revolutionary advancements such as the mouse-movement 
 swing and fully animated golfers, thus proving just how entertaining and fully interactive computer 
 golf could be. Its technical aptitude wasn't yet on par with that of the generally acknowledged 
 top gun of the time, Access Software's otherwise comparatively staid and traditional Links, but 
 together they lay waste to other competitors. The fact that just one of the two is currently active 
 at least partially verifies which tactic proved to be superior.  

  Today, Tiger is an unparalleled smorgasbord of golfing delights that packs no less than 11 courses 
 into its three-CD 2005 format. Granted, that's seven fewer than last year's 18-course edition, 
 though Tiger 2005 features a total of eight brand-new courses to Tiger 2004's five. For the fantasy 
 fans, the game features the Australian outback-inspired Red Mountain Creek and the gorgeous Asian 
 masterpiece, Emerald Dragon. Word to the wise -- venture to the latter only if you dare. It may well 
 be one of the most difficult courses to ever emerge from Headgate. New real-life, licensed courses 
 include California's Sherwood Country Club, South Africa's diverse Links at Fancourt, and Arizona's 
 red rock paradise Troon North Monument course. Returning favorites include Pebble Beach, St. Andrews, 
 and TPC at Sawgrass. It almost goes without saying that Tiger 2005 delivers virtually every form 
 of golfing environment on the planet -- and even a few that aren't.  

  The roster of available competitors is better than ever, though it still lacks some of pro golf's 
 most notable standouts. Though you will find Woods, Singh, John Daly, Colin Montgomerie, and the 
 curiously fashionable Jesper Parnevik, you won't see top-rung players such as Phil Mickelson or 
 Ernie Els. The LPGA is also poorly represented by any stretch of the imagination, with last year's 
 holdover Nancy Gulbis being the only participant.  

  Yet it's in its depiction of fantasy players that the game truly excels. Not only has Headgate 
 supplied 14 prebuilt imaginary characters -- including several that look like they should be anywhere 
 but a golf course -- but also it has provided a godlike control over the design of new personas. 
 Deemed Game Face II, this highly addictive, in-game player-creation utility is quite possibly the 
 finest to grace any sport game to date. The question isn't whether you want a long or a short nose 
 or beady versus large eyes, but instead how incredibly detailed you want them to be. A nose design, 
 for instance, will include the following parameters: nose length, width, slope, and depth; nostril 
 height and width; the presence or lack of left and right nose moles; and the choice of four types 
 of nostril and bridge piercings. Impressively, each alteration is displayed incrementally in real 
 time. When you factor all the minute parameters and adjustments available in the Game Face utility -- including 
 such trivial elements as jewelry, tattoos, and even freckle or age spot density -- you have literally 
 millions of different possibilities. And that's not even counting the game's wide range of player-skill 
 attributes.  

          Rich, detailed, and animated, the Tiger 2005 world is really something to behold.     

 
  Indeed, it's not just the stunning exactitude through which a player can be created that sells 
 the whole routine, but the amazing humanness of each new character once he or she is on the course. 
 Never has a golf game featured such a massive roster of believable player animations and expressive 
 faces. That each character looks so good to begin with and so smoothly transitions from one action 
 to another, is yet one more precedent for this already standard-setting series.  

  As for the world that surrounds each of your golfers, the news on this issue is both encouraging 
 and slightly disappointing. On the upside, each environment is wonderfully "alive." Trees, foliage, 
 and flags move with the wind. Flocks of birds soar through the sky, clouds and translucent low 
 fog roll across the screen, and ocean waves pound against the shoreline at locations such as Pebble 
 Beach. Lakes, meandering streams, and water hazards look lustrous and liquid, veritably glistening 
 in the sunlight and accepting errant shots with a kerplunk and a splash. Elegant lens-flare effects 
 materialize at the most opportune moments, framing your golfer's silhouette in the glow of the 
 late afternoon or early morning sunshine. And, as usual, painstaking graphic detail is evident 
 throughout.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Tiger 
 Woods PGA Tour 2005 Review for PC - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function 
 do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri 
 =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return 
 true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return 
 false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { var 
 parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem 
 = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src 
 = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //               GAMES:    
  GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome 
     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                Search                       
         BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back to Rapture with...               Spore Galactic 
 Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...               Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report: 
  Its Zerg...               Mafia II Impressions:  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002... 
                    home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS    
     community      forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads      sports     
  tech      news            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top 
 Games     All PC Games     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create 
 your account    Help    Forgot Password?                                       Add Game       Tag 
       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg                              Tiger Woods PGA 
 Tour 2005 Review          

 It is still computer golf's de facto standard, worthy of consideration even by those who previously 
 purchased last year's model.                     After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's 
 this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the 
 end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;               

  Yet perhaps the most striking visual aspect of the Tiger series is its sense of drama. Heightened 
 by free-roving cameras that alternate between TV-type coverage and dynamic follow-the-ball shots 
 that could only exist in the digital world, the game delivers a consistent buzz of excitement from 
 the first hole to the 18th. If you want to set up your own camera positions, you can do that too, 
 choosing from an array of preset orientations or designing your own by moving, zooming, and rotating 
 the default cam to any spot your heart desires. Dramatic sound effects and upgraded visuals accompany 
 truly spectacular shots, and full-motion video sequences highlight key achievements.  

          World number one Vijay Singh blasts one out of the sand at the frighteningly difficult 
 Emerald Dragon course.      

  It's generally a superb presentation, marred only by a few glitches. By far the most aggravating 
 of these is the mysterious "warping hole," wherein the hole suddenly disappears from the screen, 
 only to mysteriously reappear several feet away. Granted, holes transmogrified only twice during 
 our long testing procedure, but twice is two times too many for such a perilous occurrence. It 
 should also be noted that it was only the image of the hole that moved -- the actual GPS position 
 remained where it was, even though we could no longer see it. Very strange indeed.  

  Only slightly less annoying is the game's penchant for displaying inappropriate or wrongly placed 
 shot reactions. On several occasions, we've witnessed a cheering gallery or a celebratory golfer 
 when the shot in question was clearly a terrible effort. The opposite is also true -- a gathered 
 throng falling into stunned silence or letting loose with a perceptible groan over a near-perfect 
 result. Furthermore, galleries generally react much too early, far before the final resting position 
 of the ball has been established.  

  The same is true for the game's announcers, David Feherty and Gary McCord. The fact is that both 
 are ideal for a computerized version of golf, given their real-life reputations and mutual senses 
 of humor. And, certainly, the developer has armed each with a ton of phraseology to ensure minimal 
 repetition. But both McCord and Feherty deliver many of their lines too early, before anyone in 
 the real world would have a chance to know the result. And that, of course, makes the actual spotting 
 of the ball anticlimactic. Almost as irritating is the dynamic duo's incredible number of errors. 
 Conservatively, McCord and Feherty proved to be seriously mistaken at least four or five times 
 per round, which is of course particularly vexing when you've just adhered to Feherty's erroneous 
 advice and missed a birdie putt because of it.  

  Playing Tiger 2005 is an exercise in unparalleled versatility. This is a humongous game, with oodles 
 of possibilities for rookies and veterans alike. Newcomers will likely want to avail themselves 
 of the "new player walk-through," a text-and-graphics guide to what makes the game click. Veterans 
 will undoubtedly gravitate to the new legend tour, where they'll move up a ladder to eventually 
 combat icons such as Gary Payer or Ben Hogan. But the cream of the crop will certainly want to 
 check out a little something called "tiger proofing," where they're able to transform even the 
 tamest course into a fire-breathing monster. If you want a true postage-stamp green or ribbon-thin 
 fairway, or perhaps a sand trap wider than a football field, this is the place to come. The eventual 
 goal is to assemble your "Dream 18," your own personal venue constructed from your favorite -- and 
 most challenging -- holes taken from all the courses.  

  This lengthy but involving procedure exemplifies the thinking that makes the new Tiger so compelling. 
 In simple terms, the game grows with you. In more complex terms, virtually every Tiger element 
 is somehow interconnected. By partaking in a tournament, you'll win money, which you can then use 
 to buy lessons and learn new shots, enter other tourneys, buy a dream matchup in the legend tour, 
 and much, much more. The Dream 18 is connected to tiger proofing. Good results in the game's highly 
 structured tournament mode catch the attention of sponsors. Your stature affects your prestige, 
 which earns you the respect of legendary golfers and attracts them to your custom-built monster 
 course, and so on.  

  Curiously, the game's lessons component is not yet structured to reward truly skilled usage of 
 your club (which could be your mouse or your keyboard, depending on whether you prefer Headgate's 
 true-swing mode or more conventional three-click mode) . One might think that in this stage of Tiger's 
 evolution, Headgate would have developed some nifty method by which you could successfully perform 
 a specialized shot only by enacting a deft series of motions or operations in a perfectly staged 
 and timed sequence. But that is not yet the case. Instead, Tiger asks that you merely pay for a 
 lesson and complete it (an easy task in anyone's book) . You'll then have that given shot added 
 to the menu bar at the bottom of the gameplay interface. Though you may need to slow your stroke 
 a bit and position a slider before you actually attempt a tricky bump and run or flop or punch, 
 you'll find they are generally not too far removed from a normal shot.  

  Of course, if you merely want a quick skins, shootout, or stroke game -- or one of another dozen 
 custom one-off game types -- you can do that too. You can also opt to play against a superstar such 
 as Woods himself, though you may want to rearrange his ability level beforehand in any of eight 
 key skill areas so he's not quite as threatening as he otherwise might be. But the greatest threat 
 of all may be the players you'll meet online.  

          With Tiger 2005's impressively sophisticated Game Face II technology, designing the perfect 
 male and female golfing specimens is far from dull.     

  Tiger 2005 sports a robust and sophisticated online multiplayer component that allows you to do 
 just about anything you can do when you're playing against virtual competition. We were somewhat 
 disappointed when our initial foray met with a server alert, but our subsequent experience was 
 very positive indeed. Here you'll find no shortage of willing participants to engage you in any 
 form of play mode you wish. And for serious players, EA Sports maintains a full stat-tracking system 
 that includes critical information, such as money lists and league leaders. A quick warning to 
 newbies -- some dishonest players use a process called "edging" to enhance their swings. In essence, 
 edging allows them to swing arrow-straight even at higher difficulty levels. It's cheating, pure 
 and simple.  

  In the end, you really don't have much choice. If you want to play golf on your PC, there's currently 
 just one place to turn. Fortunately, it's a great place. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 is the culmination 
 of Headgate's decade of PC golfing experience, and, with the exception of several notable quibbles 
 and a dearth of significant gameplay mechanic innovations, it's a snappy culmination. Tiger 2005 
 is certainly more straight-up fun than any version of Links, and it is more involving than last 
 year's Tiger 2004. EA and Headgate didn't exactly pull out all the stops for this edition, but 
 they didn't rest completely on their laurels either, and that's a good thing for fans of the pastime. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BackStabber1345
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Great game, great graphics, great golfers, great courses. If you like to play golf you will like 
 this game. Playing at some of the greatest courses of all time any golf player and follower would 
 enjoy. Tiger Woods PGA tour 2005 brings a new level of golf gaming to gamers. Playing as Tiger 
 or just creating yourself to put in the golfing world both give you the satisfying feeling that 
 you are up there with the pros and playing at there level. My only compliant is that leveling up 
 your person can be tough and frustrating at times. Also some of the control configs can be a little 
 hard to master but after a few tournaments you'll get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalkhare
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 18, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  hey there.. if you like golf, play golf, or are a golf freak then this game is a must for you. 
 you may probably think that tiger woods 2004 was the best well your right and this game is the 
 best. you get a clean shot on every title or position available in golf. you get to go head to 
 head with golf's greatest legends and the greatest players that golf's received. I myself think 
 that its a must buy for any golf fan but now TW 07 has released so most of the gamers must have 
 bought those but if you feel that you dont want to shell out that much money then this the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Most golf games make me wonder why people would even want to play it on the computer, let alone 
 in real life. This title is one of few exceptions. You can play as a pro or create your own character. 
 Even when you make up your own, the skill level they give you is pretty decent -- you're not left 
 dead in the water (no pun intended) . That's a nice touch. I don't know who came up with the idea 
 that a game has to be almost impossible to play in order to be authentic; I'm glad that stump-the-user 
 characteristic is completely missing here.
  
  The graphics are beautiful as well. The grass is realistic, the water shiny; makes me want to take 
 a stroll on a real course.
  
  When it's time to grab a club and fire away, the swing-meter is adaptable and you will be able 
 to play from your first shot. Some games can be so technical, you start off rather clumsy until 
 you figure out how to do your objective. Again, that's not an issue here, and big kudos from me.
 
  
  Not to say that the courses will be easy. Like reality, some holes are simple while others demand 
 more concentration. You'll need some luck and willingness to figure out the nuances of each course. 
 But you'll have a lot of fun doing it.
  
  This is a game for everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usn
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This could be a good game if we did not think the PGA is a collection of Mo Town and do rags and 
 tattoos........... this game does not put Elrick in a positive lighjt if he had any input, but that's 
 ok., money is more important and appealing to the crowd that plays eighteen and then spends 1800 
 on a tattoo of their favorite WWF female wrestler.... golf is not the WWF and jucin' a game to 
 make it appeal to the Mogan David or MD 20-20 crowd is good for the bottom line, but really sad 
 for a good game played with rules and tradition and not played with a bunch of mutants you can 
 design on your own.. if you want this kind of action, please produce Mutant X golf, where anything 
 goes........... and enjoy your rag brothers........ EA has always been a quality game company,,, 
 and thanks for their great products, but this game is an abomination. As far as classifications 
 on this site i think you should add pathetic.... and if i may add, i stiil have the game... puzzling, 
 eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  While golf is not the first thing I turn to for a good time, it has been growing on me in both 
 the video game world and the real world. The last golf-based game that I played before this one 
 was NES Open, which was very cool.
  
  This one boasts great graphics and calm nature sound in combination with a variety of popular music 
 artisits. What I like most is that it has the complete experience from the beginnings of the amateur 
 golfer to the pro circuit when you finally get to face Tiger and other pro golfers. You actually 
 get to experience have less skills at the beginning where you have less control and less power. 
 As you progress, you get to upgrade your skills and your equipment.
  
  There aren't that many games to compete with this one, but this is definitely the best in the golf 
 category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in Tiger Woods is everything it should be: engaging, entertaining and accessible by 
 all types of players. The interface is easy to navigate, and the game does a great job of walking 
 novices through. Expert players will also find much to enjoy, especially with the ability to design 
 difficult courses with the Tiger Proofing features. 
  
  A great edition of a wonderful series, it's definitely worth getting, even if players already have 
 the 2004 edition, just for the Game Face II's added features and the new course editor. 
  
  As before, there is a multi-player feature for those who want to try their skill against others 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slboss926
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Simply one of the best games I have played... ever! EA didnt miss a beat with TW 2005. The graphics 
 are top notch, the sounds are great and the gameplay is superb. I have few gripes regarding this 
 game. Biggest gripe is the commentators comments get repeated too many times and start to get old 
 quickly when you play it as much as I have. The online play is a blast with lots of options. And 
 there are so many things to do in the game without even touching online play. The custom character 
 creation is so fun and detailed you can spend more than an hour just making your golfer. Now that 
 2006 is out this version is sure to be in the bargain bin. If your a penny pincher and not willing 
 to drop big $ for new version, 2005 should be in a bargain bin near you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 18, 2005 3:38 am PT
Review:  I have never played the 2004 version so I can't tell you that it's better or worse than it, althougth 
 the concensus seems to be that it's not as good. My son and I each have our own golfer, and have 
 a great time playing in tournaments and against each other. He has more time to play and is quickly 
 leaving me behind. 
  I actually got interested in the PS2 version of this game at my brother-in-law's, and seriously 
 considered buying a PS2 just to get this game. As it is, the PC version won out. It is missing 
 some of the more interesting feautres that the PS2 version has but it's good enough. I especially 
 like the putting on the PC version. 
  Ultimately I think it's the competition with another player, like my brother-in-law or my son that 
 makes the game so much fun. I doubt I'd be playing as much if it was just myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 9, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Comparing Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 to last years version would be pointless and only cause many 
 of you to blow off this title. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 is, as a whole, a great game with more 
 features and modes of gameplay than any other golf game on the market. While the game has little 
 competition, it still makes a bold stand in the world of sports games and deserves any sports fans 
 time. Those looking for a vast improvement to last years title might as well give up now and accept 
 EAs offering of more courses, modes of gameplay and new features.
  
  Tiger Woods offers a wide range of different modes and features to keep you busy for quite some 
 time. No longer does the game have you simply play through a career filled with tournaments and 
 buying clubs, but now revolves around an entire theme based on the legends of golf. In fact, there 
 exists an entire currency within the game, aside from real money, called Legend Coins that add 
 even more features to the game. The more of these Legend Coins that you acquire, the more the game 
 continues to open up and offer more replay value. While Tiger Woods does offer an insane amount 
 of options to play in for a golf game, these additional modes arent always as impressive as they 
 may sound. In fact, as the game continues to open up, some players may begin to close down the 
 game from the lack of interest
  
  You can either create your own player with the new Game Face II create-a-player and start from 
 the ground up, or become one of the legends and take off into tournaments and matches. Most will 
 find the create-a-player much more long lasting and RPG like, while playing as a legend takes away 
 the entire improving your character feature of the game. As a custom player, you will start as 
 an amateur trying to gain enough respect to join the PGA tour card and play with the big boys. 
 This means gaining enough money through tournaments and matches to buy lessons, equipment, and 
 attributes to make your player the best there is to offer. Along the way, you will also be offered 
 loads of money for wearing different sponsors gear or using their equipment. You will have to 
 pass Q-School in order to join the PGA tour. Once you are fully powered with impressive attributes 
 and the knowledge of every shot in the game, youll be set. Unfortunately, youll also be set to 
 become somewhat bored and uninterested. Once Q-School is over, the in-game currency becomes quite 
 pointless and you are simply playing to get to your first major, not to improve anything. This 
 is where the design team decided to add even more to the game in hopes of keeping you alive
  
  Each tournament will help you gain more points in the sub-currency of the game; legend coins. 
 These coins will help gain you the power to build your own Ultimate Course that you can try to 
 beat the legends at in hopes of proving you are the ultimate golfer. Unfortunately, what seemed 
 as a brilliant idea known as Tiger Proofing, is nothing more than a few sliders that make your 
 so called ultimate course a little bit more slanted and rough filled. All you do is edit other 
 courses, not create your own actual course. At its core, the Tiger Proofing mode is simply a 
 fake build your own course feature that players will find rather flat. Making the trees blue on 
 the Pebble Beach course is amusing for about a half second and is quickly followed by the game 
 closing in lack of interest. Players, at this point, have lost complete interest and are once again 
 only playing to get to the major card in order to play with Tiger and gang. What else did EA come 
 up with to thrill you? More Legend action!
  
  The Legend Tour is an interesting mode that is supposed to represent the theme of the game but 
 is a bit more over the top than it is impressive. You will climb a Mortal Kombat style ladder in 
 order to reach the ultimate legend and win the legend tour. On the bottom of this intense bracket 
 are the most ridiculous created golfers you will ever find. The talent ranges from a Scottish drunkard 
 in a kilt to a punk rocker with a Mohawk. While it does change the more professional tone of the 
 game for a little fun, it feels more far-fetched than it does fun. The AI is even a little too 
 dull to make it fun when having to play around 8 of these pointless 9 hole matches. Aside from 
 this slight downside, the legend tour offers even more game time to help keep you interested and 
 playing the game. If you havent started to notice, having an interest in golf is without a doubt 
 a necessity considering you will be playing a lot of it and for hours on end. 
  
  Finally, Tiger Woods had only one last EA standard to throw in before it could be shipped off; 
 online play. This is available on the PC, XBOX, and PS2 versions and is certainly an excellent 
 feature that adds quite a bit to the replay and intense memories of the game. There are several 
 custom modes that are offered in the online mode such as shootout, skins, scramble, and a slew 
 of other odd titles (Blood Mode) that pretty much define alternating team play. Online also includes 
 a feature for side games where you can put money prizes on certain accomplishments made during 
 your bout such as aces, drive length, chip ins, etc. Many will find the online mode quite rewarding 
 and like most EA Sports titles, the source of the replay value.
  
  Graphically, Tiger Woods has always been very appealing due to its beautiful course design and 
 in depth character modeling, all of which have several different facial expressions and motion 
 capture swings. The PC offers the most polished look with extensive detail towards the water and 
 grass textures. All versions include an excellent camera as well as very cinematic replays that 
 are automatically saved and available at all times. The PC version offers you a grid on the putting 
 greens for determining the slopes and such, while the console versions offer the beauty that is 
 Tiger Vision. This new addition tells you exactly how to aim your shots and is almost always 
 a guaranteed sinker. You only get around 3 uses of this feature per game, so use it wisely. 
  
  Tiger Woods is obviously the most detailed and feature filled golf game known to man. Its cinematic 
 camera style, remarkable commentary, well textured environments (especially on PC) , lengthy career 
 mode, and endless legend theme features make a lasting experience that can be repeated for the 
 entire year. Its attempt at making a worthwhile create a course or use of far fetched created 
 players can be its unfortunate downfall for those looking for the ultimate golf game. While it 
 may not contain the most creative or in depth set of features EA has shown in its sports titles, 
 it is certainly worthy of any golf fans collection. Most importantly, Tiger Woods has once again 
 taught me that being good at virtual golf means absolutely nothing in reality.
  
  86/100
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  Well the game is good and worth getting. But honestly its the same as last years 2004. Sure there 
 are sweeter bells and whistles. Creating a player is more fun and many options to keep you entertained 
 but I am not a fan of the new layout now. It is harder to earn money and you can't really just 
 play for a quick buck. now when you play scenarios once you finish it you can't go back to earn 
 more money... and then you have to play in tourneys and if you don't finish well you can't go back 
 and play it again ... so the career modes is much more difficult and since i am someone who can 
 only play a little a week on this game it makes it hard to actually make any money which is frustrating.
 
  
  but other then that just think of last years game and make it nicer on the eyes.
  nothing more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 11, 2004 8:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the first golf game I've purchased in the past 5 years. Needless to say the genre has changed. 
 Last time around digitized characters was the deal. Now they are simply more detailed cartoons.
 
  
  The gameplay has much improved, especially in the mouse/swing controls. Never could stand that 
 3 click stuff, but it remains an option for those fans. In the console versions there is a fun 
 practice game that you can earn money by getting close to the pins or hitting targets. For some 
 reason this option is missing in the PC. Its a great way to improve your character and have fun 
 screwing around.
  
  The graphics in general run smooth. Though I feel that they really could do much better. Such as 
 trees are still very 2D, and replicated over and over.
  
  This game is an RPG for golfers. Your character starts off sucking very bad. You only improve by 
 purchasing more stats. I feel that you should also be able to improve for free simply by practicing 
 and playing more. Thankfully the initial people you play suck worse than you.
  
  The tour modes are almost great. There is a calendar that shows you when tournaments take place. 
 This aspect could use some improvement, such as making it more time orientated by giving many (real) 
 days to play the tournament otherwise you forfeit.
  
  Another thing missing in the PC version is the moving lines while putting helping you to understand 
 the amount of slope.
  
  
  This is a good game, don't miss understand me. After 1 hour of play I wanted to take it back. After 
 2 hours of play you could'nt tear me away. I don't regret the purchase anymore, and would recommend 
 it to others as long as they don't have as high of hopes as I did. I simple feel that there is 
 room for improvement.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2004 12:02 am PT
Review:  Last year Tiger Woods was without a doubt the best in the series, I had a hard time believing that 
 EA would found a way to make it better. Well I was right, it isnt better. In fact I think they 
 went the wrong way with the game. The graphics are much improved at the expense of a very heavy 
 hit to your system. The only problems with the graphics, is that some how the players seem a little 
 cartoony. 
  The game seem to be much harder this year, with the jerky mouse and choppy graphics, making for 
 a much harder time trying to sink that 20 footer. The courses are nice, but not enough real courses 
 to make me happy. 
  One thing that is really nice is the player editor, man you can do just about anything with it, 
 and for some odd reason you can detail your player about 10 times more then you can in the Sims 
 2 game. You would think it would be the other way around.
  If you never played Tiger Woods, then you will enjoy the game, but save yourself a few bucks and 
 get Tiger Woods 2004 and leave this one on the shelf. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarman2uk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 8, 2004 11:12 am PT
Review:  Theres no doubt about it that over the past few years golf has been more populist than elitist.
 
  Although there are still certain boundaries, a lot of the pompous elements of the great game have 
 started to dwindle. Hence it being far more accessible.
  With this is mind computer giants Electronic Arts have also listened to the majority and produced 
 what has got to the be the best Tiger Woods title so far in the long-running series.
  As well as providing the run-of-the-mill golf game, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 has all the elements 
 to make it a completely different animal.
  Yes the standard golf game is there for the die-hard fan who doesnt like change, but then start 
 to delve a little deeper into the menus and sub-menus and you unravel a completely new game.
  For a start, theres more mini-games than you can shake a stick (or club) at, including the chance 
 to play against such golfing legends as Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Ben Hogan and Seve Ballesteros 
 in a new legends mode.
  But the latest addition to this years release has got to be Game Face II.
  Introduced last 
 year, this feature gave the ability of designing a player to look just like you.
  This has received a major overhaul and utilising a host of extra tweakable features, you can really 
 manipulate the face until it looks just like you  or your mates.
  This extra addition does add an extra dimension to the game, as it means you can play a game of 
 golf with your mates when the weathers bad outside or you cant afford the green fees!
  Also new is the swing editor which allows you to tweak the bend of your knees, position of your 
 hands and the length of the swing.
  Although Im not so sure how this really affects the game (youve still got to hit the ball straight!) , 
 it does mean you can create some pretty mad looking swings.
  But one of my favourites features in 2005 is the Legends mode where you get to compete against 
 some of golfs greatest heroes.
  But before you can jump in and go head-to-head with Ben Hogan or Arnold Palmer you have to complete 
 and win a few competitions against some pretty tasty characters, including some real-life PGA pros.
 
  Some might argue that EA has gone a little too far in its goofiness of the characters with some 
 pretty bizarre names, haircuts and the like, but personally, I think it adds a touch of humour 
 to a game that can be a little too contrived at times.
  Another extra is Tiger Proofing which you can carry out on courses. It basically means you can 
 buy a course and then start changing bits of it to make it easier or more challenging.
  Its a bit of a different concept, but with 2005 now including a total of 14 courses  including 
 eight new ones  you have to wonder why you would want to start messing around with the size of 
 bunkers and the slopes of greens, but its there if you want to dabble.
  Comparing 2005 to 2004, there are some major differences. The gameplay is basically the same but 
 its the fact that you can tweak every last little bit out of game that makes it stand out. Overall, 
 Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 is well above par. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rarndt01
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 30, 2004 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I can sum up this game in one phrase-"Cyclic Redundancy check error". This game has a major bug 
 that causes most gamers not to be able to even install the game. This is unforgivable, after shelling 
 out $39.00 for this. I have a new PC and the CD game disks are not dirty or scratched. They are 
 brand new. I went to the EA web site under support and they offer a whole host of things to try 
 to get around this redundancy error. I tried them all and none worked. Why does one need to do 
 all this stuff anyway? The game should install in any Windows XP PC. Do these guys at EA Sports 
 really test these games before shipping out the game? One wonders. Anyway, I shipped back this 
 game to EB games for a refund. I definitely do not recommend anyone buying this PC version of the 
 game. Buy the PS2 OR X box version. At least they will work just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 30, 2004 3:07 am PT
Review:  Before even opening the box, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 had the opportunity to be the best game 
 in the Tiger series. Tiger Woods 2004 was superb and could have been improved upon to make the 
 perfect PC golf game. However, this edition of the game falls short of the mark set by last year's 
 game. 
  Starting up the game you are taken directly to the main menu that will become oh so familiar to 
 you as you progress through the game. Options here include all the usual Options, Extras (including 
 previews of other EA titles and Credits) and Online Play. In addition, you get the chance to "Tiger 
 Proof" holes (more on that later) , view your resume, change your appearance with Game Face II, 
 or get into some career action. Career mode in this year's game allows you to play in tournaments 
 moving your way from amateur, through q-school, to the PGA tour. It also allows you to play the 
 World Tour 2004 inspired scenario's that are much more difficult compared to last year. You can 
 also create your dream 18 from courses you "buy" with legend coins. Legend Coins can be earned 
 through completing lessons (same as last year) , completing scenarios, or by defeating players on 
 the Legend Tour.
  Those that played TW2004 remember the World Tour. Which was a combination of game scenario's played 
 out at each course in the game. This year's game offers the Legend Tour, which, in this reviewer's 
 opinion is not a favorable change. The basis of the Legend Tour is that you will face a selection 
 of fictional golfers such as Billy Hightower or Johnny The Hustler. Once you defeat the fictionaly 
 golfers, you are moved up a tier to face real professionals. All the names from last year's game 
 are included this time around. Vijay Singh, Justin Leonard, Ty Tryon, and Natalie Gulbis just to 
 name a few. Once you complete this tier of events, you are able to challenge the Legends of the 
 game. The inclusion of these legends are good to see for fans of the sport. Gary Player, Ben Hogan, 
 Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, and Seve Ballesteros are included in all their glory. The final tier 
 on the Legend Tour pyramid is a face-off with Tiger Woods himself. Who saw that one coming?
  Next, we move on to Tiger Proofing. Which is the ability to change the difficulty of the course. 
 Sliders enable you to make the fairway narrow, make the rough thick, exaggerate the elevation of 
 the course and make the green tiny. You can also change things like pin position, tree density, 
 course upkeep, and more. This is a very neat feature for this year's game, however its importance 
 seems to be less on making the changes yourself and more on playing Tiger Proofed holes in Scenario 
 mode or on the Legend Tour. You can however, create your own Dream 18 and Tiger Proof each individual 
 hole. As you do so, your prestige rating will go up and you will be challenged by the Legends of 
 the game. 
  Game Face II is the newest version of last year's Game Face feature. And, like last year's version 
 this is where you will change your appearance, golf equipment, and attributes. Your appearance 
 this year can be changed through clothing, accessories, and visual aids such as head, face, and 
 body build. There are more options this year for customizing your look: age spots, wrinkles, scars, 
 dimples, laugh lines, are all apart of the various options. The equipment menu allows you to choose 
 everything from your driver and woods, to your grip color and ball color. Yes, this year you can 
 choose between not only real world golf balls, but 2 color and 3 color balls. There seem to be 
 more options for equipment this year when compared to last year, and that by all means, is a good 
 thing. The more, the merrier. Your attributes this year are limited to only 100 in each category 
 as opposed to the 125 max from last year's game. This makes the game much more realistic and doesn't 
 allow you to hit those 370yd drives on every hole.
  That brings us into gameplay. Fan's of TW2004 should be able to step right in and excel in this 
 game. Gameplay feels almost exactly the same but that's not necessarily a bad thing. A few changes 
 were made to your drives off the tee and your play from the rough. Power Shots are now much more 
 likely to be severely hooked or sliced, and your shots from deep or medium rough seem to be handicapped 
 moreso. This makes gameplay feel much more realistic while still having arcade hints. The swing 
 motion from previous games returns, but you can also select 2 or 3-click swing styles.
  The courses in this years game have been reduced from 18 to 11. With 10 real-world courses and 
 two fantasy courses, one that you'll recognise if you have played the console versions from last 
 year and one inspired by Australia's deep outback. This year's real-world locales include, Edgewood 
 Tahoe, Harbour Town, Pebble Beach, Sherwood Golf and Country Club, St. Andrews, The Links at Fancourt, 
 TPC Sawgrass, Troon North, and Turnberry. All of which have their own distinct look and feel. Edgewood 
 is beatifully green with some elevation changes, while St. Andrews is relatively flat but full 
 of pot bunkers and massive greens. The change in quantity of courses this year really is hard to 
 comprehend, I would have liked it if they added this year's new courses to last year's supply as 
 the variety there could have been fantastic.
  Commentary this year is supplied once again by Gary McCord and David Feherty. While they stay right 
 on top of things and offer plenty of anecdotes, players of last year's game will hear many of the 
 same witty remarks. All in all, commentary is good, but a little repetitive. As far as the audio 
 in the game, it is surely top notch. Shots from the tee with metal woods sound great, shots from 
 deep sand make that deep bass thump found in real life. The only complaint is the ball falling 
 into the cup is silent. The most satisfying sound in golf is the ball falling into the hole and 
 this is missin from the game! Why?
  I havn't gotten a chance you play online yet so I cannot comment on it yet. Though if it is anything 
 like last year's game I have a feeling you'll be spending alot of your time playing your friends 
 from across the hall, down the street, or around the world.
  All in all, while Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 does not live up to last year's game, it is definately 
 worth playing. Its improvements over last year are overshadowed by its lack of courses and world 
 tour mode. Features that could only help this series in the future. Owners of last year's game 
 may want to hold out on this one, for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickwillyone
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 28, 2004 6:18 am PT
Review:  I've completed TW 2004 through 4 full career mode golfers and for whatever reason, I just can't 
 keep from playing it all over again. Naturally, I was anxious to get my hands on the 2005 version 
 and picked it up as soon as it hit the shelfs. (Note: I started another 2004 career at the halfway 
 point of the 2005 game.) My advice for TW fans is, go ahead and pick up 2005; just wait until it 
 gets down around $15-$20.
  
  2005 is fun to play, and I like the improved graphics and physics feel. The fact is, it just doesn't 
 have that same appeal that engrosed me in 2004 and kept me swinging away any time I could get near 
 computer. It's much easier to complete early matches and tounaments in 2005 and you should easily 
 be able to max out all player skills without completing even half of the total game objectives: 
 tournaments, legends tour, and scenarios (a. k. a. world tour.) You don't even need to earn potential 
 skill points anymore and the purses let you accumulate money much faster. (I'd like to ask the 
 EA team: what good is having millions of dollars in your account without cool stuff to spend it 
 on?) It just feels like its been dumbed down a bit and marketed to be 'cooler' to appeal to a younger 
 demographic. I find tricking out courses with 'Tiger Proofing' to be pretty idiotic but your mileage 
 may vary. On the other hand, the legends match play is pretty fun even on those dumb Tiger proofed 
 courses. I would like to note that the game does seem pretty stable, so kudos to DEV/QA teams.
 
  
  It's difficult, (maybe unfair) , to gauge any other game against one I've enjoyed so much but EA 
 has just been making the series better and better so I figured 2005 should be the best yet. I do 
 enjoy the game and want to give it a great review but as I confront my pros/cons I'm forced to 
 accept the fact that I just don't think it measures up to 2004. 
  
  If you're interested, these are the game notes from my journal.
  
  General Impression:
  It 
 seems like the game was rushed to market and many of the great real world courses have been removed 
 (licensing/cost issues perhaps.) The game is too easy: where's the incentive to keep trying when 
 all the main accomplishments are obtainable very early in the game.
  
  Pros:
  + Legends mode is great
  + Graphics slightly improved over TW04
  + Physics seems a bit more 
 realistic; ball flight/roll (off the green)
  + Game Face II is more entertaining, and better equipment is available early
  + Better cinematics
 
  + Menu is improved
  + New courses are entertaining for a while (kind of dumb in Tiger Proof mode though)
  + Trophy 
 balls and trophy case are fun to collect
  + Game progress in Resume` mode and easy to use stat trackers
  
  Cons:
  - Mouse much more 
 sensitive (no way to adjust) ; forget the Powershot altogether
  - Announcer always talks about your opponents next shot after you win a match hole
  - Nothing 
 to spend your money on after your attributes are maxed out (like 2004)
  - Putting problems: aiming arrow is jerky, and some straight/flat putts miss
  - Seasons are way 
 too long, gets repetetive
  - Most of the soundtrack is from 2004
  - Scenarios replace 2004 World Tour; most are much more difficult
  - Fewer real world courses
 
  - No way to review tournaments you've played without going to resume
  - Why cant a scenario just reset instead of going to main menu to reload the same one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardwareLust
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2004 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying I really liked Tiger Woods 2004. It was a very good game, the finest 
 PC golf game to date. I spent way too many hours playing golf on my computer because of this game. 
 So, I was reasonably excited when I heard TW2k5 was coming down the pipe. I eagerly went and bought 
 it on release day. Came home, installed it and fired it up. You know what? This game is TW2k4 game 
 repackaged. Sure, it's been gussied up with some extra challenges and tournaments, a couple new 
 courses, some new pros (John Daly is my hero, so that's cool) , and a feature where you can earn 
 the right to play The Legends of Golf like Arnie, Jack, Seve, Gary and Tiger. Add to that the new 
 'GameFace II' feature that really isn't that much better than the old one, other than the fact 
 you can have cool top-dollar clubs right out of the gate instead of having to earn them like in 
 2k4 (Taylor Made r7 Quad anyone?) . The game is basically exactly the same as last year's in actual 
 play. Same player animations, same sound effects (even the commentaries are reused from TW2k4, 
 so it sounds *exactly* the same,) same everything. Like deja-vu all over again. 
  
  Oh, sure the graphics are a tiny bit better. The butterflies and stuff are nice touch. The in-game 
 cinematics are better. The software's a little more sensitive to the mouse movement when using 
 the Trueswing feature. And, Tiger himself is looking a little more realistic. But, ultimately it's 
 TW2k4 rehashed. Nothing revolutionary here. The new courses are nice, but you can download hundreds 
 of courses off the web for 2k4, so that's not a really big deal. 
  
  That all being said, TW 2005 is still a very, very good golf game. Like I said, it's TW 2004 wrapped 
 in a shiny new wrapper, and 2k4 was the best PC golf game there is. I say, if you've got $40 burning 
 a hole in your pocket, AND you don't already own TW2k4, then get it. Today. You can't buy a better 
 PC golf game. Or, if you are on a budget, go now and find a copy of TW 2004 instead. I recently 
 saw it on sale for $15 at a national discount store. Now that's a real bargain, and you'll be getting 
 90% of what TW2k5 is. 
  
  But, IF you already have TW2k4, OR you DON'T have $40 burning a hole in your pocket, I'd wait until 
 this drops to $20 for Christmas. Or just wait for Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2006. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
