-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TimeShift
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/timeshift/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The ability to pause, slow, and rewind time is interesting.
 Weapons are cool and very satisfying to shoot.
 Solid online mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There are four-panel comic strips with better stories.
 Mission objectives are generally uninteresting.
 Combat can get repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,907 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Saber Interactive
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 30, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An interesting time-shifting mechanic and fun-to-shoot weapons can't make up for the rest of TimeShift's 
 run-of-the-mill first-person shooter gameplay. 

  Given TimeShift's long, tumultuous development cycle that saw the game change platforms, swap publishers, 
 and miss several release dates, it's surprising the game has made it to stores at all. So it's 
 too bad that TimeShift isn't really worth the wait, thanks to a barely-there story, extremely rudimentary 
 puzzles, and tired first-person shooter objectives like going through an entire level just to push 
 a button. It does have some redeeming features, though. It's fun to pause time and whale on helpless 
 soldiers, and some of the weapons are really satisfying to shoot.  

           Let's do the time warp again.      

  If you need more out of a game's story than "shoot 
 guys until the credits roll because an angry soldier and a computer voice say so," you're in trouble 
 here. If you piece together the fragmented cutscenes, scour the manual, and read the back of the 
 box, you'll learn that a certain Dr. Krone has stolen a special suit that lets its user travel 
 through time. This has created an alternate reality, which is a bad thing -- you'll have to trust 
 the game on that, because it's tough to figure out just what has happened that's so bad, other 
 than a big robot spider that shoots lasers terrorizing the city. (OK, maybe that  is  bad.) It's 
 up to you to take the other, experimental beta suit (ohhhh, dangerous!) , travel through time, and 
 stop Dr. Krone from doing something sinister -- which he has already done, so you want to undo whatever 
 it is he's done... or something.  

  Even though the story is an incoherent mess, it's still possible to enjoy TimeShift. Why? Because 
 you can time-shift. Your suit has the ability to pause, slow down, or even reverse time -- kind of 
 like a TiVo you can wear. This lets you pause the action, run up to a guy, and shoot him to bits. 
 Or if you're feeling like humiliating him before you kill him, you can steal his weapon, restart 
 time, and watch as he wonders where the heck it went, and then make him dead with a barrage of 
 bullets. It's even possible to regenerate health by seeking cover and pausing time. You can't rewind 
 time and prevent your own death, but if you're quick you can reverse it and unstick a grenade from 
 yourself. You only have a limited amount of time you can manipulate before the suit's energy runs 
 out, but it regenerates quickly. The game promises all sorts of other "exciting" uses for altering 
 the flow of time, but it never really capitalizes on the potential of the mechanic. Rather than 
 challenging you with complex puzzles that require you to think outside the box or use the game's 
 quality physics engine, you're mostly limited to slowing down time so you can press two buttons 
 in quick succession or pausing time so that you can get through a door before it closes. Thank 
 goodness for technology.  

  Other than the time-shifting stuff, the rest of TimeShift plays like a linear, run-of-the mill 
 first-person shooter -- and a dated one at that. Most of the level objectives are routine tasks like 
 finding a button that opens a door or, sometimes, locating a lever that opens a door. Heck, sometimes 
 you have to do both! There are a few scenarios where you ride around on an ATV and some others 
 where you man a turret on an airship, but most of the time you'll be moving from checkpoint to 
 checkpoint on foot, taking out wave after wave of unintelligent foes. It's good, then, that the 
 gunplay is entertaining. This is mostly due to the game's powerful weapons that are so much fun 
 to shoot. It might not be exactly challenging, but it's fun to pause time and take the crossbow 
 that shoots an arrow that sticks in the target and then blows up, and then unpause time and watch 
 your foe explode into a charred, bloody mess. There are other cool weapons too, like the automatic 
 gun that looks like it shoots bullets, but these bullets cause the target to burst into flames 
 when they hit, and then the dude screams like a little girl as he fries. Even the basic machine 
 gun is powerful and useful all the way through the game. There's always plenty of ammo to be found, 
 so you never have to be conservative with your bullets.  

  It's too bad that these powerful weapons, combined with the ability to manipulate time, make it 
 all too easy to fall into a rut of approaching every situation in the same way. Even on the harder 
 difficulty settings you can be successful finding cover, pausing time, unleashing a few shots, 
 and then retreating to cover while your suit and health recharge. Enemies won't always stay back 
 and wait for you to cap them, but their aggressiveness actually makes things easier. You can hide, 
 watch their dot on the radar get closer, and then shoot them as soon as they come around the corner. 
 There are a few instances where you'll have no choice but to seek shelter behind destructible cover, 
 but those situations are rare, and there's usually someplace safe you can scramble to once you've 
 been flushed out.  

  In addition to a lengthy 10- to 12-hour single-player campaign, TimeShift offers a full-featured 
 multiplayer component. A modified version of the single-player game's time-shifting ability is 
 found here, too. You can slow, pause, or rewind time by throwing one of three different chrono 
 grenades. Everyone within the blast radius of an explosion is affected. It's a neat idea, but one 
 that people seem all too keen to rely on -- they just throw them like crazy when they see another 
 person. You can play ranked and unranked matches in a wide variety of game types. There's deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch, one-on-one, capture the flag, and a few unique modes. King of time has you 
 try to gain control of the time sphere, which makes the person who holds it impervious to time 
 effects, allowing them to rack up kills with ease. Another is called meltdown madness. This is 
 a team mode where you try to prevent the other team's machine from counting down by throwing chrono 
 grenades at it. You can also create your own fun by using the multiplayer modifiers. These let 
 you increase players' running and jumping abilities, reduce gravity, or play alternate game types 
 like rockets or snipers only, vampires, or last man standing. The multiplayer mode isn't exactly 
 amazing, but it definitely has its moments.  

           If nothing else, it sure is satisfying to blow guys to bits in TimeShift.      

  One 
 of the reasons TimeShift was delayed so long was because the visuals in the early versions of the 
 game weren't up to par. It's not an amazing-looking game, but the graphics have improved significantly 
 over time and there are some nice visual effects to be seen. Explosions look fantastic, especially 
 when viewed while the game is in slow-motion or paused. It's not just the explosions that look 
 good, but the object being destroyed as well. Crates will splinter, bad guys' limbs will fly in 
 all different directions -- there's plenty of carnage. The rain effects in the first level are good, 
 too, though they feel overdone, as if the developer were showing off how hard it had worked on 
 making the game look better. The quality of the rest of the game's visuals depend on what system 
 you're using to play the game. The PC version looks best thanks to higher-resolution textures and 
 a fast, smooth frame rate. The Xbox 360 has markedly lower-quality texture work and the frame rate 
 experiences frequent hitches, especially in the first few levels.  

  It's ironic that TimeShift had such a long development cycle, because the game really could have 
 benefitted from more time in development. If the story had been fleshed out more and the developer 
 had made the decision to challenge players with tougher puzzles and mission objectives, this could 
 have been a very good, if not great game. Instead, it's just another ho-hum first-person shooter 
 with an interesting gimmick.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (114 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majicebe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The Upside:
  Graphics look good, weapons are phenomenal (the Surger is straight-up my new favorite weapon of 
 any game) , competent AI, compelling and mysterious story, and of course the mix of physics (best 
 seen with the ragdoll actions of enemies flying in slow motion) as well as the genre-enhancing 
 slow, stop, and reverse time features unique to this game.
  
  The Downside:
  The game is very linear, but not unlike similar games of the genre. The difficulty at first seems 
 punishing (even with time-alteration abilities) causing the player to die very, very often. This 
 sounds bad at first, but truly made the game more fun and forced the player to be a bit more strategic. 
 There were too few places to truly utilize time-reverse to great advantage -- the times you do 
 use it seem a little forced as though they had forgotten they needed to make it part of the gameplay. 
 The ending was abrupt; it felt a bit rushed and there was never truly a final standoff so-to-speak. 
 The rushed ending is emphasized by the overall length of game-time; probably about 15-20 hours 
 for the single-player campaign.
  
  Overall:
  The game is more fun than other games of a similar nature that I've played in recent years; Prey, 
 Quake 4, FEAR (most of it anyways) , Bioshock (in my opinion) , and a number of other lesser-known 
 titles. I found myself playing through certain points of saved levels over and over just for fun 
 due to the sheer chaos and fun I was having rushing into a completely overwhelming situation, and 
 finding different ways to use my time abilities to take out the enemy. There were a number of rush-the-beachhead 
 type moments, and when you mix that with limited time-bending, it really gets you into the moment.
 
  
  Bottom-line:
  If you can find it, buy it. I bought this several months ago for $20, and I'd have paid even more 
 for it after playing through. This is a shining beacon to the concept that you don't necessarily 
 have to re-invent the wheel for it to do the job, but giving the dashboard some inventive additions 
 sure makes the drive more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _MiSP_
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Note: This review is only of the single player part of the game.
  
  TimeShift, developed by Saber Interactive, is a pretty standard FPS: Shoot everything that moves, 
 watch the cut scenes, and a compulsory gimmick - manipulate the time. Even though the loading screens 
 tell you to "be creative" and "think in four dimensions", this ability doesn't make it through 
 the game without feeling repetitive. We've seen time-slowing abilities before in F. E. A. R. (a game 
 two years older!) , and while it's still fun, it has in many ways lost it's initial charm. Your 
 suit also has the ability to stop the time altogether. It's indeed entertaining doing this to grab 
 a weapon out of an enemy's hands, fire a magazine at him and then resume time to watch the bloodbath 
 - for the first couple of times. This is much due to the fact that stopping time entirely quickly 
 depletes your suit's power.
  
  The third, and potentially most interesting function of the suit, is reversing time. It's quite 
 handy when you've been hit by a sticky-grenade, but otherwise it has a very limited range of uses 
 and is mostly put to use in the game's puzzles. Speaking of which: Being a game that gives you 
 control over time itself, it has alarmingly few puzzles, and the few that's present is not up to 
 any average standards of quality. In addition, there's some bugs with reversing time, forcing you 
 to try puzzles again and again before you're able to go ahead. Thank god for quicksave...
  
  The story - or rather, the lack thereof - is by far where this game fails the most. If you 
 can live with a voice telling you where to go and what to do, then you might indeed have some fun. 
 If you want a story in between all the shooting, you've got the wrong game - try Half-Life 2 instead. 
 The opening cinematic reveals next to nothing, and it's often very difficult to get any coherent 
 picture out of the objectives your suit gives you. Sure, you've got the objective dot on the minimap, 
 but when you have no idea why you suddenly jumped a not-so-insignificant number of decades back 
 in time, looking for that certain switch or secret underground entrance makes little sense. It's 
 clear from the main antagonist's skyscraper high, four soccer fields large four-legged moving headquarters 
 that he's either running for world domination or trying to compensate for something, but you don't 
 get to know anything about his motives.
  
  Most of the time, you're shooting up and time-tricking your way through enemies rather mindlessly 
 on your way to the next switch. The shooting itself works pretty well and is entertaining much 
 thanks to your (slightly restricted) dominion over time, but there's a few quirks here too. Infinite 
 supplies of ammunition are scattered all around, enabling you to use your favourite gun throughout 
 the game, making the whole thing rather humdrum. In addition, your arsenal of weapons are by no 
 means revolutionizing.
  
  The game is otherwise not very enthralling. When you're not pushing buttons, you're pulling levers, 
 and the FPS genre (luckily) saw this gameplay mechanic more or less dead several years ago - at 
 least as the main means of progression. The developers have clearly been idle here.
  
  The game's ending (SPOILER PARAGRAPH!) consists of a boring fight where you're destroying (from 
 range) the plasma cannons of your arch rival's walking headquarters, and upon completion, a cinematic 
 is played showing him crawling toward you, almost dead, even though he moments ago were several 
 miles away. The cinematic ends with a totally failed badass-attempt, where your character plants 
 a bullet in his head. Then, an open-ended and confusing ending cinematic is shown, which only by 
 virtue of being open-ended and confusing barely manages to say "we've planning a sequel". Hearing 
 your suit's computer voice saying "paradox imminent" is somewhat cool, but the fact that this steals 
 the ending show certainly says something about the rest.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  It's a certain entertainment involved with controlling time, but this gets repetitive too soon. 
 The story is so non-existent it can't even be said to be the glue holding the rest of the game 
 together, and the duration (10-15 hour max) isn't much to talk about. The game completely drowns 
 among all the other FPS games out there - with good reason. The game barely manages to entertain 
 amongst all the madness - but where did the coherence go? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avatarcj
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  TimeShift is best game from Sierra Entertainment because u can reverse , stop and slow time . The 
 time thing is better then the F. E. A. R's . The game went very well on a Single Core and a AGP Video 
 Card. I think the best weapons are : Shattergun , Thunderbolt , EMF Cannon and Hellfire . The game 
 is survival because you'r almost alone every time .
  TimeShift is a first-person shooter with a twist. You exist during an alternate timeline in a world 
 ruled by an evil dictator - and you have the ability to change it all. You manipulate the environment 
 around you by stopping time, slowing it, and rewinding it - making it possible for you to dodge 
 bullets, walk across destroyed bridges, and shoot opponents before they can shoot you. However, 
 the time-shifting ability is more than a gimmick. There are specific puzzles and obstacles that 
 can only be solved with time-shifting skills. When and how you choose to manipulate time is key. 
 Rewinding the clock at the wrong time and in the wrong place will upset the balance of the world 
 you are in. Your goal is to travel back in time and rid the world of the despotic regime that was 
 created by your inadvertent manipulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eizenstahl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Going to keep this short:
  
  
  The good: 
  * Pretty nice diversity of places/maps.
  * Cool weapons with secondary fire and other tricks.
  * It didn't only last for 4 hours.
  * 
 The suit you wear actually makes a difference (imho I could as well be without it in Crysis because 
 it added close to nothing to the gameplay there) .
  * Not too ugly ;)
  * Ok sound
  * You can shoot at some walls and they actually fall to pieces... well, sort of.
  
  
  The 
 Bad:
  * I never understood the story.
  * Who, what, where am I and why?
  * The 'no you can't go there because there is an invisible wall in your way' thingie is annoying.
 
  * Abit anti-climactic ending (a little bit too easy) .
  * Way too little what I would call 'suit-problem-solving' (Use the timeshift abilities to get to 
 places) .
  
  
  
  Im not sure if the game is a console-port, but if it is, it's the best port I played so far. Imho 
 it's a slightly above average 3D-shooter that could have been much better if the timeshift abilities 
 had played a bigger part of the game.. and if there story had been more.. 'clear'.
  
  I can recommend the game to anyone that want a slighty above average 3D-shooter to fool around 
 with when you got nothing else to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roelandje
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  The story was bad... don't know your real nature. don't know what you're supposed to do. Don't 
 know who you are.
  The things you can do with your suit are great.
  But, to short! So, for example, you see a group of men. You think: great, gonna get them' guns! 
 You press the key, whoosh, and by time you are at the group... your time is up! Also, there is 
 no reward, like: if you finish the game, you get a suit with no time bounded specs.
  
  then, one other point: There are more guys walking around in the suit.... SO long 
 
  
  okay, the multiplay mode. It's very fun, that you have a time grenade. You can't use timeshifting 
 on your own, but have to share it with your team mates.
  
  so, conclusion: The story sucks, the game has no colour (not that it should be a hippie happy flower 
 power game, but this is very depressing!) but the multiplay game, and the specs in the suit make 
 it worth to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalkhare
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  TImeshift truly is a masterpiece in its genre but the presentation of the storyline and the script 
 threw it off track to becoming a high scoring game (like crysis) .
  I had to search the net, look in the manual, and watch the in game videos to actually piece together 
 to get the story. At first looking at the screenies i thought this would be like POP. but it had 
 an altogether new gameplay (it was fps) a different and relistic story, and a sexy scientist. i still 
 dont think that the developers did justice to the potential this story had. in the end video it 
 hints towards a sequel, i hope they dont repeat the same mistake twice. and now i would like to 
 recommend this game to all those who want to try an fps out of sorts. and now i'm just tryin to 
 finish the word  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  TIMESHIFT is a great game that really worth playing the there some problems with the games.. i 
 think that the first one is the graphic.. i mean for 2007 theres lots of games who have much better 
 graphic than TIMESHIFT also the story it really not so good... and mission objectives are boring...
 
  
  the good about the game is that you have the great ability to: slow time, stop time, reverse time, 
 thing that really gives the game a fun and great gameplay
  
  the weapons are great and visual effects also nice.. the level design are ok but thats all...
 
  
  in GAMESPOT bad things have been said about the game that can be repetetive.. so?? almost every 
 first person shooter can be repetetive... and thats not a bad thing i think that its ok.. fun and 
 more fun!!
  
  the game is really awesome (some problems but thats ok) so if you find this game is chip price 
 buy and also you cant rent this game.. becuase its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is the newest thing from Saber Interactive, the studio that developed the famous Will 
 Rock game in 2003, this is the new thing there doing, a time changing, heavily scripted shooter.
 
  
  The Story is terrible, its hard to figure out whats going on, you are the "beta suit" in this lab, 
 some crazy bald ass guy runs off with the "alpha suit" kills everyone in this building, which I 
 don't understand at all, this pre-rendered scene is decent as best, but doesn't tell you who you 
 are, or what is happening, it goes as the bald guy kills this female scientist, seamingly for no 
 reason, then some guy yells "EVACUATE", then some guy goes to this skin-tight suit known as "beta 
 suit" and then some other guy comes in says "HEY YOU, ITS NOT READY, LETS GET OUT OF HERE" then 
 that female scientist gets incinerated in the flames, and the guy who says "HEY YOU" gets blown 
 up, then you go into this ball of death and you end up in 1939 A. D, understand what I just explained 
 to you? Well thats what they said, see how incohesive it is?
  
  The Settings is in an alternate reality, now why is it in 1939 A. D they have a fully automatic 
 rifle? That wasn't invented til' 1943, why do they have spider bots?
  Why do they have grenade launchers? Did the crazy Bald Scientist with that "alpha suit" do this, 
 invent this all? how long ago did you get there, how did you know where to go in time? Lots of 
 little things like this don't make sense, its impossible to get into the story, if you don't know 
 whats going on, how did you get here, how did they get the technology to do this, thats what makes 
 this story and setting terrible.
  
  The shooting model in the game is fantastic in this game, when shooting the Karbine Rifle, it feels 
 very good while doing so, the gun has the right kick, the damage feels right, everything about 
 the rifle feels good, and the sound to go with the rifle feels compliments everything about the 
 rifle, the Shotgun also feels big and powerful, and feels like it has the right about of kick, 
 and power, the most disappointing weapon in the game is probably the pistol, it feels to accurate, 
 to weak, it doesn't even work as a sidearm in my opinion.
  
  The time changing technique is sorta unique, but it just feels like Blinx the time sweeper with 
 guns, some of the battle sequences require alot of the time changing, mainly cause if you see a 
 bridge you got to get across, but gets blown up? You have to reverse time, it breaks up the action, 
 and doesn't work terribly well, a couple of other powers is the stop time power, and slow down 
 time, the most useful in the game is the stop time ability, mainly cause you can stop time to get 
 out of the way of projectiles, and also to steal enemy weapons.
  
  The Graphics are decent, but not very advanced compared to other engines out there, the shading 
 within the game is rather good, the water looks great, most of the first part of the game you fight 
 in the rain, the lighting does well for itself, the physics don't play a huge part of the game, 
 but its nice to see boxes fly apart, debris get thrown around everywhere in the battlefield, all 
 this comes at a reasonable price, you don't need the latest and greatest to enjoy what this game 
 has to offer. The only thing I had a complaint agaisnt is the character models don't look like 
 anything special, trust me, the artist direction the resistance make them look like high-tech terrorists, 
 a balaclava with a helmet bigger then ones head doesn't help.
  
  The sound, again does very well, guns sound nice and powerful, the voice acting sounds actually 
 kinda forced, like the voice actors aren't taking any particular interest in there role in the 
 game.
  
  Multiplayer isn't much to right about at home, just a your standard array of modes like deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag and what not, so there's not much to talk about on that note.
 
  
  While Timeshift is a fun shooter, against all the games it has to go against, it would have fared 
 alot better if it were to be released in 2004, but in 2007, the shooter market is alot thicker 
 than before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  This was one of the few games that I was NOT tracking up to its release and was not planning on 
 buying. It seemed like it would be more gimmick than substance, but I decided to download and try 
 out the demo anyway. Well, what can I say now? That short glimpse of this game won me over and 
 I bought it the next day and have thoroughly enjoyed it since.
  
  The first few levels help you get associated with the controls and your time powers and do so quickly 
 and efficiently. The only problem I had was there seemed to be a lot going on (objectives popping 
 up, your suit talking to you, NPC's talking to you, enemy broadcasts, et cetera) and I had a hard 
 time getting everything straight, but it only took a little while to get used to the interface 
 and after that I was able to manage all the information without a problem. The default controls 
 are standard issue FPS but I like some of the keys different than default so a minute or so in 
 the control options and it was fixed and I was set to roll through time.
  
  My computer falls somewhere between the minimum and the recommended system requirements so I just 
 let it auto-detect graphic settings for me, except that I slide the resolution from 1280x1024 to 
 1600x1200. The game runs great, awesome frame-rate and I didn't run in to any lag spots even during 
 times of high action. It seems some people don't think the graphics are up to par for these days, 
 but I really can't agree with that. I think the graphics look great. The particles and other effects 
 are beautiful, the textures are clean and the models are detailed. No, it isn't Crysis, but it 
 also doesn't require a monster of a machine to run.
  
  As you progress through the game you will get a large variety of weapons from the standard machine 
 gun and semi-automatic pistols to some extremely power and very fun to shoot weapons like the crossbow 
 with exploding arrows. Combined with your time manipulation abilities, there are quite a few ways 
 to handle most situations, but that said, there are never so many ways that it gets too complex 
 to be fun.
  
  Now, the important stuff: the time shifting powers. There are three different abilities you can 
 pick from: slow, pause and rewind. There are certain times in the game where you'll have to use 
 a specific ability (which is made easy because the suit will default to the ability it thinks is 
 most useful a given time, but this can be easily overridden) , but for the most part, time is your 
 play thing. I call this game innovative because of this feature and I stand by that. Being able 
 to approach situations differently than in any other FPS is quite innovative and fun. That being 
 said, I don't think this innovation was used to the full extent it could have been. Like I said, 
 you can pretty much use any ability at any time and play it like you want, but unfortunately, that 
 only really changes how you play the game and how you deal with foes, it doesn't affect the story 
 or your interactions with NPCs. I really think this could have been fleshed out a bit more to add 
 more re-playability and to keeps things fresh throughout the entire game. I guess I just get to 
 look forward to a sequel for these that though.
  
  The story is not quite clich but it doesn't surprise or break any new ground. I did find it interesting 
 enough, along with the game play, to keep playing all the way through nonetheless. I won't spoil 
 anything here, but basically from the first video you'll find out that someone stole a time suit 
 similar to yours and you have to fix what he breaks. It is quite linear, but honestly, that is 
 what I expect from a FPS so I can't really penalize it for that. It will take a good 10 hours to 
 get through if you pick a difficulty level in line with your skill level. You won't ever really 
 be left wondering what to do as there is a marker on your radar to show you the way, however don't 
 think it is a mindless romp from point to point. You will have to figure out how to deal with situations 
 and accomplish your objectives.
  
  As far as the multiplayer goes, the little bit of it that I've played was fun, but honestly, I'm 
 really not much of a multiplayer FPS unless it is co-op (which this is not) so you should probably 
 just take GameSpot's word for it.
  
  Now, I don't like to comment on other people's opinions, but I feel have to here. After reading 
 the GameSpot review I was left with a very fishy smell. Some of the comments by the reviewer are 
 very confusing if you've played the game. For example:
  
  "If you piece together the fragmented cutscenes, scour the manual, and read the back of the box, 
 you'll learn that a certain Dr. Krone has stolen a special suit that lets its user travel through 
 time."
  
  Now, I didn't open the manual until after the tutorial and I still haven't read the back of the 
 box, but after the first 2 minutes of the game, I knew exactly what was going on, even though, 
 like I said above, I was being somewhat overloaded with information. The reviewer goes on to mock 
 the storyline saying it is incomprehensible and stupid (in so many words) . The best I can figure, 
 either the reviewer played the game on mute or was just entirely determined to hate this game. 
 The story is simple, but with a point; it is very clearly presented to you in such a way that keeps 
 you in the game the whole time; and it fits the gameplay just fine.
  
  The other problem I have with the GameSpot review is the last "Bad" bullet point: "Combat can get 
 repetitive." There isn't a FPS out there that isn't repetitive on some level, but there is no reason 
 to single out TimeShift and punish it for that. Having played a decent amount of first person shooters, 
 good and bad, over the years, I can say with great confidence that TimeShift is one of the least 
 repetitive combat experiences of the bunch. With the large variety of extremely fun-to-shoot weapons 
 mixed with your abilities to influence time, the combat is fresh throughout the game.
  
  A quick note on a user review that says you cannot use the mouse to turn left or right: I have 
 no idea what is wrong with this user's computer, but this is entirely false. The control scheme 
 is a standard FPS layout and if you don't like that, there are option menus for both Mouse Controls 
 and Keyboard Controls. It is very fast and easy to customize your control scheme to fit you and 
 I can't see any reason someone should have a problem with the controls.
  
  My Verdict: If you're looking for an epic story to become emotionally attached to, then this isn't 
 the game for you. However, if you enjoy first person shooters (specifically single player campaigns, 
 since I can't attest to the multiplayer as stated above) , and using your skill to dominate enemies 
 in very satisfying ways, then this is a solid game and worth playing. TimeShift is an enjoyable 
 shooter with a twist on the ordinary, a cache of rewarding weapons and great graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k80sg
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  A 6.5 rating from gamespot is outrageous. The reviewer must have casually rated it after playing 
 it for only 5 mins. Timeshift is not just your normal shooter games where you dodge and shoot your 
 way throughout the entire game. It requires some strategy especially in the later part where enemies 
 get tougher; some even have similar time manipulating suits and devastating weapon like yours.
 
  
  Apparently, the core game play of TS is about timeshifting as the title reads. Basically, the special 
 suit which you are wearing is able to manipulate time. You can either forward, rewind or pause 
 environmental elements as well as any form of living things but of course you will not be affected. 
 As soon as you fire the first shot from the first gun you pick, you will immediately notice that 
 realism is kept at minimum but it's meant to be. You will probably understand why this is so in 
 the later part of the game. All weapons have a futuristic sci-fiction design to them and are recoilless 
 so as to accommodate the timeshifting game play. 
  
  The beginning part rarely poses any major difficulties and there isn't much need to manipulate 
 the time to get past enemies. However, the intensity gradually increases when tougher enemies gets 
 in your way that's when you really need to put in a little strategy to bring them down by using 
 time control as your priority weapon. There are quite a number of puzzles too as expected which 
 also requires time control but rarely will they be of a serious challenge aside from 1 or 2 which 
 needs some figuring out as well as timely executions.
  
  The effects and graphics are of some top notch next-gen quality. You can see flying body parts 
 and explosions in slow motion. When it rains, thousands of rain drops hangs in mid air when you 
 execute the pause suit function. Another satisfying moment is when you stall time with 3 helpless 
 enemy right in front of you and with a few seconds to waste, you can decide the different ways 
 to execute them for example shooting them one by one with an explosive cross bow to see them explode 
 into pieces all at the same time or letting your grenade do the job. The environment settings and 
 sound effects are strikingly similar to Half Life. The Sewers, passageways, footstep sound, constant 
 repetitive announcement wherever you are and the female voice which cautions you about incoming 
 dangers resembles Half Life. 
  
  Overall, I enjoyed the game and would definitely recommend it to all FPS fans out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killingspree303
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Timeshift is a good FPS game, with fun time-controlling abilities.
  
  The graphics in Timeshift are great, and they're very much up-to-date. Environment, water, lighting 
 and shadows looks what they should look like.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much just fun, because of your suit. It gives you the ability to slow down, 
 stop and rewind time. In combat, these skills combined with heavy weapons will get you loads of 
 fun.
  
  The story in the game somewhat good, but it could've been a lot better. There are some parts in 
 the game where the story seems confusing, like the ending.
  
  Multi-player is great, and online play is fun. You don't use the suit to control time in multi-player, 
 instead you use some sort of grenades. But anyway, there are a lot of game modes you can choose, 
 like deathmatch, team-deathmatch, capture the flag and a few others.
  
  Overall, the game is great. Gameplay and graphics are the best parts of the game, but the story 
 is not as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shailesh_das
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I played this game after reading some user reviews and it didnt disappointed me. Its very underrated 
 and it shound be rated what it deserves. Its a pure FPS game. The player has got some cool timshifting 
 powers (reverse, forward, pause) which gives the feel of bulletime effect as utilized in other 
 games like MaxPayne, FEAR, Matrix.
  But its kind of hybrid of all of them. 
  Gameplay seems lot like FEAR where you have to just kill and kill and kill to the end. But its 
 got better graphics, innovative weapons and superb timeshifting powers than FEAR.
  Graphics are really mindblowing if you can run it in full effects. 
  The game has got some cool 
 but easy time based puzzles where you have to alter (pause, forward, reverse) the time to get through. 
 Game Physics is also good and and environment is also little bit destructible i. e. shooting the 
 pillers shatters the plaster and the rods become visible. 
  
  
  What really let it down is just the lack of difficulty and some default game settings. There is 
 variety in the enemies but its realy easy to get rid of them. May be its just because of player 
 enjoys super timeshifting powers.
  Enemies come in groups of 5-8 and its very easy to just pause the time and kill them all. 
  The 
 enemies has some nice AI and they often say cool things in reaction. 
  Strangely when you play the game the voice is really very slow and the music is high and you have 
 to alter the game voice to hear the character voice/enemy voice and mission briefings.
  
  This game deserves more than its rated by Gamespot it should be around 7.5 - 8.5.
  In conclusion 
 its really a nice & enjoyable game. Even if the ai is weak the gorgeous graphics, physics, thrilling 
 action and timeshifting powers are enough to hold you on chair.
  
  For an FPS lover, I highly recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seraphym_k
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  Describing first impression with three words it'd be: annoyance, frustration and irritation. Got 
 this game on Friday hoping to have some fun shooting bad guys on a weekend, but first thing to 
 welcome you in this game is SLOW load times, and weird behaviour like mouse running crazy in menus 
 and being sort of unresponsive in game. Guys definitely needed more time to tune and fix it. But 
 if you pass these obstacles, the game itself is quite fun!
  Yes, there are dumb puzzles and story is shallow, but when you stop the time, run around shooting 
 four guys in their heads and then time pause runs out and you see all four fly away simultaneously 
 gusting our their brains... That IS fun. While game is nothing new, and can be well described as 
 combination of Red Faction, Half-Life and Max Pain's slow-motion, still it feels great and those 
 6 hours needed for single player campaign were fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree with people on one thing. Gamespots reviews are really going to **** I mean 6.5? 
 What the heck is that? This game has good graphics, didnt crash on me once, and is just plain fun. 
 That doesnt sound like a 6.5 to me.
  
  The gameplay is pretty fun, but gets stale by the end of the game because the things you do to 
 enemies in the beginning of the game you do the same thing in the end, except the weapons and enemies 
 are different. Like in the beginning you might go up to a guy and take his weapon and then shoot 
 him in the face. Well, you would most definiely do that in the end because its just as useful and 
 just as enertaining. Speaking of entertaining, The timeshifing abilites are and absolute blast. 
 For the first part to the first half they are. But the game suffers from poor character devolpment 
 and doesnt introduce much new stuff, which i think (i havent played it yet) crysis will suffer from 
 also...
  
  Besides the fun gameplay, the graphics are actually pretty good, even for a DX9 game. the weather 
 effects are great to look at and when you shoot someones arm off in slow motion its pretty damn 
 sweet.
  
  The plot, like in all FPS's now, is pretty lame and stale, but is similar to a lot of superhero 
 movies these days, with the whole good gone bad guy now against the protaganist guy thing is present 
 here, but it doesnt make it interesing, but at least it is pretty easy to understand what is going 
 on.
  
  After a while of not wanting to play this because of all the bad reviews it got from the critics 
 and everything, it is actually a pretty enjoyable and good looking shooter. I had a fun time with 
 it and i hope for a sequel, becuase of the Cliffhanger ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothkin
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know what gamespot was thinking when they gave this game such a bad rating. first 
 of all, they said that there was no plot... chasing an evil scientist through time and through 
 alternate timeliness... that sounds like a good story to me.
  
  also, the weapons are fabulous - nothing new, but still good. a solid shotgun, a nice machine gun, 
 a good pistol, good sniper, good rocket launcher, and a cool crossbow. sure, they aren't new, but 
 still good. the gameplay is good too. the Ai of the enemies is decent, and the environments are 
 good enough for good strategy. finally, the time abilities are awesome and work reaaally well. 
 they also lend themselves to some very innovative puzzles. like one where where you need to turn 
 a wheel to make a elevator go up, then it falls, get on it, then use time reverse to make it go 
 back up with you on it - its cool.
  
  Now heres the bad part. the game gets boring real fast. it is very very linear, and although manipulating 
 time is fun, its the only real way to make things more interesting. because of this, the gameplay 
 is really repetitive. also, although the game is a SOLID shooter, its nothing new, and misses some 
 essentials. for example, there is no run... wtf? which really annoys me. but honestly, the game 
 is much better than GS said it was, and its worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The game is great! I really enjoyed playing it and I might play it again. It has good graphics 
 that make the world look really nice. The city looks amazing. For ex. the building that are far 
 in the distance look blury and out of focus, where things close to the player are crisp and beautiful.. 
 The guns could be more detailed but everything else looks awesome (especially explosions and 'time 
 effects') . Speking of guns, there are many cool guns that you can choose in the game. Yes, you 
 need to choose guns, you can only have 3 guns with you so you need to make some decisions. There 
 are no melee weapons (i. e. knifes) butyou can hit a foe with any gun you wish. Guns are probably 
 what makes this game so much to play because awesome guns + timeshifting abilities = hilarious 
 situations! For ex. you stop the time, use your sniper to snipe some enemies (the sniper uses exploding 
 arrows) and released the time seeing enemies explode.
  
  The other thing is of course the time factor. You control the time and it's so much fun. You can 
 stop, reverse or slow-down time. Personally I mostly used stop or slow-down time effects even though 
 you can use any effect almost anytime in the game. They are easy to use and helpful. There are 
 several puzzles where you must use your timeshifting abilities to solve them. The game also has 
 some vehicles you can drive but they won't become the main concept of the game.
  
  
  Probably, the biggest negative for this game is the story. You get all these weird 'missions' from 
 your friends that you must accomplish even though sometimes you don't even understand why you are 
 doing it. Also, the ending is horrible. It's simple and fast. I was expecting something more dramatic 
 (i. e. final battle) . Also, one more thing that is really annoying, is whenever you start a new 
 segment of the game (new chapter) there is a Loading screen + Processing Shadows screen that also 
 takes place at the same time which makes loading twice as long and twice as boring.
  I really believe that the game was too under-rated by GameSpot and that it deserves a much higher 
 score.. something like the one below:
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Although (as everyone knows) Timeshift had a troubled development path and the demo was less than 
 inspiring, not least because of the way it looked, the final game is probably one of the most entertaining 
 FPS that I've played in a long time.
  
  Sure, it has some challenges, not least in the plot line. But I learnt a long time ago that you 
 can't expect more than rudimetary plot from most FPS games and that really that's not what they 
 are about - which is why it puzzles me that Gamespot and some other reviewers place such emphasis 
 on it in Timeshift. In comparison to other highly rated and highly hyped games with limited plot 
 (Half-Life 2, Crysis, Doom) Timeshift stands up well and it has a trick up its sleave that none 
 of these do - the ability to slow, stop and reverse time. This mechanic elevates Timeshift from 
 a straightforward nice looknig shooter with some good weapons to something rather different, not 
 least because it works so well and allows such an expansion of the tactics that normally see one 
 through an FPS. Again in comparison to other games Timeshift looks pretty good, going for a Steampunk 
 look that works rather well - to be honest any FPS that involves Zeppelins has got my vote! The 
 AI is effective without being too annoying prescient and the game doesn't (again like many other 
 recent releases) fall into the trap of assuming difficulty = providing the enemy with pinpoint 
 accuracy with shotguns from half a mile away. In other words for those of us who don't spend hours 
 playing these games and practicing their LeeT skilz its actualyl playable and good fun.
  
  To be honest if you compare it with another straightforward shooter like Half-Life 2 - Timeshift 
 is about 3 times as long for the same money, it is graphically comparable (perhaps not quite as 
 good) , the gameplay is every bit as good, it has no less plot (i. e both have very little) , the 
 sound is equally effective and the combat and weapons elements are as good or perhaps better. On 
 top of this it has the time shifting component to play that really (from my perspective) makes 
 it a much better game....
  
  Oh yes and its stable and (as far as I can see) almost completely bug free.
  
  Having bought 
 and been a little disappointed by a number of recent FPS I was really very very pleasantly surprised 
 by Timeshift and its provided me with quite a few hours entertainment so far - I'd highly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The idea and the core of the game is interesting.. but afterwhile it feels like usual walking-shooting 
 shooter, the content does not allow it to reach to level of bordome.. but substance is dead. Graphics 
 looks lying (?) .. I mean it is flashy but close look is just confirms the robust makeover. Sound 
 effects... voice acting is dead... only subtitles, which is in my opinion is mish-mash.
  
  Only thing that may interact and involve you to play this game is the timeshifting abilities. Some 
 puzzle solving involvement also makes game a bit interesting, but in generak it is broken.. unfortunately... but 
 hopefully sequel will change all this lags and incorporate outcomes gained from user reviews... and 
 become one of the best futuristic shooter of its time.
  
  Weaponary is great... and also destruction in some cases is unexpectable... to overall look of game.
 
  
  But for now you can rent it first.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munchgun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This Time Shift is as you already know a remake of the original. In some areas you get surrounded 
 by many enemies which at times could be annoying because you have to shoot them a lot, you would 
 run out of ammo before taking them all down. At first it was a problem until I started giving them 
 head shots (yes you can get head shots in this game) Just don't shoot them from behind since they 
 are wearing helmets, shoot them on the face which usually works and rarely doesn't (it has to be 
 a specific area of the face sometimes) I liked the powers from the suit but ran out quickly. This 
 game is underappreciated and if you don't mind the faults it has you should play it. (I apologize 
 for any misspelling) As you progress through the game you (the main character) starts having something 
 similar to flashbacks and when you get used to the switching between powers it starts getting really 
 easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  timeshift is a game that you can blend with time let me give you some hsitory tiemshift was to 
 be released by atari, but things changed after a long while and we got it now by sierra fist of 
 all ITS NOT AT ALL LIKE THE TRAILER! the guns are really weak so its impossible to kill someone 
 with one shot to the head!
  
  now on to the game the story, well in the atari version the character had a name now he doesnt 
 so lets just say that sierra is ripping half life 2 so your character is a scientist that some 
 how teleported to the future like hl2 and has to take out an older scientist that leads the city 
 and armored cops vs rebels and you get a crossbow with zoom and you ll hear stuff liketo all 
 unregistered citizens" and in the beggining youllfight inside the city empty river damn and be 
 chased by cops just like hl2 and later in countryside in a rebel assault! the game has good size 
 and nice mp!
  
  the graphs look great in terms of artistic and use advanced rendering and shader technologies, 
 so you wont need an 8800 card to max it out, the sound is pretty good too! ALSO IT HAS AWESOME 
 LEVELS and tiem puzzles in which you got to use time to avoid getting killed! 
  
  AND NOW.... the bad points the gameplay could ahve been better,
  before i speak for gameplay 
 there is something weird with the mouse look it aint very smoothly like its ripped from a console, 
 
  
  the gameplay could be considered descent and it makes this 8 shooter to get 7.7 from me id give 
 it 7.8 but the ending sucks you gotta avoid artillery and blow up turrrents and then you see a 
 vid in which you shot the bad guy to the head... WHAT THATS IT?
  
  so the cool guns you gut like the assault rilfe which is REALLY weak you gotta shoot someone 7 
 times to die thats way too long and they bleed all the time but they dont die it just looks iddiotic 
 to shoot some one again and again and AGAIN.... DAMN IT DIE ALREADY (funny part, AND ANNOYING)
  AND AGAIN ( you get the point?) i mean if you shoot to the head you need to shots with blood over 
 helemet, zzzzzz a 3rd shot to pop the helmet and a fianl one to kill him, PLZ GET SERIOUS YOU COULD 
 MAKE THSI MORE REALISTIC! so if you think that youll paly fear and use slo mo to headshot everyone 
 you are WRONG for some annoying reason waht you do in game is slow mo, move fast shooooooot , shoooott, 
 "reload" and then shoot again to kill one guy, kinda annoying dont you think? also the game doesnt 
 help, back then in doom 3 the smg had 60 bullets EVERY DAMN SCI FI FPS HAS MORE THAN 30 BULLETS 
 WHY DONT YOU? now the ai is considered agressive eg they climb a base gate and fence to come and 
 kill me but they dont come behind the barracade that i take cover to falnk me, MEN i cant believe 
 that THEY CLIMBET A WHOLE GATE TO GET CLOSER TO ME, YOU COULD JUST GET DEFENSIVE POSITIONS AND 
 WAIT FOR ME TO TRY TO STORM THE BASE! also there moving very fast and shoot you right away eg a 
 sniper has a rilfe with laser and youll see that no matter how you move he always has the lasersight 
 tight on you, ehmm not smart ai.... also sometimes they run at me trying to meele but you can move 
 backwards and take them out LOL now the bad thing is that in mp you get armro but not in sp BUT 
 THEY GOT so few shots and you are dead but you gotta take out haubndrends and since gunsare really 
 weak and they are really tough, and you cant headshot with slow mo, plus that the ai doesnt know 
 to do anything else expect to place EVERY SHOT IN YOU EVERY m/sec it turns "DUMB" to try to kill 
 enemies that klll you with few shots and if you are at their visible range you automaticly lose 
 health all the time and they dont die not even with headshots, imagine this : there m aby times 
 that enemies suround you in wide areas or fly with jetpack and shoot you from above plus the fact 
 that guns dont work and they dont die but they all "drain" health from you, and it will be really 
 had to spot them and hit them, eve kill them while they only "exist" and killing you jsut cuz there 
 there, tthat means that you live as long as you can take damage x number of enemies = "dying faster" 
 since you cnat avoid their shots or headshot them it turns inot dump gameplay and thats propably 
 why it got 6.5, but everything else is great and thats why it got about 8 from users , so you got 
 to use time slow to slow your death a bit, ehmm i prefer fear! 
  
  time stop is a power that stops time for quite a few time, enough time to grab an enemy's weapon 
 and shot him 1,2,3,4,5,6 times to THE HEAD AND MAYBE HE DIES AFTER YOU RESUME TIME, ANNOYING ISNT 
 IT? yeah it annoys me too.. so timesfhit supose to be a game that yoy can stop time and headshot 
 everyone BUT THAT DOESNT HAPPEN ! and thast why it gets a bad gameplay rating for me, but dude 
 dont you think ai and time tricks are cool?
  
  actually ai works this way, how to make ai that kicks the asses of everyone? they turn you weak 
 and nude with no armor and give you water pistols to take out ai that locks its aim on you and 
 never stop shooting (very realsitic) and can spot you from everywhere like you got a "TARGET LOCK" 
 red sign on you , and the game gives you the ability to slow or stop tme for a while and deliver 
 some more weak attacks instead of being a NORMAL FPS and play fair! well nio thanks ill passs id 
 like the crap to be removed and let me play normally,
  
  DUDE YOU SEEM NOT TO LIKE TIMESHIFT?
  
  well am not hardcore fan of timesfhitiong so id prefer 
 noraml gameaply or slow mo and haeashots and realsim balanced gameplay, but i dont think its times (f) hit, 
 everything is grea expect comabt and story, eg you can "hardly stop in incoming roacket or use 
 time reserve to avoid an exlplotion but the game works like good and bad... eg its less damage 
 to blow a grenade on you or a rocket that getting shotted all the time from enemies with the weakest 
 guns, and the timeshifting energy doesnt give you that much limits, its gettin depleted fast, quite 
 ownestly id like to be palyable even without slo mo and use those abilities for support eg to stop 
 a rocket, but it has its point eg you can reverse time and save an ally that he wil die however 
 id like to blow up a tank or a mech sentry, but nah..... anywawy the game throw moments like a 
 train coming and you pressing tiem stop top avoid or fallinf from a bfridge and using reverese, 
 if you wonderi n mp you sue time grenades since you cnat stop the whole match.... and again
  
  shooooott he is fallind back shoooot hes falling down "reload" he is down and am shooting him 
 to the head 1,2,3,4,5 and a couple more time AND HE IS TILL ALIVE!!!!..... anoying isnt it?
  
  thats all what you need to know about the agme in case you wondering waht is it about waht 
 is bad good the graphs the story the ai the game the levels, revewed by someone who doesnt love 
 it or hate it,
  
  personally i dint mind the powers i ahted the weapn damage and a bit the ai (the gameaplay) but 
 i loved the graphs and the levels the thing that left me careless was the story since it gets a 
 bit bad later on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nashnir
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so bear it for me. :P
  
  One thing about TimeShift that blew my mind away were the locations. I just loved it. The locations 
 on most part are suited for missions of epic proportions considering the fact that it is an FPS 
 but most of them have been underused by not putting in much variety into the missions. There were 
 only a few mini-game type of missions where one had to control a turret or so. On the whole any 
 mod community could have done a better job with the mission layout. ( Mission layout != Map Design 
 )
  One major letdown at least for me is the Beta Suit. For God-sake! put some muscles into it. No 
 matter who it is that in the suit it will give a different vibe which screams "I am wussy!". Seriously, 
 I mean it.
  Gameplay wise there is too few variety in weapon choice, only one vehicle to drive ( with no guns! 
 ) and the Time powers are overpowered. And there is way too much ammo lying around. 
  The story presentation is excellent but does not pack a punch. The whole story can be interpreted 
 from very beginning. 
  One more thing that most RPG fans will miss here on most part is the boss battle type of missions. 
 It is not there even in the end.
  One thing that low end users will like is that this game even with all the effects turned off and 
 at 800X600 Res will still be a beauty.
  On most of the missions and the whole game setting it never fails you to remind the similarity 
 between TimeShift and some of the WW games.
  After all this wanna know why I rated it 8.5 and not some 5.0 or so ? Well that is because the 
 whole concept with its flaws fit right in the picture and makes you want to play the sequel that 
 the ending depicts even more. This game is definitely worth the money and is nice way to pass your 
 "time". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omenodebander
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This review is quite lengthy. and covers more of the single player part of the game
  
  A brief take on the Plot:} == When scientists began working on a time traveling project, two prototype 
 time suits, Alpha and Beta, were developed. One of the lead scientists, Dr Aidan Krone, had his 
 own ideas and in the chaos that ensued (including the destruction of the time project lab) stole 
 the Alpha suit and disappears, emerging at an alternate reality or something along the lines as 
 lord and ruler. You take the role of an unnamed protagonist (unnamed ,as far as I know) , one of 
 Krone's fellow scientists who, before the lab's destruction, dons the beta suit and jumps after 
 Krone to take him down as well as restore the altered flow of time/timeline. 
  
  Graphics/ Sound:} === In late 2006, when Timeshift was first announced and shown, the graphics were 
 pretty ok, nothing major or jaw dropping. After a couple of delays and setbacks, the game received 
 a massive overhaul and it shows. The textures are amazing, the use of lighting/shadows are truly 
 spectacular, (wait till you see some the huge mechs that roam the streets) That's of course if 
 you have the hardware to even run this beast. The first level alone will impress you. Every model 
 in the game truly blends in with the setting and show off an insane amount of detail to prove that 
 the developers truly wanted to set this game apart from the tons of shooters available. 
  Aurally, this game delivers as well, from good voice acting to sound effects as well music and 
 although the music isn't really memorable, it really fits the game .
  
  Gameplay:} = And now we come to the most important part of a game (good graphics and sound are nothing 
 if game play is sub par == doom 3) . 
  Timeshift's game play, while not claming to revolutionizing the genre, truly brings something new. 
 As the protagonist with the beta suit, your duty is to find and stop Krone, but several things 
 along the way makes that duty complicated. The world in which you find yourself is ruled as well 
 as oppressed by Krone and the technology he brought. Giant robots and super soldiers govern the 
 streets and huge screens deliver Krone's laws. you will find yourself assisting a resistance group 
 to stop Krone and his seemingly unstoppable machines and from there utilize the crowning achievement 
 of the game..... Time control. You can stop time, slow time or even reverse time to achieve your 
 goals. Unlike games such as prince of Persia, you are not affected by your time manipulations. 
 The game grants you the power to stop time to avoid incoming projectiles, avoid enemy detection, 
 steal their weapons right from them and watch in amusement as they look surprised, and use the 
 destructible environment to your advantage. Grenades flying at you? reverse time to send them back, 
 stop time and laugh while you escaped it's blast radius or slow time and watch it fly slowly as 
 you walk calmly away. Take note, manipulating time draws power from your suit and it refills slowly. 
 Oh, and if you are thinking that the timeshifting powers makes the game easy, sorry, the game's 
 A. I will make sure you die, a lot. TimeShift has some of the best A. I in any game, the enemies 
 you encounter are well aware of their weapons and environments, enough to take cover and lob grenades 
 at you when you least expect it. The A. I friendlies are no exception, and they will defend you 
 should you need it, though Krone's advance soldiers will make sure they don't last if you don't 
 assist them. If you stop time and steal one the enemy's weapons right from them, the A. I will either 
 plead for their lives or run in search of another weapon to own you. Play on the hardest difficulty 
 and the challenge becomes unfairly brutal. Simply put, Timeshift has outstanding A. I that puts 
 games like F. E. AR to shame. The timeshifting powers are not simply there to be just a gimmick, 
 you will need them to survive some of the puzzle elements and other very INTERESTING enemies Krone 
 throws at you. The more you progress through the game, the more interesting it becomes especially 
 when you jump into the vehicle missions.
  
  Flaws: No game is perfect, and Timeshift does have its share of flaws . First the plot, while nothing 
 groundbreaking or filled with insane plot twists really doesn't do much to fully explain what occurs 
 in the game. In other words, it's a plot that really doesn't pull the player in so don't expect 
 a masterpiece of a story. The game can also get repetitive (well every first person shooter gets 
 repetitive) , but it all depends on how much you play the game. On higher difficulties it can be 
 unforgiving and unfair and as mentioned earlier, it is not so groundbreaking. Again, it has SOME 
 flaws, but nothing gamebreaking and the flaws are there only if you look too deep.
  
  Overall::::  sure time manipulation and slow motion has been done before in other games, but this 
 game does it flawlessly. TimeShift is a very underrated and unappreciated title released amidst 
 a flood of highly anticipated and hyped/overhyped titles. Take note though that Some reviewers 
 were quick to point out several "issues" that were really non existent, like gamespot's review, 
 for example. This brings to mind titles like Quake 4, (great graphics, not so revolutionary gameplay, 
 yet highly praised and scoring higher) and Doom 3. Doom 3 was a game that was mediocre at best 
 with excellent art and graphics (that pale in comparison to TimeShift,) . Doom 3 got excellent 
 reviews for it's crappy A. I, lame plot, and dated gameplay. Anyway, TimeShift scores big time as 
 an excellent game released at the wrong moment, "nearly" bug-free, a unique take on multiplayer 
 featuring time grenades or spheres, and a very enjoyable single player campaign.
  
  score
  Story : 7
  Graphics : 9
  Sound : 8
  Gameplay : 10
  
  
  Final : 9.0
  Outstanding 
 game. Don't expect a masterpiece of a game, just play it for what it. is, a unique take on a saturated 
 genre
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I bought this not expecting more than a decent shooter, and thats pretty much what i got. it delivers 
 on most fronts except for story, and has some very satisfying but at times boring gameplay. 
  
  the premesis of this game is some kind of future totalitatian government being overthrown in 
 some sort of rebellion, where there are two time shifting suits made, one used by you, the other 
 by some evil character who wants to overthrow everything and everyone. the way i would describe 
 it is a cross between half life 2 and fear. 
  
  One area where this game delivers more than others is in the visuals department, and although they 
 arent as good as some recent releases, the settings can me maxed on a fairly modest rig. my p4. 
 2.8ghz, 1.5 gigs ram, and 8600gt had the game running smoothly at close to max settings at a decent 
 resolution. the physics are also immpressive, with partially destructible environments and ragdolls 
 that surpass crysis in spectacular deaths. 
  
  the gameplay, while at times repetative, is usually entertaining. there are a vast variety of weapons, 
 most of them very fun to use, and enemies burst into a bloody mess at seemingly little provication. 
 even after they are dead. there are a few simple puzzles thrown in here and there, but they don't 
 really add or take away to the game. there just there. the time shifting abilities create endless 
 fun in firefights, especially if you are a sick twisted bastard like me, who enjoys watching people 
 burn to death, then rewind it so you can see it again. 
  
  overall i would reccomend this game to anyone who is bored, or just looking for a game to play 
 while some more major titles are being developed. i havent played the mp so i can't comment on 
 that, but the single player is rather lengthy, and you will feel you will have got your moneys 
 worth by the end of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven_squad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Scientists from the near-future have created a viable time machine. The project results in the 
 creation of two seprerate devices, the Alpha Suit, a less advanced prototype, and the Beta Suit, 
 a more advanced, so-called military grade model with features the Alpha Suit lacks such as combat-related 
 timeshifting abilities and an integrated AI system known as S. S. A. M. which prevents the user from 
 creating a Paradox. 
  
  The director of the project, Doctor Aiden Krone, takes the Alpha Suit and travels into the past. 
 Once there he alters history, naming himself ruler of the Krone Magistrate that controls a dystopic 
 world.
  
  The protagonist, a fellow scientist whose name is never spoken, nor does he ever speak, (Gordon 
 Freeman clone?) then takes the Beta Suit and follows Dr. Krone back to the year 1939 (in an alternate 
 timestream) to a place called Alpha District. He then proceeds to assist the Occupant Rebellion 
 against Dr. Krone.
  
  Thorughout the game, you will acquire quite an impressive arsenal of over 12 diffrent unique weapons 
 such as the Hell-Fire, which is an SMG equiped with a flame thrower, that's bullets are ignited 
 once fired, and the EMF cannon, which is a very destructive plasma type rifle. Another useful tool 
 is the Clutch Grenade, which is very similiar to Halo's Plasma grenade. All of the weapons in Timeshift 
 are unique looking, handle well, and are always fun to fire. I couldnt wait to unlock the next 
 gun, just to see see how unique it might be. 
  
  The Timeshift powers are obviously the real draw, and allow you to slow, stop, and reverse time 
 during firefights to give you innumerable advantages. For instance, you can pause time, run up 
 to the leader of the group of your enemies, steal his weapon, and shoot a crowd of enemies in the 
 face, then drop a Clutch grenade on them. Un-pause and watch all of the gory destruction take place. 
 On the negative side, these powers could have been used to make amazing puzzle segments, but instead 
 had the standard, "pull a switch and run for the door before it closes" puzzles. Very dissapointing. 
 
  
  The enemies have fairly standard AI that will flank and throw grenades from time to time, but for 
 the most part its nothing to special. You will encounter other time bending units who put up some 
 stiff opposition, requiring you to use your own time powers in order to defeat them. 
  
  The physics engine seems to be the same one used in Half-Life 2, but its not put to anywhere near 
 as good of use, though watching your enemies gibs rain down in slow motion never gets old. There 
 are certain "WTF?!" moments in which bodies will fly incredible distances, but usually it stays 
 within the realm of possibility. Certain areas in the environments are semi-destructible, making 
 for some interesting firefights during a couple of missions that take place in an apartment building, 
 but after that, you probably wont even notice the chunks flying from random pillars. 
  
  Timeshift definately has its quirks, including some silly overly repetitive dialogue, not much 
 mission variety, very boring stretches, and an abrupt ending, but the creative weapons and enviroments, 
 fun to use time powers, and great effects seem to balance it out. 
  Overall, its a decent game that shouldn't be missed, but it shouldnt be first on the list either. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnbsecretscom
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  that's just fusion of the best of the best 3d shooters: half life 1/2, no one lives forever, red 
 faction and the like. it's just PROPER BALANCED 3D SHOOTER.
  
  graphics are excellent, goes on max on my silly gf 8800 gts.
  shooting is fun, long & close ranges, 
 tactics is interesting with
  scenes rich of objects.
  animations are f*cking good, fx are great, explosions are spectacular,
  that's fun watching bodies 
 flying away after a good 'boom' :)
  
  levels are very detailed, rich. weapons are great, had a lot of fun with arbalest - time pause, 
 zoom, plant bolts on enemies, time unpause = watching fun scene of exploding guys :) ) )
  
  that's the best game i've played last 2 years.
  
  further more i will never write a review 
 on gamespot again, cause its limitation are stupid & its f*cking boring to place a review here.
 
  
  QUALITY !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -THA-hamst3r
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  To view this review in it's original format, go here:
  http://www. hamst3r. com/article/47/timeshift-tombraider
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Ah, TimeShift. TimeShift is a First Person Shooter that was originally announced in 2005. Since 
 then the game has gone through many revisions. It was initially going to be published by Atari. 
 The protagonist, Albert Swift was a retired colonel turned government guinea pig. During an attack 
 on the government research facility, Colonel Swift was transported back in time where he would 
 fight off swarms of steampunk knights, Cyber-Nazis and bionic samurai.
  
  In April 2006, Atari dropped the game and Sierra picked up the rights to publish TimeShift. Albert 
 Swift was renamed to Michael Swift and was now going to be transported into the past, only to return 
 to the present where the world had taken a change for the worst. Swift was going to be voiced by 
 Dennis Quaid but by the end of the year they had thrown away the story of Colonel Swift along with 
 all of the pre-rendered cinematics and voice acting.
  
  In 2007 the protagonist became a nameless physicist with a mysterious past (translation: We suck 
 at writing stories) . The new protagonist would be fully adorned in Ultraman-esque body armor and 
 the steampunk style of the game would be dropped for a more futuristic military look.
  
  By simply looking at the development history of TimeShift you can tell that the end product is 
 nothing short of a mess. The game is overall embarrassingly derivative of other FPS games too, 
 most notably Half-Life 2.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Similarities between TimeShift 
 and Half-Life 2:
  
  1. Both of the lead characters are Theoretical Physicists.
  2. Both characters wear high-tech protective suits that have female voices.
  3. Neither protagonist 
 speaks the entire game.
  4. Both games deal with the time travel and dimensional travel.
  5. Both games have a one-hit-kill crossbow weapon that shoots orange projectiles.
  6. Both games 
 have a rocket launcher with a steerable rocket.
  7. Both games take place in a dystopian society under the control of an oppressive force attempting 
 to enslave everyone.
  8. The main character's job in both games is to help the rebel faction in bringing down the antagonist 
 and all of his police-like militant forces.
  9. In both games the main antagonist holds-up in a gigantic looming fortress.
  10. The antagonist 
 is often heard over loudspeakers and often seen on large JumboTron screens all over the city.
 
  11. Both cities are rundown locales with a lot of Eastern European influence on the designs.
 
  12. Both games employ the use of see-saw physics puzzles.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The list of parallels 
 could go on, but I think you get the idea. It feels like after several years of trying to figure 
 out what TimeShift should be, the developers threw their hands up and said, "This isn't working, 
 let's just make Half-Life 2!".
  
  The game does have it's merits though. The plasma rifle and pulse gun are both very cool weapons. 
 The crossbow is also neat as it's projectiles are explosive. Later on in the game you begin to 
 battle enemies that have their own time-shifting abilities. Some are able to run extremely fast 
 while others are able to teleport, appearing seemingly at random. Some of the visual effects in 
 the game, such as the rain falling in slow motion and the blue electrical blast from the pulse 
 gun are quite appealing. The difficulty of the game is pretty good too.
  
  That's where the merits end for me though. The rest of the game feels sloppy. The puzzles aren't 
 that great and I actually got bored of crawling through air vents. All-in-all, the game is OK. 
 It's not even close to the worst game I've played. I would even call it better than mediocre as 
 I had fun and a lot of the game held my interest, but it certainly won't be high up on my list 
 of suggestions when people ask for game recommendations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  - Graphically, the game looks nice, and runs smooth enough. The game looks almost reminiscent of 
 FEAR in environmental flare, and mood. The game was not heavily taxing to run for me graphically.
 
  
  - This dark, forebolding evironment really offfers more of a snese of bing unwelcome than to be 
 spooky, but at the same time you are virtually saturated by the envirnmental effects such as the 
 rain, smoke, and the grit that permeates around you.
  
  
  Audio:
  - Audio, pretty much hits on par to what is expected, I enjoyed the level of environemtnal sounds, 
 once again harkening to the weather effects such as the rain hitting the ground.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  **Singleplayer:
  - This part of the title is where so far most of the action is 
 going on, The controls are standard for most First Person Shooters, and highly similar to that 
 of FEAR. The control scheme is pretty good in its default format.
  
  - The storyline itself is pretty linear with the exception of the suits capabilities. You have 
 pretty much one path, and basically one direction that can only be taken. 
  
  - What ties it all together is your suit, this suit gives you the ability to alter time in short 
 bursts. First one is slow, which is vastly similar to FEAR, and fundamentally works in the same 
 format. The second mode is reversing time, this mode allows you to temporarily adjust time back 
 around you as long as you do not impact your adversaries. The last mode is the ability to literally 
 freeze time. You can run up take enemies weapons away from you, run through areas which may be 
 impassable otherwise.
  
  - The suits abilities do have a direct effect on movement through the story, at certain times you 
 get through an electrical field you must stop time, to get through areas being destroyed you got 
 to reverse time.
  
  
  **Multiplayer:
  - The multiplayer component thus far is quite sparse, I have not found many people playing when 
 put in comparision to other titles released at the same time.
  
  - I did run into one problem until patched, and that was initially the ability to see servers.
 
  
  
  Additional Thoughts:
  - The game is decent, but it all comes down to basically its own take on the super suit, and how 
 it sets along the likes of Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abduls
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  i was seriously shocked to see the horrid review gamespot gave timeshift. this game is fun everytime. 
 sumthing really new and orginal. OK, maybe not the best story-line... but JesuS!. why did it havta 
 cost the game 3 points?!?!!? trust me and buy this game.. see for yourself what a bussines junkey 
 gamespot has turned into.... i dont know who paid gamespot ON.
  
  but now that everyone thinks it's crap... this game is going to suffer, for i dont know what crime
 
  
  
  SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW 
 GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW 
 GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW 
 GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS SCREW GS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Graphics 7/10:
  
  The game looks 'FEAR'-ish but I could say that I liked the visuals of FEAR much better. The textures 
 looked a bit bland, though detailed the colors that they used doesn't really make anything stand-out. 
 Everything in the game seems to be from a shade of grey, making a lot or areas seem dull. The developers 
 didn't seem to care to play around with lighting and shadows, instead they seem to have opted for 
 global lighting. Overall, the graphics don't look dated, but doesn't look really good, FEAR looked 
 better than this.
  
  Sound: 6/10:
  The sounds seem bland also, even the gunfire seem to have been taken from a stock of old sounds. 
 The ambient or background music doesn't really help the mood of an area, be it tense or gloomy.
 
  
  Gameplay: 6.5/10:
  My biggest complaint for this game is the balancing of weapons. This is the first FPS game that 
 I have played that needs half-a-mag of the first rifle they gave you, just to kill one soldier. 
 The enemies also don't seem to have a good AI, as they'd usually just face you and shoot straight 
 up at you. They don't seem to seek for cover or even flank you. What is interesting though, and 
 probably the only thing interesting, is the power of the suit. The capability to pause, slow or 
 rewind time. I guess this suffers also what Crysis' problem is, the fact that the developers expect 
 for you to play around with the suit and YOU make it interesting.
  
  
  
  All-in-all it really ain't a very good game, it was made well but not well enough. I've seen much 
 worst games but there are also games that are a lot better, such as COD4, Gears of War, etc... 
 I guess you could pick this up if you're really bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hari006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Like a more serious and more graphically impressive Time Splitters. Well, not really, but a couple 
 points in the game might make you think that.
  
  This is one of the few single player games I followed to the end. The story itself is decent, but 
 the game play is fun, addictive, and amazing. It's challenging enough to get blown up a decent 
 amount, but easy enough to feel like you're DOMINATING in other parts. Graphics are amazing, and 
 it runs smoothly. Crisis is probably better graphically, but who cares..
  The multilayer is some of the most fun I've played, Time grenades are genius and bring upon many 
 comical moments, like the time I sniped myself in the face. Yup, reversed projectiles are not your 
 friend. For those who game this game terrible ratings, and especially those who compare it to HL2, 
 shame on you. It's not HL2, and just because you're a fan boy of another game does not mean you 
 can lower a great game's score.
  
  Conclusion: Great graphics, great game play, decent story, short cinematic, awesome. I don't regret 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavierdhjane
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Might as well just tell you already - the game IS worthy playing and purchasing if you buy it cheap. 
 Since the game is a rehash of FEAR resembling combat, you will probably start owning the AI almost 
 instantaneously. Which there seems to be a complete lack of, altogheter. Numerous occasions even 
 in the patched version, I caught the nastiest and ugliest bugs. Even one of the bugs is featured 
 in the video. Ragdoll collision detection is completely absent. Shoot a body through walls, metal 
 grates, and even into (YES INTO AS IN COMBINE THE TWO) crates. 
  
  Flaws aside, this game comes off as unfinished, unpolished, and rushed. They rushed it simple as 
 that. Now, your allies in the beginning of the game can't seem to shoot a damn thing if it was 
 being dangled in front of their face like a pinata and they were holding a Dodge 1500 4 door RAM 
 truck. While in the later levels, you'll discover simply hiding behind a barrier will allow you 
 to conserve ammo, not die, and basically get away with letting the NPC's kill the CPU forces for 
 you.
  
  All the AI is prescripted and features no advanced intelligence whatsoever. If you shoot a soldier 
 repeatedly he will not retreat like in FEAR, if you throw a grenade he will not run away but instead 
 try to run through the area you've thrown it to reach you and suicide/run himself to oblivion. 
 I am usually actually not one to bash games at all. In fact, I loved Crysis, and FEAR, and FEAR 
 EX. But with FEAR PERSEUS MANDATE and TimeShift, it's becoming old Sierra. You've passed your engine 
 around to every dev office underneath your division and noone's coming up with any magic like Monolith 
 did. 
  
  
  The characters; not bad acting but slow npc movement makes interaction quite gay.
  Sound; some 
 of the weapons sound painfully weak though they deal a massive amount of damage.
  Graphics; crisp and shaded in blue so the sniper rifle makes no scoping so easy. Make sure to play 
 it in high res though lower end computers are still supported - it just looks cartoonish on anything 
 less than 1280 and 2xAA.
  Difficulty; nothing you haven't done before in an fps game, and reversing time only occurs at certain 
 points so don't expect to trick kill anyone and kill them again. Even on Elite it is still so easy 
 a child could play it.
  
  My video review is located at: 
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=laMgGFEPAGI
  
  
  I am angry, irate, and upset with the quality 
 of this title. It is not what you've expected. Gore is there, action is there, but the collision 
 detection and the excessive amount of time use kills it. Especially, since it's limited to slowing 
 time only, and it slows down the entire world so long you can literally kill everything on screen 
 before worrying about your time meter running out.
  
  Not the greatest fps!
  
  But : it still gets an admirable 8 from me. Cheers.
  
  
  ~Xavierdhjane 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djball
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Timeshift is basically a collection of great shooter ideas, all thrown into one. And who cares 
 if you've 'been there' - get ready for a fun ride!
  
  Timeshift delivers in many ways. With a decent rig you can maximize your settings for nice candy 
 and smooth frames. Shifting time also provides for some very cool visuals, particularly 'slow motion' 
 Matrix style action. Or by freezing time, you can safely move into position for the fury of buckshot 
 to your foes face! Shifting time is also incorporated into several puzzles that will definitely 
 have you scratching your head, nice touch. Although gameplay is quite linear, level design is top 
 notch - I liked the zeppelin crash site, where you can climb a sniper tower and take out all your 
 enemies with an awesome array of scoped long range weapons. There are plenty of baddies too, some 
 of the battles are quite intense. My only complaint.... shifting time feels like a cheat - it's 
 an easy way out of those intense situations. Story is pretty much typical, not present, and can 
 be a little confusing with a mish mash of cut scenes that don't really make a lot of sense.
  
  Overall, a polished product that I think deserves more than the Gamespot 6.5.
  I give it 
 an 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tukkertje1992
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  Timeshift is a pretty good game. It's nice to see blood on your screen shen you kill someone from 
 behind and there are some preyy nice weapons, like the crosbow with bomb. It's nice to see when 
 you hit someone's head, it blows up. It's a pitty there are not a lot of guns. You have a handpistol. 
 A handpistol/uzi. A shotgun. Sniper, crosbow (which rocks) semi automatic gun with bomb, and some 
 kind of laser thing or whatever is is. The weapons are nice, but not revolutionairy good if you 
 think thats the future.
  
  The gameplay is also pretty good. the buttons aren't really on the best places, but that doesn't 
 cares for the fun. the maps are realistic, and the enviorment also breaks and blows etc. 
  
  Sometimes you really have to puzzle some things out. Then you really have to think good, how 
 to use your time shifting. With fire for example you have to pauze time. Or when there is a big 
 van sucking down, you have to rewind so you go up. And there are prett much things like that. 
 
  
  The side charectars aren't so good. They are a bit vague and there lips don't move when they talk 
 and that's a pitty, although it's only a small aspect.
  
  Overal, the game is pretty good. Not very addicting but still nice. But rent it first, cause if 
 you're a bit of a critic you might not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OB-47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift, sounds cool eh? Well thats what we all thought, and it is true but it still has it's 
 flaws.
  
  The campaign: The story is pretty good while quite short it's still pretty good. And thats about 
 as far as it gets. The main thing is your time suit allows you to change time e. g pause, slo mo, 
 and reverse (No it doesn't come with foward.) But the work in it does show, like if hear a conversasion 
 you can reverse and hear the exact same thing! Unless you kill them of course. Also pausing while 
 in combat is great! While an enemy is paused, you can snatch his gun and then undo pause and he 
 will look around bewildred or even put his hands up in surrender! But he was tryin' to kill you 
 so whats the point of letting him go?
  
  The multi player: You probably think this whole Timeshifting thing is gone in multiplayer due to 
 the fact that all 16 players will not to do the same timeshift thing, Well your WRONG! Instead 
 you must throw time grenades it 
  makes a bubble sort of thing, and in that bubble everyone besides whoever threw the bubble will 
 go in either pause or slo mo. 
  
  Overall I think this game is pretty damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Timeshift made me appreciate this current gen of Graphics card, as well as my processor. It's not 
 DX10 based, yet, it's graphics are amazingly good.
  Yet, Timeshift is more than just looks.
  So yeah, basically the tale told there is not exactly 
 Half Life or Metal Gear Solid, it's complex, and somewhat boring, so yeah, the gameplay makes up 
 for it, and so does the design and awesome Timeshifting powers, but we'll get to it.
  After 5 minutes gameplay you won't be earning any powers, you'll be left with a cool assault rifle, 
 something that seems like came out of half life (Most of the weapons looks like they have) , and 
 you'll be forced fighting some combine/storm trooper/killzone like enemies, at first, I tried to 
 get used to the keys (It didn't take me SO long, yet, I never played a shooter came out AFTER 2000, 
 except UT2004, but is not considered really tactical shooter, you know) , and yeah, I managed to 
 reach a new n00bism level (Hmm what does R. mouse doing? more accurate shots? *BOOM=SECONDARY FIRE 
 ISH TEH GRENADE LAUNCHER!!!!!!1111oneoneone* I've died..) , but lastly I passed through the level 
 and managed to score some head shots along the way (how yayz0rish to me) .
  So after scoring yourself that assault rifle and fighting some futuristic bastards, you get to 
 watch a nice cut scene and land somewhere completely different (well not exactly, but, pretty much) . 
 you earn a handgun, shotgun, and of course your beloved assault rifle thing, but before that, you're 
 introduced to the powers.
  THE SLOW MOTION- You've seen the matrix, use this and your enemies will be slower, much slower, 
 and you will be faster, much faster, in other words, before they will even think of pulling a gun 
 you'll be putting in them enough holes to get them look like a piece of bloody cheese :D
  THE STOP MOTION- No, I don't mean that clay motion pictures, like 'chicken run', I meant, stopping 
 time, like, you stop, snatch a weapon, stop the butt of it on their faces, than go back to cover, 
 incredibly funny!
  THE TIME REVERSE- It's used in riddles rather more than in real time combat, and as you might have 
 guessed, it reverses time (but unlike prince of Persia, you can't bring yourself alive once more) .
 
  
  After you're introduced, you will move towards the levels, accomplish different tasks, and be given 
 advices by your suit (Which sounds pretty much like the female version of Crysis' Suit.) .
  
  Well, after you've heard the good, I will, unfortunately, leave you with the foul taste of 
 bad:
  -TOO SHORT, took me three days to complete, and no mods can expand the gameplay, which is disappointing.
 
  -Sometimes you will be wandering, wondering (Got it?) what to do next, since not everything you 
 have to do is told.
  -Don't play on dark resolution, you won't be seeing anything and you'll die a lot (but this is 
 MY problem, now) .
  
  
  Now let's sum it up-
  1) Great Game, no bugs were felt (Except that once my mouse didn't work, but deleting the "Default" 
 key configuration folder solved it) .
  2) Better rent it, since it doesn't worth full price to play such short game.
  
  Bottom line: 
 8.5
  "I've tasted better sausages." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommy58
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying I am not a real technical guy
  I don't know why this game got such a low rating
  It is a fun game to play. I think it has gotten 
 a bad
  rap from Game Spot. I think if you want to play a simple FPS this is a great game. The game play 
 is good, and the graphics are nice. And I don't think that the story is all that bad. I will tell 
 you that I played
  the demo for Crysis and as far as I can tell, talk about an over rated game. Maybe I didn't play 
 enough of the
  game to really juge it . But from what I can tell it is just
  Far Cry with a Nano suite!!!! Same type of location,
  same type of enemy. If it wasn't for the 
 graphics
  would people really be so up on this game..
  Anyway I think you should give it a try, I think you will not regret it
  I am glad that I pay 
 attenion to the player reviews of a game 
  more than anything else or I would not have this game a chance.
  I am glad that I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danceeagle
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Pretty cool game. Uses short time shifting (mostly freezing time) for both fighting and finding 
 your way around. You won't need a very high end computer to play with decent graphics and smooth 
 play. Easy to learn and play. I'd rate this as not very difficult but very much fun. There are 
 several tough areas but variety is good. I play other highly rated games but this one was actually 
 much more fun. Graphics and Sound are excellent. if not current world class dramatic and computer 
 demanding. I didn't have a computer glitch using the game. Unless you are after a really difficult 
 game which will test you and your computer this game will keep you addicted until you finally run 
 thru all the scenarios. There are several decent walk thrus to help if you get stuck. Glad I got 
 it. Glad I played it. Giving it to my Son-in-law. Certainly underrated by Gamespot. My wife is 
 glad I am back to real life which is more hassle than this game. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadlilMart
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo for TimeShift i was instantly hooked and the full game was no let down.
 
  With 3 difficulty settings there is no need for more. I played through the game on the second 
 setting which i believe was skilled, this made the game a lot more challenging.
  
  Although the graphics aren't "Amazing" by today's standards it is not far off COD4 and you won't 
 be in one spot long enough to admire the view anyway.
  
  With the choice of slowing, stopping or reversing time the way you choose to do things is far from 
 limited. I enjoyed every minute of this game and the enemies come thick and fast, if you forget 
 to utilise your time abilities to the max you find yourself dead before you even knew there was 
 someone shooting at you, but this is a good thing in my book as it means there is a need for player 
 skill and re-playability.
  
  The immense feeling of killing 10 enemies before your time ability runs out is just unmatched by 
 any other game to date and i guarantee that you will get the same experience if you play through 
 the full game.
  
  The only bad thing about the game is the story, there isn't much of one and is portrayed with, 
 what seems random clips between levels but this is all pulled neatly together by the final cut 
 scene. Although the story is short and minimal it still gives that sense of achievement at the 
 end leaving you satisfied that what you have done has been fully justified.
  
  They have left room for a sequel and i only hope that they improve the multiplayer aspects and 
 come through with a decent sequel as the current multiplayer is lacking the fun aspect and doesn't 
 seem to be that popular, but the single player is more than worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nic4games
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  I'd like to compare this game to the game play of prince of Persia. Where Time shift is only sci-fi. 
 The fun part about this game is how to manipulate the battle between you as a player and the enemies 
 from the game. You can either slow the time to dodge the rockets or bullets, also you may stop 
 the time to snatch the enemy's weapon, and you can also backward the time to undo what was done 
 to be undone. Yup, playing the time itself is cool. I wish i can do that in real life. The downside 
 of this game is the story itself, when some cut scenes or movies are played in between game play. 
 You ended up asking this question... "What the...?" and "Ahh.... Ok!". If you asked me if this 
 game is worth buying for... I would say, Yes. First the graphics is nice and I give it 8 out of 
 10. Second, the fun of killing enemies using the power to manipulate time in a sec, now that's 
 cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Most of you probably know what TimeShift is. The game was like "seven bugs away" from being pushed 
 out the door when the guys at Sierra decided to redo all the graphics with the game. So was it 
 worth the wait? I must admit, not really. It's not a bad game, but it doesn't really use its unique 
 ideas to its full potential; plus the general feel of the game is... well... generic. So what's the 
 story? Well, the story is actual an incoherent mess of cutscenes but from the intro video and the 
 manual, you learn that a certain Dr. Krone has traveled to the past and created an alternate timeline 
 so you must stop him cause... the suit told you to. You play as a mysterious physicist wearing a 
 suit that can stop, slow, and rewind time. In fact, you're so mysterious, you don't even know anything 
 about him by the end of the game! The graphics are quite good actually and the extra development 
 did help, though the rain effects in the beginning levels are somewhat overdone. The sound is a 
 mixed bag. The game music is generic action fare but the voices are okay. The weapons are also 
 fun to use but combined with your time powers, it makes the game somewhat too easy. The main problem 
 is that the game doesn't stand out. The whole environment and setting just screams generic. We've 
 seen a dystopia before in Half-Life 2 and it was done better. However, that doesn't mean the game 
 is all bad and it is actually pretty fun. Still, the timing of the release couldn't be worse, as 
 it has to compete with other more high profile titles. If you find yourself with nothing to play, 
 then you should pick this up, at a discounted price of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so this isn't the perfect FPS game around... but then at present, I don't know what is. I 
 have CRYSIS, CoD4, BioShock, UT3, STALKER and even MoH: AIRBORNE but when in need of a good "time-out" 
 ('scuse the pun) session of good, simple FPS'ing, then TIMESHIFT has definitely replaced F. E. A. R. 
 as my favourite.
  Yes, it might be similar to HALO 3 , but we're not all HALO fans out here. I find to be more a 
 cross between GoW and FEAR (as mentioned) . The latter for its' rag-doll physics and smart (yes, 
 I did say smart) enemy A. I. As an example, if you freeze time, grab the gun gun from one enemy 
 and then kill another nearby, when time resumes you may turn to find that the disarmed guard has 
 retrieved the weapon from his downed mate... oh dear! Face him squarely and don't allow him near 
 the weapon and he will quite often throw his hands up and ask for mercy... not that any is forthcoming 
 of course.
  I mentioned GoW as that is the sought of atmosphere the graphics lend themselves to (most of the 
 time) . I would not have liked the previous "steam-punk" look, and besides that has already been 
 done now in BIOSHOCK with its' 1950's-themed steam-punkish theme (if that makes sense) . And BIOSHOCK 
 did it well, so travelling back to an alternate WWII period (which is going to be drab and dark 
 anyway) makes sense if it has the gloomy feel to it. But as I said, this is MOST of the time (as 
 in F. E. A. R.-Extraction Point) ... at times the ghraphic display is jarringly bright and almost cartoony, 
 but thankfully those moments are brief and quickly passed. Otherwise, no complaints about the Textures 
 or Character Models.. they're great for this game (and I personally wasn't enthralled with the KPA 
 character models in CRYSIS, so not everyone will see things the same way) .
  The sound, while initially overly loud (until turned down in the Options) are more than serviceable, 
 though the grenades could do with a bit more "oomph". Then again, if you've heard real 'nades go 
 off, they really don't have the Hollywood 'BOOM', so that's a minor quibble.
  The Story or lack of? Well, really who cares? Its' a FPS and even though QUAKE4 had a good Storyline, 
 it is not what players remember it for. It is the collection of "Ooh Aah" moments which all good 
 games have, and TIMESHIFT is no different. So I won't detract points here.
  If you loved F. E. A. R. (and still do) , like the look of GEARS OF WAR but can't run it or whatever 
 then this is a good bet. Multiplayer still needs work as there are at present about 4-6 Servers 
 running at any time, and not all populated. I don't know if that is the NAT problem supposedly 
 addressed in Patch 1.2, or they simply don't exist. But the game definitely needs more Servers 
 as Multiplayer is fun, not a Spamfest like some others I won't mention.
  Finally, the price is decent, for once and I believe reflects what PC games should genuinly cost 
 us punters. We shouldn't have to foot the bill for advertising campaigns and pre-release hype. 
 It certainly doesn't reflect on the quality of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  As it says in the heading, this game is like many other shooters. However, having said that, I 
 must say that it is like many good shooters that have been created. The graphics are pretty good, 
 they're not awesome but they're more than fair. There are some effects worth admiring, such as 
 explosions and the rain and similar effects when using the timeshift. So, the graphics in general, 
 ie: the graphics of the level, are ordinary, but specific effects are definetely innovative. 
 
  The length of the game is perfect. The shooting and the enemies is ordinary, and there are some 
 nice ideas. The only thing I'd say it really makes the game playable is the timeshift, so there 
 are no stalemates. If there are many enemies, you just press the timeshift and kill the basta***. 
 
  
  Also, the suit that you wear regenares itself, so if you are low on energy, you just hide for a 
 few seconds. 
  
  The developers also recognised that too much shooting on its own is boring, so they introduced 
 a bit of antiaircraft shooting, driving the quadwheelers and similar bits, such as fighting in 
 a unit. 
  
  There are also small puzzles that you have to solve using your timeshift. For example, if you press 
 a certain button a door will open but it will close within a second, so you don't have time to 
 reach it, but using your suit helps. In the same way, time reverse is used for certain puzzles, 
 because objects around you go back in time but you don't. 
  
  SO, all in all, an ordinary shooter with that bit extra of ideas to make it enjoyable. The storyline 
 is ok, nothing special but you can't really make good storylines these days because they're all 
 about conspiracies. This one was a bit interesting, but it is short, although the length of the 
 game itself was perfect. Also what I liked was that all you had to do was kill the final boss, 
 without killing it and then killing it again and again and again.
  
  The score on gamespot is 6.5 which is absolutely ridicilous. Even the compass in the game is done 
 perfectly so you don; t get lost or stuck. 
  
  The game deserves an 8 but only because these shooters have already been created. The timeshift 
 effect is nice and does add value but it is not worth enough to take the game into the legendary 
 game vicinity. 
  
  I award it 8, although it might even deserve 8.5, but I think the fact that you cannot sneak upon 
 your enemies and play the game in a bit of stealth mode just for fun, really ruins the experience 
 and so I won; t give it that extra 0.5.
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stil77
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I expected a lot more from the trailer. I saw potentially interesting gameplay story - like exploring 
 different time-lines, pursuing the bad guys in other worlds, and of course saving the girl, but 
 unfortunately it was undeveloped. Still as a FPS - the guns are powerful and with time reverse 
 there are more options - like saving some of your guys. The combat is fun, but most of the soldiers 
 you will encounter don`t have time shifting abilities - up to the very end. There is group you 
 join in combat, called "the Resistance", but not much coordination. Expected more from the final 
 part too.
  The Multiplayer is more interesting - thanks to the time grenade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samedizombie
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game, sure some of the action was generic but to be honest in this day and 
 age you can't help that. 
  
  Length wise I think it was pitched just right, by the end I was ready for it to end. 
  
  loved 
 the look of the game, colourful and busy, lots of great explosions and the time control elements 
 added to the overall enjoyment. Hope there will be a sequel, I'll certainly be getting it if there 
 is.
  
  Voice acting and the cut-scenes were spot on and I like the idea of 'unlockables' where you could 
 listen to the music, view scetches showing the development of the game and view the cut-scenes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  The ability to stop, slow and reverse time is intersting.
  Impressive graphics.
  The weapon models look really cool
  
  Cons:
  
  They "tried" to 
 make a puzzle game but failed.
  They could have made it a lot better if they wasnt aiming for a christmas release.
  A really 
 bad story line.
  
  Timeshift is not that bad of a FPS in my opinion. Definately better than the 6.5 score GS game 
 it. There are very few, if any shooters, that use the features Timeshift uses. The ability to slow, 
 stop and reverse time is really cool, you might think to yourself you wont need it, but you really 
 do.
  
  The models of the weapons you use, the karbine for example has a very cool look to it, as does 
 the Scattergun, to be honest all the models look really focused on. The enemies are high detailed 
 (considering you have full everything) as is the environment.
  
  It does have a lot of problems however. The AI is very very basic. You run around in slow motion 
 the enemies just seem to run away from you. If you go in stop motion you can go behind an enemy 
 and with 2 enemies behind you the one in front wont even look behind him.
  The enemies seem to be really easy to kill too.
  
  The story line (or lack of) is very confusing. 
 The opening cutscene makes no sense of what is happening, your just thrusted straight into the 
 battle of which you have no idea about.
  
  Despite the bad story, the voice acting is good, better than some games. The sounds overall are 
 very cool and realistic.
  
  All in all, this game is just for fun, and should not really be taken seriously! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing Timeshift but was mildly disappointed with the extreme linear game play: there 
 is absolutely no need or motivation to explore the levels. Ammo refills are right there at your 
 feet not hidden away as rewards for searching and exploring this well thought out world. Most doors 
 are closed and locked. Semi open areas while small do give you some flexibility in tactics when 
 combating a squad of enemy and the terrain/objects are very interactive (although I'm not sure 
 why there are so many explosive canisters sitting around ;-)
  
  The game looks great, plays well and stopping/slowing/reversing time is fun to utilize in tactical 
 scenarios. Voice acting is good although the guys on the other end of the radio egging you to hurry 
 is pretty annoying - yet another example of the game trying to put you into as linear as possible 
 flow. I did enjoy the exclamations from foes as you'd "materialize" right beside or behind them. 
 And taking their weapon and bonking them with it is really cool as they'd look at their hands and 
 go "what the.." or "hey, where'd my rifle go".
  
  Oh and gotta love the crossbow with exploding tips: pause time, zoom in on enemy, fire crossbow, 
 resume time, watch the guy scramble to get the crossbow quarrel out, then boom: mist of exploded 
 bad guy with body chunks flying through the air.
  
  A solid first person shooter that is short changed with the most linear gameplay I've ever seen.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is somewhat of an oddball in terms of development stories. Usually, developers are pressured 
 by publishers to push games out in time for certain holiday seasons, ignoring some of the potential 
 issues as bugs and level design ommisions. Timeshift's history follows a different path, with Vivendi 
 actually extending Timeshift's development period even after Saber Interactive had stated that 
 they were one or two bugs away from completion. Did the one year of extra development time do anything 
 to help propel Timeshift to the top of the First Person Shooter pile?
  
  Fans of the Timesplitter series might get a sense of deja vu as they encounter Timeshift's slightly 
 derivative story of a mad scientist named Krone using a time-bending suit to travel through time 
 and create his own, oppressive empire. You, a scientist who worked with Krone previously, goes 
 after him in the slightly more advanced Beta suit. What follows is a mind-numbing story of fighting 
 oppressive troops, discovering a rebel movement, and dealing a heavy blow to destabilize the enemy's 
 grip on the population. (read: Half-life 2)
  
  Timeshift's shooter mechanics are disappointingly stale and derivative, with a Halo-like energy 
 shield, three-weapon carry limit, "sticky" grenades (again from Halo) , and the "Timeshifting" mechanic. 
 The Beta suit apparently has three main powers, such as time-rewind, time-slow down, and time pause, 
 and on paper, they do seem intriguing. However, Saber Interactive didn't appear to have the right 
 idea in incorporating these powers into the game design. While you can manually choose what powers 
 you want to activate through awkward button combinations, the game actually encourages you to press 
 an "easy" button which chooses the power most appropriate for the situation. While its nice to 
 use in combat, where the player often doesn't have the luxury to make a mistake in choosing his 
 powers, this mechanic seriously ruins Timeshift's few "puzzles." The second you walk up to a puzzle 
 area, the "easy" button practically gives you the solution. It makes these sequences easily forgettable.
 
  
  Enemies in Timeshift are mostly standard derivations of human enemies found in many FPS games. 
 Standard soldiers fight with assault rifles and display some rudimentary AI routines. There are 
 several other enemy types, such as energy-shield wielding ones which again bring back memories 
 of Halo, specifically its Jackal enemies. Some battle sequences are memorably, though, such as 
 those where you're fighting alongside a squad of rebels or even two where you defend a blimp from 
 wave after wave of enemy air units.
  
  Timeshift's worst problem may be its lack of identity. Before its redesign, the game had a very 
 steampunkish art design and direction. With the new graphical upgrades and extra development time, 
 Saber took the game in a more dark and derivative direction. The streets of the city are dark and 
 damp from the constant rain, while the NPC's in a game have a very muscular and comic look to them. 
 Meanwhile, blimps left over from the previous version of the game zip through the air as the game's 
 main air support units. It's a very confusing and nonfocused art direction which is further compounded 
 by the game's inconsistent graphics. Some of the character models look nice, some don't. Some environmental 
 objects are textured decently, some aren't. It's all a very disappointing presentation and left 
 me with a bad taste in my mouth.
  
  Timeshift, even with its Timeshifting mechanic, is simply not a standout game. From the enemies, 
 to the plot, to the graphics, everything seems to be derived from various other games in the genre. 
 It is a motley collection of parts that aren't meant to fit together, and this ensures that Timeshift 
 will quickly be forgotten, even after all of the extra work put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Personally, I didn't really mind the storyline, other than the length of it. It was easy to follow 
 for the most part, no real twists or turns. Even though the storyline itself probably wasn't the 
 intended selling point of this game, t wasn't totally neglected, even though the ending seemed 
 a little.... abrupt. As if they had to make the release date so cut out a few levels joining them 
 together. The ending wasn't the only time I felt that either. Sometimes at the start of an area, 
 you are nowhere near where you ended the last level. For example, you might have jumped into an 
 air duct to finish the last level, but you start the next section nowhere near a ventilation system. 
 Like I said, at times it just feels like they took sections out to make the release.
  
  Gameplay was solid, though sometimes the automatic timeshift selections feature made some off choices. 
 Objectives were generally obvious and even if you have no idea what it is your looking for, the 
 map indicator will show you exactly where it is, so scanning the area will generally remedy that. 
 One thing I didn't like was while being hidden in cover a decent distance away and sniping somebody 
 off, or lobbing in a grenade, every soldier in the area suddenly knew exactly where you were.
 
  
  I liked the majority of the weapons, and none of them really became outdated as the game went on, 
 they all had their application to certain scenarios and they all worked for what they were designed 
 for, right until the end. 
  
  Overall, the game was good, I enjoyed playing it, and definitely would have continued enjoying 
 it, if it wasn't so short. Nothing revolutionary, and with the price of games nowadays, probably 
 not worth the 9 hours of gameplay it gave me. Still, I give it 7.5. All it needs is a longer story, 
 and it would be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maf17
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  IMHO, this is the best shooter of the year. No hype, just a run & gun shooter with interesting 
 time effects thrown in. It doesnt do much extraordinary, but what it does, it does extremely well. 
 Solid, satisfying gameplay, OK graphics (exceptionally good physics - just loved watching bodies 
 & body parts pirouette majestically in the air in slo-mo when in time-slow mode) . Good weapons 
 - the crossbow & the plasma blaster are great. Best of all - NO BUGS! (hear that, Crytek - it is 
 possible to release a game with minimal hype AND minimal bugs) . Main problems - ridiculously long 
 load times, crap story and some of the time puzzles were annoying - but I'll play it any day before 
 the over-hyped, bug-ridden disaster that is Crysis (And it was 30 bucks cheaper to boot) . In short, 
 a whole lotta fun, with no pretensions to grandeur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRotypeTR
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game made above our armor in the game. This armor have lots of features which stop, slow, recall 
 the time. We knew this from Prince of Persia or Max Payne before. Now time of action and enjoy. 
 We have lots of funny things. And we can made our position lots of happy!
  
  We have little power, but the monsters in the game on a group and put sensible on the squares. Because 
 the armor which we have can make stop or slow the time. And we can recall it. We don't need any 
 health packs or bullets. Because if we hide out somewhere, our health will fill up..
  
  Don't forget this. Stoping the time more enjoyable the others. Just stop the time and hit an enemy. 
 You will see nothing happens but after the time refresh you can see they fall in ground suddenly. 
 You can stop the time and shot the enemies with your shotgun (ShatterGun) . Allways do this. If 
 you don't want this, you will mess up the game. While you playing everything push you to stop time 
 and do this! And you can see the puzzles which you must stop time and solve these..
  
  You can recall the time (Shift+C) . You shouldn't use this if you say '' I'm a good gamer. '' But 
 you use recall while you was hiting by enemys' bomb. The bombs cling on you and hit too much. You 
 can recall and get out of this bomb. But onething is sensible again in the game. If you die, you 
 won't recall.. Don't forget this ;)
  
  I think everytime when I see this game should be a FPS. Game has some option, scenario bugs but 
 there is no criterion bugs. This is perfect I think and the reactions also. If you play Half Life 
 or Doom 3, you feel delight of crushing and slaying enemies. You feel delight of make carnage!
 
  
  This delight you feel all moments on game. And this mixed by creative effects. The most success 
 thing in this game. While you recall time, you see rain blobs high up to sky, you see when you blow 
 your enemy with your shotgun!
  
  TimeShift is a long game. You have 25 section and 10 hours to play game.
  Again the armor you 
 can do lots of things I said before. But I explain only time effects. It shows up our bullets and 
 health, shows the elements which is hurt us before they hit us. With it's radar, it shows enemies, allies 
 and missions.
  
  All right, the graphics. Dynamic lighting and shadows most effective things I had never seen before. 
 While the first sections you see rain blobs, the bloods on your screen. All of this effects and 
 more with physics engine. This game certainly new race, don't doubt!
  
  Of course, the sounds. Hollywood Stars, Dennis Quaid and Michael Ironside are on main sound base. 
 But you can't see effects of sound if you are not careful. This is a bad thing but shake it through 
 empty box :)
  
  Critical NOTE: You MUST install v1.1 patch of TimeShift if you play this game well.
  
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ICE-MONKEY_X
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  OK, you can stop time.... game over...
  Graphics are good enough to keep you interested, some of the vehicle designs are just.... so 19th 
 century, but past the repetitive yet fun and amusing game play the story falls flat, and the characters 
 become annoyingly dumb. Granted it is fun to watch someone struggle to figure out where their weapon 
 has disappeared to, but really -- someone pointing a loaded gun at an unarmed enemy, you gonna 
 pull the trigger? -- your answer should be yes, these guys are as dumb as it comes... they dash 
 for the nearest gun and have their heads blown out. Guns that 1 hit enemies coupled with plenty 
 of cover and the ability to stop time? do you need an answer? if you do the answer is YES this 
 game has all of it, although the biggest challenge in the game is stopping time so you can push 
 two buttons at once. This game, albeit fun and amusing, yes I got some laughs out of it, is just 
 too easy... for the most part, I would of enjoyed a bug boss battle at the end but again it wasn't 
 there, crank up the difficulty and what happens? you die quicker? but wait... I can stop time and 
 avoid getting shot... =O....
  
  This game had an interesting perk, TimeShifting. This game has multi player, how does that work 
 you ask? with grenades... same as any FPS nowadays, you get hit by a grenade, (explosive or TimeShifting) 
 and you end up dead....
  
  ONLY get this game if you can run it on FULL settings... (thats not hard) and you have already 
 beaten every other FPS at the moment eg. UT3 COD4 Crysis BioShock. 
  
  Graphics ( 7.5 )
  Sound ( 6.5 )
  Game play ( 1.0 )
  Story ( -5.0 )
  Multi player ( 4.0 )
  Value ( 1.0 )
 
  In comparison to todays market, with games like COD 4 and Crysis, this game was just released 
 TOO LATE : 6 months earlier and it would of got an 8 or so, but Crysis and UT 3 have raised the 
 bar twofold.... games like this just cannot compete 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olleost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  In TimeShift, you play as a scientist working for a company that has created time control suits. 
 One of the suits is stolen and used for evil, so you jump into the only other suit and try to track 
 the thingy down. But nevermind the story. It is fun, solid action. Nothing new (many games alter 
 time these days) , but since it is fun its nothing important.
  I actually had this game and Crysis on my HD at the same time, and i always choosed Timegate...
 
  
  Hope that you at least check it out if you dont have anything else at the moment. Its not an instant 
 classic, but it\\\\\\\'s a good FPS and the time-shifting to which the title refers allows for 
 some neat ambushing.... In the 24-mission campaign, there is enough to keep you happily for a good 
 while, and you want more when the action is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Fun! Being able to slow, reverse and even completely pause time will keep you entertained for hours. 
 The futuristic weapons feel great too though they are a bit overpowered & overloaded with ammo 
 scattered throughout the game. And then there's the story. Well, the story is quite bad though 
 the plot is good. The developers should have paid a little more attention to the development of 
 the main character although I can't blame them since it's obvious that they spent that time to 
 improve the texture works.
  
  The graphics are very good: textures are crisp, smooth character animations and it runs very well 
 too, provided you have a high-end system.
  However, this game is more of a cartoonish style than of a realistic one so don't expect it to 
 look like Crysis.
  
  8.5 because it's incredibly fun but it does get repetitive after a while.
  9.0 because the graphics 
 are surprisingly detailed!
  6.5 because the protagonist's development is static just like the story.
  8.5 because its flaws 
 aren't bad enough to spoil this great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: axl159
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Wow, and not in the good way. This game starts out great. Among one of my favourite intros, "Here's 
 a gun, now go kill people you don't know to get to some jerk who double crossed you in the future, 
 sort of." Unfortunately this is where the game peaks. Cause after you get over the novelty of messing 
 around with time it's like watching paint dry. Sure you are killing things and making things blow 
 up but... that's it. And for 50 bucks or so, you want a little more. Flat storyline, no real perceived 
 effort to make the game memorable and the most anti-climactic ending I can remember all add up 
 to me recommending that you wait until this gets to be $20 or less (notice the emphasis on less) 
 before you shill out any hard earned dough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxy65
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Timeshift came at an unfortunate time. With other shooters such as UT3, Crysis and Bioshock being 
 released recently, TImeshift will really have to pull something off to compare. The game played 
 out much the same the whole way. Objectives are similar, enemies are similar. But one could say 
 this is not a bad thing. The combat is stylish, with combat being extremely satisfying (especially 
 gunning down a frozen enemy at point blank with a shotgun) , which results in the body flying away 
 and blood splattering the screen. The game is practically on rails (linear) , with there only being 
 one way to do everything, but some people (like me) , do not mind this. It means you don't get lost, 
 trudging around the level for what seems like forever (Bioshock unfortunately has this syndrome) . 
 One thing that does vary a lot is the landscape. You will be visiting areas like a half destroyed 
 city, rocky mountain valleys and snow covered fields. The game, like a fair few other linear games, 
 is not very hard. I played through on medium, and did not meet many frustrating parts. I would 
 recommend this game to shooter fans, such as people who enjoyed Prey and Quake 4. One thing I must 
 mention is the puzzles. Do not come to this game looking to be mentally challenged. The puzzles 
 are much too easy, and Saber should have taken a leaf out of Portals, (or at least Prey's) book. 
 Do come to this game if you like a pretty, simple, gory shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Graphics are nice. Gameplay profits from the ability to affect time. Nice variety to settings. 
 Impressive levels, huge machines, outdoor areas. A convincing mix of elements from other shooters. 
 Runs and plays smoothly. Great rain effects. AI is okay.
  
  The bad:
  Timeshift presents its story in such a clumsy fashion that I felt ashamed on its behalf. Nicely 
 rendered films are completely pointless because they convey nothing at all. Voice-overs are incredibly 
 stupid, replete with cartoonish grunting and idiotic commentary. 
  
  Summary:
  Playing Timeshift is like going to see a dumb Hollywood movie. It seems like a lot of fun, but 
 at the end, you're left with a hollow feeling and a nagging sensation that you've just actually 
 wasted precious hours of your life on something completely pointless. In terms of depth and presentation, 
 this game sucks rotten eggs. Still, I enjoyed it for what it was and played it all the way through. 
 That has to count for something. In this case: a 7.0 rating. Just don't expect anything beyond 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is a great shooter by Sierra that is none to similar to many games before it. Although 
 the gameplay has been seen many times before, the unique time altering abilities gives this game 
 a breath of fresh air. 
  
  In Timeshift, you play as a nameless physicist (man, these physicists are getting tough these days) , 
 not unlike Gordon Freeman. You don't have a name, but your motive is to stop a fellow physicist 
 named Dr. Krone (gee, what an original name) who destroys the lab you worked in and goes to the 
 future and enslaves humanity. The story is not too original, but it works out in the end. Dr. Krone 
 took a time suit you were working on, leaving only a beta suit. The beta suit can't jump around 
 in time, but it does leave you with a slew of time moves, such as slow time (ala bullet time) , 
 stop time, and reverse time. Obviously, these can't be used for too long, but your suit does recharge. 
 
  
  The graphics in the game are quite excellent. There are some really great textures that "pop" out 
 at you, and some of the best rain effects seen to date. It is cool to see the rain bounce off of 
 your gun. There are also some nice touches, like how your gun will blur a little when you zoom 
 in, and the explosions are very realistic. There are some very well done physics, too. Objects 
 tumble and fly around very believably.
  
  The gameplay has been seen before, but it is still very fun here. The time slow allows you to slow 
 down time while you still move in real time. This allows you to gain an advantage over a lot of 
 enemies. The time freeze, which doesn't last long, allows you to take down enemies that are too 
 difficult without. The time reverse, which isn't used too much in combat, is mostly used for puzzles. 
 But you can reverse time and watch an enemy die twice or reverse that grenade tossed at you. The 
 suit also heals you at the same time. It takes a minute to auto heal, but it is useful since your 
 character can't take too many hits.
  
  The multiplayer is nice as well. There are grenades you can use to slow and stop time, but they 
 can be over used in servers making it a little difficult. The sound also is very nice. Guns sound 
 like they are supposed to, and the voice acting, while not great, is decent. 
  
  Overall, this is a nice 10-15 hour game. There are some special features unlocked as you go along, 
 but none are too interesting. Gameplay is a blast using the time features, but it can make things 
 a little easy. Besides a boring final boss, this game is a nice change of pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Timely tested slow mo mechanics of Max Payne and F. E. A. R Fame have been superbly incorporated in 
 Time Shift along with abilities to Reverse and Stop the Time itself.
  Story for the game is little bit displaced, and you have to figure it out from the help of manual, 
 cut scenes and tit bits from your own imagination, but what it lacks in proper narration is covered 
 up by solid game play mechanics, Time Manipulation, fire fights, decent A. I , Physics, Graphics 
 (not as good as Crysis ) , destructible items, walls, Pillars and lot of other things.
  Timeshift lacks somewhat in types of enemy, most of the time you will encounter grunts with different 
 weapons, some 4 x 4 mounted machine guns, Time Slowing Grunts with 1 more version, and about 2 
 to 3 times a Helicopter or Tank. Yes you will encounter the bipedal twice or thrice, but when ever 
 you encounter it , you will be advised by SSAM (Your Suit's AI) to avoid the contact as you lack 
 the firepower. There are some mini games in terms of Blimp Gunner , where you will be saving your 
 air ship from floating mines , Helo's and Fighters of Krone.
  The Biggest lacking of the game is its End Boss Fight, which is very unsatisfactory and feels like 
 thrown in by the developers just to end the game.
  Time Manipulation is done via our age old meter, which recharges gradually along with your health 
 shield, which gets recharged by standing still or hiding.
  If you are looking for a fun game, which you want to play on weekends, then get Time-Shift, it 
 will keep your twitching finger and slow mo thirst happy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPetit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  A pretty decent game with a gameplay that will amuse throughout the levels as you run into a room 
 full of soldiers, slowing down time, lob in a few grenades and shoot them with your cool designed 
 future guns and then, as time resumes, watch them al fall without even being hurt. You get through 
 the levels pretty easy with challenges here and there which require you to use timing and your 
 powers. On the whole I had a great time with the game but it didn't really convince me of being 
 the best there is.
  
  So it has the whole package of a decent shooter but I still sometimes had the feeling I was playing 
 a bit dumbed down version of Half-Life 2 in which the HEV suit has been traded for the Beta suit. 
 But still you fight in a city that's being controlled by a man who uses big screens to broadcast 
 his propaganda and still you drive over mountain roads where you encounter enemy ambushes and have 
 to do certain things to clear the road and still you shoot helicopters that pop out of nowhere. 
 
  
  But if you can overlook the pitiful resemblance between this game and HL2, the boring and illogic 
 short movies that try to hold the story together and keep you interested (in which they fail) it's 
 a good game, but only because you're so busy time shifting and killing bad guys. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Time traveling is one of the most overused cliches in the movie industry and the gaming world tries 
 to keep up with it. But it`s mostly "travel back or go forward in time", so TimeShift is the only 
 game who really gives the player a chance to toy with the fourth dimension, and I must say (tough 
 it sounds ridiculous) that this feature is more or less revolutionary.
  
  The plot is... well, it is. And it`s not that bad as GameSpot says. In loading screens there sometimes 
 appears - "You are a higly respected physicist with a dark past, who is brought to a secret time 
 traveling project." or something like that. Another guy, Krone, who is working with you, steals 
 one of the time suits and goes back to 1939. Instead of winning every Nobel prize for the next 
 60 years, he becomes the dictator of humanity and meets resistance from armed individuals, called 
 the Occupants. Of course our alter ego tries to stop him, at the same time making us wonder - what 
 he hell is going on in here? This all is showed in in-game cutscenes and surprisingly high quality 
 CG movies. Also there is a possible sequel spoiler (I`ll ruin the surprise - our hero has done 
 something wrong and screwed the time stream) .
  
  Not only movies have inspired folks from Saber Interactive - you will definitely have deja vu feeling 
 while playing TimeShift. Half - Life is the most obvious reference - weapons, plot, suit that talks 
 instead of you, tough the voice is not as half as sexual as Dr. Freeman`s battle mate. Despite 
 all this, TimeShift is an awesome and incredibly fun shooter.
  
  The gameplay`s most important part - time shifting - is fulfilled. We can stop, slow (a la bullet 
 time) and rewind time. And this feature stays important and necessary when there comes the shooting 
 part. Oh yes, awesome action and time shifting goes well together and when get used to this symbiosis, 
 you want more, more and more.
  
  As for the graphics - they`re great and don`t require any other commentaries. Sound is decent, 
 the music has some good moments, but not all the time. Also I have to mention the lazy and unimaginative 
 design. People, we want something new, alright?
  
  If you see TimeShift on a shelf, don`t hesitate - it`ll be worth your time, especially if you`re 
 a shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameniko
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  It offers nothing new or revolutionary, just plain shoot-em up FPS with a time manipulation twist. 
 
  You can pause slow down or rewind time. there are puzzles throughout the game that have to be solved 
 using time manipulation.
  You can also use it (of course) when you are outnumbered by enemies, for example pause time, kill 
 them all... start time again and watch them all drop dead! 
  Or steal their weapons and watch them looking around confused as to what just happened.
  Your 
 health is embedded into the suit you are wearing and it recharges regularly so there is no need 
 of health packs etc.
  Your time manipulation energy also runs out and recharges automatically.
  Story line is mediocre 
 but who cares??
  I skip the story line videos anyway....
  Its a fun game and a must play for an FPS fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssohall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  The first time i played this game without a patch at v1.0, the game usually crashed after i made 
 any changes to any settings in the game. then i downloaded the v1.2 patch and i've been playing 
 this game ever since. After playing for 2 hours, i binded all my keys similar to F. E. A. R. and the 
 game is just awesome, best part is when u stop the time and destroy ur enemies at close range with 
 a shotgun. I am playing on an athlon 3200+ with 2 GB RAM at 800Mhz and an 8600 GT, the game is 
 flawless at 1154x864 res at maximum possible detail. I guess the reason this game got such a poor 
 rating is becoz of bugs in v1.0, SiERRA please check ur game's compatibility with all the available 
 systems before publishing and releasing a game, if u cant do it , open up a testing centre... or 
 else , many of ur good games will be rated like this... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiben
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was about to get released in 2006, and according to me it would have been much better 
 for its sales then. Currently with all the other games, which are all fulfilling the necessary 
 requirements along with new material, timeshift lags behind in many basic aspects. Developed by 
 Saber interactive, the game features good enough graphics and nice shooting fun with a gameplay 
 element of time control. But its totally uninteresting story line, bad texture design, repetitive 
 nature and goofy character animation... the game doesn't race along with the current FPS games.
 
  
  The game introduces time control features mainly slowing down time, a little like FEAR but not 
 completely. You maintain your normal physical speed (unlike FEAR) and you shoot around good number 
 of enemies while the effect. Time stopping capability will freeze the world; and time reverse, 
 which can be used at only specific locations, can make the world go rewind but as usual you maintain 
 your forward pace. There are good number of puzzles to exploit these powers which I found repetitive 
 but still quite fun.
  
  Shooting feels fantastic because the gun play is really nice and you feel the power of using effective 
 guns. The enemies are little aggressive and thus even though if you have time control powers, they 
 will overwhelme you. There are covers at all locations most of the time which you have to use to 
 regain health and time shifting meter. Most encounters with enemies is fun but otherwise its a 
 little repetitive.
  
  The main plot, though is really interesting, the story is pretty bad. The objectives of the game 
 are completely unrelated to the main story as all you have to do most of the time is open this 
 door, infiltrate this area to open some other door so that good-for-nothing rebels can go inside, 
 blah blah. With such uninteresting goals, players can lose motivation to proceed in the game. The 
 game tries to create mystery by showing difficult-to-understand cut-scenes which only makes it 
 more uninteresting.
  
  The level design had variety, which is a good thing. It feels a little inspired from Half Life 
 2 but its possible that I am the only one feeling that way.
  
  The graphics of the game are pretty good but the texture design was a little too much punkd. The 
 unrealistic texture art made the game look a little funny which robbed out the serious plot. The 
 goofy character animations (odd head nods, frantic hand gestures, asynchronous lip movements etc) 
 took the seriousness out of the game.
  
  Overall I believe that even though the game has uninteresting events and objectives, if you just 
 mindlessly keep on proceeding in the game and enjoy the fun shooting, killing and solving time 
 puzzles around, its not bad at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeXgoreXcore
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I don't know why people bitch about this game so badly, cause its freaking awesome.
  
  The gameplay is very nice with unique and nicely designed weapons that feel and sound powerful, 
 few puzzles now and then and a few elements of gore such as blood on your screen when you shot 
 someone from a very close range or bodies blowing up to pieces.
  
  Sound is not bad but not the great. Weapons sound awsome and powerful, the enemies say the same 
 line a few times and dont sound that surprised when like someone blows up near them or a man in 
 a power-ranger suit appears and disappears all the time.
  
  Graphics are great, great models, nicely designed environments, the game plays even on non powerful 
 computers but they could spend a day or two to improve the lip syncing.
  
  In the end, TimeShift is a very nice game and deserves your attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this game got mixed reviews and i know why. It starts of rather slow and confusing i really didnt 
 understand a lot of the story line. I was a soldier in a suit that allowed me to Stop, Slow, Reverse 
 Time. This action didnt last long and you needed to move quickly which your charater did not do 
 at all. He had a pace and that was it. The weapons made the game. A cross bow that i loved fired 
 exploding arrows. But it was mostly like any other war game ive played just with a twist and different 
 weapons. the enemys were quite easy to kill and finding your way around easy. it was entertaining 
 due to your time control but on an adverage ive played better. The graphics were not as good as 
 they could have been, even on high. They didnt really change the scenery or ONE burning building 
 was in all the scenes. i found it fun but no real challenge. something to do when no other games 
 are out. id say download it before buying it as it can get really slow. i didnt understand the 
 end it made no sence to me oh well, maybe im dence. The beginning made no clear sence i new i was 
 after another time suite. finding him at the end and killing him was easy and i had a girlfriend 
 that was helping me find this person but never got any idea Why or what it ment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I've waited a long time for "Timeshift" to come out, and now that it was finally released, I can 
 help but to feel disappointed.
  "Timeshift" is just another mediocre first person shooter, the same old story, with a little twist: 
 you get to control time.
  
  Let's start at the beginning. An evil scientist steals a Time-suit (a suit that enables its wearer 
 to control the flow of time, obviously) in order to change the past for his benefits. You, a fellow 
 scientist, steal a second, experimental, suit in order to stop the madman. After fallowing him 
 across time (and space) you find yourself in a different reality. The year is 1939 and Doctor Aiden 
 Krone (evil scientist) rules the earth with an iron fist (and a very large army) , crushing the 
 rebel forces that dare oppose him.
  It's up to the unnamed protagonist to help the rebellion and find Doctor Krone.
  
  The game 
 starts right where the story ends. From the beginning you have full control on your suit, with 
 the ability to slow, stop or reverse time; no new powers are unlocked throughout the game. Apart 
 from giving you the ability to manipulate time, your suit will also replenish your health and give 
 useful advice in certain situations.
  
  The first few levels are probably the best levels in the entire game. Those who played the demo 
 know what I'm talking about; the entire first part of the game takes place inside the nameless 
 city. Rain is pouring down on battle-torn ruins, and gunfire and explosions can be heard from all 
 over the place. As mentioned before, the year is 1939, but in a different reality. Don't expect 
 to find world-war two era types of weapons and technology; the environments and setting are futuristic 
 with a touch of steam-punk. All weapons are slick and advanced, your enemies all wear futuristic-looking 
 body armor and there are giant robots roaming the streets.
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty standard for a FPS. You can jump, crouch, pick up weapons, and throw 
 cool looking grenades. The real unique part of the game is the time-shifting. You can slow, stop 
 and reverse time at any point at the game (there are moments where you can't reverse time, in fear 
 of creating a paradox) , and you will find this fact very useful in large battles or when trying 
 to solve environmental puzzles. Actually you will probably use the suit's abilities even when not 
 really necessary, just because it looks so cool.
  Other than the time-shifting, "Timeshift" hasn't much to offer experienced players. The story is 
 dull and irrelevant and you won't find any memorable moments in the entire game. After just a few 
 hours or so the game starts to get really repetitive and boring, with the same types on enemies 
 and challenges over and over again; that is the biggest problem with "Timeshift".
  
  Apart from the repetitive gameplay, the game isn't too bad. The graphics are ok, with nice looking 
 fire and explosion and decent textures. The character models are not top-notch, and all the soldiers/rebels 
 look alike (different outfits) . The time-shifting effects are pretty cool, especially in the first 
 levels, where every time you slow or stop the flow of time, you can see individual rain drops hanging 
 in mid-air. Another cool thing to do is to snipe an enemy with an exploding arrow, and watch him 
 blow apart in slow-motion.
  
  If you're desperate for some shooting action, and already played all the other great shooters that 
 came out this year, give "Timeshift" a try; but don't feel to bad if decide to skip on that one, 
 you are not missing anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gacmyver
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game runs very smooth and looks quite good too. Although I think it feels like it looks good 
 because it runs very smooth. The game doesn't feature so much next-gen post filtering like motion 
 blur or field of depth. And the lighting aren't uber either. But it manages. The reason it runs 
 so smooth I think is because most of the time you'll be running in half tight spaces like small 
 rooms or tunnels. It's all very linear due to this, but linearity is good when the story and the 
 scripted parts are good. However this game got no story and sucky scripted parts.
  
  The story is cliche, but that's okay. But wait, it's not okay... because the game doesn't feel 
 like sharing it to you. You get these really crappy cg cut-scenes that doesn't tell you anything 
 really. And then you're off to shoot people. And then you get more of these cut-scenes in forms 
 of flashback and you kinda understand whats going on, but it is so badly made that it sickens you. 
 I think the devs thought the cut-scenes were "cool" or something, cause that's what I feel when 
 I watch them, but I also realize that they are utter crap.
  
  Lets focus on the gameplay then. This game plays like quake, doom, unreal, half-life etc in the 
 sense that your weapon doesn't have any recoil. You can just run and gun and if your aiming is 
 good enough, you'll mow down enemies. I played on elite difficulty which is the same as hard difficulty 
 and I could still run and gun. That's not a bad thing, because that's how the game is and it works 
 well. Just wanted to let you know in case you think this is call of duty aiming system where your 
 weapon recoil.
  
  Your running is weirdly very slow for a game that doesn't use recoil though. But to deal with that 
 you have the timeshift abilities. Which works fine, because you can slow down time for up to 12 
 seconds at a time and half for stopping time. This put to good use can end up with dozens of enemies 
 against you alone, so it's not like FEAR in that you don't really need the time slow effects. And 
 unlike Half-Life 2 or the more recent Crysis where you walk a bit, you shoot a bit, you walk a 
 bit, you shoot a bit etc etc
  This game is having you shoot while you're walking!
  
  You throw nades with a press of a button, you got your pistol that you never use, you got your 
 assault rifle that you use a lot early in the game, you got the shotgun that you also use a lot 
 early in the game. Then you switch these two out for other weapons during the course of the game. 
 However some weapons are way too overpowered like the crossbow, its one-shot kill. And you can 
 kill all enemies on screen if you just slow down time and shoot them all on the chest or something.
 
  The weapons looks good imo and the pistol looks awesome. And it is also extremely satisfying to 
 stop time pop a shot with the shotgun in a dude's head and then the next dude and the last dude 
 and then see them fall down or fly back when time is normal again. They also make appropriate sounds 
 for it. Eugh, AAW, AAAIE!! Hehe!
  
  The AI are really stupid though. They are basically cannon fodder. They just shoot at you, run 
 around pretending to take cover. But they say cool stuff like "What the..." or "I can't believe 
 it!" or "DID YOU SEE THAT??". Wish they had more lines like that, cause it makes you feel very 
 powerful with your timeshift abilities! But in the end 90% of your enemies are the same guys with 
 better weapons and armour later on in the game. You do meet some other enemies though, but they 
 are also troopers. These new troopers, however, also have timeshift abilities, but only the slowtime 
 when they run superfast around, but you can slow them down by slowing time down! Then you got these 
 jetpacks enemies and also the amazing timestop enemies! But unfortunately you only meet 4-5 timestop 
 enemies in the whole game and 3 of them are at the final boss where you stop time and shoot them 
 in the head and they die. VERY disappointing in other words. Same goes for enemy type variations 
 (not talking about skins) .
  
  The game tries to cover grounds, like COD4 does (with its amazing singleplayer campaign) . Timeshift 
 got some driving sequences, some sequences where you use mounted guns and some where you use turrets 
 to shoot down air-units. But all these sequences aren't anything special (like the sniper sequence 
 the or air-bomber sequence in COD4 which were mindboggling amazing) .
  
  The single most annoying feature in Timeshift imo is how you get missions from a guy you don't 
 know anything about!! You don't know his name, who he is relative to the story or the rebels, and 
 WHY he gives YOU orders? This would be okay if he just gave you them new missions, but instead 
 the devs made him some kind of nazi bitch? He constantly yells into your ear to "WHY THE HELL ARE 
 YOU STILL HERE SOLDIER?" or "GET MOVING SOLDIER, WE DON'T HAVE ALL DAY ON US!". And even worse, 
 he does it continually until you get out of a certain start-zone. I mean, do say it once, we get 
 it? Why did the devs let him say it hundred times?
  And yet even worse!! He doesn't seem to do crap at all and he keeps giving you alone all these 
 orders that would've made anyone into a one-man army and he doesn't sound at all appreciative that 
 you did them, he just dumps new orders on you? LOL? This made me go crazy for real, a game character 
 that I wished I could torture... yes it is THAT bad!
  
  Back on the good side of the game, the multiplayer! It is very enjoyable portion of the game, and 
 the devs did some right here. Especially regarding the time nades. You throw a time nade and they 
 explode into a sphere, within this sphere the timeshift goes into play. You can throw stop, slow 
 or reverse nades. The latter is fun if you throw it and someone comes and tries to shoot you. He 
 just ends up killing himself because the bullets fly back! I wish the maps were bigger though. 
 And another thing is that there's so few people playing online? And it got some cool multiplayer 
 modes as well! It takes about 10-12hours to complete the game but you will probably spend at least 
 the same amount of time on multiplayer, probably even if you didn't enjoy the singleplayer.
  
  The reason I don't give this game a higher score is because generally, it isn't a very good 
 game. If the cut-scenes were made so they tied into the story and not like dumb flashbacks, it 
 would most definitely raise the bar of the game. And more variations in enemy and better enemy 
 AI and/or harder enemy types (that's immune to timestop for instance) would have helped. And if 
 you didn't have that dumbass guy giving you orders, it would have helped alot too. And if the ending 
 wasn't that crappy (really crappy) and even though the last cut-scene was cool it was meaningless 
 and stupid at the same time and you're embarrassed to watch it. Yes it could have been a good game. 
 But if you don't care, the gameplay is enough to make you happy if you like run n gun games! Or 
 just a change from slow paced (or evenly paced if that sounds better) games like Crysis or Half-Life 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kizza55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Timeshift is one of the best FPS shooters to date. While it lacks a decent plot, Timeshift is a 
 blast to play, and has countless replay hours. 
  
  The highlight of the game, is not the timeshifting powers, but the weapons. These are the most 
 satysfying weapons I have ever fired during a game. While Half-Life 2 left me laughing at the sound 
 and feel of the pistol and SMG, Timeshift left me overwhelmed with the sound and damage of each 
 weapon.
  
  AI is decent, although some may seem like 'Time Fodder', just waiting to be frozen in time and 
 pistol whipped in the nuts. Some levels can be diffucult, creating simple time puzzles which immediatly 
 open onto a barrage of army troops, with you lacking your infamous abilities. These kind of situations, 
 cause you to think and use tactics, rather than solely relying on your suit.
  
  The multiplayer is freaking brilliant, as good as F. E. A. R at least. Time grenades add a coolness 
 to battles, while many great maps and lots of gamemodes give you lots to choose from. You can even 
 upgrade your online player with abilities like low-grav and extra grenades!
  
  All in all, don't listen to what haters say. People whine that there is no plot (and they're right) 
 but the game doesn't pretend to be a Half-Life 2. It knows it's an action FPS and that is exactly 
 what it succeeds as!
  
  Kizza55 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Not sure how GS rated this game so badly. I first read the review and then I decided to try the 
 game expecting a load of crap. And what a wonderful surprise this game is. Highly underrated! 
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 -- solid gameplay with lots of hardcore futuristic FPS mixed with some nice puzzles, 
 many of them using time manipulation. Weapons feel great and sound great.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 -- great graphics and great environments that run fast and at the highest quality 
 settings on any mid-high and above systems.
  
  Sound: 10/10 -- great ambient and battle/weapons sounds that greatly enhances the gameplay. Weapons 
 really sound great.
  
  Value: 9/10 -- long singleplayer that makes you feel justified in spending your money compered 
 to the newer 4 to 5 hour games.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 -- a wonderful surprise! A no-nonsense straight hardcore shooter that will satisfy 
 any FPS fan. I can't find any negatives, except maybe that the game currently requires the most 
 recent beta Nvidia drivers rather than a standard set of drivers. A great futuristic FPS package! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrewer1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game has an enjoyable twist with the whole time delay/stop/reverse time control. It's a pretty 
 straightforward shooter otherwise, but I enjoyed it. I am running an 8800GTS and the graphics look 
 great.
  
  The reason I haven't rated it higher are for a few glitches. Corpses getting stuck thru the floor 
 or half in or out of a wall and twitching, stuff like that. You also can't crawl through brush! 
 This is not Far Cry. You will bump into some leaves and have to backtrack and walk around. But 
 other than that the weapons are great, the ammo is plentiful, the timeshift thing is a good twist, 
 what's not to like?
  
  I actually quit playing Bioshock for this game, I find it more enjoyable! Bioshock is very creative 
 but it is not a shooter in spirit, it's some kind of weird hybrid. No thanks. I play shooters for 
 combat action, and I rate them on the quality or feel of the actual combat interaction. Games like 
 FEAR - sure if you read it here they might say dated, but to date some of the best real-time combat 
 shooting around! This game is not quite FEAR but it is worth playing if you like shooters and realistic 
 combat instead of casting magic spells on trolls.
  
  Note the user ratings! It's much higher than the review, even the critic's score is higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  I saw a few trailers for TimeShift before it came out and from what I saw I was expecting something 
 along the lines of a new epic FPS, well i was wrong. I have to saw that I was really disappointed 
 with TimeShift. Theres not much of a story and the game is fairly easy.... too easy. The only thing 
 that was different from other FPS is that you can Stop, Fast Forward and Slow down time, thus the 
 name "TimeShift" but besides that it like a lot of other FPS. I admit that the hole manipulating 
 time thing was cool to do though it felt like a prince of Persia moment whenever I was manipulating 
 time but in FPS form. All in all this game is fun to and extent but not that great from what you 
 see from the trailers so do yourself a favor and don't buy TimShift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whocares9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This isn't any revolutionary game or something that is meant to push the genre forward. It is getting 
 some hard reviews everywhere. Does it deserve them? well yes and no. The game is fun for shooter 
 funs who like sci-fi shooters but anyone else will find it boring. The game relies to much on parallax 
 bit-mapping in order to create better graphics. The visuals feel old and the gun models are pathetic 
 looking. Now where the game succeeds is buying adding a fun time control feature and even though 
 the reverse time seems to be useless and much cooler of an idea on paper than in the game the stop 
 time is really a blast. This game is a decent shooter but it has to much competition and just comes 
 out extremely average at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephbyron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I find more disapontment with Crysis because of the reviews. When I first played it a crab went 
 through a rock and then back again. When you kill someone there bodys look the same and any shots 
 on the body after death do nothing. On top of that I was trying to climb some rocks and even though 
 ther was an overhang above me it would not let me get on it. The reason why Im saying all this 
 is beacuse everyone is saying that Crysis is the best game ever, and all I can say is while it 
 is great, Im having more fun playing Timeshift. This is the only post I have ever made and I have 
 been playing computers since C64 and I have around 400 pc games alone. I have a high-end computer 
 and I think Timeshift looks great, has a pretty good story, some good puzzles, some very replayable 
 moments ( hony get in here and look what i did to this guy!) , fantastic weapons and a lot of fun. 
 I spent $49 bucks and it was worth every penny. Dont pay attention to the neg reviews, if you want 
 to have alot of fun try this game , you wont be sorry!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  While I disagree with Gamespot giving this game a mere 6.5, some of the points they make in the 
 narrative are just. There is absolutey no story in this game. Cutscenes abruptly end and insert 
 you into a mission with no real briefing. It can be repetative, but many FPS games are. However 
 it IS fun. The weapons are cool, the shotgun is great. The time effects are fun to use, but really 
 it's just an extention of "bullet time" which, by now, is old news. The graphics and sound are 
 really good. It runs very well with most settings maxed on my X2 5000 and 1950XT. If a real story 
 had been implemented into this game, the reviews would be much higher. 
  
  I had to edit this review, to make a couple of points. I've lowered my score due to the fact that 
 now, after having almost completed the game, I have to change my tune a little. This title is not 
 quite cooked. The end game is extremely hard. I was hoping to finish it last night so I could call 
 it done. I was hoping it would end. Not really a good sign. What got on my nerves for the past 
 couple of levels was the voice constantly yelling at me to "Get it done, NOW! Why was I being called 
 a soldier as if I was some sort of low life grunt. I thought I was supposed to be a respected physicist? 
 Why were the first 23 levels so freakin' easy and the last one so hard. I hate to sound like I'm 
 accusing someone of farting, but "Who let that one go?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimberWolf_CLT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  I've been rooting for the developer since they sent out the first demo and were soundly lambasted. 
 I remember thinking at the time that they had a great premise and just needed time to craft it.
 
  
  I must admit that on the first time through, I found it very rough for some reason. 
  
  I have a feeling that's because there's really no tutorial level and you're dumped straight 
 in with no time powers at first. That threw me and I definitely had a "Oh man, why did I buy this?" 
 moment.
  
  However, as things progressed and I started thinking of solutions in the "time domain", it became 
 a lot of fun and I had a great time playing it.
  
  I've played it through three times now and can definitely say that folks should give this a try. 
 It really is a lot of fun and should be judged on its own merits. It has the misfortune of being 
 released so near to Crysis and others and I think that colors folks impression of it.
  
  I also get the feeling that the Eastern European flavor of it may throw some folks off. However, 
 that really didn't hurt HalfLife 2 so I could be all wet...
  
  Anyway, I would recommend that you give it a try. Bear with the initial period and you'll be rewarded 
 with a fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolysockofdoom
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  TimeShift had such a storied development cycle that it's incredible that it made it to retail. 
 Yet even though it was a miracle the game was released, that doesn't mean it plays like a miracle; 
 in fact, it's very far from it. I can't recommend buying TimeShift unless you really want to play 
 a repetitive First Person Shooter that gets nowhere.
  
  Where to start? The story is as good a place as any, or, better put, nowhere to start. The story 
 boils down to a company (or something) has made two suits that travel through time. Some crazy 
 scientist used the first one, so you grabbed the second one and followed him through time to stop 
 him from changing the past. Sound interesting? Too bad, because it isn't. Whereas the developer 
 could have maybe capitalized on making an interesting, twisty and trippy story that goes through 
 time as all sorts of changes and quirks are made, it instead follows a somewhat linear path that 
 is relatively predictable and has nothing of interest to present.
  
  The graphics are the strong point for the game, presenting some great artistic design. Rain, which 
 occurs on multiple levels, looks great, especially when you use your time powers. Seeing individual 
 drops stop in mid-air after you pause time is pretty cool. Also, explosions look great when time 
 is reversed. The environments look pretty good, but sometimes the textures look shoddy and out 
 of place. Also, many levels have a very similar feel and look to them, which can really drag the 
 game down, as you just feel like you're going nowhere.
  
  Gameplay is what you might expect to be the best part of a game such as this, but alas, it falls 
 well short. You can Slow, Pause or Reverse time using your suit, which uses up an 'energy' bar 
 of sorts. After used up, the bar refills after a period of time. The game can be fun in some firefights 
 with these powers at your disposal, but a lot of times (especially the harder battles) it just 
 become a repetition of using up your energy, hiding for it to recharge, and repeating. Also, don't 
 expect any cool or out of this world puzzles to involve the fourth dimension: the puzzles that 
 present themselves are extremely simplistic to such a degree that they make the game worse than 
 providing any sort of pacing (ala Half-Life) . The weapons are mediocre, while some of them can 
 feel pretty hefty and tough, none of them feel new to the crowded world of shooting games (where's 
 my time gun? or non retro-WWII weapon?) . The 'destructible' environments are cool, but its sometimes 
 hard and annoying to decide which objects (such as walls) are damageable and which aren't.
  
  The Multiplayer is semi-interesting, with the time powers now being used as grenades you throw 
 that provide a bubble around them of area where time is distorted; you use them to cripple your 
 enemies while you take advantage of their precarious situation. However, it wasn't that different 
 from say, any other online shooter that you can play except its levels probably aren't as expertly 
 designed. Basically, after playing the game online, I can say I am not compelled to return and 
 play it instead of other online games I own.
  
  To sum it up: I had expectations (or hopes) of what TimeShift would be, and it didn't meet any 
 of them. Do yourself a favor and don't buy this game unless you've never played a FPS or anything 
 remotely similar to it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: youam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  this game is so cool but it is not like many other great game this year such as cod:4 .crysis. 
 bio.. but i like in this game the ability to pause, slow, and rewind time is interesting Weapons 
 are cool and very satisfying to shoot 
  
  ....... ........ ............ .............. ............. ...... ............ .......... ..... 
 ........ ............ ........... ............ ..... ....... ........ ........ .............. .......... 
 .......... ........... ............... .......... ........... ........ ..... ... ....... ..... 
 ........... ... .......... .......... ........... ......... ........ ......... ....... ......... 
 ...... ....... ........ ...... ........ ........... .... .... ....... ....... .... .......... ........ 
 ........ ......... ...... ...... ........ ...... ..... ............. ............ .......... .......... 
 .......... ....... ........ ....... .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Your a scientist sent back in time to stop another scientist using the alpha suit. Blast 
 your way through enemys. It gets old after a while.
  
  Graphics: Good Graphics on high. This is about the best point of the game. The enviroments look 
 polished but the NPC's and guns look horrid. Other than that they are good.
  
  Sound- The sound in this game is on of the best points other than graphics. Weapons sound realistic 
 and so do explosions and all the ambient noises give a great effect. They are very high quality 
 and suprisingly the voice acting is good
  
  Replayablity- Little To None
  
  Rent Or Buy or pass- Pass on this overhyped game.
  
  The Good- Great Graphics And Sound. Intresint 
 Time Ideas.
  The Bad-The gameplay gets old after a while
  The Ugly- Crashes Randomly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemeios
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is an average game at best. There is no story line. You keep getting these sequences 
 in between which make no sense at all. you never find out who you are and why are you doing this. 
 The Time stop/slow/reverse are something really well done. The Game is not that tough either with 
 these. However it gets very boring after a while. All you need is a shotgun and the crossbow and 
 you can go through the whole game. Here is advice - The crossbow is the best weapon DONOT drop 
 it.
  
  I will give it a 6 just for the fun i had in first part of the game when i had not grown tired 
 of destroying the enemies with my crossbow. 
  
  I could have lived with an ending which made any sense though. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  There are many ways you can make a FPS-shooter, in the past you had your Half-Life-like shooters, 
 your Soldier Of Fortune, all the ww2 shooters, but those are all very like, meaning, you go from 
 one point to another, yes, even in Half-Life 1 & 2 you do that, and you even do that in TimeShift, 
 but the nice thing is that you feel that you actually have an impact in the storyline, which, in 
 this case, isn't as diffuse as many other games in the same genre...
  
  The ability to change time is in many ways like in Prince Of Persia, when you come to some obstacles, 
 you need to use it wisely, and it is fun to use it...
  
  The graphics are just awesome, the weapons, the animation great... The scenarios change very quickly 
 which means you don't get that "oh, yes, another tunnel, how surprising..." There is something 
 new around every bend...
  
  Highly recommendable... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  It seems that this game has scored quite badly in its reviews, and although it has its flaws they 
 are unfair as its quite a good game.
  Okay you could say theres nothing really that s new here, but its done quite well, and the game 
 has some good atmospheric bits in it.
  The graphics are pretty good for a start, the character models, although chunky, are well done 
 and the animation is good. The level graphics are good too, with some atmospheric parts, although 
 I have to say this is not true all the way through the game.
  The sound is good, theres not much music (which for me is a good thing) , but the ambient sounds 
 are well done and I haven't noticed any periods of silence as in some other games.
  Overall I like this game, although it hasn't got much replayability and I don't like online multiplayer 
 games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  i'm one of the few that just loved the demo1 (2006) , and i was disappointed in demo2, for me since 
 far cry there hasn't been an other single player game to what i even could compare this too, of 
 course there is the no story issue, witch in my case dont mater because I never read the story 
 anyhow, I just dont care, Im there to shoot my way trough the game, if I want a story I read 
 a book or watch a movie. Then there are some who say to short great to know that there are guys 
 under us who master FPSs so well that a game that tuke me around 20hours they master in 4.. I 
 wonder where those guys are when I play multiplayer shooters online ; ) but no seriously maybe 
 you can RUN trough the game in 6-8 hours realistically but then you missing out on what this game 
 is really about = sadistic killing. Overall for my taste and expectations this single player shooter 
 just feels perfect in every way I can just think of.. I can only say play both demo 1 and 2 and 
 if you dont like them dont get the game, the finished game seems like a mix of the 2 demos. The 
 puzzles arent hard at all (and this I LIKE) and thanks to saving feature you can shoot your way 
 trough anything, there are not to many bosses (witch I like as well) there is a reason for this 
 most guys who give low rating dont get, this game is not making you feel good because its so hard 
 , but because it makes you feel like superman, you stop time and with that you have a cheat like 
 advantage over your enemy, while you can move free they defenseless  and you can use this to you 
 advantage by blowing them to pieces while they cant do a thing to defend them selfs, plus you shield 
 regenerated fast you can take a hell of a lot of damage while most your enemy die rater quick  
 its a KILLING FRENZEE ! as well there is great amount of blood and gips flying around, its great 
 when you stop time and shoot the guy from 1 inch hes head of hes shoulders, the blood is dripping 
 of your camera view and half of hes head is missing ( just wonderful :) ) . In other words love 
 the game for what it is and not what you want it to be, if you want a story stay out, if you want 
 incredibly hard puzzles as well if you want easy killing frenzy with wonderful grafix and fun 
 well designed weaponry get time shift ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cbordi
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  good graphichs, multiplayer, gameplay..
  
  does not help for the PC version.
  
  the game is buggy, very buggy!
  at times the screen start to flash with white light wich make 
 the game unplayable.. and after the 5 years it took to create this game i would expect something 
 better. (cant blame it on the PC, it was tested on 3 different computers and it all turned out 
 the same.. and it does not apear in any other games)
  
  the story is shallow as well, but lets face it.. when you get into the gunfights in this game the 
 story is the last thing that hits your mind.
  
  this is really a great game, just not for the pc :-/
  
  ill get this for my PS3, or for those 
 who got an xbox, skipp the PS version and go for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, this game will never make it into the ranks of all time great games. The plot is 
 a bit hard to follow, has a few holes in it, and the ending is a bit lacking, but not every game 
 is going to be a Gears of War, or Half-life. For those of us that like to shoot things, this game 
 gives you plenty of things to shoot, and lots of fun weapons to shoot them with, and with the ability 
 to control time, Timeshift gives the player something really fun to toy with. How many times in 
 other games have you been in combat and the enemy throws a grenade at you and all you can do is 
 go oh crap before your bloody bits. Not in this game, if you get a grenade stuck to you, just rewind 
 time and blast the guy before he can throw it. Walk into an ambush? Just slow down time and catch 
 them all by surprise, even take their own weapons and watch them look around trying to figure out 
 what just happened. I couldn't get enough of it. There were no real boss fights or other FPS conventions 
 in this game, just level after level of bad guys waiting for you to vaporize them. The game looks 
 really good, I'm glad they took the extra time to revamp the graphics, and the sound is really 
 good as well. Overall a solid shooter that lets you do exactly what the name implies, shoot things, 
 with style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caetrarii
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Sure, people might ponder much over the storyline. Yes, it's a generic shooter but it comes with 
 a twist. Controlling time, that fourth dimension of gameplay, the what ifs. The time freeze and 
 time slow were my favorites, they didn't even stand a chance.
  
  The weapons in the game are just superb and I can't but love the shotgun, sniper rifle and assault 
 rifle along with the mounted guns you can find around.
  
  I for one loved this game, I wasn't looking for a storyline to follow, but it's pretty simple. 
 Bad guy steals time machine, bad guy goes back in time and makes himself an emperor of sorts, you 
 follow and disrupt his plan, the end. The only disappointing factor is the replayability, there 
 is none, but it left me satisfied. It's not pushing boundaries or setting genre's but I'll be damned 
 if this game is anything but fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a336061
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  I'll say it's not completely horrible, certain aspects have the ability to make the buyer somewhat 
 happy that are playing, not purchased, the game. They stole a lot and from a lot of games, for 
 instance, the sticky blue grenade... halo anyone, the talking suit that explains your every vital 
 sign, half life 2 anyone... they have cheesy physics based puzzles that aren't physics based at 
 all. Using the Time Shift ability is a little tacky at times because the game puts you in a dead 
 spot and for a second you may think to yourself, okay this is going to be annoying. The graphics 
 are decent, I'm playing with the 8800gt and it runs amazingly well. Using the hellfire weapon and 
 setting guys a blaze is fantastically cool looking, almost making it worth the buy... almost. The 
 game seems to carry on, these days it's hard to find a game that lasts longer than 5 to 8 hours 
 in single player mode. this game was making me wish it was only 5 hours long. if it's one thing 
 that could have made this game that much better, not relying on your TimeShift abilities for every 
 possible moment would have been cool... but at least they switch developers because that first 
 demo was horrific. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  well i should'nt say timeshift is just another ordinary first person shooter, it certainly is a 
 different game. the suit offered in the game is simple, but yet unique and important in the game, but 
 sadly is the only great thing in the game, graphics was a good try, great lighting, great character 
 animations, good movements of the enemies, logical aiming, good use of system requirements to give 
 maximum output, the concept using time as a weapon is good but eventually gets boring. i enjoyed 
 the game till i finished it, should say it was a good try and worth playing. the gameplay is short, lack 
 of a gripping story, the feel to wait for whats gonna happen in the next level isnt there, so its 
 just plain fun to battle out and see some good action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dixienarco
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  i guess for my part the graphics is the main turn off in this game.
  it's just too plastic looking and all the objects are really, like, uncool, you know?
  i also 
 miss good light effect because i get to miss the depht it generates. nice detail is that the structures 
 in some places is very destructable. yay.
  some stuff nicked from half life feels lame to me. as if the gamemakers tried to make atmosphere 
 with well tested half life props. duh. such a boring generic shooter type thing in the lvl design 
 department. which is saved somewhat by the really neat and revolutionary time alteration thingy 
 (i know at least two more shooters with time alteration stuff) .
  the story is dull as well it just wont grab hold of you.
  
  or is it because it is monday and 
 i'm hungover 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmen999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty if your system can run it cranked up (I ran on AMD X2 4600+ with 7800GT in SLI) . 
 The time shifting mechanic is enjoyable. The weapons and ammo are powerful and plentiful. This 
 game is a solid shooter. With a time stop and a sniper rifle (when will they learn not to give 
 me one of those) you can take out a 4 man squad before anyone knows what happened. The fire gun 
 and EMP gun have nice effects as well. In spite of the advantages of the suit the game did managed 
 to kill me multiple times. The developers did a good job of making the enemy damage high enough 
 to keep it challenging. The scenarios in the game also tend to leave the enemies in a superior 
 firing position which makes the game more difficult. I had no difficulty following the story line 
 although it could have been flushed out more thoroughly by the developers. The time shifting puzzle 
 elements were no where near as difficult as they could have been. Since there are only 3 choices 
 (stop, slow, reverse) it is easy to figure out how to beat the time shift puzzles. Note to developers: 
 next time perhaps a time shift puzzle requiring slow and then stop or some other combination. Level 
 design is fairly linear on this game and could have been much better if the developers had created 
 some sort of a stock office space they could duplicate and put behind all of those doors they left 
 locked. Playing through a linear level is much less obvious when you can explore all of the extra 
 space. All in all a good game with a solid engine and fun game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Fun weapons, good graphics, and interesting puzzles that make you think (but not too much) I recommend 
 TimeShift to anyone who enjoyed HL2 or FEAR.
  
  This game requires a bit of patience. It utilizes the same health system as Halo and GeOW so if 
 you just take your time you will have no problems getting through the waves of enemies it throws 
 at you.
  
  The time powers are fun and come in handy throughout the entire game. Adds some replay value for 
 the people who want to play it on all of the difficulties. Weapons are powerful and fun to shoot
 
  
  Character models are excellent in my opinion and being able to freeze time and kill them in creative 
 fashions is fun for hours so is rewinding time and doing it again!
  
  The puzzles are not to hard.. but still make you think they do however become predictable.. and 
 some are outright silly.. such as a timed bomb set for 2 seconds..
  
  I experiences a few problems with the same system (replayed about 2/3 of the game because it would 
 fail when trying to save) though on gamefaqs I have only ran into one other person who has had 
 this problem.
  
  I have only spent a small amount of time on the online portion of this game. It seems fun. Though 
 it really doesnt seem like anything that will stand the test of time.
  (I will not figure that into the review)
  
  Overall I think this is one of the best console 
 shooters around it is very much 1/3 HL2, 1/3 FEAR, and the other third I would have to say reminds 
 me of killzone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  For a game that has been this long it developmen one would expect more than another DOOM III engein 
 based game but this one seem to dissapoint in many aspects.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are nice untill you start loocking at thing up close and realise that while player 
 models are very neatly done and the use of HDR rendering is good allowing beutifull effects that 
 include wet surfaces mud and even drops of water on your visor when its raining , the textures 
 of many objects in game are of poor detail and it can even be hard to read text on the popular 
 vending machines that you will see time and time again through oout the game. The weapon design 
 is interesting though for many long time gamers most of them will seem very familiar, they are 
 still interesting.
  
  Phisics and AI:
  The game seem to do a good job here. Allthough your enemies might try to run at you from time to 
 time they ussually stay behind cover and will move from cover to cover together and you migh even 
 realise that they know how to jump over walls and boxes that migh be in their way. The Physics 
 are well done but there seems to bery little use of them for some reason.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game play is well done but for any Prince of Persia player the ability to slow, stop and even 
 rewindtime will not impress them as much specialy considering that you only have 3 powers and you 
 end up overutilizing them macking the booring after just a few hors of gameplay.
  
  Story:
  The story seem to have some content and even interesting the problem is it displayed 
 very poorely and it can be extremely annoying trying to decifer the custscenes to understand just 
 what is going on.
  
  Overall there are much worse games than Timeshift but it still is not worth buying but renting 
 it might give you a few hours of just shooting and fideling with time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I can't quite believe what I'm reading in the Gamespot review... No 
 offense, but it seems to me Aaron Thomas didn't quite write a review, but more a ... bash. He's 
 pretty harsh about a lot of points, that although valid aren't as bad as they sound. Come on, what's 
 been up with Gamespot lately? Seriously... :p
  
  At times one would even wonder if he really played the game ;) (like .. not just the demo to check 
 it out) and that's no joke. It certainly is not an instant classic, but it's not as mediocre as 
 Gamespot wants us to believe!
  
  It seems to really bother mr. Thomas that the story isn't very complicated and he's complaining 
 about how it's incoherent. Well, it's not all that incoherent as the CGI cutscenes explain it pretty 
 well. It's really very straightforward and simple, it's quite predictable. But still, who cares? 
 Since when do FPS shooters need to have a deep and complicated story to be 'above mediocre'? Come 
 on, get real! Doom3 didn't even have much of a story and people never dared to give that game anything 
 lower than a 90 or so. Even Half-life2 has it's fair share of flaws in story-telling (for example, 
 the end of HL2 is pretty lame when you think of it ) .
  
  TimeShift can be best described as F. E. A. R minus the better story and horror elements. The time 
 control features are not just there as a gimmick, but not much unlike in F. E. A. R those time powers 
 will give you the edge you need to survive. I do agree that overall this game isn't all that difficult, 
 but there's plenty of use for the time control options still. The AI in this game isn't very good, 
 but it's definitely acceptable enough to provide hours and hours of fun.
  
  The game is pretty gory, so if that's your thing... you'll be very happy. Gameplay really is very 
 fun. It's extremely satisfying to stop time, take someone's gun and see them wonder what the f... 
 just happened to them.
  Or stop time when a grenade explodes and step out of the blast radius. You will feel like a quite 
 powerful superhero. So yeah, that's pretty nice.
  
  Level design is okey and at times it can be a great looking game. The objectives are pretty standard, 
 but even in great games like Halo you're often walking from A to B to flip a switch... only difference 
 is a bit more story that tells you 'why' you want to or need to flip that switch.
  The overall goal of TimeShift is off course as simple as the story itself, being stopping Lord 
 Krone... the evil scientist, so in a way it's not all that surprising that the ingame objectives 
 aren't all that special.
  
  It's safe to say that this game has improved A LOT since the demo version of that 'older build' 
 came out. That game would have gotten lost in the budget bin... no way I would have paid full price 
 for that. But this TimeShift is definitely worth it's money. Multiplayer will probably have you 
 play this game for a long time to come because of it's unique and interesting game modes. A bunch 
 of them are standard modes, but the other bunch is not and it's the first game to my knowledge 
 that has implemented time control options in multiplayer successfully.
  
  The game has it's flaws, both visually and gameplay wise (mostly difficulty-related ) , but it's 
 guaranteed fun overall. If you're looking for a deep story, TimeShift is not for you. Don't expect 
 a paradoxical story with freaky flashbacks to a time before they reversed time and flashbacks into 
 the future after and accidentally mixed up coherency madness. Going back in time apparently did 
 not immediately change things back to how they once were, which is something of a flaw if you ask 
 me, but this game isn't really about the story anyways.
  
  Another something that isn't all that great are the puzzles. They start out pretty interesting, 
 but later on you'll notice you've done things before which makes it less interesting. Compared 
 to the great puzzles the Prince of Persia games had to offer, this game is downright disappointing, 
 but for an FPS game it's pretty okey.
  
  All in all, the game has a great concept and while it succeeds to do most things just about right, 
 it falls short of being a really great game. It simply has too much flaws, but it's still a very 
 enjoyable game.
  
  Compared to the **** demo of last year in that other style with loads of bugs, this game has improved 
 a LOT. Gamespot's Mr. Thomas also fails to see that because they basically had to make a lot of 
 things all over again, this game didn't really had 'more development time' at all. The overhaul 
 came at a cost and it shows, but it doesn't entirely ruin the game.
  
  It's solid, but has it's flaws. It will however provide you with a lot of fun, especially multiplayer. 
 (Gamespot doesn't allow us to give scores like 7.8, but an 8.0 is too high and 7.5 too low because 
 of the fun-factor.. sigh. :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazziey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Well timeshift didnt really get a good score on gamespot. I went out picked up my pre-ordered copy 
 installed it and started to play. The gameplay is fun with good visuals however some things could 
 of been better here and there but overall it's enjoyable. Then the multiplayer i wasnt really expecting 
 much i started playing and i though whoa this is good i love the weapons and the maps and the multiplayer 
 is really exciting. Overall its a great game i would definitely buy the second timeshift or an 
 expansion if one ever came out. I would recommend this game to FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulgerard65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Now this is just the demo I played, but for a demo i thought it was great, graphics and sound are 
 top notch and the action so far keeps moving! I do not know what gamespot is talking about, but 
 I loved it! This is better then Tabula Rasa which I bought and was disappointed with it. I do not 
 like paying a monthly fee especially as high as it is. Getting back to Timeshift, I like the direct 
 approach it gives you, you jump right into the game. So far the level i have played seems interesting 
 enough, but I just wanted to review this game because I thought gamespot gave it a poor review 
 I would give this at least a 7.5. I do admit that this slowing down time seems unnessary to a point, 
 the game is fine without it. It runs fine on my machine which is maybe a year old, it did say I 
 needed to update my graphics driver which I did and runs fine. Gamespot you need to play it again 
 and give it a better review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: methodmansi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I no longer believe in Gamespot's reviewing system. I've been playing games for a long time and 
 I've always relied on review sites so I won't waste time on a game that isn't worth it. I recently 
 got this game before the review was posted and played through it. I have to say I was blown away 
 by the first level alone and became addicted. This is the first fun FPS in a long time and I really 
 don't care what the reviews say. It has amazing graphics, smooth gameplay and a certain visceral 
 thrill to it that I haven't experienced for a long time in an FPS. I played the whole way through 
 FEAR and have to say that I found it boring. It had boring levels, that were exactly the same over 
 and over and you know what, Gamespot gave it 9.0. This game not only runs smoother than that one, 
 has better environments, time shifting elements and more but it gets a score of 6.5? I personally 
 think that's ridiculous and won't ever listen to Gamespot again. My only regret is that I've been 
 listening to them for 10 years and God knows how many good and fun games I might have missed out 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PT-KoRn_Child
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  This game is a futuristic FPS.
  The story is a bit weak that's for sure but the concept of having a suit capable of controlling 
 time is brilliant. The suit allows you to slow, stop and Reverse. Any of the abilities only affect 
 enemies and level elements. For example: If Stop is activated every elements stop (water, fire, 
 etc.) , so if you see an area filled with water you can actually walk over water like you were walking 
 on frozen water; Fire will not harm you; etc. If you activate the slow ability you can get near 
 the enemy fast enough to shot them in the head or get their weapon just like in the game trailer.
 
  Game levels are amazing and most of them are designed to get the player to use the suit's abilities. 
 Sound is great and controls are very easy to assimilate. The graphics are great but there are some 
 textures that aren't so detailed has others present in the game but obviously thats a thing that 
 the player won't immediately notice if he don't look for them... This is a really great game and 
 highly addictive.
  
  About gamespot score:
  The score gamespot gave to this game makes me think that maybe game companies need to pay well 
 for high scores. Who doesnt pay this is what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I will give my review with few and single words
  
  POSITIVE
  
  1) Pretty good graphics with decent PC requirements
  2) Using Time to kill your enemies is fun 
 and a nice idea
  3) Solid Multiplayer (if Multiplayer is a priority for you) -
  -
  NEGATIVE
  1) Story is weak with mostly boring missions
  2) AI is mostly weak
  3) Puzzles 
 are nothing special
  4) Almost Linear
  6) Most of the time powers in the game do not worth the hype
  7) Replay Value is LOW
  
  Overall 
 7.5
  
  The game is Good for some hours but not anything that will become Classic and that will be remembered 
 for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  I was interested from day 1one back in 2005 for this game .... i think my timebending disire was 
 started by Prince of Persia series back then :D ... anyway &amp; i alllways wanted to se what it 
 whould be like if some1one implements some of this techniches in a FPS game ! Well SABER interactive 
 &amp; newly born studio but with great potential &amp; idees of innovations created a gameplay 
 far beyond what i have seen this year ! I think you saw from the trailers what you can do with 
 your slow &amp; stop time powers but the most interesting part is when you come across obstacles 
 &amp; puzzles that needs perfect timing of the juice that poweres the time suit .... its just phenomenal 
 wehn you encounter something like this &amp; it never gets old ..... + you will allways need to 
 use your timeshift powers because the enemy A. I. is super well made ... infact you can compare 
 them with the A. I. in FEAR ( the most greates A. I&gt; ever made for an enemy ) lets say that that 
 the enemies in timeshift have 85% of intelligence from FEAR ... but htats not alll in timeshift 
 you have the rechargeble life metter but the eneies have high accuracy so you will never can defeat 
 them by chargind ... it requires tactics &amp; timing ! The graphics of the game are just perfect 
 &amp; you have to admire when a developer whants to use its own tech ... not like many who uses 
 the UNREAL tech :P .... the engine is a good fusion between the SOURCE engine &amp; FEAR engine 
 offering a little bit of both &amp; fules with next gen technologies &amp; the best part of it 
 is that you don't need a high end computer to run it ! The story in a way might be the the weekest 
 link in the game ... but not from its plot point ... but from the way its presented to us ....1once 
 you learn some strange things about it you can start to presume some great things about it but 
 never to clear .... anyway the game ended with a cliffhanger so i hope they will make a sequel to 
 it because it deserves 1one alltough gamespot gaved it such a low score .... i thing that GameTrailers 
 review is more appeallijng 8,3 ! Play it you wont be dissapointed ! &amp; ough &amp; i forgot to 
 mention the level design that is done with very skilful hads ... allways changing the pase &amp; 
 the wya you have to interact with it &amp; not to mention the artwork ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Bump
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  For a game that took so long to arrive, TimeShift is very run of the mill. Time powers are okay, 
 but to be honest you've seen most of it before in better games, such as FEAR and Max Payne. Only 
 the reverse power is even remotely novel and that is sparingly used and mainly only for blatantly 
 obvious puzzles. Graphics are pretty dated and level design very linear. Couple with this almost 
 no story and pointless mission objectives and you have a real slog on your hands. Combat can be 
 fun, when pausing time and running around a room shooting everyone in the face, but otherwise pretty 
 stupid AI makes for uninteresting and repetitive exchanges. All in all, in this very busy year 
 for first person shooters; save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustCamp19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  I whole-heartedly agree with GameSpot. This game was flashy and fun... but there was basically no 
 point or story. It throws you into the game fighting for the resistance, but you dont even know 
 why your fighting or why the resistance thinks your a good guy. Storywise there is no plot except 
 for the random cut scene about nothing. There are no noteworthy characters either. This game, however, 
 is a blast, if relatively easy. They graphics are amazing and the gameplay is fun. There aren't 
 very many clever uses of time, only one or two are rememberable (like when you have to stop time 
 to walk across water) . But, the game is really simple. Stop time run up to the enemy steal his 
 gun. Stop time shot 3-4 at close range with shotgun. Slow time and run past everyone shooting them 
 in the back. As fun as it is, it leaves much more desired. I was hoping for time to be used to 
 solve puzzles like physics were in Half life 2. Overall, this game is fun if you just wana run 
 around shooting guys with great effects and graphics. Because that's all this game has to offer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Story: I have no idea. Theres like these two suits. Alpha and Beta. They do stuff with time. Crazy.
 
  
  Graphics: Better than before (last year) but still not amazing.
  
  Audio: Meh.
  
  Missions: Run, Shoot, Run, Use Time Powers, Shoot, Repeat.
  
  Controls: FPS controls with a 
 weird timeshift controls.
  
  Features: Time Shifting.
  
  A. I.: Difficult. They aren't very smart but they can sure own you.
  
  Loading Times: Small 
 but happens every 15 minutes or so.
  
  Multiplayer: Different. I don't really know. You have to play MP yourself.
  
  Requirements: 
 Medium.
  
  Weapons: Base weapons but some are cool.
  
  The Good: A new but very small twist on the Time Shifting FPS.
  
  The Bad: Difficulty, Repetitive, 
 Lame after first hour or two.
  
  The Ugly: Close up shotgun to the face while time is paused.
  
  Replay Ability: Low.
  
 
  The Bottom Line: Doesn't go above and beyond the FPS line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  If it wasnt for the user reviews I would never have bought this game. Gamespot is literally out 
 of their mind on this one. Just the graphics alone put it at an 8. The physics raise it to an 8.5, 
 and so on....
  
  These graphics are every bit as good as Bioshock, the controls are incredibly straight forward 
 and easy to use, and the interface is about as user friendly as you can get... Sure, I dont see 
 this game reinventing the genre, but GD a 6.5!?
  
  I wrote an updated and detailed review of this game and for some reason it never updated on Gamespot.... I 
 am not going to go through the whole process again. 
  
  Bottom line, I really enjoyed this game and would highly recommend it to anyone. The only reason 
 I didnt give this game a 10 was for the slight lack of storyline, and semi-decent sound track. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syk0tik_lun4tik
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift does a good job combining fast paced action with tactics. Though the time suit functions 
 are a vital part of the game and adds tremendously to the fun factor, the drain rate properly balances 
 its power. The sound was realistic and solid, though nothing that'll knock you off your feet. Single 
 player was nicely done with some interesting levels. Graphics were nothing like crysis, but still 
 nicely done. Weapon variety was ok, could've used slightly more, but the current amount will do 
 fine. AI was well done, enemies utilize nades to flush you out of cover, flank, retreat at the 
 appropriate time, and take cover. The down side to this game is the weapon registration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormheart
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  It's really hard to play this game and not compare it to Half Life 2. Your character, who happens 
 to be a physicist, is never seen on screen and doesn't really speak (apart from, maybe, a couple 
 of lines in the introduction, - if that is indeed him) ; the fact that you become known as 'that 
 guy in the suit' after popping into an alternate dimension/timeline/whatever, and even the Big-Brother 
 like Oppression of Dr. Bre... er, Krone. The voiceover in the beginning and projected picture could've 
 been a word for word of Breen, just replace Magistrate for Our Benefactors. That said, the game 
 _is_ fun to play; it's a good waste of a few hours, but there's really nothing else to distinguish 
 it. It's pretty, and there's nothing particularly _bad_ about it; but there's nothing particularly 
 good about it either. The time shifting mechanic is unique enough but even that gets blase enough 
 after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanner
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I am very surprised this game received a 6.5, I use this site to help determine what games I will 
 spend my cash on, but after there scoring of this title I think I will be visiting other game review 
 site's from now on. This game is great, well made, fun , amazing graphics and unique ideas in terms 
 of expanding the bullet time idea. This is what a shooter should be about, watching your enemies 
 blow apart in slow motion, or rewind and watch it all over again, or watch the enemy get blown 
 back in slow motion from a shotgun blast is priceless and with these graphics make it the best 
 shooter I've played in a long time. I'm very disappointed with Game spot's review of this game, 
 and I hope I haven't missed out on other titles. Game spot, check out the discrepancy from your 
 review based on what the gamers think, time to re-evaluate your review criteria or get your eyes 
 checked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas38663
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Man gamespot has lost creditbility to me i mean first they review jericho and that game is awesome 
 and now they do the same thing to timeshift ignore the reviews go buy this and buy jericho as well 
 THIS Game may not have a great story but what fps does not many this game is very fun that every 
 fps fan will love and as i said before jericho is got a great story and is a great game as well 
 gamespot im no longer listening to your reviews this is crazy. there is nothing like pausing time 
 in the rain all the rain drops freeze mid-air it is so good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCyberKnight
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I've played through about half of the game so far and I have to say that I am extremely disappointed. 
 The time-shifting is obviously the BEST aspect of the game. Being able to slow everything to a 
 crawl or stop time all together, take out 4-5 guys, and keep going if very cool. However, I find 
 myself emptying 3/4 of a clip of the machine gun at a time taking down one guy; and that's from 
 the beginning, not even later. The hit detection from 50ft (scale) and beyond is ridiculous. My 
 only comfort weapon at this time is the shotgun; which I use the time-shift to get up close and 
 personal and take 'em out with a single shot. My disappointment in the game mainly has to do with 
 it being a pure shooter with no real storyline. Yeah, you can follow cut-scenes etc, but as far 
 as the game itself goes: It simply has no depth.
  
  The graphics are great, and the sounds are awesome. You feel very much in each battle with your 
 resistance buddies. The weapons are pretty cool (so far) but as I said before, be prepared to reload... 
 a LOT. The explosive weapons (grenades, arrows, etc.) are very effective, but are in short supply 
 sometimes. You find yourself waiting for your suit to recharge in between short 2-3 man battles, 
 and hoping they don't charge you while you're vulnerable.
  
  The AI seems to be alright. They take cover and use group tactics at times, so they're not mindless 
 by any means. However, they can be difficult to take down if you're more than 50ft (scale) away 
 and you usually resort to time-shifting to take 'em out at close range; which may be the point.
 
  
  The levels (so far) seem linear. Point A - Point B - Point C, kill, don't die. I've only come across 
 a couple of little puzzles where you use your suit to slow or stop time in order to get from point 
 to point; and they're pretty obvious. A couple of times, I wondered why my resistance buddies went 
 in one direction while the game forced me to go another alone. Shouldn't I be fighting the good 
 fight WITH them even though I'm completely out of place?
  
  The game seems fun/playable so far, but with little replay value. I think they'll probably concentrate 
 on the Multiplayer aspect more than the single player. That seems to be the way PC FPS's are going 
 these days. Even with the 1.01 patch, the game has a lot of flaws in its execution; however it 
 is a fun shooter, and the ability to control time itself makes the game worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch0606
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  First of all the critics are extremely harsh for giving this game a 6.5, and obviously don't know 
 how to enjoy a great First Person Shooter, to put it in kind words. Makes me wonder if their review 
 on Jericho is also a joke, which they kept me from purchasing. If you base games purely on story 
 line that is not unique, then go rent a movie, this game has more to offer then most fps I ever 
 played. Graphics are incredible, looks almost as good as the Crysis demo and plays much smoother 
 on older computer system. This game is unique in it's own way, which makes you use your ability 
 to shift back time whenever the opportunity comes. You have the ability to steal weapons and freeze 
 enemies in mid-air, with time pause. This game is pure fun and will keep you wanting more. The 
 only problem I have right now is the online multiplayer which you need an updated patch 1.1, and 
 I still could only find 3 servers. Some servers mention you need path 1.2 which isn't released 
 yet, so I'm sure their working on some kinda of update.
  
  I'm a huge fan of Half-life 2, Fear, Bioshock, and this game ranks along the same line. With the 
 upcoming releases of Unreal 3, COD4, Crysis, this game might get overlooked by many people including 
 the gamespot critics which I will never take their opinion serious anymore. I'll read the true 
 critics, which are the everyday users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayknet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  First of all
  I don't think you can blame the story line of the game when you just don't ''get'' it Well Mr. 
 Professional Reviewer whoever you are I suggest you to play it a couple of times and then you might 
 just understand it better otherwise I'll just explain it myself.
  
  and the repetitive playing you say ? It's doesn't repetitive by its own but how you play it. Just 
 be creative with your suit and everything will be real fun.
  
  The objective is fairly simple though but it's as simple as the game that you give 9.2 like F. E. A. R. 
 just walk and shoot nonetheless this game has a time to remember such as hiding and shooting on 
 the lookout tower and get rid of all soldier in the camp. Everyone's shooting at you rockets and 
 bullets coming your way. I've never feel depressed like this before even in Splinter Cell. The 
 graphic and soud is just medicore but it's entertaining though, and weapons are fairy interesting. 
 Now to all reader just understand this. This game is really good and sucks you in the time of ''fun'' 
 no doubt. It's got low score just because it does less marketing campaign than HL2 or Crysis that's 
 all !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toadthetoad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  This was one of the few games that I was NOT tracking up to its release and was not planning on 
 buying. It seemed like it would be more gimmick than substance, but I decided to download and try 
 out the demo anyway. Well, what can I say now? That short glimpse of this game won me over and 
 I bought it the next day and have thoroughly enjoyed it since.
  
  The first few levels help you get associated with the controls and your time powers and do so quickly 
 and efficiently. The only problem I had was there seemed to be a lot going on (objectives popping 
 up, your suit talking to you, NPCs talking to you, enemy broadcasts, et cetera) and I had a hard 
 time getting everything straight, but it only took a little while to get used to the interface 
 and after that I was able to manage all the information without a problem. The default controls 
 are standard issue FPS but I like some of the keys different than default so a minute or so in 
 the control options and it was fixed and I was set to roll through time.
  
  My computer falls somewhere between the minimum and the recommended system requirements so I just 
 let it auto-detect graphic settings for me, except that I slide the resolution from 1280x1024 to 
 1600x1200. The game runs great, awesome frame-rate and I didnt run in to any lag spots even during 
 times of high action. It seems some people dont think the graphics are up to par for these days, 
 but I really cant agree with that. I think the graphics look great. The particles and other effects 
 are beautiful, the textures are clean and the models are detailed. No, it isnt Crysis, but it 
 also doesnt require a monster of a machine to run.
  
  As you progress through the game you will get a large variety of weapons from the standard machine 
 gun and semi-automatic pistols to some extremely power and very fun to shoot weapons like the crossbow 
 with exploding arrows. Combined with your time manipulation abilities, there are quite a few ways 
 to handle most situations, but that said, there are never so many ways that it gets too complex 
 to be fun.
  
  Now, the important stuff: the time shifting powers. There are three different abilities you can 
 pick from: slow, pause and rewind. There are certain times in the game where youll have to use 
 a specific ability (which is made easy because the suit will default to the ability it thinks is 
 most useful a given time, but this can be easily overridden) , but for the most part, time is your 
 play thing. I call this game innovative because of this feature and I stand by that. Being able 
 to approach situations differently than in any other FPS is quite innovative and fun. That being 
 said, I dont think this innovation was used to the full extent it could have been. Like I said, 
 you can pretty much use any ability at any time and play it like you want, but unfortunately, that 
 only really changes how you play the game and how you deal with foes, it doesnt affect the story 
 or your interactions with NPCs. I really think this could have been fleshed out a bit more to add 
 more re-playability and to keeps things fresh throughout the entire game. I guess I just get to 
 look forward to a sequel for these that though.
  
  The story is not quite clich&eacute; but it doesnt surprise or break any new ground. I did find 
 it interesting enough, along with the game play, to keep playing all the way through nonetheless. 
 I wont spoil anything here, but basically from the first video youll find out that someone stole 
 a time suit similar to yours and you have to fix what he breaks. It is quite linear, but honestly, 
 that is what I expect from a FPS so I cant really penalize it for that. It will take a good 10 
 hours to get through if you pick a difficulty level in line with your skill level. You wont ever 
 really be left wondering what to do as there is a marker on your radar to show you the way, however 
 dont think it is a mindless romp from point to point. You will have to figure out how to deal 
 with situations and accomplish your objectives.
  
  As far as the multiplayer goes, the little bit of it that Ive played was fun, but honestly, Im 
 really not much of a multiplayer FPS unless it is co-op (which this is not) so you should probably 
 just take GameSpots word for it.
  
  Now, I dont like to comment on other peoples opinions, but I feel have to here. After reading 
 the GameSpot review I was left with a very fishy smell. Some of the comments by the reviewer are 
 very confusing if youve played the game. For example:
  
  If you piece together the fragmented cutscenes, scour the manual, and read the back of the box, 
 you'll learn that a certain Dr. Krone has stolen a special suit that lets its user travel through 
 time.
  
  Now, I didnt open the manual until after the tutorial and I still havent read the back of the 
 box, but after the first 2 minutes of the game, I knew exactly what was going on, even though, 
 like I said above, I was being somewhat overloaded with information. The reviewer goes on to mock 
 the storyline saying it is incomprehensible and stupid (in so many words) . The best I can figure, 
 either the reviewer played the game on mute or was just entirely determined to hate this game. 
 The story is simple, but with a point; it is very clearly presented to you in such a way that keeps 
 you in the game the whole time; and it fits the gameplay just fine.
  
  The other problem I have with the GameSpot review is the last Bad bullet point: Combat can get 
 repetitive. There isn't a FPS out there that isn't repetitive on some level, but there is no reason 
 to single out TimeShift and punish it for that. Having played a decent amount of first person shooters, 
 good and bad, over the years, I can say with great confidence that TimeShift is one of the least 
 repetitive combat experiences of the bunch. With the large variety of extremely fun-to-shoot weapons 
 mixed with your abilities to influence time, the combat is fresh throughout the game.
  
  A quick note on a user review that says you cannot use the mouse to turn left or right: I have 
 no idea what is wrong with this user's computer, but this is entirely false. The control scheme 
 is a standard FPS layout and if you don't like that, there are option menus for both Mouse Controls 
 and Keyboard Controls. It is very fast and easy to customize your control scheme to fit you and 
 I can't see any reason someone should have a problem with the controls.
  
  My Verdict: If youre looking for an epic story to become emotionally attached to, then this isnt 
 the game for you. However, if you enjoy first person shooters (specifically single player campaigns, 
 since I cant attest to the multiplayer as stated above) , and using your skill to dominate enemies 
 in very satisfying ways, then this is a solid game and worth playing. TimeShift is an enjoyable 
 shooter with a twist on the ordinary, a cache of rewarding weapons and great graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephenjag2004
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok,
  So for a shooter made the people who made fear it was pretty good. The physics use Havok 4.5 so 
 its hard to have better physics then that and the gameplay is good, the control scheme is a standard 
 shooter layout. Graphically the game is really good using full normal mapping and HDR lighting 
 and also the shadowing is SM3.0 for sure. All in all the story isnt that good but not a bad by 
 any means and repetitive gameplay? Isnt that what shooters are good at? I mean look at Halo or 
 any ubisoft shooter, so it is a lot of fun.
  Death Jag (XBL) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulzmaker
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Well at first i've installed the game, which is normal, then played a little with the setting, 
 besides the fact that the game itself made the optimal settings for my hardware configuration. 
 Let the game begin.
  First of all, the cinematics look like we're in 2000-2002, but still, if you get pass them, you 
 will find a very nice, relaxing game. I can't remember the time i've actually enjoyed playing a 
 game, and didn't play it because i was bored. The gameplay seems really nice and effective, the 
 graphics are really cool, not realistic so don't expect that. The game is actually nice, i recommend 
 it not just to bored people, but to the fps fans too, and not just them, actually everyone. TimeShift 
 it's worthed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: please_send_me
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  TimeShift may not be Halo 3 or The Orange Box, but with its entertaining single player game and 
 cleverly implemented multiplayer, it&amp;#8217; s well worth a look. In fact, with a decent online 
 community this could become one of the most interesting multiplayer shooters out there. Still have 
 doubts? Chances are they&amp;#8217; ll disappear around the time you sticky grenade an enemy twenty 
 metres into the sky in slow motion, separating him from his weapon, which spins gracefully through 
 the air into your waiting arms. Or perhaps it&amp;#8217; ll be the first time you stop an opponent 
 dead in his tracks with a perfectly thrown time stop bubble and unload clip after clip into his 
 soon to be dead body. Good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnhao
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  As many of you people might have already realized (go stone yourself if you haven't) , that there 
 are literarily TONS of great games coming out (or already came out) in the latter part of 2007, 
 and the game TimeShift might have being overshadowed by other widely anticipated games such as 
 Crysis, Halo 3, Half Life 2, UNreal 3, CoD 4... ect...
  
  I for one, really had my eyes on Crysis all the way back to last November, and never would have 
 considered buying TimeShift if not being my... accidental encountering with the demo some times 
 ago...
  
  With all the games coming out, it is very easy to overlook some of the less anticipated titles... and 
 TimeShift being one that is DEFINITELY overlooked..
  
  The game itself is very gravitating. The system requirements are surprisingly low, and you can 
 probably do away with the game with a 2.0 P4 and an okey GPU (i. e. Nvidia 6200 or ATi 1300) . Yet, 
 when you turn the settings all the way up, the game looks ABSOLUTELY gorgeous. SM3 definitely plays 
 an improtant part in the game, the ambient and the surroundings are very well defined and detailed, 
 along with a HIGHLY destructible environment...
  
  As for the concept, I can't say that the game overhauls the FPS genre, but it definitely spices 
 the things a bit by allowing you to either slow, stop, or reverse the game time, while leaving 
 the protagonist uneffected. Maybe I do have a fetish for chronographical concepts, but still, the 
 idea of being able to manupulate time with one's suit definitely wins my likings (especially after 
 experiencing the dissappointing Nano-Suit from Crysis) . Anyways, though the game still follows 
 the general FPS concept, but it does have certain new additions to make the game stand out.
  
  There's not much to be said about the sound effects of the game, for it is not especially Spectacular... but 
 still, it is DEFINITELY solid and realistic, and the gunshots really sound like that you would 
 hear from real life.... Dialogues are okey, not cheesy or overly pompous, just about right...
  
  Just one more thing for you to consider:
  Since your suit regenerates health for you (at 
 a quite fast rate) , the game seems overly easy... I was able to blast my way through the first 5 
 levels on hard without dying, which might make the GRAW fans think twice before buying this game...
 
  
  Still, despite the greatness (es) of the game itself, there are certain bugs to consider:
  
 
  - The game crashed to desktop a few (2 or 3) times during the play, and although the game's Checkpoint 
 system is able to get you back close to where the game crashed, it is still a nuisanse to have 
 the game crash on you during intense firefights....&gt;_&lt; hope a patch would fix it soon...
 
  
  - Thought the system requirements are fairly low (you can do away with a system that's below the 
 minimum requirements) , the game simply looks horrible if you turn the texture quality to medium 
 or low, and it is pretty irksome when the supposedly high-end weapons appear murky and distorted, 
 and when the timeshift effect appear half-baked..... so, in essence, you DO need a decent system 
 if you want to really enjoy the game...
  
  -Lastly, there are collision problems with bullets not registering properly when aimed at certain 
 parts of the body (i. e. the peripherals) , and it's really awkward when with all this great physics 
 system implemented to the environment, the bullet is simply passing through parts of the body as 
 if nothing was there....&gt;_&lt;
  
  All in all, if you are a fan of FPS and like fast paced actions, you should DEFINITELY check this 
 game out, and if you feel dejected by the bugs with the game, wait for a while, and hopefully the 
 developers will release patches to fix the problems listed above.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
