-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Time of Defiance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/timeofdefiance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 80 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Nicely Crafted
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 28, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Time of Defiance gives a new look to an old genre and provides for some very challenging moments. 
 

  Offbeat and awfully familiar, Time of Defiance is one of those odd games that seems simultaneously 
 like a stranger and an old friend. The massively multiplayer real-time strategy game from UK developer 
 Nicely Crafted Entertainment blends antique base-building and combat conventions with innovations, 
 like a persistent world that never sleeps and buildings that are constructed in real time. This 
 gives a new look to an old genre and provides for some very challenging moments, both in the way 
 you play the game and in the way you approach playing it.  

          Nespanona is a strange, sparse world that consists of scattered islands suspended in midair 
 above a planetary core.     

  However, Time of Defiance certainly won't be everyone's cup of tea. For starters, the gameworld 
 of Nespanona isn't the usual planet or nation that can be conquered one region at a time. Instead, 
 you compete for the remains of the northern province of Nespanona after a cataclysm has reduced 
 the country to islands that are held in place above the former planetary core by energy beams. 
 Each of these fragments represents a standard RTS territory that contains various amounts of resources, 
 like coal, wood, metal, stone, water, and crystal moss. So aside from the rather eerie, almost 
 Cloud City-esque appearance of the environment, everything here is what you would expect in such 
 a game.  

  And like any traditional RTS, the goal here is conquest. As a result, you start with one island 
 and a small fleet of ships. You must then spread out to other islands by gathering resources and 
 building more bases and ships. The process of doing so is entirely ordinary. You construct headquarters, 
 mines, weapons platforms, and other facilities that are all pretty much centered on resource production. 
 You also explore with scout ships and send out colonization vessels and warships to add new lands 
 to your growing empire.  

  There isn't much complexity in the game's core RTS elements. Buildings are limited to essential 
 types, and resource-gathering is streamlined by the use of single types of mines and storage silos. 
 Almost everything can be automated, so there is no micromanagement. All you have to do is build 
 the necessary structures and tweak a few settings. Then your resource system runs like clockwork, 
 right down to the automatic fueling of vessels at bases. Combat is equally straightforward in that 
 you rarely need to do more than band-select a fleet and hurl it at an enemy system. There is no 
 tech tree, since all advanced Shadoo vessels are purchased from the Eighth House (the computer-controlled 
 overlord of Nespanona) with water and crystal moss. About the only real concern is transporting 
 resources to different islands, because the amounts found on each rock vary tremendously. Even 
 this can be set on autopilot, though, by building a quantum net system that beams goods from one 
 island to another.  

  That's it for the derivative stuff, though. Time of Defiance pulls away from the standard RTS conventions 
 by offering a massive world that operates in real time. Constructing even a basic building like 
 a mine takes around 10 minutes. Islands are thousands of kilometers apart, so ships routinely have 
 to travel for 20 to 45 minutes to reach their various destinations. Fully scouting even one sector 
 requires well more than an hour of your time. And to top everything off, the gameworld keeps going 
 even when you log off. Consequently, whether you're online or not, your empire is fair game to 
 any predator.  

  All of the above adds a level of commitment not seen in the usual massively multiplayer game, where 
 you're taken out of harm's way as soon as you log off. It enhances the tension of every move. You 
 have to think long and hard about building a salvage vessel, launching a fleet against an enemy, 
 or even just sending a scout ship out for a look around the neighborhood, because carrying out 
 every single order takes up a lot of time. In some ways, the tension is similar to that of playing 
 a shooter without saving in that you know that any mistake you make will be very costly.  

          Sending a warship off to aid in the defense of an island might seem like a routine task, 
 but since it's a 34-minute round-trip, you have to think twice about the potential consequences 
 of doing so.     

  Having the gameworld persist around the clock is a more dubious design decision. Still, it's hard 
 to see what else Nicely Crafted Entertainment could have done with a massively multiplayer RTS, 
 because there wouldn't be much to do if empires were locked in place every time a user went offline. 
 Also, the absence of a safety net really ups the importance of strategic defenses. If you hope 
 to give your empire even the slightest chance of repelling enemies while you're offline, you have 
 to build gun turrets and artillery pieces, and you have to anticipate invasions by placing fleets 
 in just the right positions. This absence of a safety net also emphasizes the importance of diplomacy, 
 since making deals with other emperors may be the best way to ensure that your islands remain intact 
 while you're not playing the game.     

  Of course, there are some pitfalls that inherently come with this real-time approach. While there 
 is something undeniably cool about a MMOG so dedicated to realism that it takes 10 minutes to build 
 a resource storage silo and more than a half hour to send a scout ship on a recon mission, there 
 is something undeniably stultifying about spending so much time sitting on your hands. If you're 
 looking for constant action, you won't find it here. In fact, we spent long stretches of time with 
 the game minimized, while surfing the Net, as a colonizer took 17 minutes to reach a newly discovered 
 island. We did likewise while waiting for the clock to finally expire on the 35 minutes we needed 
 to allot to constructing a quantum communicator, a stone processor, and a fighter tower. Things, 
 of course, get busier as your empire grows to encompass many islands, but a lot of time must be 
 invested before reaching this point.  

          Blocky ship design isn't going to win Time of Defiance any awards for excellence in visual 
 presentation.     

  A more serious negative is the way that Time of Defiance games never stop. You can easily lose 
 your empire to a crafty foe who either plays only in the wee hours of the morning (when rivals 
 are offline) or waits until holiday weekends to deploy his or her fleet. And 24/7 play also means 
 that you practically have to live online if you don't want the careful work of many, many hours 
 undone by either an obsessive player without a life or one in another time zone. It's nice that 
 there is no level-up treadmill as found in typical massively multiplayer RPGs, but this alternative 
 might keep players chained to their PCs for even longer periods of time than even the most obnoxious 
 EverQuest clone.  

  And there are some significant barricades to new players. Standard league games run a set number 
 of days (to a maximum of 28) , and then the world resets. As a result, it's easy to come on board 
 at bad times. You can pop into a game that's just about to end, or you can wind up in one where 
 a single empire is running the table, which invariably leads to the quick obliteration of your 
 starter empire (although the Eighth House offers protection for a limited period of time) . Nicely 
 Crafted Entertainment makes a point of emphasizing that points earned in every match go toward 
 online league standings that roll over. However, it's hard to believe that players would stick 
 around in games they have no chance of winning. Also, points are lost every 60 days, so consistent 
 conquering is required if you want permanent leaderboard glory.  

  Additionally, servers are sparsely populated. While Time of Defiance has attracted a solid cult 
 audience, it isn't going to knock World of Warcraft off its throne anytime soon. During the time 
 we played the game, there were many occasions when fewer than a dozen opponents were online with 
 us. Couple this lack of population with the massive size of the world of Nespanona -- and add in 
 the huge gap between islands -- and at times it can seem like you're playing in a sandbox world without 
 opposition of any sort. Computer opponents would be a good addition, at least until the number 
 of human players increases. Right now, the absence of community is striking, especially in comparison 
 with other massively multiplayer games.  

  Presentation values are collectively another qualm, especially in a day when the likes of World 
 of Warcraft and EverQuest II are showing that massively multiplayer games don't have to mean compromised 
 graphics and sound. Time of Defiance is aggressively retro in both categories, with visuals that 
 are devoid of detail and style and sound that is nonexistent aside from the occasional burst of 
 a ship's engine. This barren approach is somewhat effective because it nicely communicates the 
 weird nature of the Nespanona landscape, but it even more effectively gets across the idea that 
 this is one low-budget product.  

          Can't get there from here, huh? Well, it seems that way at times...     

  Still, even 
 with all these negatives, there is something compelling here, especially for either a low subscription 
 price of under $10 a month or $60 for about a year (fees are calculated in British pounds, so these 
 numbers vary according to the current exchange rate) . The realistic real-time engine adds a weight 
 to the gameplay that makes every action monumental, including logging on or off. Furthermore, the 
 incredible distances between islands and the amount of time required to travel to various locations, 
 as well as the time it takes to construct buildings and vessels, makes you pause before giving 
 even routine RTS orders like sending a transport out with a load of wood. Time of Defiance isn't 
 all there right now, but it'll be interesting to see what Nicely Crafted Entertainment does with 
 this promising game design in the coming months.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This review is meant to be a supplement to the gamespot review (which I advise reading as well) , 
 and will touch on some things not covered as well as try not to be too repetitious of the content 
 already in there.
  
  I played the demo release v5.453 of this game that was running for 14 days and I joined about half 
 way through. To address whether it is fair to judge this game based on its demo, it is. The demo 
 is a hook to encourage the audience so subscribe to the monthly fee, and so its not going to be 
 excessively misleading. Especially things like the overall game mechanics are not going to change 
 from demo to subscriber status.
  
  Time of Defianec is an online RTS game that may be slightly different than what most online RTS 
 players are used to. It drops you in a vast continent divided up into tiles (the demo had maybe 
 100x100 but I didn't count) each 50 km across. Yes, 50 kilometers by 50 kilometers each tile with 
 several thousand tiles populating the continent. However, this isn't one continuous battlefield. 
 Instead the continent is broken up into tiny floating islands suspended over an ocean by an energy 
 beam. Each tile ranges from empty to two islands in each. So you can imagine the amount of empty 
 space that each point is separated by in the game. A single command to fly somewhere can take 10-40 
 minutes to complete, and in the beginning where you don't have much to work with, a lot of the 
 game is spent learning what the hell is going on, and then browsing the internet while your scout 
 flies to explore the next tile.
  
  The gameplay is definitely different in this sense. It's very slow, but it can afford to be, and 
 it really allows for the planning out of a strategy. A single game will continue whether or not 
 you are online and lasts apparently up to 2 weeks. So you are definitely in it for the long haul, 
 but you don't have to lose too much sleep at night over it. Many of the functions like refueling 
 ships, mining and moving resources, and construction can be completely automated, allowing the 
 player to plot their expansion, plan their attack, or sleep. Just queue up a bunch of construction 
 orders and by next morning you'll be ready to go. However, queuing up movement commands doesn't 
 seem to be an option, and having a patrol route is apparently out of the question as well.
  
  The islands themselves are separated by vast amounts of space but there is no barrier in between 
 the tiles, whatsoever. Yet, when your unit flies from one tile to another, it will literally disappear 
 from one and appear in another. It's like leaving one level and loading into another one in a game. 
 At this point everything in that tile will be completely visible to the unit even if its on the 
 very edge. The effect on gameplay can be quite annoying, as a enemy unit can stay in the corner 
 of 4 tiles and quickly move between them, discovering everything in each one, but making interception 
 of it near impossible as it will disappear as soon as it hits an edge.
  
  Unfortunately, this system is necessitated by the fact that there could be tens of thousands of 
 objects in the game, and performing a distance check on every object relative to all others to 
 see if it is in sensor range would take an exponential amount of processor time. However, just 
 because its necessary doesn't mean it has to be left so unpolished. Just in the time it took to 
 write this I thought of two ways that it could have been better while remaining processor friendly, 
 neither of which is revolutionary.
  
  This feeling of very basic things could have been improved appears over and over as well. Sending 
 an attack on a single scout should be a simple matter of point and click, but unfortunately it 
 is far from that. There is no attack command as far as I could tell (and if there was then I still 
 blame the game for not showing it to me even when I went through the whole tutorial) . Instead I 
 had to rely on a combination of sending an order to intercept the target and ensuring that the 
 vessels battle-mode was at the right setting of attack all units.
  
  And thats not the end of it. When on an 'intercept' course, a unit will fly to the current position 
 of its target and stop when it gets there. For intercepting a moving unit, this is absurd. A little 
 bit of effort and math on the side of the programmers and there could have been an actual intercept 
 course involving going to where the unit should be by taking into account its current velocity 
 and the time it would take to reach it, instead of go to where it is now, even though it wont be 
 there anymore when you get there. And even when your unit finally 'intercepts' the target, it will 
 stop dead in its tracks, accomplishing its mission of reaching the coordinates, firing a small 
 salvo, and then letting the enemy unit quietly fly away, injured but not incapacitated.
  
  In a game where there is so much distance and space, its a shame that the weapons have to be limited 
 to point black range as well. After devoting 16 hours into the game I acquired the weapons of mass 
 dissatisfaction. I was hoping that at least the nuke would create an explosion that takes out everything 
 within 10 km, so you can imagine my disappointment when stuff within 100 meters of ground-zero 
 was still left standing. Even the Q-Bomb which was supposed to be the most intimidating weapon 
 (according to its description) didn't seem to do much.
  
  In summary: Something different here, maybe even worth checking out, that might attract a very 
 select few die-hard fans, but one has to wonder how just a little more effort and creative thinking 
 could have made this game that much better and more playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afratnikov
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 6, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I played the game about a year ago when they offered a free 14-day trial period (I played just 
 one game for a total of 40 hours during the 14 days) . 
  
  -Very Slow Paced:
  The most obvious difference from other games is that Time of Defiance is VERY slow paced. It takes 
 literally minutes to build a ship or wait until a ship moves to a desired location. Right after 
 you started a new game, you will have to spend maybe 5 hours to get a couple of islands and get 
 some decent ships. In order to build a small empire (I was lucky enough to not get attacked) I 
 played for 5 days spending about 5 hours each day. It took me such a long time because I didn't 
 use chains of commands (Example for transport ship: 1. Go to island A, take X coal and Y wood 2. 
 then go to island B drop all wood and take Z stone...) and instead had to manually give orders. 
 
  
  -Very Difficult:
  It can potentially be very hard to set up an economy since you have to consider a lot of things: 
 Will my transport ship have enough fuel to get to the planet? By the time the ship gets there, 
 will the island have enough stone created so I can carry it to the next planet so that next planet 
 can build that building? When you have 1 or 2 transports its fine, but if you want to control a 
 large empire, you will have to control many transports and also battleships and hundreds of buildings 
 on planets. Again, many things can be automized but the game still is very complex and if you want 
 to be successful you will be forced to put 10s of hours before you can maintain a sizable empire 
 without putting all your time into the game. 
  
  -Problems with Battles (You have to be online all the time to succeed) :
  Through micro management, 
 one ship can take out a fully defended island. When I played, at some point I encountered a very 
 advanced player with many islands and strong defenses. Yet I could just micromanage my ship to 
 escape the fire of his long ranged turrets until they ran out of ammo and then kill the short-ranged 
 turrets. I took over half his empire while he may have been sleeping. If you're not online you 
 become a sitting duck. Your human opponents can simply move around the strongest ships (or even 
 take over them) and take over your empire in one night. The game offers several ways to alarm the 
 player if you are attacked, but you can never be confident that your empire is safe. [Although 
 that specific issue may have been improved during the year, still the fact remains that you are 
 very vulnerable when offline making you play this game as much as possible if you want to succeed] . 
 
  
  -Mediocre presentation:
  The game is by no means pretty and it doesn't sound particularly good. To me, though, graphics 
 and sound are not all that important -- the gameplay is most important while good graphics and 
 sound just further enrich the experience. In this game you won't find yourself looking at the environment 
 while waiting for that building to be completed -- instead, you will probably serf the internet 
 or read a newspaper. 
  
  -Looking past all the problems (Who may like the game?) :
  This game is not just any computer game which you can play for a while and then move on to your 
 normal life. This game requires a lot of dedication. Younger people, who like exciting games, will 
 be bored with it in hours. However, very mature people with great dedication may find it exciting 
 to play a truly challenging game and build their own little virtual empire. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
