-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tin Soldiers: Alexander the Great
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/tinsoldiersalexanderthegreat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Very easy to learn, yet challenging.
 Does an excellent job of capturing the spirit of Alexander's battles.
 Miniatures theme is implemented wonderfully.
 Terrific detail on unit graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Low-resolution graphics.
 Later battles are incredibly tough.
 No editor.
 Not many single-player battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 66 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: Koios Works
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 8, 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tin Soldiers: Alexander the Great is the perfect introduction to PC wargaming, miniatures gaming, 
 and the history of Alexander the Great's astounding campaigns. 

  Many PC wargames are based on board games, but Tin Soldiers: Alexander the Great is the computer 
 implementation of a miniatures system, covering most of the major engagements Alexander the Great 
 participated in as he conquered his way from Greece to India.  

          Training and good leaders can make all the difference during combat.     

  There are 
 plenty of hardcore PC and console game players around, but miniatures players tend to take their 
 hobby to entirely new extremes of fanaticism. Putting together a respectable-sized army of minis 
 costs anywhere from hundreds to thousands of dollars, and in most cases hundreds to thousands of 
 hours are then spent meticulously painting each and every figure. More painstaking work (and another 
 boatload of cash) goes into creating terrain to fight on. When you finally get down to playing, 
 you have to deal with reams of bookkeeping, rules arbitration, and carefully moving units around 
 the map and taking constant measurements. It's more a lifestyle than a pastime, and Tin Soldiers: 
 Alexander the Great gives the rest of us a relatively inexpensive glimpse into this type of gaming 
 without having to deal with all of the drawbacks.  

  This game doesn't just have a miniatures theme -- it's basically a carbon copy of a real miniatures 
 game ported to the PC. Unit graphics, while not 3D, are digital images of real hand-painted miniatures. 
 Even the trees on the maps have round bases like those you'd purchase at the hobby store, and the 
 game takes this theme so far that a virtual hand descends from the top of the screen to grab units 
 off the map when they've taken casualties. There are no unit animations during movement or combat, 
 with units simply sliding from place to place, but the sound effects and especially the soundtrack 
 are excellent for a game of this type. It's too bad the cutscenes that set the stage before each 
 battle are of such low quality, and it would be great if the unit graphics had higher resolution, 
 but overall the game is a joy both to look at and to play.  

  Only eight battles are included with the game, but some are very large. Starting with Alexander's 
 crushing of the rebellion in Thebes, play then progresses to the Granicus River, Alexander's first 
 encounter with the Persian King Darius III at Issus, and his attack on Gaza as he marched to Egypt. 
 After that, you can relive the battle of Gaugamela and fight against King Porus at the Hydaspes 
 River in India. Two special multiplayer-only scenarios are included, covering the battle in Bactria 
 and a final, obviously hypothetical fight that takes place in Alexander's afterlife on the Fields 
 of Elysium. In the single-player game these battles must be fought in order during the campaign 
 game, but two players are free to try any of them right off the bat in multiplayer mode.  

  Arguments can be made that many of the battles modeled in the game are not accurate re-creations 
 of the historical realities, but that problem is inherent to any miniatures system. Designers must 
 decide where to draw the line between abstraction and simulation, and in this case it's just about 
 perfect for the subject matter. Even when the particulars of a battle aren't modeled well, the 
 key elements that defined it remain intact, which makes for a much more compelling and balanced 
 game than a strict simulation would be.  

          Proper card play can swing the battle in your favor at a crucial moment.     

  The 
 bulk of the fighting in each battle is done by light, medium, and heavy cavalry and infantry. Archers 
 and slingers are also incorporated, but they weren't used in significant numbers in most of the 
 battles fought during this period. All combat is subject to a long list of modifiers, including 
 the type of armor the unit wears, the unit's morale status, the skills its leader has, the weapon 
 it uses, the type of attack or defense it is ordered to carry out, and so on. When plotting potential 
 moves, all of the modifiers involved are computed, and the final tally is displayed on the screen, 
 giving an instantaneous calculation of the odds for every attack. If you see +6/-2, for example, 
 that means your unit will have six added to its base attack roll, while the enemy unit will have 
 two subtracted from its base defense roll. This makes it easy to learn the game while playing it, 
 although some understanding of the roles the different units play helps immensely when setting 
 up for attacks or figuring out what defensive stance to take.     

   

  Unit experience is handled well and is extremely important. We learned this the hard way after 
 purchasing some archer and slinger units with minimal training before one battle and then watching 
 in horror as they ended up doing more damage to their own allies than they did to the enemy. Putting 
 them a safe distance from our infantry and cavalry units was risky, because it left the ranged 
 units exposed, but they were such lousy shots that we were left with no other options. On the other 
 hand, one or two strategically positioned elite units -- ranged or otherwise -- can completely turn 
 the tide of battle in your favor.  

          Purchasing units and cards between battles adds some important choices     

  This seemingly 
 simple system does a terrific job of modeling the fact that Alexander relied more on quality than 
 quantity to achieve victory. Elite troops with a heroic leader can cut through vast numbers of 
 untrained troops like a buzz saw, and it's amazing to see huge armies crumple in the face of coordinated 
 attacks by crack troops. Battles become much tougher as the campaign progresses, but as long as 
 you concentrate on achieving and maintaining veteran or elite status with as many units as possible, 
 there's always a way to win.  

  At the beginning of each battle the first players are tasked with purchasing new units, reinforcing 
 existing units, replacing incompetent commanders, and purchasing vital strategy cards. The cards 
 are played during battles to add benefits -- like letting a unit do double damage for one turn or 
 healing a unit that has taken casualties -- and deciding whether to spend hard-earned booty on cards, 
 replacements, commanders, or training between each battle poses tough decisions but allows for 
 a lot of army customization.  

  It is possible to pay extra money to bump up a unit's training between battles, but this goes only 
 so far. If reinforcements are necessary or are added just to bulk up an important unit, they knock 
 the training level of that unit down one notch. You can pay for training only up to veteran level, 
 which is a step below the coveted elite status that can be attained only from extensive combat 
 experience. This makes it extremely important to protect your elite units and not send them on 
 suicidal charges that may wreak a lot of havoc during one battle but ultimately lose you the war 
 because unit training levels become too diluted.  

  Once the army is mustered, it's up to you to arrange the units effectively on the battle map. Only 
 a small portion of the map is ever available for placing units, and some spots can be occupied 
 only by a particular type of unit, making this phase extremely important for success in the upcoming 
 fight. An overlay is available that lets you easily see height differences in the map, which is 
 an excellent touch since holding the high ground is so crucial for success.  

  The actual fighting is straightforward as long as you know the differences between all of the unit 
 types. Each turn represents 15 minutes of combat and plays out over three separate five-minute 
 intervals. Units are assigned orders at the beginning of the turn, and unless they receive a special 
 action between one of the five-minute intervals, are flagged as reserves, or are subject to another 
 special circumstance, they carry out their orders completely until the next turn. Because of fog 
 of war, this can result in craziness, like two cavalry units galloping straight past one another 
 instead of turning to meet the threat, but with just a little practice, the ebb and flow of the 
 system starts to gel, and lining up effective charges and flanking maneuvers becomes second nature. 

          Put your troops in the wrong spots before a fight, and you'll definitely lose.     

 
  While the single-player campaign is great and the AI puts up a decent fight, the way each turn 
 plays out limits its multiplayer possibilities. Hotseat play is not available, and play-by-email 
 would be impossibly tedious because the number of reserve orders, reaction orders, and other special 
 opportunities that crop up during each turn would take too much time to resolve. You can go head-to-head 
 via Internet or LAN play, and that's it.  

  Tin Soldiers: Alexander the Great is fun while it lasts, and since many of the larger battles take 
 several hours to complete and must be attempted multiple times, the game definitely earns its keep. 
 Unfortunately, no editor is included to modify existing battles or create new ones, ultimately 
 limiting replayability since victory is much easier once you know the "tricks" of each of the included 
 maps. Fans of miniatures games may also be turned off by this game's lack of complexity. The rules 
 are fairly shallow compared to most miniatures rule sets, and there is no way to adjust existing 
 units or rules to model new eras or battles. That said, this is the rare wargame that is challenging 
 and yet very easy to learn, making it the perfect introduction to PC wargaming, miniatures gaming, 
 and the history of Alexander the Great's astounding campaigns for those interested in any of those 
 three things.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Donners22
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Once you get past the cute novelty factor of seeing a tabletop game faithfully recreated on your 
 computer, its clear this game lacks the depth and imagination to be of any note as a strategy 
 game.
  
  A hardcore strategy game is often revealed by a lengthy and comprehensive manual, showing the depth 
 of the game and, just as importantly, the passion its designers have for the subject matter. Alexanders 
 manual is terse and short. There is some attempt to provide historical context through little vignettes, 
 but these are presented in a virtually illegible font. It is not that it ignores many game features 
 (though one, awards given to units for performance in battle, is woefully lacking in explanation 
 both in the manual and in the game itself) . The game simply doesnt have much to mention. It doesnt 
 even have an in-game tutorial  you can jump straight into the campaign after a quick glance at 
 the manual. Pick-up-and-play is a useful feature for many games, but for a strategy wargame, complexity 
 has some attraction. Its not simply a case of a user-friendly interface with plenty under the 
 hood. Unit types are extremely limited and offer little variety. Game modes  a single campaign 
 and handful of skirmish battles  give little incentive to keep going back to the game. Options 
 for unit orders are particularly minimal. For instance, you can change a units facing or move 
 them, but cannot, for instance, move half distance and change the facing slightly. You have to 
 accept the default facing, which is often useless. Further, you cannot set waypoints, so if a unit's 
 direct path is blocked, they cannot take a slightly longer route in a single turn - it must be 
 spread over multiple turns, even if the longer route would have been within the movement allowance. 
 Another frustrating feature is that you must deploy before seeing the mission objectives, which 
 again takes a great deal of strategy out of the game.. Unit advancement through battle experience 
 is also very basic, and offers no real attachment even to units that have been with you through 
 a long campaign  if you have the patience with the games simplistic nature to play that long. 
 Even the fairly simplistic campaign layer of games like Rise of Naions is of far greater depth, 
 and there the main gameplay was infinitely superior to that of Alexander. you'd have to put more 
 thought into a single turn of a game like Dominions 3 than you would in the entire Alexander campaign.
 
  
  While there are a few interesting features, with a comprehensive and diverse victory point system 
 (albeit annoyingly not reviewable within the game) , and three-tiered turn system (with orders issued 
 in the first phase and played out in three stages, with the potential to change orders later on 
 in rare circumstances) , but these are overwhelmed by the weak core of the game. Ultimately, Alexander 
 feels like one of the many decent freeware hex-based strategy games in a pretty box with some FMV 
 tacked on. It is, at best, a briefly entertaining experience if you want to kill a few hours and 
 happen to pick it up in a bargain bin, but not something worth seeking out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
