-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Titan Quest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/titanquest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lengthy single-player campaign.
 Cooperative play is seamlessly integrated.
 Includes powerful toolset for creating custom quests.
 Great sense of scale.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay can be overly familiar.
 Inventory system is cumbersome.
 Frame rate can be choppy, even at lower settings.
 Voice acting often doesn't sound right.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 8.0, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 5,522 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Iron Lore
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 26, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With its lengthy single-player campaign, well-integrated multiplayer, and full-featured level editor, 
 Titan Quest is a robust package that nonetheless feels all too familiar. 

  It is apparent that the developers at Iron Lore, makers of Titan Quest, have played more than their 
 fair share of the Diablo games. Though it trades a pure high-fantasy feel for a mythical take on 
 the ancient worlds of Greece, Egypt, and Asia, Titan Quest is so similar to Blizzard's seminal 
 hack-and-slash role-playing game series that it's essentially a warts-and-all homage. It's certainly 
 well-made enough to please those who prefer more action and less plot in their RPGs, and there 
 are dozens and dozens of hours of gameplay to get lost in here, but it's hard to shake the feeling 
 that you've already seen most of what Titan Quest has to offer.  

          The Titans break free from their prison to wreak havoc on ancient Greece.     

  Those 
 familiar with their Greek mythology will know that Zeus and the rest of the Olympians achieved 
 their status within the world of gods by going to war with, defeating, and eventually imprisoning 
 their forebears, a group of powerful elder gods known as the titans. Titan Quest opens up with 
 these none-too-happy deities being freed from their prison, and they immediately use their great 
 powers to wreak havoc on the mortal men that worship the Olympians. In an against-all-odds fight, 
 you'll take on the role of a hero determined to stop these ravenous gods.  

  Your options when you first create your hero are quite limited -- you can name your character, choose 
 his or her gender, as well as the default color of his or her tunic, and then you're off to the 
 titan-ravaged Greek countryside. It's a little surprising how few choices you're given when choosing 
 your hero's appearance, though since the game is played mostly from a faraway, angled overhead 
 perspective, skin tone and hairstyle are barely even perceptible, especially once you start burying 
 your hero under layers of armor and weaponry. There's also no hand wringing to be done during the 
 initial character-creation process over character class, since Titan Quest handles the path of 
 your hero in a fairly dynamic fashion as you progress through the game.  

  The basic rhythms of the gameplay in Titan Quest should be quite familiar to anyone who has played 
 Diablo, its sequel, or any of the dozens of knockoffs that have cropped up in the years since. 
 Using a mouse-heavy interface, you'll explore open countrysides, forests, farmlands, ancient ruins, 
 catacombs, swamps, caves, and other environments that are all just rotten with unfriendly monsters. 
 If the idea of scouring the world for treasure and clicking your way through wave after wave of 
 enemies doesn't appeal to you, turn back now, since that's mostly what Titan Quest has to offer. 
 The gameplay is very single minded in this regard, and the quests you'll take on revolve around 
 the mindless slaughter of monsters more often than not, to the point that you'll likely find yourself 
 skipping through lots of the spoken dialogue, since it's usually just a flowery way of saying "go 
 kill this guy."  

  The game features a great variety of mythically derived creatures, and it throws them at you early 
 and often. Within the first few hours, you'll be crossing swords with satyrs, centaurs, harpies, 
 gorgons, and cyclopes. Naturally, you can expect magic-using and bow-casting monsters to attack 
 you from a distance, while melee-driven monsters prefer to get up close. Some monsters can spring 
 traps, summon pets, or call for reinforcements, and occasionally a monster that you're about to 
 finish off will make a run for it, but the combat generally doesn't require complex tactics. Mostly, 
 all you need to do is keep an eye on your health bar and time the use of your hero's abilities 
 so that your enemies go down before you do.  

          Titan Quest handles character creation in a nice, gradual way.     

  You'll make your 
 first real decision about what sort of abilities your hero will have when you gain enough experience 
 points from defeating monsters and completing quest segments to hit level two, which is when you'll 
 choose your first school of mastery. Every time you advance a level, you're allotted points that 
 you can put toward core attributes such as health and magical energy points, as well as strength, 
 intelligence, and dexterity. There is a separate set of points for specific skills that are divided 
 into eight different schools of mastery -- warfare, defense, hunting, rogue, earth, storm, nature, 
 and spirit. Generally speaking, the first four are best suited for fighters, while the latter four 
 are good for bolstering a spellcaster. Within each mastery, the skills are tiered in such a way 
 that you'll initially only have a few skills to put your points into, though you can choose to 
 spend points on opening up new tiers of skills if the lower-level skills don't interest you.  

 
  What makes the mastery system even more interesting is that, a few levels later, you're given 
 the choice of adding a second mastery, letting you further diversify your character's skills and 
 making him or her that much more unique. Hardened RPG players should be intimately familiar with 
 the regular desire to reroll a character after discovering that a particular class isn't to their 
 liking. The mastery system in Titan Quest sidesteps that by letting you cobble together your own 
 custom character class, and, should you find that you're not really using some of the skills that 
 you've spent points on, you'll regularly run into non-player characters that will, for a fee, let 
 you reallocate skill points. The generally flexible attitude toward character development is definitely 
 one of the more clever aspects of Titan Quest, and it goes a long way toward keeping you from ever 
 feeling like you're stuck with yesterday's bad decision.     

  As forward thinking as the mastery system is, though, there are parts of Titan Quest that would've 
 benefited from some streamlining, most notably the inventory system. You'll pick up a staggering 
 variety of weapons, armor, jewelry, potions, and magical enchantments from felled enemies, treasure 
 chests, quest givers, and merchants, and all of it will go into your personal inventory. Displayed 
 as a flat grid, every item you pick up takes up a number of grid spaces in your inventory, and 
 when you're out of grid spaces, you're out of usable inventory space. Actually, you might still 
 have usable inventory space, since the game doesn't automatically optimize item placement on your 
 inventory grid. This forces you to regularly pause just to puzzle piece your way through your inventory 
 to create more usable room.  

          You'll spend more time than you'll want to rearranging your inventory.     

  To its 
 credit, the game does color code items to help make it easier to discern what's potentially valuable 
 and what's trash, and it can be worth the trouble to scour the battlefield for useful gear, since 
 you'll often find that the stuff dropped by monsters is more potent than what's being offered by 
 nearby merchants. If the gear you're using isn't up to your exacting standards as-is, you'll also 
 regularly happen upon performance-enhancing relic shards and monster charms that you can enchant 
 your gear with. You can only apply one type of enchantment to a piece of equipment at a time, and 
 once it's applied, it's permanent, though you can stack several of the same type to make the enchantment 
 more potent.  

  The experience offered by Titan Quest is largely linear, but it's also incredibly long, and depending 
 on how much time you spend pursuing optional side quests, it could conceivably take you more than 
 40 hours to play through the game on the default difficulty, and there are two more difficulty 
 levels to unlock beyond that. Topping it all off is a rather powerful mod tool that lets you create 
 your own custom maps and quests. It's a really nice touch, albeit one that requires a level of 
 technical prowess that will keep it from being of much use to most people. Regardless, it opens 
 up the promise of aftermarket content to keep people playing Titan Quest long after they've tired 
 of what comes in the box.  

  There's also a nicely integrated cooperative element to Titan Quest, which lets you take the hero 
 from your single-player campaign online without interrupting your offline quest progression. When 
 you're selecting your hero character from the main menu, you can select to join an existing multiplayer 
 game, at which point you're brought to the game's built-in browser, or you can start your own, 
 choosing the number of allowable players, the level range that a player has to fall within to join 
 the game, and whether the game is password protected. Once you get online, you'll pick up the game 
 right where you last left it, and other players can join and drop out at will, which means that 
 you can easily recruit up to five other players to help you through a section that's been giving 
 you trouble, then go back to playing solo as you please. It's solid, and there are a lot of skills 
 within the different masteries that seem tailor-made for online, making it worthwhile to seek out 
 a diverse party. At the same time, there are aspects to the coop that seem antiquated, specifically 
 the inability to define specific loot rules -- as it is, any item on the ground is fair game for 
 any player.  

          Those looking for a lengthy action RPG experience will find a lot to like in Titan Quest. 
     

  The world of Titan Quest is massive, and one of the best things about it is the strong sense of 
 place it gives you. The game presents itself in huge, uninterrupted segments of land, with lots 
 of nooks and crannies to explore, hidden dungeons to find, and optional side-quests to undertake. 
 A great level of visual detail furthers this sense, such as in the way tall grass will sway around 
 your character as you run through open fields or in the way the shapes of shadows will slowly change 
 as the world goes through its accelerated day-night cycle. For all its slick dynamic lighting and 
 dazzling spell effects, though, Titan Quest can be a bit of a resource hog, demanding a top-of-the-line 
 system to show off all of its eye candy. The visuals scale down well enough, though even when we 
 weren't pushing the upper limits of our hardware, we still noticed pronounced choppiness when the 
 screen was flooded with monsters, or during dusk, when there seems to be a lot of lighting effects 
 at play. Great ambient sounds complement the different environments nicely, though the music sounds 
 a little too stock for its own good, and the voice acting is often inconsistent and unconvincing. 

  Since it seems unlikely that Blizzard itself is going to produce a new Diablo game anytime soon, 
 Titan Quest really is the next-best thing. The gradual approach to character creation taken here 
 is welcome, and the sheer scope of the single-player campaign, coupled with the cooperative play 
 and tools to create your own campaign, means that players willing to commit to the experience will 
 have a wealth of content to keep themselves busy with. There's no shame in modeling your game after 
 the genre-defining Diablo franchise, which capably streamlined the PC RPG into something faster 
 and more accessible, but some of Titan Quest's holdovers seem a bit antiquated. It doesn't take 
 action RPGs to a whole new level or anything, but you'll probably have fun with it if you've enjoyed 
 these kinds of games in the past.  

    Editor's note 06/27/06 : Our review originally overlooked specific aspects of the town portal 
 system, which required a reevaluation of this part of the game and a revision to the text. GameSpot 
 regrets the error.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (304 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: molokoplus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:20 pm PT
Review:  At its heart Titan Quest is one of the simplest games anyone can play. Left click to move, left 
 click to attack. Playing Titan Quest you will click feverishly and frequently, the number of clicks 
 by game end as hard to determine as the number of grains of sand on a beach. But surrounding Titan 
 Quest's heart are several layers of thoughtful game play and character development, all simmering 
 in a rich broth of foes, items, armor and weapons.
  
  At first, I was almost misled into thinking this was going to be one of the most boring click-fests 
 in gaming history. That was before I figured out that you don't have to just sit still and click 
 like mad at the swarms of enemies you encounter. I found the game was a bit more interesting and 
 exciting as I began to maneuver my character, weaving in and out of enemies, luring them into traps, 
 and dodging their blows. I also began to use a bit of strategy, instead of just blundering along 
 and hacking away at foes I'd scout the area, determine my approach, assess the enemy and pick a 
 suitable weapon to deal with them, isolate them into separate groups I could take on one at a time. 
 In short try to shape the coming encounter to my liking. It was also fun to discover what weapons 
 were most effective against a given enemy, a task that is delightfully daunting given the sheer 
 number of both. There is an amazing array of creatures to combat, and an equally amazing array 
 of weaponry to do it with. For a pack rat like me, perhaps the hardest part of the game was having 
 to abandon a cherished piece of equipment because I found another even more cherished item and 
 I no longer had room in my inventory!
  
  While quite linear and in reality confined, the maps have an expansive feel and are detailed right 
 down to the chickens scratching the ground looking for seed or the supplicating dog wagging it's 
 tail. Your in for a panoramic treat as you waltz your way through the mythology inspired landscapes, 
 which include locations in Greece, Egypt and The Orient, each with their own variety of plant life, 
 architecture and creatures. Graphically the game could hardly be better, and the sounds, both ambient 
 and game related are top notch as well.
  
  Voice acting is quite good, and the creatures all have distinctive grunts or squeals, weapons have 
 their own audio signature as well. Every so often you will encounter a storyteller character, and 
 if you are so inclined you can listen to them spin a brief yarn of Greek drama.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, and it's a game the whole family and all but the youngest age groups can enjoy. 
 You play in cooperative mode and run through the campaign as a party, with each member benefiting 
 from each others skill sets. This aspect makes multiplayer even more interesting as a party can 
 consist of different and complimentary character classes.
  
  Titan Quest does have a few downsides. First, a robust machine is required to run it. Even high 
 end machines can experience a few hiccups. Second, you can't change the camera angle so its often 
 difficult to see what you're heading into. This can lead to awkward encounters and restricts gameplay 
 by minimizing how much you can plan your approach to a given situation. Third, and most damaging, 
 after awhile the game gets repetitive and interest can wane. There just isn't enough variety of 
 gameplay and the amount of clicking starts to wear on you, and your mouse. Even finding and collecting 
 items gets boring because there are so many of them. Its not like there is any challenge to building 
 your arsenal and outfitting your character. There are piles of goodies everywhere.
  The game doesn't totally looses it's charm, but you may very well go from totally addicted to sporadic 
 forays after a couple of days. This is offset to some degree by the different characters you can 
 build choosing from the different skill trees, and as each character can have two skill disciplines 
 the possible combinations are many. Playing in cooperative mode also takes some of the edge off 
 of the repetition, as you can work together with friends to expand your gameplay .
  
  In summary Titan Quest is a solid game providing many hours of enjoyment for a wide range of age 
 groups and will appeal to people with lots of gaming experience and novices alike.. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:02 am PT
Review:  I liked Diablo2 a lot. But I've never tried Titan Quest before. Recently I installed it to see 
 how good it is in compare to Diablo2. It is better indeed.
  
  TQ has better graphics - variety of environments is simply amazing. I felt that I am also present 
 at Greece, Egypt, Orient. All of the locations are amazingly designed and beautifully presented 
 on the screen. Every map has unique atmospheric feeling.
  
  Characterization for the protagonist is better than Diablo2 but not much customizations are available 
 like BG2 or NwN. Still you can become a distinctive character for second-time play.
  
  Weapons, spells, skills are full of variety that gives your character a unique experience. Boss-battles 
 are really really tough. 
  
  Story-wise this game is cool. You'll never feel bored from the continuous chase for enemies and 
 quests. 
  
  Overall this game is fully enjoyable. Anybody loved Diablo2 should not miss this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XavierJohn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Titan quest is a better Diablo II clone with better graphics and lot less mouse clicking.
  The constant clicking would hurt my finger in Diablo II. In Titan quest you can just hold down 
 the mouse button and it will keep hitting.
  The ability to open a portal to go sell stuff is cool or you could avoid just picking up everything 
 since you will have plenty of money anyway.
  
  I was running the game at 1920x1080 resolution with VSync and AA enabled. The game is very stable. 
 Not a single crash.
  
  You cannot play the game for a short while, save and exit because like Diablo II, each time you 
 start the game, all the enemies respawn. It is a long game. I have been playing it pretty much 
 for 3 full days now.
  
  A simple game that pretty much requires no brains. Just hack and slash fun.
  
  I was playing 
 this game on 64bit Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  The GOOD: One of the best features of this game is how good the scenery looks (on a geforce8600 
 C2Duo) . It's certainly one of the few games I remember that I've looked into the distance from 
 a cliff with cascading waterfalls and thought 'wow what a view!'. The enemy design is excellent 
 with some cool monsters later on in the game and their are some magical wicked weapons that you 
 can equip. The inventory system is easy to use and level ups etc are easy to understand for the 
 beginner. The quests are given as you proceed through the gaming map and you never really have 
 a problem finding places if you search the map thoroughly. Online is pretty cool although you need 
 seperate keys to play on a LAN which is very annoying.
  
  The BAD: The developers have made some really strange gameplay decisions with this game that really 
 suck! For starters just about every battle you have (and there are thousands) there are 5-15 equipment/money 
 drops to pick up. At least 99% of these are non-magical and useless to you so why have them? You 
 don't need to pick them up to sell them because the monsters and chests give you stupid amounts 
 of money anyway and you very quickly become loaded (which you dont need anyway because the 1% that 
 gets dropped are always awesome weapons) . It gets extremely tedious clicking chests after a while 
 because instead of just clicking once to pick up the money it spreads the money out in bags which 
 you then have to click each one individually sometimes 4-5 clicks. Bear in mind this happens every 
 battle more or less (probably every 1 min) , in the 40+ hours it takes to complete you soon get 
 very fed up picking up stuff.
  Which leads to another point. The treasure you do pick up is always better than what any vendor 
 in the towns is selling. I did the whole of game in normal difficulty without buying one weapon/enchanment 
 from a single vendor because I always had a better one equipped. Also because there are always 
 loads of good weapons it means when a boss drops something decent you usually have something already 
 better that a skeleton dropped several hours earlier.
  One thing that is exciting about RPGs is saving money to buy new weapons/armour or killing the 
 bosses and finding some awesome ring or something. This game takes away that by giving you too 
 much.
  Another main issue is how repetitive the fighting and monsters can be. Although the monsters look 
 great and are very diverse they all fight very similar and with similar tactics. This is fine when 
 youre on xbox and you button mash as you still have to kinda aim but it just doesnt work on the 
 PC as all you do is click and hold the mouse. Again it becomes rather boring after a few hours 
 play. It would have been nicer to have less monsters but make them more challenging and also take 
 into account their class or size more. Most groups you will find it's harder to kill the magicians 
 than the warriors and you can't help feel disappointed when you see a massive troll for the first 
 time expecting a mammoth battle for you to kill him in a few hits.
  Some bosses are like this. Some ridiculously easy some annoyingly difficult. 
  Other issues are 
 that some duel classes (u get to choose 2) are stupidily easy while some are insanely difficult. 
 If you don't get the balance of dex/str/int right you will really struggle.
  On one fire elemental class you have a passive skill that kills all enemies that stand next to 
 you but it's far too powerful... so all you have to do is run into a group of say 10 enemies and 
 stand still. They will all die before you do.
  The path finding AI is awful and I suspect may be why there is some lag on many lowerend systems.
 
  
  
  I enjoyed this game but only just! Why they made certain aspects of the game the way they did is 
 just strange as it turns the game from a 80+ rated game to a 70+ rated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerforsale
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Well another diablo clone. Except this one set in ancient greek worth a try right? sure.. sure..
 
  ----------------------------------------
  PROS: Good choice of class
  A lot of quests
  Long
  ----------------------------------------
  Not much else I could say.
  ----------------------------------------
 
  CONS
  Way to HARD and I mean WAY to hard. Potions dont seem to help. The first boss you fight 3 creatures. 
 They usually wipe you all over the floor. I just dont see how to beat it without a trainer. Well 
 I had all summer and I did it.
  Quests are dull. Go kill that satyr! Go kill that centaur!
  Damn these people really hated mythical creatures.
  Long games are ok but this was JUST TO LONG.
 
  I never really got the quest creater. But I just never took the time to understand it.
  ---------------------------------------
  Not much else I could say. maybe it would've been standard 
 if it wasnt so DAMN HARD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIronLotus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  I was so suprised when first getting in to this game. So many games based off of the formula that 
 diablo showed that have all turned out so terrible. 
  
  This game, however, is so much different! 
  
  The game plays through ancient mythology rather 
 than angels vs demons and with that you will be expecting to run into some amazing boss fights 
 and enemies alike. 
  
  The graphics in this game is a jump up from alot in the genre and it keeps to the same simple controls 
 of really just using your mouse if you wanted to. 
  Ragdoll physics have been added to dead enemies which sounds bad until you actually see it. Nothing 
 will die the same way. Corpses always hit the ground differently which is a great thing that was 
 introduced. 
  
  I would highly recommend this game to any hack and slash fan even if its just to hold you off until 
 Diablo 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragster2000
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  the game is good because it takes after diablo without being an exact clone of it the game play 
 is similar but it is better in some ways and worse in others the greek mythology thing is a good 
 idea for a game and setting it in this style was a good idea. it is supprisinly playable and sucks 
 you into it. i think if it was made in any other way the game would have been a complete let down 
 and would not be as good. the adventure aspect is there is always somthing to kill. and one down 
 side is you cannot take two paths if you wanted to have a high intelligence and strength you couldent 
 because you have to have one high to get the next set of armor or weapon andit takes a while to 
 level and you would just get slaughterd at every turn and not stand a chance at getting any where 
 as my character uses swords but i need dex and str to get anywhere and then new armor i need more 
 strength it is just frustrating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k80sg
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so its Perseus dealing with golden armored knights and clones of the infamous Medusa. Anyone 
 who has played Diablo or Bauldur's gate series will quickly recognise the game play in TQ. Aside 
 from the significant graphic boost, this game offers almost similar playing experience from the 
 old skool good hack n slash RPGs.
  
  Basically, TQ puts you in a world of mythology where you will battle it out in cities like Athens, 
 Sparta (Yes, you will get to meet Leonidas and his Spartans but this time, as less glamorous fighters) 
 as well as the eight wonders of the world where helping troubled villagers and warriors is your 
 job. Many kinds of mobs will look familiar here, you will have the usual skeleton warriors in ancient 
 tombs as well as gigantic spiders and scorpions and of course all the mythology creatures will 
 be present. if you have watched the classic 1981 movie Clash of the Titans, you will know them 
 all.
  
  Honestly, unless a player drills deeply into this game and obtain all weapons and mastery skills, 
 it's not easy to judge it for there's a fairly large variety of magic skills which plays a major 
 part in games like this. A player employing a certain class may get a slight to total different 
 experience from someone using a different class. 
  
  Basically, the pleasure derived and the drive in playing such games sees a certain pattern. First 
 you enjoy the hacking and smashing of everything that comes in your way which TQ does a great job 
 in this aspect, you get to see skeleton bones flying all over, creatures falling off cliffs and 
 bodies splitting apart as a result of your destruction, these carcass will be visible after you 
 have killed them and seeing all this fallen mobs lying on the ground makes you feel powerful and 
 invincible. The only problem here is there is not enough blood. After the eye-candy stage, it gradually 
 gets old and a little bored and then you start concentrating on your weapons and armory fashion 
 as well as raising your magic skills stats hoping to see more flashy killer effects. 
  
  Overall, TQ is definitely a fun hack n slash game and I personally do not find a vast difference 
 between TQ and other games of such genre. It however suffers a little from excessively long hours 
 of game play. A normal difficulty game might take you more then 20 hours to finish it thus the 
 repetitiveness. Nevertheless, the scenaries and environments are pretty nice to look at which offers 
 a bit of saving grace. There is a also a day and night weather effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hock3y
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  I've been playing a lot of Titan Quest recently, and just purchased the expansion pack too. The 
 purchase was definitley worth it, and if you don't have either I would recommend getting the gold 
 edition as that is both games in one. It's an awesome game and its very addicting if you are into 
 this genre of games. If you like action rpg's or Diablo style games, Titan Quest and Titan Quest 
 Immortal Throne are must buys. Immortal Throne adds in a new Dream mastery along with more inventory 
 space and auto-sorting. It also adds in the new relics, which are a great boost to add onto existing 
 gears. The game also has a very large fanbase and modding community, which add to replayability 
 of it. So far I have gone through the game with a few different class combinations and none of 
 them have made me bored yet. You can also play a LAN game with friends or play an online game with 
 total strangers, depending on what you enjoy. I have played many hours of LAN with my friends. 
 I would rate this game a 10/10 just because it is such a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Well being bored and away from home had me seeking an RPG that I could download and play. I came 
 across Titan Quest. A decent rating by Gamespot and even higher rating by other players and critics.
 
  
  Just reaffirms my thoughts that everything in life, whether music, movies or video games, all boils 
 down to personal taste. That said, I thought Titan Quest was a terrible game. A direct rip-off 
 from the genius that is Blizzard and Wizards of the Coast. Titan Quest tries its hardest to follow 
 the success of Baldur's Gate and Diablo. It does not even come close. If it were not for my severe 
 boredom and the fact that I have to finish every game I start I would have deleted this game from 
 my hard drive shortly after downloading it.
  
  The game spans over 4 territories. Greece, Egypt, The Far East, and Mount Olympus. Nice graphics 
 throughout, especially on the last 2 levels, but the game is so dull. The only cinemagraphics are 
 at the game's intro. The storyline is paper thin and the ending.... well the ending is just a few 
 words by Zeus. Hmmm. There are a dozen side quests on each level which are boring and all similar. 
 There is way too much lame equipment available throughout gameplay. The bosses are few and far 
 between, and not that challenging (except the final boss, the Titan, which is nearly impossible)
 
  
  What bothered me the most is the viewpoint of the character and the choppy movement. The camera 
 angle is slighly askew so that enemies at the bottom of the screen are not seen until they are 
 attacking you.
  
  I could go on, on what is wrong with this game, and too be honest I did not find much that is right 
 with it other than paying just $15 for it. I noticed there is an expansion pack for this game which 
 you couldn't pay me to play.
  
  Pass on this one in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallofman1337
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Who says older games are boring and out of date? This RPG plays like a high definition version 
 of Gauntlet Dark Legacy crossed with Battle for Middle Earth. You get to play in 3 different pantheons 
 (Greece, Egypt, Babylon) and can travel from Hell to the top of Mount Olympus. 
  
  The battles are interactive and have unusual depth and detail. There is nothing like fighting a 
 dozen demons or undead in the Tomb of Set or taking on a 20-foot Titan. The big bosses are called 
 Telkines and they often drop epic items, so go back to Set's tomb often. There is no need for auction 
 houses or blacksmiths and there is no resurrection sickness or armor damage to distract you from 
 the mayhem.
  
  I really like the inventory and equipment system- you get lots of armor, rings and accessories. 
 Do not forget to collect talismans and formula that are dropped by creatures-you can combine these 
 to make artifacts or to enchant weapons and armor. This really comes in handy in Egypt and Hades, 
 where +50% damage to demons or undead is a must. There is a also a pendant that protects you from 
 Titans, so hold onto that one.
  
  There are also magical and combat professions. The Earth Enchantment profession energizes your 
 weapons and protects you from fire. You can also summon a Fire Elemental/Rock monster that can 
 throw bombs and distract/crush your enemies. 
  
  Once you finish the standard single player campaign (~80 hours) , you can go back and play in Epic 
 mode and pump up your character with legendary items. THQ and IronLore dropped the ball on this 
 game. There should have been a Norse Mythology and Symmerian Warlord (i. e. Conan) expansion pack 
 to add more depth to this impressive game.
  
  This game is more interesting than Age of Conan.....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MannyCalavera16
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is a Diablo-like action RPG, as apparent through its addictive hack-and-slash gameplay, 
 to its robust character customization. I enjoy it more than Diablo, for several reasons, which 
 I will discuss throughout this review. Note that this is primarily a review of the single-player 
 aspect of the game, but I did briefly mention the multiplayer portion. 
  
  Graphics (8.5/10)
  Overall, TQ is a nice looking game; some of the best graphics for an action-RPG 
 I've seen. There are some cool physics effects in the game, which while being purely cosmetic, 
 still add a level of detail that is welcome. One of the only complaints I have with the graphics 
 is that all characters in the game look more or less the same, as armor and the like don't have 
 as great of an effect on your character's appearance as one might hope for. Also, the camera in 
 the game could have been designed better, as it would be great to have a third person, "behind-the-back" 
 camera option (to view the enviornment better) , opposed to the birds-eye viewpoint present.
  
  Sound (5/10)
  Sound is the weakest point of the game in my opinion. You have the usual enemy 
 screams and such, but nothing really strays far away from any other action-RPGs. The voice acting 
 is all right, but kind of awkward at times. The game's music is also forgettable at best-luckily 
 you can solve this by playing your own music in a separate window and muting the game's sound. 
 All in all, the sound doesn't play a huge role in TQ, and it shouldn't really.
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  Now to the most important part of any game review- gameplay. TQ, like Diablo, 
 focuses on the repeated slaying of monsters, the gathering/selling of loot, and the reward of leveling 
 up, and so forth. The beauty of it all lies in its simple, addicting qualities. There's just something 
 about the game that keeps you hooked, but you can't really point a finger at it. 
  
  A main feature of TQ is its skill tree- a number of classes are available, and each grants its 
 own unique power. At the start of the game, you can only specialize in one class, but later in 
 the game you are able to pick another class, giving you the abilities of both and essentially opening 
 up a whole other way to approach the game.
  
  There are four acts in the game, and each one you traverse in a very forward, linear path. Sidequests 
 are plentiful, but lack a bit of variety. The game is rather long, also- a good 20 to 30 hours 
 is needed to complete the main quest.
  
  Online multiplayer is a nice addition to the game, but it is rather flawed. Since the game's save 
 files are saved to your hard drive, and not to a server (like Diablo 2, for example) , cheaters 
 are more present than you would expect. The same character you use in single player can also be 
 used for multiplayer, something that wasn't in Diablo 2.
  
  The qualms I have with TQ are very minor, as the core gameplay is so fun you can look past the 
 game's flaws. The game is also rather cheap nowadays, and an expansion is available (which is also 
 great) . If you're just looking for a fun, addicting game, TQ is exactly what you're looking for. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  This game has easily become one of my favorites and now that you can pick up the gold version for 
 $20 off steam, it's a no brainer. If you like action RPGs, you will love this game. It as solid 
 as they come with no weaknesses anywhere. Graphics, sound, gameplay, production values, minimal 
 bugs, refined inventory all make this game the best Diablo clone to come along in years. This game 
 is highly polished now that's been through several patches and an expansion. In all, if you do 
 buy the gold version, you will get about 50-60 hours of gameplay and multiple environments in which 
 to explore and hack your way through. 
  
  I gave this game a 9 because it does what it advertises and does it very well. Is it innovative? 
 No. Is it repetitive hack and slash? Yes. Is it linear? Pretty much. But none of those things bother 
 me because the game wasn't going for any thing else. It picked up the Diablo formula, polished 
 it to a gleam and made a terrific game. I would have given it a 10 but some of the boss battles 
 are kind of weak, but besides that, the game is damn near perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest implements classes by allowing you to choose 2 out of 6 masteries. By "Mage Classes", 
 I mean the mastery that giving you access to combat spells like Volcanic orb, Flame Surge (Earth 
 Mastery) or Thunder Ball, Ice Shard... (Storm Mastery) . The attribute that is supposedly to govern 
 your spell casting ability is Intelligence. While Strength increases your base damage with melee 
 weapons, Dexterity with range weapons, your Intelligence actually has no effect on the amount of 
 damage these spells deal to enemies. Instead, this attribute decide the effectiveness of your staff 
 weapons. So the only means to increase the damage of spells is to assign more skill points on them. 
 This seems to be no problem at starting levels but when your character reaches the top limit of 
 those spells, it means there is no way to make them more effective. Indeed, damaging spells become 
 quite puny at high levels if you compare to melee and range attacks. After all, you Mage character 
 will have to rely completely on his/her staff, making the monotonous "elemental" attack all the 
 time. It's rather boring compared to magic users in other RPGs like Neverwinter Nights or Diablo 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashcan_Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  If you're one of the people who plays mainly console games, only turning to your PC every once 
 in awhile when an interesting (meaning PC-only) game debuts, then a satisfying action-RPG is something 
 you'll find few and far between. Consoles have only a handful to choose from and even fewer that 
 are decent. If you rarely update your PC, then at least make sure you have SP2 (Windows XP) or 
 this game will not run!!!
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  Your typical Diablo clone set in mythological times. Realism is captured by allowing you somewhat 
 of a hint as to what gear any given mob will drop after it is killed. For example, if you see a 
 lizardman brandishing a double-edged axe, then chances are one will drop when he is killed. However, 
 the randomness of quality items may be a turn-off to some people. "Kill X number of mobs to get 
 X weapon" this game is not. You're gonna have to grind those lizardmen for that particular epic, 
 double-edged axe. This can be tedious, especially since you have to work your way through the game 
 numerous times (ala Diablo II) through increasing difficullty for the improved equipment. Intitially, 
 this doesn't seem so bad, but you soon find out that a lot of the equipment you receive from mobs 
 simply ramps up too slowly in quality. In the first run-through of the game, you're better off 
 buying most of your gear, rushing through just to get to the next difficulty where the loot is 
 better and the enemies are more difficult to conquer.
  There is a ton of loot to be had and a unique spin on the character development system. In the 
 beginning, you may not feel that your toon is becoming as strong or specialized as you would like, 
 but put in the effort and you are rewarded with a powerhouse hero, customized to your liking. Branching 
 paths on your skill set allow you to mix specialties, resulting in entirely new classes altogether! 
 This adds to both replayability and customization.
  
  CONTENT: 
  Action-RPG. The word alone leaves a coppery taste in my mouth. RPGs are meant to be sprawling epics 
 where atention is paid to both story and character creation. Action-RPG usually means endless pointing 
 and clicking through a mediocre orgy of repeating monsters. This isn't the case with Titan Quest. 
 Although the beginning difficulty can be point-and-clicked through fairly quickly, much is to be 
 said about a game that offers increasing difficulty AND better loot as you progress. This is what 
 separates a decent action-RPG from a poorly designed action-RPGs/other games with increased difficulty 
 but no new content.
  The ability to mix and match skills, allowing for different classes, adds another layer to this 
 game. While in end-game content certain classes may seem more beneficial than others, the multitude 
 of loot and skills allows for a skilled player to enjoy a unique creation.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  What you get is more than a mere game that looks like a Mythology Mod for Diablo II. 
 What you get is a game that, for the most part, appears to have been given a large amount of TLC 
 from the designers. Creatures are animated, the water looks realistic, detailed structures (important 
 in a mythology game) , and little slow-down comes as a welcome surprise from a THQ game. There is 
 great variety in monsters given the source material and noticeable differences in your character 
 depending on the gear you've equipped is a nice touch many action-RPG games lack.
  I run a middle-of-the-line PC I purchased five years ago, only upgrading the RAM (2GB) and graphics 
 card ($70 card purchased a year ago) and can still play the game at a smooth frame rate. 
  
  What It's Worth: 
  I purchased this game when it debuted for $50, but was unable to play 
 it (I didn't know at the time I needed to install SP2) . Now it goes for $20 at Target, which I 
 think is a fair price. If you have never played Diablo II, then don't spoil yourself by doing so. 
 Give this game a try first then move over to D2 to see how it's supposed to be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaryad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Do you want to travel on the ancient world? Yes? And do you want to do it while devastating hordes 
 of monsters and discovering the intrigue lying behind the good old titans? If yes this game is 
 for you.
  
  Titan Quest could easily pass for an old isometric game. You don't have lots of originality here. 
 You'll get battles, evil creatures and megalomaniac powerful enemies; you'll have a map to explore, 
 with "hidden" caves full of monsters and treasures inside; you can play side quests that will reward 
 you with XP and/or rare objects. It obviously rings a bell of Diablo, Baldur's Gate and the D&D 
 universe. Sometimes I also remember of Dungeon Siege concerning map and inventory design.
  
  Titan Quest is a RPG to the maximum that will please hardcore fans. Your character (can be 
 male or female) will have to master itself in several sets of skills (actually one set at first 
 and, after level 8, another one) , and each set has a huge skill tree that takes ages to master 
 Titan Quest, apart from being normal, sometimes to much hack&slash, it will present you with the 
 wonderful landscapes and architecture of the ancient world (Greece, Egypt, Babylon, China) until 
 your last battle with the great, muscled, massive, giant, what is the same to say - Titan. 
  
  On side quests, most of the time, you'll fight against mini bosses; on primary quests you'll 
 fight the real ones, with increased difficulty. Sometimes the game can be pretty boring because 
 you find lots and lots of monsters, and if you like to explore everything (like me) you'll even 
 find more and more creatures. However that will increase your levelling and that will be very important 
 to get through the game. 
  
  On the main cities you'll find the typical merchants (melee and magic) , a teleporter, a save spot 
 in the shape of a life fountain (you'll find plenty through all the game) , lots of NPCs calling 
 for your help (side quests) and other curiosities.
  
  This game is entertaining and worth your time. And a delight for your eyes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Wombat_17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Diablo and Diablo II have set a pretty high bar when it comes to RPG standards. The games were 
 really easy to get into, yet addictive beyond measure. I remember spending hours grinding through 
 bosses just on the outside chance of a powerful unique item drop. And I enjoyed it, no less. Titan 
 Quest takes the Diablo formula of "smite evil monsters repeatedly" and gives it a new setting, 
 different gameplay, and 3D graphics. The result is an RPG which, while not exactly unique, is definitely 
 worth the price and should belong in any true RPG fan's collection.
  
  The story of Titan Quest is perfunctory at best, but it doesn't really need to be Pulitzer material 
 either. The evil Telkines have descended upon the ancient world, unleashing hordes of mythological 
 beasties and generally wreaking havoc. You, the hero, chase the Telkines across Greece, Egypt, 
 Babylon, China, and finally Mount Olympus, a chase which culminates in an epic battle between you 
 and Typhon in the home of the gods. While it's certainly not the most original bit of writing, 
 it's good enough to fulfill its duty.
  
  Titan Quest has eight "masteries," its equivalent to character classes: Warfare, Defense, Earth, 
 Spirit, Storm, Hunting, Rogue, and Nature. Each mastery is pretty much what you'd expect it to 
 be from reading the title. Once you reach a certain point in the game, you can pick a second mastery. 
 Each mastery has certain skills, arranged along a tree very similar to the kind used in games like 
 Diablo II and Dungeon Siege II. Once you level up, you gain a certain amount of points. Some are 
 used to increase your attributes, which are the standard RPG fare of strength, dexterity, and so 
 forth. The other kind of points are used in your skill trees. You can assign points to a skill 
 to unlock it or to improve it, and if you don't like the skills you are using, you can pay an NPC 
 called a mystic to reset all of your skills.
  
  Once you are equipped with you skills, you wander along preset environments, killing creatures 
 and picking up the loot they drop. It is at this point that TQ runs into problems. Firstly, your 
 inventory is your only place of storage, and it can rapidly fill with amulets, rings, armor, and 
 weapons. This means that your trips back to a town become more frequent. It would be nice if TQ 
 had a stash system like Diablo II, because running back and forth quickly gets tiresome. (N. B.: 
 this feature is implemented in the expansion pack) 
  
  The roads and ways you wander along are rendered quite well. TQ's graphics engine, while aging 
 and certainly nothing like Crysis or Oblivion, still does quite a nice job, especially when compared 
 to other hack-and-slash RPGs like Dungeon Siege II and Diablo II. The rag-doll physics are an amusing 
 touch, and help with the idea that you are a legendary hero with godlike abilities. The armor and 
 weapons look suitably fantastical, and the spell effects are also nice to look at.
  
  While the many class possibilities give TQ a good element of replayability, the game doesn't really 
 offer much new. After beating normal difficulty with a character, that character has access to 
 a higher level of difficulty. Still, it doesn't seem like anything is different. The items you 
 collect are still the same items with different names and properties, but they look exactly the 
 same. The same goes for the enemies.
  
  Ultimately, Titan Quest is a fun RPG, but lacks the addictiveness of Diablo, despite all of its 
 efforts. This, combined with some crucial missing features, keeps the game from being truly excellent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migraith
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Game producers seemingly feel compelled to release action RPGs "Diablo style". Sadly in most cases 
 the result is far below the "magic threshold" of Diablo II in terms of quality and pure gameplay 
 fun.
  
  "Titan Quest" is different. The title offers upper standard graphics, delivers solid gameplay, 
 and adds a lot of replay value by the unique character class system, lots of items and sets. But 
 especially the graphics come at a price: System specs are a bit high, and the game world is "hand 
 drawn", no random maps. IMHO doesn't hurt the replay value.
  
  Pro: 
  - Fresh setting (mythological theme ranging from ancient Greece to Japan)
  - Lots of character 
 classes; two classes per character are combined to form a unique class
  - Lovely graphics, music score and sound effects also up to date
  - Engaging storyline, lots 
 of sidequests
  - Lots of items, sets and collectibles
  - Interface in many aspects better than that of Diablo 2 (if expansion installed)
  
  Con:
 
  - Interface in some aspects more cumbersome than D2 (targeting skills)
  - No video cut scenes worth mentioning between game levels
  - No randomized maps (also a "pro" 
 since world has a fitting art concept)
  - Quests as usual: get this, kill that
  
  Bottom line
  
  Since I'm mainly single player (and playing TQ together with my wife on two 
 machines via LAN) I cannot say much concering online multiplay. Looking at the rest of the game 
 TQ is one of my favorite games, and will stay so for qutie a while. After several years I finally 
 found a title to replace Diablo 2 for endless "kill & collect" sessions. Not that I won't continue 
 playing Diablo 2 now and then, but TQ will deliver solid fun for years - and seldom rests on the 
 shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidi1234
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Well... you cant really say anything substantially bad about this game. Its a solid adventure, good 
 class system, great monsters, diverse battlegrounds and action galore. It has a good feeling to 
 it, great looking items, tough bosses, super multiplayer, decent length, good myth based story. 
 Graphics look clean and sharp, shiny and flash on powerful systems, sound is clean, speech is well 
 interpreted, music sets the mood ok and changes in style as you pass through different continents. It 
 is substantially better than any action/rpg/hack 'n slash to date, really enjoyable and worth playing. 
 It would be a truly legendary game if... if the legend hadn't been already written. All props up 
 to iron lore guys, u made a helluva game for people who simply cant play diablo any more. For those 
 of you who still can play diablo... do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelteel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game along the lines of Diablo that has ever come out and is just as much fun 
 to play. While I like D2/LOD a bit more this game is awesome!! I highly recommend this addictive 
 game to all gamers as there are not many games as enjoyable and as playable by - 'all gamers'.
 
  
  While the games Titan Quest and it's expansion Immortal Throne work just like Diablo 2 and Lord 
 of Destruction they offer the player their own challenges but they also offer a lot of new ideas 
 especially the larger storage and a Caravan for more storage. The caravan can be used to hold more 
 items and also to transfer items between your different characters.
  
  Go to your favorite place or site and purchase both Titan Quest and Immortal Throne. Install both 
 and enjoy the challenge and the fun. I would also recommend you visit ' www. titanquest. net' and 
 join the forums as they are one of the better forums I have been a member of with mods and more 
 plus a great group of members (though some have bad days_lol) .
  
  New players I recommend you get TQVault and TQDefiler just use either as a search term on the forums 
 mentioned above. I just wish that both had been around for my later stages of playing the Diablo 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  [Note: This review is of both Titan Quest and its expansion, Immortal Throne, together.]
  
  Titan Quest distills everything that is addicting and innately fun about World of Warcraft and 
 Diablo II into pure kill-loot-kill joy. It can get a little repetitive over time, but there's no 
 question TQ delivers the goods so enjoy it until your brain can't take anymore.
  
  First and foremost, TQ gets the classes right. Branching skill trees, varied play mechanics and 
 dual-class combinations are a min/max-er's geek dream come true. TQ fansite boards are jammed with 
 players debating which are the most powerful class combinations and skill tree selections, so the 
 element of character building is extremely strong and fun and highly replayable. The game favors 
 magic-users, but I was able to hold my ground fine with a melee/caster hybrid using the Defense 
 and Dream Master masteries.
  
  Secondly, TQ gets the loot right. Randomization of monsters and randomization of loot with rarity 
 values directly taps into the sheer joy of opening chests and looting dead bad guys and wondering 
 what splendors await to be picked up. TQ is awfully generous about it, too -- for players accustomed 
 to gearing up at a snail's pace in World of Warcraft, you'll be pleasantly surprised by how fast 
 and furious the gear comes. Optional trader NPCs in-game allow you to save great drops better suited 
 for other characters by plopping said items into the trader's shareable slots.
  
  And the last bright spot is how gorgeous this game looks. Environments are meticulously laid out 
 with varying elevations, realistic details and impressive spell effects and monster detail. Titan 
 Quest is a game all about making you feel good -- tons of loot, drop-dead gorgeous visuals, and 
 simple mechanics that let you destroy waves upon waves of enemies with glee.
  
  The downside, of course, is that Titan Quest gets incredibly repetitive mainly because:
  
  
 1. The game mechanics are pretty simple. Each class seems to only have a few key attack moves.
 
  
  2. Enemies may look different, but on a Normal playthrough, there's not a lot of variation in how 
 you go about fighting them all. Some subtle tactical differences come up -- and supposedly gets 
 more pronounced on the harder Epic playthrough levels
  
  Both of which combine to feel like you're just endlessly slogging through things after a while. 
 And obviously because the game is a single-player action-RPG, you lose some of the personality 
 and diversions that online-based games like WoW and Diablo II otherwise keep you mixed up with.
 
  
  All in all, Titan Quest is an excellent game to enjoy for a limited time. I'm sure hardcore Diablo 
 II fans will get a bit more out of it than I did, as well as players who love the core gameplay 
 and don't get easily tired of it over time. There's really no memorable story to speak of, so your 
 only motivation here is loot and kiling things over and over. For me, that's fun for a few nights 
 ... but eventually it's time to move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Lonehawk
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  You gotta love when a game comes out that not only pays homage to another great game, but in this 
 gamer's humble opinion, gets it even better.
  
  Titan Quest IS a Diablo II clone, but not an exact clone and that's one of the things that makes 
 it better. For those of you who haven't played or even tried Diablo II ( what planet have you been 
 living on? ) Titan Quest is a great Action RPG; a game that has a lot of hack n' slash action, 
 enough story to keep you moving and that addictive quality that makes you want to play "just a 
 little bit more" before quitting.
  
  I don't know why, but I'm one of those weird people that could just never quite get into Diablo 
 II. I never in fact got past chapter 2. Dunno why, can't explain it, it just got boring for me 
 real quick. Not so with Titan Quest. I don't know if it's the great graphics, the beautiful environments, 
 the music, the theme ( Greek mythology) , the attention put into this game, the pure fun of it or 
 all of the above. I do know that I can't seem to put this game down. I keep looking for time to 
 spend with it. That's the sign of a great game.
  
  The game runs great, looks great and is just plain fun to play. I like a lot of things about this 
 game but one thing I'll mention in particular, just because it keeps me laughing, is the power 
 kills. As you get stronger and are able to wipe dudes out on one shot, they just go flying every 
 which way but loose as you knock the snot out of them. I even sent a few guys right over cliffs. 
 Priceless stuff that for some reason does not fail to keep me laughing. 
  
  To be fair, I do have one ( and only one that I can think of ) complaint about this game. That 
 is the fact that you can't rotate the camera given that this is in a 3D environment. But, since 
 you couldn't do it in Diablo II either, it's VERY easy to live with and get used to. If you're 
 a die-hard GW fan/player, this may annoy you greatly, but like I said, it's easy to get used to.
 
  
  Anyone who enjoyed the Diablo series, Divine Divinity series, Dungeon Siege series etc. should 
 not pass on this game. It's great fun and having played all those games and more, this one is my 
 particular favorite. 
  
  I'm only sorry I didn't pick this game up sooner. I am presently not playing the expansion pack 
 only because I haven't purchased it yet, but will do as soon as I find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is an action-RPG, the first game developed by Iron Lore Entertainment and headed by 
 the former brains behind Microsoft's massively successful Age of Empires real-time strategy series. 
 Dungeon Siege in style and Age of Empires in looks, the pedigree and influences of its designer 
 are instantly apparent.
  
  Titan Quest is unlikely to be able to shake off the 'Diablo II meets Jason and the Argonauts' tag 
 it has been lumbered with since conception. Because, essentially, that's what it is. An action-RPG, 
 a hack-n-slasher, a  kind of game. You wander through meadows, 
 deserts, swamps, canyons, towns, crypts and caves. You click-click-click on a monster and your 
 avatar bashes away at it until it expires. You dutifully gather up all the gold and equipment dropped, 
 sell it or use it. You gain experience and enhance your killing prowess. All against the backdrop 
 of a classical, mythology-infused historical world. Titan Quest makes good use of random gameplay 
 aspects; while the game world itself is not randomly generated a la Diablo, the prefix/suffix random 
 item generation is fully present and correct  and let's face it: that's the most important thing 
 for action-RPG addicts. There is always a better weapon or piece of armour to find, and a well-balanced 
 main quest ensures it's always there just when you need it. Character development is provided by 
 means of a skill tree method. The option to choose up to two 'masteries' from a selection of eight 
  martial skill sets such as warfare, hunting and defence, along with more magic-orientated skills 
 like nature, storm and spirit  with their corresponding skill trees allows for much character 
 variation, ensuring that your character suits your playing style as much as possible. However, 
 while very good, it's not exactly outstanding  there is little that hasn't been done before, and 
 indeed done better. Titan Quest also suffers from the same repetitivity syndrome that affects other 
 action-RPG games. It's endless, mindless action. There's little thinking required, no complex quests 
 and next to no personal involvement and while this in itself isn't necessarily a bad thing, it 
 does leave me yearning for more complex RPGs.
  
  Single-player gameplay involves a long, linear quest. Multi-player gameplay involves a long, linear 
 quest with some good buddies along for the ride. Essentially co-op gameplay, with up to six players 
 working through the main storyline together. That's really it for gameplay options. Now, onto the 
 quest itself.
  
  While not exactly Booker-nominee material, the storyline of Titan Quest does exactly what it needs 
 to: provides as good an excuse as any for your character to get out there and start bashing monsters 
 left, right and centre. The basic premise is that suddenly and for no apparent reason, all manner 
 of mythological and magical creatures have begin to plague the Ancient Greek countryside. As a 
 wandering warrior you are called upon to right this evil (of course) . Your quest takes you through 
 Greece  from Sparta to Athens to Knossos  and beyond, to sandswept Egyptian deserts and magical 
 East Asian lands. The reasons for the monster incursions soon become clear, and for the most part 
 the plot is little more than a driving reason to get from Point A to Point B, killing everything 
 in between. While the theme and setting are refreshing, a stronger ongoing sense of story would 
 have worked wonders with this game; after all there is no greater source of storytelling genius 
 than the realms of classical literature. Greek mythology, Egyptian lore, Babylonian and Chinese 
 history: a sadly wasted opportunity for an epic story.
  
  Graphics-wise, Titan Quest is a fine-looking game, although not particularly flashy. From the outset 
 we are presented with rolling Mediterranean landscapes and brilliant Aegian seas, all rendered 
 in breathtaking beauty if not the mind-boggling detail we would expect from a modern game. Character 
 models are small but mostly well-detailed and the interface is clear and easy to use. The main 
 issue I have is there's no free-floating camera, and as a result the whole thing appears not only 
 quite static but reminds me more of a flat, pseudo-3D RTS-esque landscape than the true-3D glory 
 one would hope for these days. There's also no scrolling outside your main field of view, which 
 means switching back and forth to the map to figure out where you are going a bit tiresome.
  
  Sound effects in Titan Quest generally fall into the bang, clank, grunt and scream categories, 
 ably reflecting the on-screen action. There's little more one could ask for, to be fair. Voice 
 acting is also minimal, with only a select few non-player characters with more than a couple of 
 lines of spoken dialogue. However, it is for the most part well-read and I have no problems with 
 it. I find the music of Titan Quest to be rather good, actually. I've never heard of the composer 
 before, but the music does a good job of evoking a sense of the exotic, mythical lands you travel 
 through during the game.
  
  As far as value for money goes, the action-RPG is a strangely addictive form of game. The single-player 
 campaign is meaty, lengthy and should keep you clicking away for at least 40 hours on a single 
 run-through, though most likely many more hours will be spent levelling, bashing monsters and gaining 
 all kinds of great loot on the side. Multi-player gameplay isn't nearly as successful as other, 
 similar games (the continued success of Diablo II springs to mind) , however if you find a good 
 server and a friendly group of people to play with the co-op gameplay could potentially be a lot 
 of fun. Also included with the game is a custom quest editor, allowing you to make your own maps 
 and provide further killing grounds for your character. Added value comes in the form of an official 
 expansion pack entitled Immortal Throne, and there are a surprising number of mods available from 
 the online community.
  
  In summary, Titan Quest is better than most would have you believe and a worthy addition to the 
 action-RPG genre. It gains many bonus points for having a nice, somewhat refreshing theme and setting, 
 which combined with strong gameplay leads me to recommend this instantly to genre fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. As has been said probably a thousand times by now this is basically Diablo 
 set in the ancient world - Greece, Egypt, Mesopotamia, China. But that's okay, because I haven't 
 played Diablo in five years or more. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The environments are quite beautiful despite the old-school top-down view. They are intricately 
 detailed, surprisingly varied and colourful, which admittedly does make me wish for a 3D/360 camera 
 at moments just for the sake of getting a better view. The design of each region is true to its 
 history which is great. I was especially impressed with the glazed tiles and hanging plants in 
 Bablyon. The variety of the exterior levels is astounding, though caves and tombs tend to be similar 
 - but then again a cave is a cave. The tombs at least are appropriate to their region, and the 
 Egyptian and Babylonian ones are particularly well done. Some interesting shadow effects add to 
 the subterranean creepiness as torch lights cast enormous bat shadows on the walls ahead. Spell 
 affects are also nicely rendered, and certain protective spells have great continuous animations, 
 such as Ring of Flame, which has a fireball constantly circle around you. or Spirit Ward, which 
 causes you to emit an exhaust-like trail of spirits behind you as you walk. Neat!
  
  Audio:
  
  The sound effects are nicely varied. Monsters and spells have different sounds, different 
 environments have appropriate ambiances - for example the forests feature breezes that rustle the 
 leaves & birds chirping, rivers and oceans have appropriate water sounds, snowy mountains have 
 chilling winds. The music is especially good and changes with each change of region and events 
 - melancholy sounds on entering a destroyed town, heartening battle music on approaching a monster 
 encampment. I highly recommend adjusting your audio options to play music "more often", it really 
 enhances the game.
  
  Monsters:
  
  Amazing variety of monsters, and many are appropriate to their region - gorgons in Greece, "dragonians" 
 in China, for example. I was amused by the raptors as well, which jump at you and try to disembowl 
 you with their hind claws, just like in Jurassic Park, the king of dinosaur movies, which is just 
 awesome. Overall the monsters aren't much of a problem on normal difficulty, and a good area/group 
 effect spell and a pet will help you manage any mob, but every so often there are some nasty surprises. 
 It's important to put some thought into your skill selection to ensure you are ready for a variety 
 of challenges.
  
  NPCs:
  
  Nothing particularly noteworthy in the NPC department. The voice acting is rather amusing though. 
 It's decent enough, but the accents are kind of bizarre. Living in a Greek neighbourhood I can 
 tell you that is not a Greek accent - if anything it sounds Russian. The Egyptians sound a bit 
 French, which while historically humourous is not the least bit Egyptian. And the Chinese don't 
 sound like any Chinese I've ever met... they sound a bit Japanese. None of this is really important 
 to the game but it is pretty funny.
  
  Loot:
  
  The glue that holds any RPG together! The loot is pretty good, a decent variety and some good special 
 items. Unfortunately, as happens in many RPGs, you tend to find really great loot early in the 
 game and spend the rest of the game selling off junk and amassing gold you will never need. Luckily 
 there is a Diablo-like system that allows you to see only special items, so you can stop bothering 
 to pick up the boring stuff once your gold stores reach unreasonable levels. Adding the Immortal 
 Throne expansion pack *significantly* improves the loot experience - with all the artifacts, charms 
 and relics to deal with you spend a lot of gold at the enchanter's shop and you feel like you've 
 really earned your goodies.
  
  Replayabilty:
  
  Very high. The single-player campaign is lengthy. The spell system is a pleasure to explore, and 
 compelled me to create a second character. The new caravan system introduced in IT also inspires 
 creating multiple characters, as you can ues the caravans to transfer loot between your PCs.
  
  Overall the game is excellent. While it does not attempt to innovate it does what it does exceedingly 
 well. The expansion pack offers a new realm to explore and improvements to the loot system that 
 make the game even more fun and addictive. Definately worth the investment - don't let the low 
 price fool you into thinking this is bargain-bin material. This is a wonderful tribute to the king 
 of RPGs.
  
  Now if only someone would only make a worthy throwback to the Baldur''s Gate series... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  This game is so great. The graphics is extremely good! I would say TQ is the pioneer of graphics 
 for hack-and-slash games. Not only graphics but the gameplay is also good. The storyline is good. 
 Music is good. Sound effects are good. The equipment system is good but in fact, it's still slightly 
 worse than Diablo 2. Builds of characters and skills look decent and novel but there is a bit unbalance. 
 The last boss Titan on three difficulty levels is similar hard. Your level 60 characters still 
 easily get owned by Titan in normal difficulty level if you don't have good equipments. But this 
 situation won't happen in Diablo 2. Why? Because Diablo 2 has better balance. :D
  It's a pity TQ doesn't have its official online server.
  I think there will be no games overcoming 
 TQ "in all aspects" in 9 years!
  Well, someone would say diablo 3. Hmm, as I emphasized "in all aspects", I don't think graphics of 
 Diablo 3 can beat TQ. At most, maybe Diablo 3 has a chance to draw with TQ. LOL
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkclub
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Diablo 2 still sits atop the action RPG throne, a full eight years after its initial release. Titan 
 Quest and its expansion, Immortal Throne, join a long line of would-be usurpers that favor iteration 
 over innovation, building on Blizzards solid foundation rather than forging their own mold. Titan 
 Quests host of clever interface improvements, deep character customization, and unmatched itemization 
 single it out as the frontrunner among Diablo derivatives. While some technical issues and unusual 
 design decisions may dampen the games lasting appeal, Titan Quest is, well, a titan among mortals, 
 deserving of a place at Diablos side and of all comparisons drawn between it and Blizzards benchmark 
 franchise.
  
  From the onset, Titan Quest unabashedly rips off its inspiration. Again you find yourself in control 
 of a nameless hero on the trail of an ancient, powerful evil attempting to free a more ancient, 
 more powerful evil. The Titans, rather upset at that whole Greek Gods banishing them from the world 
 they once ruled thing, have freed themselves from their Olympian bonds and sworn vengeance against 
 their former captors. Three lesser Titans, called Telkines, have unleashed an army of Greek monsters 
 upon the world  minotaurs, gorgons, satyrs  and are now trying to free Typhon, a powerful Titan 
 that wants nothing more than to see Zues head on a pike.
  
  Caught up in the Gods affairs, and with the mortal world in danger, youll travel between ancient 
 Greece, Egypt, and China in a quest to prevent these Telkine from loosing their Titan master. Like 
 Diablo 2, the game is divided into large acts, three in this case, each of which takes place in 
 a different section of the globe. Each locale is vibrantly brought to life through the games powerful 
 3D engine, which retains Diablos 3/4 overhead perspective. Character models and environments are 
 surprisingly detailed, perhaps too much so, in fact, as even at its lowest settings the games 
 lush visuals are demanding and the framerate frequently drops in larger, populated areas. Each 
 location is clearly defined by historic and mythological landmarks; before the game is through 
 youll visit an Athens in peril, fight mummies beneath the pyramids of Giza, and travel along the 
 Great Wall of China.
  
  Throughout it all, of course, youll be confronting the Titans armies. Combat is fast and unrelenting; 
 youll continually battle small groups of interesting enemy types that interact and play off one 
 anothers strengths and weaknesses to form generally engaging encounters. The games robust physics 
 system sends defeated enemies satisfyingly ragdolling off cliffs and tumbling over level geometry. 
 Its not all about flinging fallen corpses, however, as Titan Quests enemies excel at killing 
 your character if youre not careful. Thankfully, the game frequently saves your progress with 
 Portals and Rebirth Fountains, ensuring youre never too far from your corpse and serving as stand-ins 
 for Diablo 2s Waypoints. Guzzling potions is the only way to ensure youll be alive long enough 
 to sell any valuable items you come across in your travels and earn the riches you so obviously 
 deserve.
  
  Titan Quest features the sort of tiered, prefix/suffix-modified item system youd expect from an 
 action RPG. The games itemization is really its greatest strength, surpassing even Diablo 2s. 
 Enemies will only drop items theyre carrying, meaning wild boars wont yield suits of armor and 
 a single skeleton wont drop five polearms. Additionally, every item that hits the ground is potentially 
 useful for someone, even if its just vendor-fodder for you. Every item and item modifier is powerful 
 enough to find a home in some wanting characters inventory. There is no garbage loot here; truly, 
 this is loot porn at its most beautiful. On top of the standalone weapons, armor, and accessories, 
 Titan Quests baddies also drop relics and charms you can combine to form powerful items used to 
 augment the strength of other items. Plus, the game features an auto-sorting feature that automatically 
 rearranges items in your inventory, allowing you to keep your full focus on more pressing matters 
  like slaughtering an army of harpies.
  
  Besides individualizing your character through your item loadout, the games skill system grants 
 a wealth of customization options. As you play the game, you can choose from up to two of nine 
 different masteries, one at level two and one at level eight. Masteries function similarly to Diablo 
 2s skill trees, with skills positioned in one of six tiers. Each time your character gains a level, 
 he or she also gains three skill points. These points are used to purchase new skills, as long 
 as you have purchased all subsequently required skills, or to improve upon skills youve already 
 acquired. In order to unlock each new tier, however, you must invest in a general mastery pool 
 that doesnt benefit the skills youve learned in any way, but instead boosts your characters 
 attributes. This system allows you to spend your points in a rush for the top tier skills without 
 too much of a penalty, as your character still becomes stronger with each level even if his or 
 her skills dont actually improve. You can progress through the masteries at your own pace, slowly 
 maxing out lower tier abilities before accessing newer skills or heavily investing in the mastery 
 itself in order to obtain top tier skills as quickly as possible. The game encourages and rewards 
 specialization. Additionally, you can visit a mystic at any time to untrain spent skill points, 
 for a price, ensuring mistakes made early in the game dont have ramifications later on.
  
  Titan Quest also features a multiplayer mode, but its archaic even by Diablo 2s eight-year-old 
 standards. Characters are all stored client-side, meaning theres nothing stopping enterprising 
 players from hacking their character files to make themselves impossibly powerful. This effectively 
 ruins any legitimate character interaction or item trading from the onset. To make matters worse, 
 games only support up to seven players and suffer from massive lag spikes whenever a player joins 
 or leaves. Helpful tools like the ability to kick or ban players from your games or to force all 
 players to join the same party automatically are welcome, but the multiplayer component is so lazily 
 implemented you wont spend much time online anyway. Aside from playing with your friends, playing 
 online is rendered moot by rampant cheating and the games overall poor replayability.
  
  There are many reasons to replay Titan Quest, even if multiplayer fun isnt one of them. The mastery 
 system allows for a wide range of possible character types and the itemization is so excellent, 
 from the types of items dropped to the rate at which amazing items appear, that its hard to resist 
 the siren call of character building. Unfortunately, two large problems cut Titan Quests time 
 in your DVD-rom drive short and keep the title from becoming anything more than a very good single 
 player, single playthrough game.
  
  First, and most shockingly, Titan Quests levels arent randomly generated. Theyre certainly very 
 well designed, offering multiple paths to a single destination and rewarding exploration, but theyre 
 also set in stone. While this has no ramifications on your first playthrough, in the long run, 
 this lack of randomness makes a very repetitive experience. Quest objectives are always in the 
 same locations and areas entry and exit points never change. Replaying the game to test out new 
 character builds or to farm loot, staples of the genre, becomes very boring very quickly. Theres 
 little incentive to play through the exact same level layout a second time on a harder difficulty 
 setting, let alone with a new character.
  
  To make matters worse, Titan Quest is unusually long. With Immortal Throne, the game clocks in 
 at 25-30 hours per difficulty level. With Epic and Legendary difficulties waiting beyond the first, 
 youll be playing each of your characters for 100 hours before hitting the level cap and exhausting 
 the games content. Action RPGs are generally shorter games that encourage replaying their content, 
 and Titan Quests decision to fly in the face of convention by building a lengthy, unrandomized 
 world unfortunately cripples the games longevity. The game is a great deal of fun, and does a 
 lot of things right, but youll be hard pressed to find the motivation to replay the game, online 
 or off.
  
  Still, as a single player action RPG Titan Quest is an excellent offering, even if you only play 
 through it once. Immortal Throne, its expansion, adds a fourth act set in Hades to the game in 
 addition to a ninth mastery that focuses on buffing and crowd control. Most importantly, it adds 
 a new vendor called a caravan, which provides additional storage space as well as a universal storage 
 area that any of your characters can access. This greatly alleviates any of the inventory pains 
 of vanilla Titan Quest and alone makes the original unplayable when compared against the expansion. 
 Immortal Throne also introduces a robust crafting system, allowing you to combine the relics and 
 charms used to augment items into powerful artifacts. At this point, theres no reason to play 
 Titan Quest without Immortal Throne, and anyone doing so will be sorely missing out on some of 
 the games best features.
  
  Sadly, THQ hasnt released a single patch for Titan Quest since Immortal Thrones release in March 
 2007. Many balancing issues as well as superficial graphic and quest bugs remain. Though honestly, 
 the balance issues arent much of a problem given the games poor multiplayer component. It may 
 lean heavily on Diablo 2s shoulders, but in many ways, Titan Quest surpasses its inspiration. 
 In the eight years since Diablo 2s release, it has faced many imitators but Titan Quest is its 
 first competitor. Its gorgeous graphics, subtle physics, and brilliant itemization balance out 
 graphical problems and the absence of random levels. While it may not be your next life-consuming 
 addiction, Titan Quest is still an excellent entry in the genre and a welcome appetizer in the 
 wait for Diablo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Ten years ago Diablo was a revelation. I played it endlessly. But the enjoyment of  
 finally died. The action-rpg of this kind has became, for me at least, synonym of boredom. Diablo 
 II opened the coffin for it, and Sacred sank the nails in the lid.
  
  Titan Quest generates the same sensations as Diablo. Nothing really new, beside the mythological 
 context. But the old style has been dusted, its engine polished and, above all, it is a graphic 
 delight. Thanks to its smooth engine and perfect game-play, Titan Quest is a successful time consumer. 
 Too bad the developers did not weave a more interactive story around the click-feast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on the recommendation of one of my friends. He described it as a bit like Diablo 
 . As a big fan of Diablo I was immediately interested in seeing the game, and very excited to purchase 
 it. And I have enjoyed playing it a lot, however it could have done with being a little bit less 
 like Diablo!
  
  The game has the interesting premise of being very closely based around classical mythology; indeed 
 this is one of the few games that genuinely serves as an educational tool, using characters from 
 Greek, Egyptian and Chinese mythology to bring together an epic story that defines how humanity 
 became what it is today. I feel that the game really benefits from this educational slant, as without 
 this it really does lack originality. An incredibly long game (especially when you play straight 
 through the main campaign and the Immortal Throne expansion pack) , the only real activity involved 
 is exploring areas and killing literally around 20,000 monsters. Yes, the game provides you with 
 a slightly depressing kill count , showing you just how much of your life you have wasted moving 
 through areas clicking on bad guys!
  
  Still, the story is interesting enough to keep you moving on, and the variety of skills that your 
 opponents have keep you on your toes trying to find the safest way to deal with them. In general 
 the enemies aren't too hard, however when they attack in groups (which is often!) , the fights can 
 require some thought. The boss fights are the defining moments of this game though, as each boss 
 has different powerful skills, meaning that each must be approached carefully and the fights are 
 quite tactical. It is important in these fights to move around a lot and wait for opportunities 
 before striking quickly. These challenging battles give a strong sense of satisfaction and help 
 to keep you playing the game.
  
  As I say though, the gameplay is very reminiscent of Diablo, featuring a fixed over head camera, 
 large areas full of monsters, a similar character sheet and the gameplay process of Arrive at town, 
 talk to townsfolk, obtain quests, explore wilderness, kill monsters, loot areas, kill boss monster, 
 return to town for reward and to sell items . Even things such as shrines giving temporary abilities 
 and portals providing quick links to different areas are the same. A lot of the sound effects sound 
 similar too. All that is essentially different is the story. While this lack of originality is 
 a little disappointing, the argument can be put forward that if the format isn't broken then there 
 is no need to mess with it; Diablo is one of the most important RPG's of all time so why should 
 the developers of Titan Quest stray from a winning formula?
  
  Graphically this game is nice. It's nothing special, however it is perfectly acceptable considering 
 its fixed third person camera that doesn't let you get too close to the characters. The graphics 
 for magical effects are very nice and showcase its performance a little more though, so it is worth 
 investing some skill points in the spells when you level up just for the great effects! The environments 
 are varied and interesting, really giving you the feel of the architecture of the various civilizations 
 that you visit. The main locations are mostly real places too, so it is interesting to see how 
 the developers have imagined them. Having a passing knowledge of Egyptian mythology it was very 
 interesting to see how the story in Titan Quest was weaved throughout real locations and the characters 
 of the mythology.
  
  I didn't experience any bugs, and the game ran perfectly well even when there were a lot of characters 
 on screen and a lot of area effects going on at once. The game has three difficulty levels, which 
 together with a very long campaign mean that the game is excellent value for money. There is also 
 a tool to create your own adventures, though I haven't really tried this out yet. I'm sure that 
 there are some interesting community developed adventures on the net to play though, so it is unlikely 
 that you will get bored of the game.
  
  In all, this is a solid, enjoyable game. It lacks originality of gameplay to be hugely influential, 
 but does represent value for money and I have had fun playing it. The classics inspired storyline 
 gives the game an interesting twist and certainly gives the game added educational value over its 
 rivals. At the end of the day, if you like Diablo styled hack and slash RPG's then you will enjoy 
 playing Titan Quest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpal99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly good. When i first got it i thought it be only decent but it turned 
 out great. Its got good graphics and fun game play, and a wide range of classes and items to choose 
 from, whether your a mage or a archer or them combined, the talking though made me mad because 
 usually it takes a bit of time to talk to a guy. The sound was good and music was ok. so in all 
 great game and lots of fun. Im sure youll have a great time with it so a great buy and you can 
 get a expansion pack if you get bored. Peace Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I've finished a game on normal level, playing an assassin (warefare/rogue) combination. This game 
 definitely gave me my money's worth. I've been playing it every day for weeks. This is Diable on 
 steroids, much better graphics, great music, great equipment and excellent variety in monsters/villians. 
 Gameplay is almost zen-like, defnitely repetitive but always fun. On the first time through, you 
 are leveling up and creating a character, and that is fun. Plus you are always collecting equipment, 
 gotta have better and better stuff. Sometimes the game seems very easy, but near the end it got 
 a lot harder. I appreciate that. The negative - a big difference between and 8.0 and a 10.0 game 
 - is that the story line is a complete waste of time. It is silly. Of course, the story never gets 
 in the way of the action, which is fun. Also, kudos for some fantastic music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  + Really beautiful looking game and pretty good story. Incredible long game.
  + Custom map editor means time for user mods.
  - During certain times of the day (in game) , it 
 seems to struggle going into dusk.
  - Game is pretty easy, once you get some decent items.
  
  After playing the demo for 20 minutes, I ordered the game for in-store pick up at my local 
 Best Buy, along with my best friend. We picked it up together after work and rushed home to install 
 it. The game, at first, felt like a bit of a Nox copy, which is a good thing. Turns out, I was 
 wrong, but not that it was a bad thing. It turned into a really fun hack-n-slash adventure that 
 I played non-stop in the mornings before work and late at night. Let's just jump right in this 
 review.
  
  The graphics are really cool looking. Grass and plants bend with your characters movements while 
 walking through fields. It really makes the game look more life like. Everything in the game has 
 it's own ragdoll effect, which was pretty cool. For instance, you'd open a chest and behold a wonderful 
 treasure, only to have it bounce about off of each other while hitting the ground. Monsters will 
 fall off sides of cliffs after collapsing on the ground. The shaders in the game are really good 
 and help present the game in the most clear and crisp colors you can imagine. Well, for that time 
 period at least. The music in the game is well done. They even have an option to tune the music 
 off and have it appear only on certain events, such as a boss battle or entering a new town. I 
 really liked that option, because typically, I turn off music in games. The EAX support in the 
 game brings out some fantastic sounding monster screams, especially while in a dungeon. However, 
 some of the sounds do seem a little recycled. I wish they had more variety for when items dropped. 
 Speaking of which, that's a really cool feature in the game. Whatever a monster is holding, you 
 can pick up after you've killed it. All of their items will drop.
  
  They implemented some jewel crafting into the game, giving a more custom fit to your items. The 
 only thing that could have made the jewel crafting better is making them drop less often, and make 
 it where some jewels can be applied into blue items or higher. One of the things you'll get sick 
 of is the item drop rate. Enough of the yellow items, already! (Yellow isn't rare at all) . It just 
 gets annoying when you're looking for items and a million yellow and white things are appearing 
 while you hold down the Item List key. Multi player is perfect as far as just jumping into a game. 
 It's like the pros have done before in Diablo and Dungeon Siege. They even threw in some PvP, which 
 is the one thing Dungeon Siege 2 was missing. One thing I really enjoyed was the increase of difficulty 
 whenever someone joins your game. The game is pretty easy by itself so having this is almost a 
 must. That's one of the biggest problems I have with this game is the difficulty. The game starts 
 out sorta hard, but as you get past the first act, you'll end up walking through the game, or at 
 least I did. My friend was playing at different times and said he was having a problem fighting 
 off some of the bosses alone. I guess I just had too good of items to play through, because I really 
 didn't have a problem. That is until the very end. The last boss is probably the hardest boss I've 
 ever fought. The battle reminded me of a game called Painkiller, a first person shooter set up 
 like old school DOOM or Serious Sam. One of the bosses you fight in Painkiller is almost 100x bigger 
 than you and is really dang hard. This last boss in Titan Quest, is sorta like that, only I couldn't 
 beat him alone. I had to wait for some people to join in my game so they could help.
  
  A few minor glitches in the game hold it back from making it a near-perfect experience. The first 
 problem you'll encounter is the fighting system. Sometimes when fighting a mob, you'll notice no 
 one is dying. Why is that? Because your guy isn't close enough to hit the character. It seems to 
 happen a lot more at the end of the game, as your guy just stands there and hacks away at nothing 
 while taking a mighty beating. The other glitch is the invisible wall area on the 3rd act, in the 
 forest at the end. I kept getting stuck on nothing and had to find my way around it a lot. Pretty 
 easy thing they could have worked out, at least through a patch by now.
  
  The only thing that could have made this game better is for them to do what Dungeon Siege 2 does 
 and store your characters on a GameSpy server. That would have been nice, but oh well. Overall, 
 it's a really good game and should be purchased if you're a real fan of the hack-n-slash genre. 
 Heck, we can use all we can until Diablo 3 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miguelrazvan
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  I don't think this was at all a good game yet i'll give it an 7 just because it's 3d and diablo 
 was not.
  I ddn't read gamespot's review just to see what my opinion of the game would be, without influence. 
 I knew that some say that it is good others say that it's a waste of time. I installed the game 
 hopeing for a bit of action yet i found myself in front of a game that has even menu screen booring. 
 Yes, i can kill monsters. So what if i've done this a milion times. It's not about killing it's 
 about how you kill them and titan quest just makes this killing booring. I'd rather watch paint 
 dry. First of all the graphics are not that good. I've seen better graphics in older games and 
 i wonder how come they work so good on one of my pcs (that's a bit old) and this does not, even 
 if i change most of the settings to low (i've played fable on the same computer and it worked just 
 perfectly) .
  The sound is ok yet it could have been a lot better. I don't want to be so evil to give it less 
 that a 7 so I'll give 8 to sond.
  Value? No, it has no walue what so ever. Well... let's just give it a 5 for the people who actualy 
 made this game beacause i suppose they actualy done some work in there. I don't know...5 for the 
 value, sorry guys!
  Still i can't understand why wold you make a game that looks so much like diablo? I'm just looking 
 at other games (rpgs) today and i can't even compare them to titan quest. I've just wasted some 
 hours playing something that's not worth my time. Sad, but this is what I think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bibbalo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Great game, I love the setting and the storyline. I have a degree in Classical history and thus 
 an interest in Greek and Roman history and mythology. So the story was a blast! The graphics on 
 a higher end machine are amazing and the game play is smooth. Diablo II could never hold my attention 
 long enough for me to get past Act II, but I have beaten Titan Quest on Legendary with 3 different 
 characters so far (defense/warrior is my favorite) . If you like warriors, archers, or a strong 
 spellcaster rest assured, you can create such a hero in Titan Quest. Like other games you start 
 off weak and with the worst equipment possible... but over time you build up to some pretty impressive 
 equipment and a character truly worthy of being called a Hero. So all said, I love this game and 
 it is the best point and click, hack and slash, RPG out there right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  This is an extremly cool game which resembles Baldur's Gate and Diablo. But is better. The graphics 
 are nice and atmospheric and the campagin is extremly long. People say it gets repetitive just 
 killing monsters BUT for some reason you just can't stop. Some minor bugs though like when it is 
 nightime the framerates drop (you would think they would rise) and random framerate drops.
  
  Gameplay::: Nice, fun with tons (1000+) items. The loot you get is like mercedes benz placed 
 everywhere which is good cause it is pretty easy to get the powerful stuff. Lots of classes and 
 skills to get and very long campagn going through three different countries. Ability to add stuff 
 to about everything is good too.
  
  Graphics::: Pretty but not next-gen but not PS2 so in the middle. No blood : (
  
  Sound::: To 
 be honest you forget about the music and sounds as you hack your way through hoards of stuff
  
  Value::: Off steam it is $26 plus expansion which is well good with map editor and all. Takes 
 forever to download, even at 200kb/s
  
  Flaws::: small bugs (mostly framerates for me but it gets normal very quickly) can't rotate camera 
 but can zoom, no blood, also it crashed cause my video card went to 91 degrees (woops over overclocked) 
 so I'm writing this review to let my video card cool down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyte_spede
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  A lot of people call this game a Diablo 2 clone, or Diable 3 or what not. That is understandable 
 as it plays very similar to Diablo. However Titan Quest is certainly its own game and there are 
 many things that differentiate it from the diablo series.
  
  The game takes place in ancient roman lands, Egypt, the orient, and Babylon. The locations look 
 beautiful and fit very well. The story and main missions are exciting and suspenseful, becoming 
 more and more epic as you play. The graphics are very pretty, plenty of nice looking characters 
 and terrain and beautiful dynamic lighting. Character customization seems pretty weak when you 
 make a character, you can only choose a gender and a tunic color from a short list of colors. Many 
 people complain about this but in truth you do not need more customization than that. As you develop 
 your character you can deck them out with so many different types and looks of armor and weapons. 
 There is a very wide selection or armors and weapons, with tons of different enhancements. You 
 can build your character in pretty much any way you desire. There are tons of rare items to get, 
 including full sets of armor which, when complete, give even more enhancements. You get to choose 
 2 different masteries for your character from a list of 8. This may seem like a small selection, 
 but the key is the combination of the masteries you choose. Since you can choose two masteries, 
 this opens up many combinations. All the masteries compliment other masteries in different ways, 
 how you choose your masteries and skill development defines most of your characters strengths and 
 weaknesses and how they play. You can have a ranged or melee fighter, ranged being either magic 
 or using bow and arrows, and melee can use a wide selection of weapon and even use dual wield weapons.
 
  
  The wide variety of characters and their play styles gives this game a high replay value, as well 
 as the solid multiplayer. You can host and join co-op games of single player campaign or custom 
 maps and campaigns.
  
  A lot of love was put into the making of this game and it shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argonaut125
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  On the one hand you have:
  
  Pro's
  Diablo hack and slash glory!
  Rag Doll effects for those great moments of victory.
  Interesting Items
  Fascinating Class 
 progression tree
  Solid Graphics
  
  but on the other
  
  Con's
  So many bugs and glitches that you wonder if you didn't pay for a beta version of the game. I've 
 only gotten it to work about 1 hour at a time before crashing.
  
  Things like this didn't even get better with the patches.
  
  If only they spent more time to 
 polish this game for bugs it would have been great! But as it is, the game lacks to wow. And leaves 
 you depressed about the 50th time your computer restarted on you or your character's file is corrupted 
 and gone missing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlueSpirals
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I have never played Diablo 1 or 2, so I will be unable to compare this game to them, as many reviewers 
 have.
  
  The gameplay is point-and-click, which discouraged me initially when I read about it, and I avoided 
 the game for many weeks after it came out. I worked at a computer store at the time and ended up 
 buying it with a discount, but after playing it, I would definitely pay full price for this game.
 
  
  The graphics are of course the first thing to catch your eye. If you've got a nice video card, 
 these are some of the best eagle's eye visuals I've seen in a game, comparable to Company of Heroes. 
 Although this game takes place in the ancient world, it feels more like a fantasy universe, and 
 rightfully should. The egyptian deserts and catacombs are by far the most riveting experiences 
 of this game. The music shifts to eerie, lonely hymns while underground fighting mummies and strange 
 creatures of egyptian lore. The look of this game is incredibly impressive, and its fun factor 
 is facilitated by the moving music.
  
  The bosses require some strategy and you will die many times learning how to play, which is a great 
 change from many games that are simply just too easy. That is not to say that often you will just 
 charge through groups of lesser denizens with blazing fury, but you will often have to watch your 
 step.
  
  I highly suggest this game to anyone curious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest for me, can only be described as A lengthy and fun RPG which leans more towards action 
 with its 'click to kill' simplicity and hack and slash fun. as mentioned above.
  
  The gameplay is great, the length is surprisingly massive, you fight you're way from some small 
 town in southern greece to towns like Delphi, Megara and finally Athens and this takes about 8-10 
 hrs on its own if you choose to pick up every item, take every route and fufill every quest. And 
 just when you think its done you're sent to an island south of greece which then will see you setting 
 sail for Egypt where it will take you about the same time as Greece did then you're sent off to 
 Babylon and then Asia which will also take the same time and then the final showdown at Olympus. 
 And you will find the amount of hrs you spend on this game ending up to be like 30+ hrs which is 
 like double a regular game. And although at times it may get tirering, as long as you don't play 
 for like 5 hrs at a time or something stupid like that the boring moments shouldn't come up often.
 
  
  The overall gameplay starts off with you picking a character, which is a disappointing part of 
 the game because there is no customisation apart from gender and tunic colour. Then you arrive 
 at a small town with nothing but that tunic and you have to take down the present monsters with 
 your fists but then you can pick up their weapons and items and use them for yourself, these range 
 from swords, spears, shields, bows, staffs, mallets, clubs, arm bands, leggings, rings, amulets, 
 necklaces etc. The inventory system can get annoying because of the surprising amount stuff the 
 enemies drop. However pressing X will highlight the special stuff you'll be stupid to miss which 
 will sometimes miss a few things but pressing Z will highlight everything and let you decide what's 
 not good or not. When your inventory is full its best to find a merchent, trader, blacksmith etc 
 to sell it to for some cash. This cash will enable you to be able to buy the items they are selling 
 which are usually weaker then the amazing things you pick up on your travels but there is often 
 a diamond in the rough so look out for something good there. You will also want to buy health and 
 energy potions because you'll need em with the amount of enemies you'll be facing. The portal system 
 helps alot with the collecting of items, because once your full of stuff to sell and nowhere near 
 another town you can just lay down a portable portal and travel to another portal which are usually 
 in every town.
  
  So overall thats the gameplay for you, killing, scavenging and selling. But also you must complete 
 the main quest and the optional side quests - which you'll want to do for the money or cool item 
 you'll receive, also the experience. - The experience system is cool, once you fill it up you will 
 be upgraded to the next level. By the end of the game you'll find yourself at about level 30 or 
 so. At about level 2 you can pick a power, these range from; storm, earth, spirit, warfare, defense, 
 nature and rouge. They vary in quality and in my opionion the ones to pick are; Earth, Storm, or 
 Spirit and the ones to avoid would be something like nature. You only get two choices so be incredibly 
 carefull as if you pick something bad you cant take it back and your stuck with it. within these 
 powers are speperate powers which are permantent until you find a mage, who will undo your mistakes 
 for a price. With each new experience level you will get more points to pick the minor powers. 
 And you also receive points for strength, health, energy, dexterity and intelligence which you 
 will need to manage as you need them to use specific items - these are permanent too.
  
  The graphics are great with good water effects, beautiful environments, flashy magical powers and 
 scary looking enemies.
  
  The sound is good with a mixture of calm music with also theatric exillerating pieces altough there 
 is nothing you'll be lookign to download/buy.
  
  In conclusion this game is a length, fun game that is great for action loving players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aminal_basic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I played Diablo2 , Diablo, Sacred, Sacred Underworld and more RPG's than I can count. I enjoyed 
 playing them the first time through. ( I usually start a game in normal even the ones that reviewers 
 say should be started in easy because of the difficulty in gameplay. Sometimes I'll even play a 
 second time, But 3 times? I am into RPG's , mostly because they are challanging and you can put 
 yourself as any character in your group ( if it's group related) or as the hero in your game ( 
 as in the aformentioned games) . They really are a lot of fun! Good graphics, a whole lot of work 
 gone into the making the game. Good patches and upgrades to make the game (s) more challanging and 
 fun. A world made to be believable enough for what it is. Weapons that work in the world without 
 being too overpowering and within parimeters replayability. It's in the Diablo2 Framework style 
 that I have my major problem.
  I enjoy playing a game through. If it's challanging and takes quite a while to play all the better. 
 That's what makes it fun. But in Diablo2 and Sacred ( not as bad though) and Titan quest ( and 
 others) you can play the game all the way through, doing every mission, finding every little thing 
 that can be broken into, stolen, found and get almost none of the items ytou need to make a set or 
 the runes to make better items. To top it all off you have 3 different levels of the game that 
 you should/must play through to actually finish the game. Like I stated earlier I like to play 
 the game but man how boring can you get doing the same thing all over again and again. The games 
 are set up that way. I don't mind a challange but why waste the time to have all these great items 
 and sets and things that you can make and/or enhance then make it so they can't be found? Do you 
 like doing the same area, killing the same monsters, nothing changing maybe 100 times in hopes 
 of finding a single set item and/or rune? Even then the odds are against you getting anything you 
 wanted or needed. I don't think that's right and to me it takes all the fun out of the game. Half 
 of the fun playing is going for the set items and runes etc. that can be found. There is just no 
 fun when getting these much desired pieces is (next to???) impossible. I know a lot of people will 
 disagree with this view but it's how I feel about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game... man its sooo awesome... Its like Diablo but then with Now-Gen graphics :D
  Now lets begin at the gameplay. The gampelay is sooo great and addictive. It's lots of hours. It 
 is great to play the game again cus you can choose different classes and skills and stats. It's 
 great singleplayer but Co-Op is more fun. So if you have a brother or some mates then play Co-Op. 
 I played it 4 times with my brother and you dont need to buy the games twice.
  There are Offensive melee classes (Warfare, Rogue) and Defensive Melee Classes (Defense) , Also there 
 are Offensive Magic Classes (Lightning, Earth and more) Also there are defensive magic classes like 
 Nature. Thats like healing and stuff. There are much different weapons and armors. Also later in 
 the game you can get 'sets' of armor. You start in Greece and then you begin in a city. After you 
 did some side quests and trained on some monsters then you follow the path and do some side quests. 
 Then you'll come to the next city and then the next and the next..... In all the lands is this 
 the same. The lands are: Greece, Around China or Japan (not sure: P) and Egypt. Now the graphics. 
 The graphics are nice and have some great details. The trees are photo-realistic. If you walk through 
 the grass or water the water splashes and the grass waves. Its good but not perfect. It's what 
 we usually see around on the RPG games. So its just good.
  The sound is great like screaming wolves and its sword sounds and the spells have great sound-effects. 
 Not much to say about it but its just great.
  Well i cant say much things about the value and stuff.
  If you have a PC this is a must-have 
 with tons and tons and tons of gameplay. JUST BUY IT ... RIGHT NOW!!!!!
  Cya at my new review ;) (Srry for bad English) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Please Note: This review is for the original Titan Quest but I had Immortal Throne installed on 
 top of it. It added a lot of nice features to the main game (auto-arrange for inventory, caravan 
 drivers, new items etc.)
  
  Titan Quest is a hack and slash action-RPG in the same vein as the Diablo series. It's not the 
 Diablo killer everyone is looking for, but it's still a very good game that needs to be played 
 if you like that kinda of stuff.
  
  The first thing that will hit you when you start this game is the sweet graphics! Everything is 
 in 3D and when played at 1024*728 with all the details and effects on, it's a beauty to watch. 
 It's also important to note that it's not just the graphic engine that makes the game so beautiful... 
 the art direction is great as well. Each location of the game has been designed with love and it 
 shows. (The great wall of China is the highlight for me!) The game even has a accelerated day / 
 night effect which looks cool as well.
  
  The sound is really well done. The soundtrack is low-key but there's so much sound effect that 
 it gets drowned out anyway. The voice-overs are nice but the actual dialog drags from time to time 
 (ok shut up and just tell me what i should do next!) .
  
  The actual quest is very long, it will easily take you at least 30 hours to go thru the main quest 
 (not counting Immortal Throne) for the first time. After that you can redo it with a higher difficulty 
 which contains harder monsters and sweeter loot. Usually i finish a game and go to the next one.. 
 but i'm actually exciting to replay the quest on a harder difficulty just to get better gear!
 
  
  TQ is a great multi player game. When you host a game you are basically playing your quest like 
 you normally would and then all of a sudden people connects to you and help you squash monsters 
 and do quests. Everything you do in multiplayer affects you single player campaign as well. The 
 bad part is that all characters are saved on your HD so it's very easy for people to hack their 
 heroes to make them Gods.
  
  All in all this game offers the best experience besides Diablo 2 for you hack and slash fans. It 
 has great graphics, a lengthy quest, large number of items, good coop online play an more. The 
 game is currently 19$ here and it's worth every penny. The expansion pack is 29$ and is also a 
 great value for all the content it adds to the main game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  Titan quest is all about slashing hordes of enemies, from satyrs to ... crows. If you like this 
 type of mindless distraction, it`s okay but after a while the fun is over and I found myself searching 
 for more. The graphics and game interface are easy to use, making the adventure less boring, but 
 why design a character who could get 110 strength at level 6 and only one window inventory ? How 
 could i carry all that loot - believe me, there is a lot ! - when one armor ocupy 1/3 of the inventory 
 ? Maybe Titan is a Diablo clone, but creating a team in the beggining and viable AI enemies should 
 be the pourposes while doing a RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is pretty much a Hack and Slash game like Diablo 2 set in Ancient Greek times. I'm 
 actually basing this review on the Immortal Throne version of this game, which adds new items and 
 gameplay elements to not only the expansion, but to the original game as well. So if you plan on 
 having the best experience possible with this game it's probably better to get the expansion along 
 with it. Now I don't want to ruin the story, but pretty much your character starts in Greece where 
 it is besieged by endless hordes of monsters and beasts and it is up your character to find out 
 why the Gods aren't doing anything to help stop them and the story evolves from there.
  
  The music in the game is very good, although the voice acting from a few of the NPC characters 
 you meet in the game sound silly and annoying especially when it comes to exaggerated accents. 
 One nice feature the game has is that some of the NPC's you come across will enlighten you with 
 myths and stories of some of the famous heroes/Gods/philosophers during these times like Hercules, 
 Set, Confucius. So it adds some very nice brief background information, which if your history/mythology 
 buff like me you'll appreciate. The graphics are amazing if you have good computer to run it on 
 max, but even with a good computer you may experience slowdown in areas with lots of enemies or 
 lighting effects. The physics is also extremely well done as enemies can realistically and dynamically 
 fall off cliffs or into a body of water, can be slammed against and bounced off of walls, and can 
 even slide/turn slowly down hills or stairs. It makes for some very fun combat when your character 
 is super powerful and is able to fling enemies across the screen.
  
  The game itself is pretty long as you go through 3 acts; starting off in Greece, continuing through 
 Egypt and finally traveling the long road to East Asia. Overall according to the in game time it 
 took me around 30 hours to complete it solo, and that was going through every side quest, cavern, 
 tomb, ECT. It will take much longer if you want to level your character to be all mighty and God-like 
 and you can play multiplayer with more people, which I think is a much more fun experience if you 
 play with people who don't cheat and use trainers that is. Even after you beat the game on normal 
 mode though there are 2 more difficulties to go through which offer more experience for monster 
 kills, better loot, and new bosses. Plus you can always start over and choose a different class 
 so the lack of replay ability won't be an issue.
  
  Overall though if you love hack and slash games like Diablo 2 and Dungeon Siege and are looking 
 for a game that will take a while to complete, you'll have no problem enjoying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RanXer0x
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Sure it's a shot out to appeal those of us that loved or still play diablo II. But, I can't fault 
 it for making me want to play it for hours on end, and not want to put it down. I haven't had this 
 much fun in a long time..
  
  The skinny: It takes the good from diablo II, puts in into a massive world, and spins it around 
 in a big blanket of graphical updates. Oh and the balance between loot and skills? The best since 
 diablo II.
  
  Tired of waiting for diablo III? Get this.. it seriously is the next best thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacrx7
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game plays a lot like Diablo: You have a single linear main quest to follow, you will have 
 to kill packs of monsters that drop a ton of loot, when your bags are full you will use a portal 
 to any town and sell everything there, then you will go back and repeat. However, as Diablo, this 
 game has something that gets you hooked instantly. Adding the amazing graphics, the great music 
 and sound effects into the mix, Titan Quest can be a really good and fun experience for any gamer, 
 no matter if it's a newcomer or a veteran inside the roleplaying genere. Even through it seems 
 there are not much to choose from at the begining while creating your character, you will find 
 that you can customize him (or her) in multiple ways, mixing two masteries or focussing in a single 
 one to create one of many classes available, adding points to some skills and atributes to make 
 your character almost unique, and choosing from a large variety of gear, giving the game's replayability 
 a lot of sense.
  The game has some technical issues like ruberbanding during gameplay in some machines, wich is 
 the only complaint i have. I think Ironlore did a great job with this game for being their first 
 one, and I give them all the credit for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jinoru
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is no doubt a Diablo clone. But is the first one to do it so well. If you have played 
 Diablo and would try Titan Quest you would be a pro because there isn't many differences between 
 them. The biggest difference is the graphics. Titan Quest has amazing graphics and beautiful models 
 for enemies. Water (if your computer can handle it) reflects everything that is next to it. The 
 game uses ragdoll physics to make enemies drop realistically to the ground or go flying if you 
 hit them hard enough. Another Difference is the way you get a character class. When you turn level 
 two you pick a skill out of a list of 8. I personally picked the warfare skill because I like to 
 hack and slash rather than cast spells. At level 8 you pick another skill and this adds a new dimension 
 to your character. I picked the Earth skill which makes it so i can cast fire spells at enemies. 
 The third difference is that the environment is not randomly generated. There is an mod maker for 
 expanded content. Titan quest is for the people who want something more to play than Diablo and 
 need there fix of hack and slash RPG while waiting for Diablo 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjun41
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 23, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  There really isnt much to say about this game except, if you liked/loved Diablo, then youll like/love 
 this. You choose the character type you wish to play and you are pretty much stuck with that type 
 throughout the whole game. You can make some changes to your stats as you level along by putting 
 in points on where you want it (str, dex, etc.) . But all in all, if you chose warrior, youll likely 
 put points thatll help your warrior actually become a warrior. Graphics are nice, I did notice 
 the refresh rate slowly decreasing after playing for about few hours. This leaves your eyes strained 
 and blurry which makes it difficult to concentrate. Single play is fun only to certain point. Once 
 you go online with your character, you can increase the fun to certain point but, the gameplay 
 still seems to remain similar to single player mode. If you are looking for some innovative gameplay 
 style that is fun like Diablo but innovative at the same time, this is probably not the game for 
 you. If you enjoyed Diablo and wants to play a game similar to it with better graphics, then this 
 is probably it for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 9, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest its almost like a Diablo clone, it does the job well and the game its a good exprience, 
 but, it can only get a good exprience if you haven't play games like Diablo (there are more games 
 of the genre but everyone knows Diablo) . The gameplay its almost the same, it just differs on menus 
 and how you learn spells and abilities, but it is really close to Diablo even in the points that 
 it does something diferent from Diablo, left mouse button for atack and right button for spell 
 or ability, who in the world is not familiar with this? eheheh.
  The graphics in the game are nice and sound its ok too but when it comes to ambience I don't enjoy 
 much of it, the single player can get you in the game for quite a long time and multiplayer can 
 get you more hours of gaming since its a nicely implemented multiplayer.
  Gameplay its repetitive and not innovative, the whole game does not bring anything really new.
 
  Titan quest its a worth playing game but if you have played many games of its genre you can get 
 bored about it, so choose wisely if your thinking about buying titan quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  The next time someone asks if you are a god, you say YES! Titan Quest revovles around the age of 
 the Titans. Are you a god per say in the game, yes you can be. Titan Quest is a good fun game for 
 any RPG lover and it tries its best to be the next Diablo II. Though it falls short it comes very 
 close to becoming an equal counterpart. The game looks very nice they really did well with graphics, 
 making everything look very detailed right down to the weapons and armor. Though the spell effects 
 look good visually they leave a lot to be desired. The characters all in all good/evil alike look 
 very well done and I am very happy that they took graphics serious for once in an RPG of this nature. 
 Now the environment is suprisingly just as good as the characters, it is very detailed and very 
 nicely done. Graphical wise its very impressive considering the past RPG games of the Diablo II 
 nature have flubbed when it came the graphics Titan Quest really turns the tables for once. The 
 controls for Titan Quest is actually a little awkward, but after about 30 minutes of some key swapping, 
 very manageable. By default the keys are a little awkward and they make you feel like you're gonna 
 be deformed after playing for so long, though the plus is the fact that you can manage what keys 
 do what. The only good part is that you can make the game to play with only three keys on the keyboard 
 and the mouse obviously. Bypassing sound because its good by default and the only way to mess up 
 sound is to not have any the game itself holds a lot of replay value. At first you can only pick 
 one Master . The game gives you eight classes to master and you will pick one class at the start 
 and at or after level 8 you can choose a sub class. At each level you can freely put 3 value points 
 in whatever mastery you choose. The bad part is to the fact that with 2 mastery's you STILL only 
 have 3 value points so to fully use two mastery classes it will take you a long time of leveling 
 to continue on with a quest with a respectable power against the enemies. Questing is the sole 
 provider of the game and what keeps you going, though it is not the bread winner when it comes 
 to experience it keeps the story going. Though you don't have to read anything because every quest 
 giver or merchant in the game has a voice so there's no more reading involved in this game. Making 
 your own weapons is actually very easy. By killing the random animal or creature in the world some 
 will drop relics and these relics will add anything from damage to attack speed to your weapon. 
 Some relics will only enhance certain items (i. e. weapons, bows, armor, jewelry) . If you keep your 
 weapon long enough to complete a relic then it will give you an additional bonus for completed 
 it. Some relics require 5 relics to complete others require 3 relics. The best thing to do with 
 relics is collect them until you complete a certain relic and then decide where you want to put 
 it otherwise at the beginning you will be switching armor and weapons so often you will be wasting 
 relics that are good. After all of this the game itself is very well made and thought up and with 
 the new expansion should continue to be good. With all things considered Titan Quest is a must 
 have for any RPG fan or Diablo II fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 2, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Rather than throwing out another Medieval theme related game, TQ takes us to the ancient 
 world, and you'll have adventured across Greece, Egypt and China, before you've finally become 
 the hero (or heroine) of the day at the end of the game. It might take you as many as 40 hours 
 to quest your way through to the last encounter, but there isn't as much variety as in its action-RPG 
 counterparts. I also found loot distribution not as satisfying. With each of the three areas divided 
 into three equal parts, you'll be in Greece for 12-15 hours of play and about the same with the 
 other parts. While it's spiced up with dungeons both large and small, the landscape is largely 
 wilderness surrounded by mountains and big and small bodies of water. And you fight yout was though 
 the landscape. The gameplay itself is quite similer to previous RPG game like Diabilo where you 
 use your mouse and point and click to move around and hack, slash and thrust your way though enemys. 
 Also the whole equiping your person is also quite similer to DIabilo. So when it comes down to 
 engaging with enemies they are pretty much in group one after another who are skulking around a 
 treasure chest or just skulking in general. There is only one character to choose from but it's 
 the skill that you have that determin which class you are in. Come to think of it it's pretty similer 
 to Guild Wars. There is also a multiplayer part of the game which is not bad. You can team up with 
 other people on the internet to complete missions.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are quite nice to look at. They are will detailed and colorful. But anti-aliasing 
 is oddly taxing. The three world environments could use some more variety, though.
  
  Sound: The sound is quite nice too Voice acting is good, the sound effects all sound the way they 
 should sound and the sound track fits the theme and the story with it aswell it's just feels ambiant.
 
  
  Value: All in all this is a great game with a ok rplayability value. Similer to Diabio it's sinple 
 player part is not that replable beside the multuplayer. Titan Quest manages to distinguish itself 
 mostly in terms of character development. Compared to other similer games like Diabilo where the 
 story suddenly ends.
  I give this game 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Titan quest is a game released last year by Iron Lore and it is a sucessfull and fun RPG that accomplishes 
 much that others before it did. Chances are that if you liked classic RPG's like Baldurs gate, 
 Divine divinity , or Diablo you will like this. Titan quest has a fantastic looking 3D engine for 
 an RPG and you will appreiciate it's artistic look and rag doll physics, though it has lost some 
 of it's magic that 2D RPG's had, it's not nearly a good enough reason to put this back on the shelf. 
 In Titan quest you don't really pick a class at the beggining, instead you later on get to pick 
 two different skill trees to use and you can have any two combonations you want. Titan quest is 
 a nice lengthly RPG as well and you will not get tired of it for a long while. You can also play 
 online for cooperative play which makes for a good addition when you want to play with a friend 
 who has the game. Titan quest is a great game and is well worth you'r time and money ( only $20 
 now) if you have already compleated other classic RPG masterpieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arijiel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  It has been a long long time since Ive played a PC style RPG. My first game coming back to the 
 genre is Titan Quest and it is some of the most fun Ive had with a game for quite some time now. 
 Single player is fun and all and the campaign is enjoyable to play through with all the items and 
 armor to collect and equipment to find. However the most fun I had with Titan Quest was playing 
 with others. Ive been playing LAN with my room mate and it never gets old. We play for hours on 
 end and simply blast through enemies and it is so satisfying to destroy mythical monsters from 
 the ancient times. Titan Quest is a lot of fun, but may feel familiar to those who have played 
 similar games such as Diablo, but for someone like me who is pretty casual with PC style RPGs, 
 Titan Quest is refreshing and totally awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  It is often compared to Diablo. That's justified since this is so darn similar to Diablo, it might 
 as well be called a Diablo mod. It's Diablo set in ancient Greece.
  
  If you've played Diablo, then you know exactly what this game has to offer and you'll be rather 
 shocked at just how similar these games are.
  
  The major differences are the better graphics in TQ and the class system, which is more complex, 
 and fulfulling, in TQ. Diablo's class system is rather simple by comparison.
  
  For the most part, i'd say TQ is a better game. That makes sense given it's come out years after 
 Diablo 2. But Diablo 2 retains some advantages. For example, you'd think that TQ's mythological 
 background would give it an amazing story and world, but both end up being sort of half-assed, 
 something you couldn't accuse Diablo of in the slightest. The gold in Diablo also served more of 
 a purpose; in TQ, money can buy you lots of stuff, most of it useless, and you'll never run out 
 of money; enemies drop lots of cash. The last thing I noticed was that in Diablo, you could actually 
 acquire and collect armor sets; in TQ that's just not realistic. Items for sets rarely drop even 
 for those who've put in over 100 hours into the game.
  
  I'd say there are balancing issues with enemies and classes as well. for TQ For my experience, 
 I only found one enemy difficult, and that was the end boss. And he became rather easy once I swapped 
 around some skill points. Overall, the game was very easy; I hardly ever died, unless I was just 
 being careless.
  
  The other major problem i have with TQ is the lack of story driven elements. They have this great 
 premise for a story, but never delever on it or make it a cinematic or intense experience. There 
 are litterally no cutscenes aside from the openning introduction to the game, which makes the game 
 feel well, again, half-assed and empty.
  
  Story: mediocre, could have been better, or at least better presented.
  
  Graphics: I quite 
 like the graphics. On max settings, there are nice effects and reflections/shadows going on. The 
 landscape looks really nice
  
  Sound: nothing special, nothing to complain about
  
  Gameplay: it plays like Diablo, exactly. Which is a really good thing and is quite adictive. Although 
 I sound very critical of the game, I actually had tons of fun playing it. And most of the above 
 complaints are minor. They are things only a Diablo player would notice for the most part. If you're 
 looking for an action rpg that's easy to play and understand, this is your game. Or if you're looking 
 for something to keep you busy until Diablo 3, this will help lots. It's a fun game and easily 
 worth playing if you like the genre.
  
  Worth buying? Yes. The game is only around $20 and provides for around 20 hours of playtime the 
 first time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good if you have nothing to do or if you're bored.
  Don't take this wrong, it's a wonderfully made game, but you just can't get into the story as well 
 as Diablo 2 or Gothic or other well-made games.
  It's a very fun and dynamic hack 'n' slash game.
  
  Titan Quest is a pretty good Diablo 2 replica. 
 Altough the system is basically the same as Diablo 2's system, it does come with enhanced sound, 
 killer graphics and a physics engine.
  
  The game is pretty stable, just be absolutely sure to get the really last patch. As I've said, 
 don't expect to be addicted a lot to this game. The story, altough a good and long one with plenty 
 side quests just isn't so honorable as in other games.
  
  Anyway, don't let me spoil it.
  Altough I don't really go on the ideea of rent or buy, in this situation, I'd say it depends. If 
 you liked Diablo 2, but want something more dynamic then buy it, otherwise rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymastereo
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is one of the best rpg's I have ever experienced. With a good storyline, an simple 
 yet complex skill system, Titan Quest is sure to deliver. Titan Quest also has great graphics, 
 which just adds to the amount of fun. Don't get me wrong, I'm not one of those people who want 
 graphics all the time (I still play classics you know) , so don't think Titan Quest is just about 
 good visuals. The gameplay is identical to Diablo 2, so it fits right in.
  
  Another great thing about it is the easy to learn editor, which after seeing 3 easy video tutorials 
 (available on Youtube) , is a great way to make adventures of your own. Titan Quest is also the 
 first RPG I have ever played that has such a complex physics system, so it is really worth trying 
 it out!
  
  And if you read this review, don't forget to download the X3 mod for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 10, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  It has taken a long time for anyone to achieve an hack n' slash RPG game at the level of Diablo 
 II, but Titan Quest form Iron Lore comes close to that goal.
  
  The games setting is unique enough. Our greek protagonist starts off by helping the people in his 
 village by fending off the invading monsters. In this relatively easy process you find out how 
 the inventory, rag doll equipment and fighting system works. Not surprisingly this system is almost 
 an exact copy of the systems in Dungeons Siege and Diablo, but when you level up the first time, 
 you'll see a slightly more advanced skill system. More importantly, compared to Diablo II, the 
 skill system is more flexible in the sense, that it is possible to remove skill points from skills 
 you don't use later on, if you regret some of your decisions. This makes it possible for you to 
 change the focus of your character.
  
  Another difference in the skill system is, that you can pick 2 classes. This is important. When 
 you level up the first time, you'll pick your primary class - for example a fighter. When you level 
 up to level 8, it is possible - though not required - to pick a secondary class (like Guild Wars) 
 - this secondary class is fully upgradeable like your primary class, so no distinction is made 
 between the two classes, except that you have an 8 level skill lead for the primary class.
  
  Another important point regarding the skill system is that you get 3 points to distribute per 
 level. But as the different classes need points both to level up (which has its own bar in the 
 skill window) and to upgrade actual skills, you'll need every skill point you get. Levelling up 
 will unlock more powerful skills, but you'll need some of the basic skills to make your character 
 effective.
  
  The loot you find is basically interesting, though not as balanced as the loot in Diablo II. Upgrading 
 your equipment can be done through an easy - and well balanced - talisman system, that reminds 
 me a bit of the runeword system in Diablo II.
  
  Unfortunately Titan Quest has nothing that can counter the ingenious Horadric Cube from Diablo 
 II, but the complex skill system does give the game the layer of strategic abstraction needed, 
 in order to be a little more than just a simple hack n' slash game with good graphics..
  
  .. because it sure has nice graphics. Titan Quests environments are more than adequately detailed, 
 from the nice water effects, the waving fields and the beautiful trees. This makes the game a little 
 taxing on the system, and sometimes the game stutter a bit - no matter how much you exceed the 
 recommended specs. But in general the game runs well enough.
  
  The sounds are detailed as well, and small bits of atmospheric music adds to immersive nature of 
 the game, which is one of Titan Quests strong points.
  
  Unfortunately you can only play one predefined character at the beginning (man or woman) . Some 
 customization to the appearance of your character would have been nice, but as it is, the only 
 difference to the appearance of your character is made through his or her equipment, and through 
 dying your equipment with some dye potions bought in-game at the many traders.
  
  You have a portal stone at the beginning of the game, that can transport you to any town you have 
 found in the game - this system is perhaps even better than the teleport scrolls in Diablo II, 
 as it is a simple and effective way to get your character to right place at the right time. So...
 
  
  The skill system obviously makes sure that every character will have different skills, classes 
 and there many ways to play your character - so in the end Titan Quest comes with a good recommendation 
 from this old Diablo II veteran.
  
  Note: As with Diablo, choosing the right skills in combination is the winning tactic. And as with 
 Diablo this requires some field testing and perhaps a bit of online searching. This is a good thing, 
 to be sure, as it proves the games has a bit more going for it than just good looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is visually appealing, and satisfies the RPG gamer's thirst for action, as well as 
 leveling up by choosing two masteries for combos and special skills that compliment each other.
 
  
  The gameplay is very repetitive though. It will not disappoint you when it comes to story, though. 
 The game takes you throught 3 beautifully made mythological settings: Greece, Egypt, and China, 
 as well as the gods' home of Mount Olympus.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  WIth a wide variety of weapons and spells, this game excels, but is very repetitive.
  
  Graphics: 
 9/10
  The graphics are nice, but some games are better.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Absolutely perfect, they even capture the accent in the NPCs voices.
  
  Value: 8/10
  It's 
 out quite cheap now (when I bought it, it was $30) , so buy it and try it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggernaut8419
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Titan Quest which is now on sale for 15-20 bucks these days and wasn't expecting something 
 to fill my void for a new Diablo. This game was able to satiate my appetite for a good old fashioned 
 hack and slash. While the game doesn't introduce anything new in the genre it gets most of the 
 elements right. You will hack your way through countless enemies using the mouse heavy controls. 
 The enemy character design is nicely done and the music is decent but it wasn't playing often enough. 
 When it did start to play it would seem odd because of the time spent with it off. You can change 
 a setting for the music to play more often though. Also the level of difficulty for the bosses 
 did not fit very well compared to the levels monsters. Some bosses would be very very easy to take 
 down and at most they were slightly difficult at the worst (excluding the final boss and one optional 
 boss) . I found that the random monster bosses within a level were harder than the actual storyline 
 bosses. This might be a problem with playing a mage and not seen as much with a warrior type character 
 since I only played my warrior up to level 10. Finally the last bad thing about the game was the 
 lack of official support for PvP. There is the ability to create your own PvP maps through the 
 editor however.
  
  Even with its flaws Titan Quest will keep you entertained for hours, clicking your way to better 
 equipment along side your friends online and even creating some maps of your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axsuul
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  What first got me into this game was the greek mythological background and storyline that the game 
 was based on. Unfortunately for my sake, there wasn't that much of it and some of it was also inaccurate. 
 The game actually spans across three locations: Greece, Egypt, and China. The art and visual direction 
 is beautiful and detailed for each of these locations. Titan Quest also makes use of a physics 
 engine that affects the way monsters die and also adds the cool effect to things such as a dead 
 monster's carcass rolling down a flight of stone steps.
  
  The gameplay is very simple and fast-paced and requires you to make use of the mouse quite heavily. 
 There are quite a number of masteries to choose from and adds a considerable amount of replay value 
 to the game. I wasn't able to try out all the masteries but they all seem pretty balanced. I also 
 found the game to be quite easy as monsters were easy to take down with an unlimited supply of 
 potions (gold is pretty easy to come by) . I know many of you out there want to know how this game 
 compares to Diablo II and so I will attempt to address that. Titan Quest is flashier and more technologically 
 up-to-date but is not as polished or as fun as Diablo II. Simply put, when comparing Diablo II 
 to Titan Quest, Titan Quest is inferior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  This game is really good and th fact that it is $20 in most areas makes this game a no brainer. 
 This game is better than Diablo 2 and i can say that because it plays like it, but it has a more 
 robust class system that makes playing the game again fun. also this looks awsome for a game of 
 this type. i mean Photo realistic comes to mind and i only have a Geforce FX 5500. If you liked 
 or loved Diablo 2 your gonna Love Titan Quest theres no reason for anyone o buy Diablo 2 and the 
 expansion for 39 when you can get Titan Quest for $20.
  
  Comparing this game to Diablo 2 doesn't do Titan quest justice. sure it's alot like it but WOW 
 is just like Ever quest with better Visuals and a better UI. thats exacally what Titan Quest is 
 to Diablo 2. For such a new game and only $20 this game is a must have. 9.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest puts you into the role of a nameless Greek assigned to assist the gods in ridding the 
 world of one of their age old enemies; a Titan. Telkines, powerful sorcerers of the ancient world 
 are Hell-bent on releasing a Titan to take revenge on the Gods for their hubris. Through your quest 
 you will visit many places of the ancient world from Greece, to Egypt and even Asia. This game 
 borrows a lot from other hack and slash roleplaying games, namely, Diablo 2. The interface is pretty 
 much what you'd expect from a game of this sort. The HUD displays your health and mana, as well 
 as assigned hotkeys to your abilities. Everything about the interface is smooth and works really 
 well, except for the inventory system. The inventory in Titan Quest uses the same grid system found 
 many RPGs similar to Diablo 2. The only downside to this system is that there is no way to auto-organize 
 your loot. Rare and magical items drop quite often in Titan Quest, but you won't always be able 
 to use them right away. The lack of a bank-like stash forces you to carry desired items with you 
 unto you meet the requirements to use the item, thus taking up space in your inventory and forcing 
 you to warp back to the nearest town to dump your unwanted goods off at a vendor.
  The graphics in Titan Quest are top-notch. From character models, to enviroments, to the monsters 
 you'll face. Everything looks great. These stunning visuals do come at a price, however, as the 
 game can be quite a system hog. Even at the recomended system requirements, the game seems to bog 
 down particularly when entering or exiting caves and other underground areas. As annoying as it 
 may seem, these minor details are rarely a problem though.
  Titan Quest sports a very nice soundtrack. While exploring the different areas of Greece, Egypt, 
 and Asia, you'll be treated to ambient music that is inspired by each of these locales. The music, 
 although mainly for ambience, really fits and adds feeling to the game. The sound effects are on 
 par too. From the grunts and grows of monsters to the clash of weapons and shields sounds just 
 as one would expect.
  Overall, Titan Quest doesn't bring much new to the table of hack'n'slash role-playing games, but 
 it does satisfy that craving for Diablo 2 style gameplay. Titan Quest is a must buy for any fan 
 of the genre. Also, at 25-30 hours of gameplay for average play-through and the seemless multiplayer 
 that lets you take your character on and offline at your whim definitely add to the lasting value 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiur_08
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Titan quest is more on hack and slash, exploring the world while killing thousand of hordes in your 
 path. leveling up is so easy! and its not hard Gameplay than diablio II. portals here are unlimited 
 just look for a portal point so you can teleport their. and unlimited arrow!! weeee!!! no stamina 
 too!! great! so easy to stay alive! potions have delay but its great because you will not wasting 
 pots on it unlike Diablo II click click and wink! no more pots lol!! :P graphics are superb, also 
 sound, gameplay etc.!! i love this GAME really!! so buy now!! BY the way im addicted so much!! 
 lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katarn07
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  First let me say I've never played Diablo. I wasn't into RPGs and by the time I was, I never got 
 it because it hasn't at all aged well. Without an engaging storyline or a cast of memorable characters, 
 there's no point in putting up with dated graphics when there are so many more clones of it with 
 better graphics and more features.
  
  I chose to get an imported version of Sacred. With it's numerous bugs (even after a patch or two) 
 and it's massive game world and repetative (and pointless) quests, it got old.... fast.
  
  I find Titan Quest, with it's much smaller, more linnear game world and ancient mythological Greek 
 setting to be far more engaging. Sure, to some, that would seem like a negative but I find it easier 
 to not lose interest if I'm progressing the story, as small and dumb as it may be.
  
  This was definitely worth the $20 I paid for it. The only two things Sacred has this doesn't is 
 horseback riding (which was a novelty that soon grew old once I found some boots that made me run 
 faster than the most expensive horses available at the time) and the grotesque amounts of blood. 
 I do miss all that blood, but that's a minor quibble.
  
  This is just one of many games set in an ancient Greek/Roman world that falls short of its true 
 potential. With a better story and more traditional RPG story elements, this could have been really 
 good. But alas, it's only a fun waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  This is a good RPG game but I think it will be better if it use 3rd person view such as Gothic 
 3, not rather than giving a view that the user has to click this and that. The campaign is lengthy 
 but linear so missing a important point of non-linear game play. Can start the game as a male or 
 female and rise through levels according to the experience gathered. Inventory system is very bad 
 and hard to manage. And unlike in other games such as Oblivion in this game player cannot create 
 a mixed class for its character. So player has to use pre-defined classes for the character. Talking 
 about the SAVE option, it is different from other RPG games. In this you cant SAVE from any location 
 in the game and START the game from that location again. In this game it provide some kind of saving 
 check points so player re-appear near that check points when game is loaded.
  Graphics is good and not the best in RPG games as for my experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maedhros925
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I probably should have known better. Action-RPG's like Diablo II tend to get fairly monotonous, 
 as they mostly involve clicking the left mouse button ad nauseum. Still, I had hopes. I played 
 the demo, and was intrigued. This was an action-RPG set in the world of Greek mythology, one of 
 my passions once upon a time, and the graphis were a tremendous improvement from previous generations 
 of games. I advance through the six levels of the demos, and decided to go for it, and purchase 
 the game. Like I said, I should have known better.
  
  I'm maybe 30 or 40 hours in - can't say for sure, I haven't kept track - and yet I find myself 
 reluctant to pick it back up. I know what's waiting for me, and I'm already tired of it. Some of 
 that certainly is due to the genre, which maybe just doesn't interest me as much as it did a few 
 years back, but several design decisions could have led to a better product as well. For one, any 
 fan of Diablo II knows the concept of this game. Kill enemies, obtain their loot, power up so that 
 you can kill stronger enemies, and so on. Titan Quest is true to the formula, even adding additional 
 bonuses, such as piercing attacks/resistance, or offensive/defensive abillity. This gives you a 
 little more freedom to pick the items you prefer, however the tradeoff is that there are fewer 
 primary attributes, limited to strength, intelligence, and dexterity. Generally, you'll find item 
 requirements are limited to intelligence or strength/dexterity, so depending on the character you 
 choose, you can really only use 50% of the items you find. This number might be even less, especially 
 for armor, because even armor you can use might have bonuses that are totally unrelated to your 
 character type.
  
  Speaking of character type, Titan Quest eschews the tradition of picking your character class immediately 
 upon character creation. Instead, you have to gain a level first before you select a mastery, with 
 a second mastery available at level 8. There are only six masteries to choose from, however the 
 option for a second mastery does give you some freedom to mix and match. What I found limiting 
 though, was the fact that the skills in each mastery feels somewhat indistinct. There are the typical 
 stat enhancements that you would expect to find in any game, but gameplay isn't rewarding when 
 only your dice rolls are affected. As for magic in the game, the offensive spells I've used quickly 
 become ineffectual as the monsters gain even just a few levels. With only three skill points available 
 on each level, combined with the fact that you have to spend points both to power up your spells 
 and to power up your masteries, the only way to increase your magic is at the expense of anything 
 else you want to improve. As a result, every character I've made has essentially had to become 
 a brawler, especially with how quickly monsters you spot will be upon you, taking away the possibility 
 for ranged attacks. And since every character has to brawl, it means you can't get away from endlissly 
 clicking the left mouse button.
  
  Of course, itf you enjoy the simple rush of wading through rush of enemies every few steps, this 
 game should be right up your ally. Despite my frustrations, there are some things that the game 
 does very well. Of note, the graphics are especially rewarding. The environment manages to truly 
 feel three-dimensional - your character will walk across narrow stone bridges, or stand on a bluff 
 overlooking monsters in the valley below. An additional visual treat is the way that monsters collapse 
 when you kill them. Satyrs will run toward you, and if you take them out with a ranged weapon, 
 they will collapse naturally, even displaying some of their forward momentum.
  
  Another plus that Titan Quest gets right is that enemies killed will only drop the loot that they 
 carry. If you fight a centaur, you can pick up his Centaur Cuirass after you kill him. Of course, 
 most of the items will break as a result of combat so you can't acquire everything you see, but 
 this does give you an added reward for taken on that shaman with an impressive-looking mantle. 
 Beasts don't use equipment of course, so they drop charms such as Bat Fangs, which add bonuses 
 to your equipment, and can stack for even greater bonuses. This would be a fun innovation, except 
 only one complete charm can be place on an item and the charm can never be removed. You'll pick 
 up plenty of these over the course of a game, but the only items you can place charms on are the 
 unenchanted, or regular enchanted items. To survive very long, you'll find yourself using exclusively 
 rare, epic, and legendary items, and charms cannot be used on these items. For all that effort, 
 I find the charm system to be rather useless, an innovation gone to waste.
  
  Ultimately it's not that Titan Quest is a bad game by any means. What leaves it coming up short 
 is the fact that it doesn't really offer anything all that new. If you've played Diablo, you've 
 played this game. The graphics are nice, the change of setting is intriguing, but so far I've been 
 disappointed that the game has failed to truly immerse itself in Greek mythology. This quest could 
 happen anywhere, and the flavor of mythology that could truly set this game apart is superficial, 
 at best. Par tof the problem is that the main quest is so linear. Unlike even Diablo II, each area 
 is pretty much a straight line, with little chance to explore. Even sidequests can just about all 
 be completed by walking further straight up the road. The whole effect combines to produce a game 
 that could be quite enjoyable, but rises only to tedious, because it's been done before.
  
  Personally, if you're looking for a Diablo II clone, I've found Sacred, and the expansion Underworld, 
 to offer far better gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthRevan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I completed the game playing as a Druid which is determined after choosing the Storm and Nature 
 masteries. I would say overall that I enjoyed the game and that it's a very good choice for anyone 
 looking for a Diablo-like experience. The graphics are beautiful and the animation and sounds seem 
 very well done. This game is long and this is actually something that , in my opinion, works against 
 it since the first act in Greece is really the most interesting one and it's downhill after that 
 one. The second act in Egypt is good but not as interesting as the first one. The third act is 
 the worst and it feels incomplete and unnecessarily drawn out. The ending is lame At the beginning 
 of the game, I didn't realize that the choice of masteries determines your character's class and 
 that they're irreversible. That being said, I played as magical character who used a staff, cold 
 spells and pets - first wolves, then arrow-shooting nymphs and finally the cool wisps - and it 
 was fun. The game has a cool feature that allows you to purchase previously spent points - you 
 get 3 points each time you level up - and spend them on other skills which allows you to experiment 
 with the different skills in your masteries. To maximize my stats, I read one of the guides on 
 Gamespot and it really helped make my hero pretty much invincible. My hero would sneeze and 20 
 beasts would fall under his mighty breath. The expanded inventory sacks is a nice feature since 
 it allows you to hold on to some rare and legendary items without running out of space.
  
  Here is what I didn't like. The monsters drop tons of broken and standard items that are worthless 
 and just make it harder to find the better loot. This by itself would have ruined the game had 
 the developers not offered a way to filter for special items by pressing X. Nonetheless, you'll 
 accidentally grab a lot of worthless standard items that you'll then have to find in your inventory 
 and drop. Does anyone really care for the rusty, crumbling sword of zero damage ? The developers 
 should have just made it impossible to pick up those worthless items. What is even worse is that 
 defeating the bosses occasionally yielded very crappy items. Oh! you've bested me, here's the dagger 
 of ultimate self-damage... Just don't touch anyone with it or you'll instantly die! Well, they didn't 
 really an item like that but it would have been more interesting than all the standard items that 
 the bosses dropped at the end of each act.
  
  The game offers sets of items that together give you special powers which is really, really cool. 
 Unfortunately, it's easier to win the lottery back-to-back in real life then to find the items 
 to complete a set. Very, very, very disappointing. The magical loot also becomes scarce and less 
 useful in the 2nd and 3rd act. I literally played most of 2nd and 3rd act with many items from 
 the 1st act since I was unable to find better ones that applied to my character. It's upsetting 
 to collect 4 bazillion items and find that they all apply to a melee character. I had so many credits 
 at the end that I ended up buying some items just to keep them in my inventory. In my opinion, 
 if you play any game to completion for 30+ hours, you should be able to come up with a set of very 
 rare items. You should NOT have to play it through 18 times to get those items.
  
  Also, while I was able to switch skills, I was never able to get all the skills in a mastery. If 
 you spend 30 hours, you should be able to cast all the spells in your mastery.
  
  The ending is very lame. There is no prerendered cutscene - not even one using the game engine 
 which would have looked nice. Just a voice and some text on top of all the crappy loot that the 
 end boss gave me - when it rains, it pours. I think that Iron Lore ran out of money at the end 
 of the development which explains why the 3rd act feels so weak compared to the 1st and 2nd one.
 
  
  In this case, less is more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  I haven't played Diablo series but Titan Quest is quite entertaining action rpg game for me. Titan 
 quest's gameplay , graphics , visuals , action , AI , soundquality is quite good. Its kind of point 
 and click game but the character movements are quite easy to handle . You will get varities of 
 monsters , spiders , creatures ets as your opponents to kill in the game. The main quest and side 
 quests are pretty long too . The storyline of the game is good .The background of the story is 
 set in ancient greece and the visual settings of that period is very well done. You can create characters 
 of your own choice. There is multiplayer feature also in the game for online players .Its expansion 
 ' Immortal Throne ' is a must buy too to enhance more gameplay hours . Overall i recommend the 
 game highly to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robg3176
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  I've been questing using the Spirit class, so far so good. Can't wait to use Spirit combined with 
 Warfare. There are many options. And I just spoke with General Leonidas... gonna have to see the 
 movie 300 soon, haha =)
  
  What I like:
  
  Classes
  Spells
  Graphics
  Zoom in close to action
  Extended gameplay
  
  Don't like:
  
  Can't rotate camera angle
 
  Can get repetitive
  Music?
  
  I'm looking forward to questing on... Greece, Egypt, and Asia, as well as using hihg level spells, 
 and summons. I'll let you know how it goes as I progress through the game.
  
  I love Diablo, and have been waiting for something to quell me until Blizz actually annnounces 
 D3!!! Bring it back please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sysgen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  At the start I was pleasantly surprised with Titan Quest. The game paints nice charming environments. 
 Add the Diablo like game play and I found myself enjoying this title greatly. As I played more 
 I realized that the game sets you on a linear path without almost zero allowance for exploring 
 off the path. You may find a cave here or there but for the most part its a one way road. Item 
 drops will of course differ from player to player but my player character obtained a very strong 
 bow and very strong staff early on in the game. Throw in some excellent skill acquisitions and 
 I found the game way too easy. Most everything goes down in one or two hits. TQ also does not throw 
 enough monsters at you during the normal difficultly. The game becomes boring very fast. I tried 
 not allocating my skill points when leveling (the last 7 times Ive leveled to be exact) but this 
 did not help. Sure, I could choose a less effective weapon but that defeats the enjoyment of finding 
 these items and using them. I could bump the difficulty to hard or legendary, but no, the game 
 doesnt let me do that. I have to finish it on normal before the designers will allow me a real 
 challenge. Boo!
  
  Is the game worth the $18.99 at retail that I paid? Yes. Is there opportunity here for some good 
 customization? Yes. Can you fun with TQ for a complete play through? I dont know as I have not 
 unlocked hard or legendary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda_8377
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I've read more than one mediocre review of this game and I think they are truly unfair. Diablo 
 has a certain niche and as it has become quite obvious their will be no Diablo 3 fans need a fix. 
 Sure, their some valid criticisms of this work: one, that the character creation process is lacking, 
 and two that the mechanics and format are too familiar. In response to the first criticism I would 
 like to point out that while the actual root character selection process is probably even weaker 
 than that found in Diablo 2 (only a M\F choice rather than 5 - 7 seven characters) the overall 
 character skill development process will provide enough variation to satisfy. As for the issue 
 of familiarity; I say that is what I've wanted all along. Without actually being diablo 3 this 
 game keeps the base intact and extends and improves in many ways. For example, you no longer have 
 to use space on scrolls of town portal or identify, windows pop open to provide a comparative analysis 
 of equipped and inventoried items, and when and if you should die you will not have to recover 
 your body. These are just a few things that I felt were substantive improvements on the series 
 and I'm sure you will find more. However, note that this is not a D&amp; D game or Elderscrolls. 
 Another reviewer said it best if you liked Diablo, you will love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is an RPG that is much like Diablo, placed in Greece, Egypt and (from the World Map) 
 what seems to be the eastern coast of China.
  
  The story is like this
  The gods get sealed away but somehow the Titans break free and cause havok and chaos and a lone 
 Spartan hero must save the world.
  
  The game allows for you to choose a class and then a sub-class (8 different classes) and allows 
 you to change up the skills and make any combinations of them. The graphic detail is some of the 
 best ive seen on the PC. Enemies fly and hit trees, enemies fly off cliffs and if you have a ranged 
 attack if an enemy is in the way of your target, it hits them instead of your intended target.
 
  
  The game also plays online.
  
  Either way the game is worth it. It is deep in detail and is a good game either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qjns
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I became a fan of action RPG when I first played Diablo on my PC. The only thing that I wish they 
 could have done with these types of games was the ability to redistribute the ability points. In 
 Titan Quest, I was very happy that this was possible. For a price, I could take back ability points 
 and redistribute them to whatever skill that I wanted it to go to. This was really helpful while 
 playing the game because if I wanted to build up a different skill, I could just go ahead and do 
 it. Overall, it was an addictive and enjoyable game. I had fun slashing through different creatures 
 from mythologies as well as killing the Titan boss. However, I admit that there were some bosses 
 who were really powerful and you really need a good strategy to defeat them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellsdevil2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  All the comments I hear from people about 'Titan Quest' are about the similarty of the game to 
 Diablo. Well, its really not the same.
  
  Although also Diablo and Titan Quest share the same like fighting engine they are diffrent in many 
 ways.
  
  In Titan Quest you'll start as a young handsome man or woman with a toga. sounds wierd? it is. 
 later on you'll get quest that doesn't really connect to one another and battle your way through 
 thousends of creatures and douzens of bosses.
  You'll level up, and upgrade your expertise;
  There are 8 expertise in the game moving from 'Earth 
 Mastery' to 'Spirit Mastery' and on and on.
  
  The only thing I found wrong in this game is the Mastery upgrades,
  Your Mastery has about 8 
 Skills which you can upgrade or add Skills that connect with the ones you already got.
  Its nice. but I wasn't satisfied.
  
  Overall its a really good game and I recommend it to all! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Things start out smooth when you first start up Titan Quest. There's an easy way to update the 
 game right from the menu and joining or starting up a multi-player game is simple enough as to 
 not cause any headaches.
  
  When you start a new game, you get a basic choice of male or female and then you can choose the 
 color of their tunic; although the color of your tunic plays no part in the game, whatsoever. I 
 suppose it's just meant for cosmetic looks.
  
  Youre eased into the role of hero by helping a poor farmer; you get to save his horse from a few 
 creatures. After that, you make a quick run to town and this is where things become interesting. 
 In towns and various other settlements around the lands, youll come across some NPCs that you 
 talk to. They do the talking and you do the listening, but you definitely learn a lot about Greek 
 mythology and their Gods and how things works in the game world (i. e. the teleportation platforms 
 and rebirth fountains) .
  
  Each time you level you two Attribution points to spend on increasing your Health, Energy (mana) , 
 Strength, Intelligence or Dexterity. You are also given three points to put towards learning skills. 
 The skills are broken up into 8 different classes. Once you hit level 2, you can spend your points 
 how you see fit; however, there is a catch. Out of the 8 classes, you can only choose 1 to master 
 for now. You can choose to be a warrior, magic caster, rogue, etcin each class there is a skill 
 bar on the left side of the menu. You need to spend skill points in that bar to be able to access 
 powers/magic in your class skill tree. Each set of skills can be trained in multiple times (each 
 time you train a skill, it costs a skill point) to help increase the potency of that power.
  
  Once you hit level 8, you are given the choice of picking a second class to master (although, 
 you do not have to go that route if you choose not to) . This option opens up the ability of having 
 a two class character. You can perhaps create a warrior/mage or perhaps a rogue/mage or even a 
 sorcerer/ranger type character. There are numerous options you can pick from here, which makes 
 training either much more interesting or much more difficult because of all the choices you are 
 presented with.
  
  After that point in time, you are basically doing the same thing over and over again. The variety 
 of creatures you kill in the three different regions youll travel through are very limited. Youll 
 soon grow tired of constantly cutting down skeletons, flying crows/harpies, boars and the likes. 
 There is a bit of a twist though when you kill critter based creatures (boars, crows, harpies, 
 etc) because there is always a chance they might drop a creature charm. These creature charms 
 can be applied to weapons, armor, shields, rings and amulets to give you an extra ability. The 
 abilities range from providing your weapon with the ability to cause fire damage to giving your 
 amulet a bonus to a defensive protection to provide you. Identical monster charms can be combined; 
 it takes 5 to complete a full charm. Once you have a full charm, you get a completed charm bonus 
 which gives your charm an added benefit. Similar symbols that are themed towards Greek mythology 
 can be found along your journey, they too can be combined (you only need 3 to complete one of these 
 symbols instead of the 5 it takes for monster charms) to add bonuses to your items.
  
  The downfall to Titan Quest is the difficulty you can come across from thinning out your skills 
 in your class skill trees too much, or perhaps even by focusing on too few skills. It takes a good 
 bit to find a good balance on what skills do what and how effective they actually are when youre 
 playing. Take for example, if you wish to use the class Warfare and work your way to the skill 
 of Dual-Wieldingyou may be a bit disappointed in it. Once you master the skill (spend 6 skill 
 points in it) you are only grated 22% or 24% (I don't recall which off the top of my head) chance 
 of your second weapon (the off-hand weapon) to actually strike. Id really like to think that by 
 the time I mastered the skill, Id be skilled enough to actually strike out with two weapons at 
 all times.
  
  The length of the single player campaign is just too long with very little variety of skills to 
 progress through, weapons/armor/rings/amulets to upgrade to and the short supply of different variety 
 of creatures to kill.
  
  There are a few minor glitches I've come across when fighting bosses: After opening the door into 
 the room with the boss, you can sometimes sit in the doorway area and just pick the boss off with 
 spells or a ranged weapon without the boss actually taking notice of you. This might take a bit 
 longer to win the battle, but at least you do it without the chance of getting killed and having 
 to run all the way back to the boss.
  
  The camera angle is a little on the annoying side when your character is moving in a southern direction 
 on screen. You do not get a good view of whats coming up from that direction, making it rather 
 difficult when youre traveling because sometimes youll run up on more monsters then you can safely 
 handle. Sound effects are good, but sometimes there are so many sounds going at once, some sound 
 gets drowned out or just simply does not work. The music is alright, but it fails to help capture 
 the mood of the game at times. Also, because of the length of the game you constantly hear the 
 same music playing over and over again, until you reach a new location/region. Graphics are very 
 nice, compared to other hack-n-slash games out there. However, unless youve got a decent computer 
 with a higher end graphics card, be sure to turn down some of the graphic options, otherwise your 
 frame rate will drastically drop in busy section of the game.
  
  Lastly, the ability to use a map/level editor to create your own world is a very nice addition 
 for those that grow bored of the single player campaign or perhaps for those that just need a little 
 break from the norm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I never really played Diablo II, just an hour or so in to the game... but from what I remember 
 of D2, Titan quest has a lot in common with it. The problem with Diablo 2 was that I tried to play 
 it after I had been spoiled by ultra-nice 3d graphics such as far cry, fear, SC: double agent, and 
 so forth. Titan Quest was a good way to get my fill of a D2 style game. Nice graphics make it a 
 very slick game to play. The ragdolls make for great effects with area of effect spells (especially 
 skeletons - perform an AOE skill in a tomb with skeletons and bones fly EVERYWHERE!) . That said... 
 the graphics kinda kill the game at times. I think I recall building/wall/tree transparency reeking 
 havoc on the framerate at times - otherwise it was really smooth.
  
  Gameplay might get a little repetitive after a while, but that just means you can take a break 
 and come back later when you're up for some good old fashioned butt-kicking.
  
  General: A good mixture of modern graphics &amp; old school game styling. I'd recommend this for 
 a definite buy for RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: levidad
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The game has the same addicting diablo 2 style. The battle system uses the same old and good point 
 and click thing. A good point is that everything that the enemy is carrying is left for you to 
 loot when you kill it.
  
  The game has good story, dealing with the greek mythology, but it's core resides in the battle 
 (off with that annoying 1 hour prologue) , so you'll find yourself in trouble in no time.
  
  The graphics are amazingly beautiful, with clean textures, full of details, very nice reflections 
 on the water, the grass swings as you walk. Just choppy sometimes, but that's short thing.
  
  The sound surely makes it. At least impressed me a lot in the first time. Manages to take you 
 into the game.
  Every dialog is spoken (I tried only in english) .
  
  The character' apearance is not customizable, you can only choose to be male or female (does not 
 differ in strong or anything else) and the main color of your tunic. But you have many choices 
 when it comes to classes. Each class has it's unique characteristics, powers and skills. The game 
 handles char creation nicely along the game too.
  
  The AI is cool. I've seen games that let you fight against a bad guy and his comrades, right next 
 to him, don't act. I know it realy isn't isual nowadays, but I wanted to put it here just to make 
 sure, anyways.
  
  If you like RPG, this game is sure worth playing.
  If you like the diablo series, you simply cannot let this one pass!
  A fun experience, try it!
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Well, this is my first review, I may have forgotten many things, but I'll try harder next time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Being a Diablo II fan, I couldn't wait to get my hands on this game. It has turned out to be a 
 satisfying experience. Now that the game is down to $30.00 it is well worth the purchase. Gets 
 a little repetitive, but it is fun to see how the next skill/weapon upgrade will affect you enemies. 
 Sometimes the graphics are a little choppy, but I think that is programming. The sound is awesome, 
 especially the soundtrack in the Egyptian part of the game. It is definately a must have for any 
 slash and hack rpg fan. Expansion coming out soon!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yosmitesam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is probably one of the best games i hav played, the graphics are great the enviroments 
 look amazing, there was only really a few downs to this game though, all the weapons and armor 
 look the same there isnt much of a verioty which is a bit of a disapointment and the bosses in 
 this game aren't really anything amazing most the time they are guys the that are a tiny bit bigger 
 than you and they just take ages to take life off. The last con to this game is the fact that all 
 you your enemies are half people half animal or insect which gets repetive. But don't let my critizem 
 put you off the game it is still a great game but you hve to play it to know what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonboggans
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  The Good: Many hours of epic gameplay make for a super game of with good playability and easy to 
 use interface.
  
  The Bad:
  Monsters all seem to regenerate after Save -&gt; Reload. I purchased this game in the hope that 
 based on previous games I had played by THQ it would be impressive, if Company of Heroes was anything 
 to go by it had to be!
  
  Shortly after installing my game I quickly became immersed in the epic that is Titan Quest.... it 
 surely does push the boundaries of those
  games where many, many hours can be spent happily playing away and hacking everything to pieces. 
 I would certainly recommend the game to any fans of the Diablo type game.
  
  Visually titan quest looks good, though I would hope so with my 512mb GEFORCE driving it ;-) Nice 
 ambient feeling to the whole experience.... I do notice some chop when switching from one 'scene' 
 to another, something I wouldn't have expected as the machine I run this on has more than enough 
 power to deal with this game... still, overall it didn't dull my impression of the game at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahram90
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Diablo II was ages ahead of its time thats why many people are still playing it today. But for 
 those people who soaked up all the fun within the first week of playing Diablo II, Titan Quest 
 gives you the same idea but with MUCH better graphics and flash. A majority of the aspects of the 
 game are similar to Diablo such as the merchants, potions, the design of the HUD, even the controls, 
 so those who have gotten accustomed to the Diablo style of navigation Titan Quest won't be very 
 hard to familiarize yourself with. Although it is similar to DIablo it also has a few unique aspects 
 of the game such as the ability to choose multiple categories of magic mastery, while Diablo only 
 allowed one. Also.......... I'm trying to think of what else isn't similar to Diablo and nothing 
 arises in my mind. Ah yes Titan Quest takes place in historically accurate locations, while Diablo 
 was in a fictional world. As you can see there are not many major differences, just slight alterations 
 in design and concept and MAJOR alterations in graphics that make this game any different from 
 Diablo. I enjoyed Diablo a great deal, and it came as no surprise that I enjoyed TQ. I believe 
 this game was intended on acquiring sales from previous DIablo II fanatics and i am sure they have 
 succeeded in grabbing our attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Did Blizzard drop the ball on the Diablo Series? It sure looks that way as competition is quickly 
 jumping into the action RPG niche. These companies that have created games like Titan Quest and 
 Sacred are building a fan base that is growing daily. Hopefully Blizzard has not adopted the attitude 
 If its not on a subscription then we are not interested type mindset.
  
  Competition is a good thing and fortunately for the rest of us who waited patiently for Diablo 
 III we can instead divert our hard earned $$$ to other companies who are more than happy to provide 
 us with some great action RPG fun.
  
  Summary:
  
  Overall Titan Quest plays almost the same as Diablo II but its set in the environment like Clash 
 of the Titans aka the classic Greek mythos. If you draw a comparison between Diablo II and Titan 
 Quest I would say Diablo wins in the coolness department as its dark, gothic and broody with a 
 lot of personality. Titan Quest on the other hand is great for capturing Greek Mythos day and age 
 but as for excitement and style its pretty stale unfortunately.
  
  Even with that being said would I recommend Titan Quest? Sure its a great Diablo II clone for the 
 action rpg style of play.
  
  Pros:
  
  Finally! So that guy with the big glowing sword finally dies after a hectic battle. You walk up 
 and bam! Too bad he is only carrying a rusty dagger!?! Not in Titan Quest - they wear it, you get 
 it. So all that time they were hitting you with that sword of amazingness, when they finally drop 
 - so does that sword. What a relief to finally have a game to escape that zombie minded thinking 
 of game design.
  
  Buy back option is a wonderful touch in case we sell something we forgot to save. Simply click 
 on the menu tab and there are all the items you sold earlier - you can now buy back what you accidentally 
 sold earlier.
  
  Graphics are a huge leap vs the old Diablo graphics - grass sway in the wind and brush bend in 
 areas you just went past.
  
  Fanstastic lighting engine - day/night cycles, see the shadows fade and grow as the day goes by 
 - good stuff!
  
  Windows key is disabled so no accidental alt tab out and boom your dead when you get back. : )
 
  
  More sound pieces per character - its a nice touch where various npc's you interact with will have 
 at least a few things to say if you keep clicking on them.
  
  Character animations are solid and fluid - nice things like them tossing their sword, changing 
 their posture keeps them from feeling like static mapped images.
  
  Easy portals - they are free and great for grocery runs where you need to clean out your inventory 
 - this is also your big money maker as selling off all that junk will add up later for purchasing 
 that much needed item.
  
  The menu interface for selecting portals is nice as it shows all the available portals for each 
 town separately along with the portal you created from where you were earlier. Cons:
  
  No random maps!?! Major downside. Sure when you have random maps you get that sameness feeling 
 but I think Diablo II hit it about right with the custom areas shuffled into the random map spaces.
 
  
  The game engine does not appear to use memory very well - I had over 800 mb of ram just floating 
 around and not in use.
  
  Also there is hitching or jerkiness when you step into new areas - this is the game engine spooling 
 into your system ram for the areas you are about to discover. Dungeon Siege for example spools 
 as well but does it much smoother so no jerkiness as you move forward.
  
  No storage chest! Ok so you have that axe of amazingness but cant use it for one level - where 
 to park it so that you do not waste your primary traveling inventory?
  
  Minor quibble - no volume control for the main menu screen music. The options screen will only 
 control the in game music. So if you turn the volume down - when you hit the main menu its back 
 to blasting again.
  
  Also there is no map pins feature to place reminders for areas to explore etc.
  
  Lastly on 
 character development for talents or areas you wish to work in - gimp protection? Hmm its somewhat 
 there - at least you can unlearn your selected areas and try again but the gold costs pile up quickly. 
 Look for websites that show what templates/class builds that have proven to work or forge ahead 
 on your own with a risk of wasting gold kind of gamble.
  The catch is sometimes abilities do not work as effective as the description states, the good news 
 is you can start to back out right there if things do not go as planned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  I used to be a big fan of Diablo 2, and the expansion way back in the day. I have always thought 
 since it was so good, they'd make a Diablo 3. But that day never came, but what came close, probably 
 even better, is Titan Quest. The graphics in this game are very appealing. If you're moving through 
 tall grass, the grass actually reacts to how you move through it. It will bend, and sway as you 
 pass through the area. So I'm sure you all get the idea, just take a look at the screenshots.
 
  
  There is a very wide variety of spells you can use in this game. You begin as nothing, just off 
 a ship. You travel to a small village, only to realize that Greece has been invaded by all sorts 
 of enemies. You take in some quests, and go defeat some enemies, what you can. Then you reach your 
 second level, and you can choose what class you wish to be. You also get to choose a new class 
 at level 8, so you're then two classes together, like GuildWars, only better. And if you make mistakes 
 setting up your skill points, there are mystics in some large towns, that will allow you to reset 
 some skills.
  
  You can make your own maps, and quests with the editors for this game. It's very intrusive, and 
 will bring you into an easy to use program. Once you're done with your map, and whatever you want 
 on it. You can either play it alone, or you can open up a server for people to join. Which you 
 can get into other games. Or you can continue on the main quest on multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eye_of_the_Deep
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I am huge fan of the diablo series and think this game is perfect for anyone looking for a fun 
 hack 'n slash. There is a huge variety of skills/items, and the character leveling system offers 
 a lot variety. You can tailor your character to you specific style of play by choosing any 2 masteries 
 (a set of skills) out of the 8 available. Also, it allows you to re-allocate badly placed points 
 (something that was sorely lacking in Diablo 2) .
  
  The graphics are both technically and stylistically good (especially for a hack 'n slash) and the 
 game is stable and smooth on the highest settings on my PC (X2 4400+, 2 gig ram, 256M 7800 gtx) . 
 The game definitely offers value for money, with a huge campaign that can be played on three difficulties 
 with the same character, as you level up and gain ever more powerful items (exactly as in Diablo 
 2) .
  
  The gameplay is addictive and fun for anyone who likes this genre and a very effective town portal 
 system allows you to easily return to any town from anywhere in the world to sell you loot (something 
 youll be doing fairly often) . The setting in Greek mythology allows for a huge variety of interesting 
 enemies and items (such as the Golden Fleece relic item) . Also an upcoming expansion set promises 
 to implement many player suggestions and improve this already great game.
  
  However, I should note that this game is not for anyone who didn't like Diablo 2 or hack 'n slash 
 games in general, as they may find the point and click style or gameplay a little too repetitive 
 or familiar (although I certainly dont due to the huge variety of skills, enemies and items) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detoam13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I like the game. However I have found that controls are not to my liking. I have a wireless mouse 
 and keyboard. So having to keep on pressing mouse button to move the character and to keep on attacking 
 is seriously draining on the mouse. And I am frustrated at how hard it is to make enough money 
 to purchase some equipment. I am a noob to this kind of games and, for one, I would have appreciated 
 it it was not so frustrating to make the coin.
  Otherwise I really enjoy playing it and I find it to my liking that at times it would put me against 
 the characters that are way more powerful than I am. I like figuring out how I can outsmart them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Many people are fans of Diablo .. the game that inspired the RPG genre they all have missed the 
 hack &amp; slash rpg's .. well this game brings it all back &amp; its full of great memories . First 
 of all the story its perfect for this type of RPG ... the creators used very good this mythic universe 
 with Gods &amp; Titans &amp; had unlimmited oppurtunities to create monsters/quests . The graphics 
 of the game are just perfect , very artistic with great effects &amp; purely EYE CANDY for gamers 
 , the sound is good ,the voice acting is just right &amp; the sound effects are 80% perfect . You 
 should not listen to Gamespot's review because the game is very enterteining &amp; has lots of 
 fun to offer .. &amp; especialy its quite long so you wont be disapointed ! Just try it &amp; have 
 FUN! ............. P. S. The game is totaly underrated !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  I've been playing more than one of these kind of games in my day. And it's feels more and more 
 like the same. The only true reason why you keep playing games like these on the next difficulty 
 isn't because of Wow, it's so good , no, you want items to feel powerful.
  
  So the fact that this game is very similiar to anything else in the click and point RPG and then 
 all you have to do is wait and move on to the next monster. It can be very boring and it's mindless 
 fun. It's like Diablo without the real Wow! What a story! (well, the first time around Diablo feels 
 that way) . It's more of a non cinematic feature with lots of space to explore yet very linear. 
 I mean it litterally, a RPG shouldn't be go there, not that way cause it's leading you into a wall 
 . You should be able to explore everything and walk around whereever you like. Though the game 
 is pretty long and the content very large there is way to few side-quests for a game in this proporition.
 
  
  If I'm playing a game like this, it should be entertaining and intriguing. But it lacks the intrigue, 
 the open-ended feeling. Or just the chance to walk more than one road and never knowing where it 
 leads you. Cause really, is there really just one way from Sparta to Athen? I think not. Well, 
 that's another intresting feature that's been wasted it's potential a bit to easy. I mean the mythology, 
 which is very intresting to read about but this game waste that potential to really live this world 
 .
  
  Everything is pretty standard. Best is the sound and audio, like it always use to be. The gameplay 
 isn't something to hang in the christmas tree but it's playable. I survived playing this game only 
 cause I had a few friends to play it with althrough, cause otherwise I'd just get bored about it's 
 linearness.
  
  What really lowered my rate from earlier is that I downloaded a custom map at a fansite that should 
 have all the set items and stuff lying around. And I played as a magica aimed character, about 
 level 50 when I quited. However, I imported my character into the custom game and played that map. 
 And I checked around the items for stuff for me. A druid. I had the Druid's staff already but what 
 really pissed me off one more than enough is that I saw about 100 set items or so, and there were 
 3 or 4 set items for a mage. And none of them were anywhere as good as the best warrior set item. 
 Cause through the game I don't know how many warrior set items I found and what kept me playing 
 the Epic difficulty was really a matter of last luck. I found the Druid's staff and I thought I'd 
 find the others without any luck for the next 10 hours or so - cause the lack of any magical set 
 items were just to low. And to be able to play the game without having to retreat all the time 
 you need to have something good equipped.
  
  I liked the game, it's decent, but it's not anything I will list as my top favorites over the years. 
 I hope the expansion set will bring some kind of refreshment and tons of new items for more than 
 one class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidalesr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  Good game, for people that likes games like diablo. You spend a lot of time coming back to sell 
 items at the beginning, but with the time you get a bigger inventory, and that&acute; s is fixed.
 
  
  As well at middle term (around 15 - 25 hours of gameplay) it&acute; s get&acute; s quite easy if 
 you manage well the items... Really great graphics, the panoramic view of the game is great, even 
 for people that is not a gamer, the graphics really looks nice for the type of game.
  
  Is good that you could relocate your skill points, coz you don&acute; t regret yourself for mistakes 
 made in the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liviu89
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics , skill system and quests.
  You will spend lot of time of killing variety of monsters of all sizes from wild pig until huge 
 cyclops and demons.
  Fascinating Big towns, with lot of people you can talk too.
  Brilliant Quests and story, it makes you feel like a Spartan warrior of ancient Greece.
  You will 
 travel in the world fighting monsters and doing quests.
  You will find yourself in tombs, pyramids, caves and swamps in the adventure.
  This game is realistic 
 both in the gameplay and the graphics.
  The dubbing is excellent.
  Big world of monsters and magics.
  Great game buy it.
  You wont regrat it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  I don't know why people keep comparing this game to Diablo, hell, yes its a hack and slash, yes 
 you loot items and everything else thats familiar with Diablo.
  
  You true Diablo veterans will know what i am talking about, this game lacks the charm and finesse 
 that kept us going back to Diablo, all the years of playing that game, and going back to it, the 
 characters had such meaning and value. and you actually felt like you were playing to accomplish 
 something! and back then it was something special.
  
  Now in this game, its hack and slash the same monsters and pick up items, that generally lack any 
 sort of wow factor for me.
  
  Sure the game is fun, and you could blow a couple of hours playing it, but its no Diablo. Not enough 
 class to even be mentioned with our Blizzard legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papabear003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  We have all been waiting patiently for a game like the masterpiece Diablo . We finally have one 
 with the pleasant twist of mythological characters as well as a dynamic multiplayer format. From 
 the Gorgons to the Griffins,, Centaurs to Minotaurs, this game has the fun, action packed mythology 
 from different cultures of the ancient world. I have been addicted to this game since the day I 
 bought it. I recommend to everyone that is looking for a quality action RPG, you need to go out 
 and get Titan Quest. You won't be sorry, but keep in mind, you will be addicted, so please warn 
 your wife before you start to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f0re1gn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is the best Diablo-parody ever, I think.
  I could even say, that it's somewhere at the same level.
  The first impression was somewhat intriguing. 
 I played with the camera, adored the graphics. Later on, somewhere in the middle of the game, I 
 stopped playing for a month. Got bored, basically. But, when I turned it on a few days ago, i couldn't 
 stop. It basically sucked me into itself. The whole myth-story of the game, the magic creatures, 
 items, effects, skills, even the environment! All of this makes me want to play the game more and 
 more, find more items, kill more monsters, gain more XP and more skills.
  But, of course, no game is without bad points. My PC is running an Intel Pentium DC 2,86 GHz Processor, 
 1GB of 500+mHz RAM and a GeForce FX 7600 GT, and the game freezes at times, when there are 10+ 
 monsters onscreen. Not that it lags or something, but it just stops. Sometimes even just when walking 
 around, it stops. I wait approximately 10 to 20 seconds and i can go on again. This is a bit irritating, 
 I think.
  And yes, sometimes the game has the feeling of the same thing being repeated over and over again, 
 but it's a hack'n'slash RPG, what would you want?
  
  But in overall i can say, that if you liked Diablo, THIS is the game for you, since Greek Mythology 
 + Diablo = +++ (c) - Over and out, f0re1gn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromancer911
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game can only be described in one word: WOW.
  
  I have almost never played a better game, except for Oblivion and NWN 2, but they don't qualify 
 under this genre.
  
  This is a really good game with nice graphic and a decent gameplay.
  The leveling system is very nice, many cool special features.
  The story is pretty god, but that's 
 just because i like ancient mythology.
  If you where a fan of Diablo 1-2 than you will definitely love this game.
  Its sure i did.
 
  
  if there are any spelling mistakes here, it's because im from Norway and are not very good in English. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt actually sure if i would like this game on getting it but i was in the mood to try something 
 different from fps. This game is alot of fun and very enjoyable although the term mind numbingly 
 repetitive kept popping into my mind while i was playing it. If youve played diablo you will know 
 what this game is like pretty much except it takes place primarily in outdoor settings throughout 
 Greece, Egypt, and the Orient. The game only alows you to pick out of a female and male character 
 at the beginning and thats all u really get for the way your character looks, but the game allows 
 you to pick two specialty areas which could lead to a large amount of character combinations. i 
 choose Offensive and Defensive making my character a warrior. The game is relatively easy playing 
 this way until I came to the last boss in the game. Damn he kicked my booty over and over again 
 forcing me to spend all my gold on almost 400 greater health potions but after almost an hour and 
 a half fighting him i took him out.. Really all u have to watch out for is your health and keep 
 a large stock of health potions in your inventory while your fighting. The game is a very good 
 length as well taking me over 40 hours to complete it. One thing the game could of really used 
 is some cutscenes after completeing a section of the game. They dont even have an ending cinematic 
 in the game. The games graphics are very good and the monsters, enviroments and characters all 
 look really good. One thing I liked was the day night cycle, I always found myself looking forward 
 to the sunset time and the sunrise time because thats when the game looks the best. The music is 
 also pretty well done though it doesnt play all the time but what they have is good.. The sound 
 effects and voice acting are pretty average but not bad at all. Overall this game doesnt do anything 
 new for the genre but what it does it does very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadtoady
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Really did give it a chance, got to the end of the Normal Level, and spent a long time getting 
 there.
  
  The game play soon ceased to be play and became repetitious effort . Way too much hand-holding 
 thru the main quest, the side quests were moronic and did very little to support the main character 
 build, more like minor irrelevant diversions than quests. Have to admit that the game world was 
 incredibly huge, but also became very predictable from area to area: Point and click, Point and 
 click, hit your Healing Potion quick slot in a timely manner, repeat, repeat, etc., etc. At the 
 end of the first level, I had killed over 17,000 monsters (and this is NOT an exaggeration) using 
 this method during that first level alone, it became a dulling exercise.
  
  The item acquisition/inventory management action also became rapidly a chore rather than a delight 
 that it should have been. Total Monty Haul aspect on all of the magic items and gold one could 
 acquire (I had over $6 million in gold at the end of the Normal Level, and that was being picky 
 for items after the first 4 hours of play) . In one session I acquired 3 of the same identical legendary 
 items as a result of combat, now how legendary is that?? With so may magical items to deal with, 
 use, and/or dispose of, I felt more like an administrator with the the Defense Logistics Agency, 
 trying to deal with outdated and obsolete weapons and armor, I must have gotten rid of thousands 
 of them.
  
  I do have to admit that the graphics were superb (I have a machine w/ enough muscle to handle the 
 full array of graphics options) and that the sound was very good, but then again, after killing 
 over 17,000 monsters, the combat sounds also became very repetitive. The bottom line is that visuals, 
 bells and whistles, do not a good game make.
  
  Diablo 1 &amp; 2 did fill an important PC gameplaying nitch many years ago. I think, however, I 
 that the time may be past, trying to publish the next Diablo , and I think that we need to move 
 on now. I do understand that many folks like this game and it appeals to them on certain levels. 
 I'm afraid that I'm just not one of them I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nollnoob
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is one of the best role playing games I've played. It has a fun and innovative adventure 
 - kill the giant dragon boss and loot his glimmering armor! There are lots of powerful magical 
 items to collect for your character. It also feature various classes to fit your style of play. 
 The graphics are great in fighting scenes, the monsters fly different direction as you strike them 
 with your Axe or a lightning bolt. The game has 3 chapters in 3 difficulty levels, additionally 
 you can create your own maps with a powerful tool, so the fun never ends! This is an awesome game 
 overall. I recommend anybody to give this sweet pea a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuzzdog20
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This Game is a typical Hack and Slash game. Its simple concept that Iron Lore made into a great 
 game just like Blizzard did before them. The main highlights of the game is that it has amazing 
 Character Customization. You can make a truly unique character that fits your style of play. I 
 recommend this game to any diablo fans since it has take the genre to the next level in my opinion. 
 I enjoy playing on-line with my friends or just some other Heros out there. Overall, It is a game 
 for people like me who can't sit for hours and play a game, but might get 30-40mins a day that 
 can be enjoyed with some TQ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  I have played Diablo 1 and 2, however, this is not my favorite type of game. Usually i am into 
 RTSs and FPSs. I picked this up looking for a change of pace and I found this game to be refreshing 
 and enjoyable. The action is fast paced and fluid but does become repetitive after a while. The 
 ancient world theme was a refreshing take instead of the usual medieval sword and sorcery stuff. 
 It was cool being able to talk to King Leonidas and fight classic Greek mythological monsters such 
 as cyclops and minotaurs. In fact, if you enjoyed classic Saturday Matinees such as 'Jason and 
 the Argonauts' you will appreciate much of the content to be found here. The graphics and animations 
 are outstanding. The enviroments are near phot-realistic in spots. The character models in the 
 game are highly detailed. Worth note are the creature models, I was especially impressed with the 
 detail and animations of the various monsters in the game. Whats even more impressive is that if 
 you zoom in the level of detail is even better. On the down side is the level of optimization done 
 for the game. I run the game on a very powerful rig and it chugs in spots where it shouldnt. I 
 will be running through a dungeon with nothing going on and the game will stutter. Other times 
 I could have ten or more monsters on screen with all the effects maxed out and it will be smooth. 
 The game is still very playable but it does detract from the overall experience a little. All in 
 all, if you love Diablo - type action RPGs and you have the system to run it then you will love 
 this, If not then you wont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play_Stationz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Have you guys played Diablo, Diablo II, and Diablo : The Lord Of Destruction, well is exactly the 
 same with this game. This game is really not as hit as Diablo but has its own specialty. The graphic 
 for this game got A++, well at least there is a game still continiung the Diablo s genre legacy. 
 Since the Blizzard company is still busy updating the World Of Warcraft and also the Visiter hane 
 danta, Spelar li te DOTA thing, why not let THQ company take over Diablo. The detail of the game 
 is very COMPLEX means the animation inside the game is G. R. E. A. T. Other than that, the creation 
 of character is not really bombastic fantastic has is not much of the choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaEliteCommando
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  After a long wait for the sequel of one of the best RPG games ever, Diablo, this game was released. 
 The game came with a much better graphics engine and a scenario that is not boring. However, the 
 stability of the game is questionable. Playing the game for a long time causes the game to crash, 
 and it happens rapidy. In the beginning i thought it was my PC, but i tried it on another one, 
 and guess what, the same thing happend. In my opinion, the game has a relatively good story, good 
 graphics, but still did not top its previous sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  TQ graphics, sound, and value is all really good. Value of this game is very good. You could spend 
 40+ hours fighting through monsters to achieve the goal of saving the world. Like DS2 once you 
 are finished with game, you can replay the game at a harder level so the monsters are stronger. 
 Easily spend 120 hours if you decide to play through all difficulty levels. The game also includes 
 a quest editor to make your own quests if you wish.
  
  The story line I would say is kind of a miss on TQ. Unlike DS2, its not very involving. You spend 
 too much time of killing monsters senselessly then, then working of the main quest and other side 
 quests. Yeah I know this is what action rpg is all about, killing lots of monsters really fast. 
 I think DS2 have the upper hand in terms of the storyline.
  
  I will give TQ an 8.6 rating. Like I said the graphics are very good, sound is good (I dont know 
 how you could tell really) and the value is excellent. The storyline effects the rating on the 
 gameplay. Because storyline doesnt seem to be as intense as DS2 it will get a lower score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenMad
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Two PCs (1 dual core) both crash incessantly - CPUs run at 100% even during pause -- memory usage 
 totally out of whack..
  
  I wanted to love this game - it is beautiful, sounds great, does everything Diablo did plus so 
 much more.... BUT IT JUST WON'T STOP CRASHING! I have tried it on two separate PCs both meeting 
 the game requirements - in fact exceeding the requirements in almost every area, yet it crashes, 
 and crashes, and crashes. THQ has yet to get back to me on this - the FAQs say they are aware of 
 these issues, but they have done nothing to resolve them. ! In a single battle I crashed over 30 
 times to the desktop, I could return after a serious wait to the battle to only crash again after 
 a brief time period. If this only occurred on one machine I would suspect my machine, but it is 
 occurring on tow high end PC's. THQ and Iron Lore need to take responsibility for this; these problems 
 are not secret, and they are not being resolved. Is PC gaming dead?? LOL For this game it is!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is an action RPG made by the creator of Age of Empires strategy series. You are to 
 travel through Greece, Egypt and Babylon to destroy three Titans -- the gods before the gods -- 
 who are wreaking havoc on the world. As mentioned before, you will travel through ancient Greece, 
 Egypt and Babylon and will explore places such as Valley of Kings or Minoan Labirynth (to get across 
 Minotaur) . Gameplay is very good. It would seem that TQ looks quite boring since your goal is to 
 beat three Telkines (instead of normal Titans like Atlas, Megalesios and Iapetus) . But it's quite 
 addictive after all. Plus you can make your mods which also provides you with additional pack of 
 gameplay hours. Graphics aren't that bad except for few bugs. First, when you travel to a location 
 you visited before, on some machines text becomes unreadable and framerate drops down dramatically (5-10 
 FPS) . Second, Game freezes/crashes sometimes. Third, I am unable to skip movies, even if I have 
 the correct codecs. Yet, there is a solution for this: you can simply delete all files in Videos 
 category. Fourth, engine is weird. On my PC (GF 6600 GT, Sempron 2600+, 1GB RAM etc.) it works quite 
 good (20-25) FPS but my friend with Radeon 9600 and some low-end CPU and RAM it works perfectly (stable 
 60 FPS) . Another minus: no MP PvP. I guess that Titan Quest was meant to be definately co-op. I 
 recommend you to play it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I have really enjoyed playing Titan Quest. I've played it all the way through once and am most 
 of the way through playing it again as a different character. Both my sons have their own characters 
 and are enjoying the game too.
  
  High Points: The dual mastery allows for some creativity and flexibility when building your charater. 
 You still really have to specialize in one of them as you don't get enough points to do both really 
 well. This is the first game I've played where being a magic user isn't a serious disadvantage. 
 I'm actually doing better as a mage than I did as a ranger. Graphis and sounds are fine. I like 
 the camera system, although the close up is only useful in battle, otherwise you can't see enough 
 of the screen to negotiate.
  
  My 7yr old says that the beasts are really cool. Cyclopse was a little scary but he beat him anyway!
 
  
  Low Points: I think the authors made a serious mistake with the character creation system. Having 
 only two character body types with no customization at all is a serious bummer. I know you don't 
 see them close up that often but it's still a lot of what gets you into a game and let's you identify 
 with your character. Adds to the immersion factor. How about an expansion pack that gives us 10 
 more characters and a way to change hair, beards etc....? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyhugger79
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  BEST DIABLO CLONE 
  
  At first, I downloaded the demo version of TITAN QUEST (to see if it is worth to have or to spend 
 time on it) . It is just right for the DIABLO FANATICS!
  
  I enjoy the weapons, armors, or even the villains when I roam around the terrain. But I haven't 
 enjoy the terrain... Everything looks common (from the start up to the next location) or is it 
 I am not far that way enough?
  
  Thanks to the portal and we (gamers) don't need TOWN PORTALS scroll for it.
  
  Unfortunately, 
 level up is not just right . You need to spend more time repeating the game (loading and loading 
 to gain experience points) to raise up your level. Dead boss level are again alive when you load 
 the savegame (ahhh.. just like the DIABLO II... hehehehe)
  
  I hope for the next-gen DIABLO clone will fix this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is an action RPG similar to Diablo II and Dungeon Siege 2. Looking at the world from 
 the top down, you could see TQ does have very nice graphics. It is based in the ancient world greece, 
 egypt, and china fighting through thousands of monsters to save the world from the Teiklen to free 
 the titans. You are there to save the gods and man kind from the Teiklen and only you are able 
 to do it.
  
  TQ graphics, sound, and value is all really good. Value of this game is very good. You could spend 
 40+ hours fighting through monsters to achieve the goal of saving the world. Like DS2 once you 
 are finished with game, you can replay the game at a harder level so the monsters are stronger. 
 Easily spend 120 hours if you decide to play through all difficulty levels. The game also includes 
 a quest editor to make your own quests if you wish.
  
  The story line I would say is kind of a miss on TQ. Unlike DS2, its not very involving. You spend 
 too much time of killing monsters senselessly then, then working of the main quest and other side 
 quests. Yeah I know this is what action rpg is all about, killing lots of monsters really fast. 
 I think DS2 have the upper hand in terms of the storyline.
  
  I will give TQ an 8.6 rating. Like I said the graphics are very good, sound is good (I dont know 
 how you could tell really) and the value is excellent. The storyline effects the rating on the 
 gameplay. Because storyline doesnt seem to be as intense as DS2 it will get a lower score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firewind
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  It's a game that will have you come back even if you finished it. I enjoy the normal mode and now 
 i'm trying the Epic, the only annoyance is having to carry all the things you think are important, 
 at the beginning it was a little difficult to carry what you need. Not a problem when you begun 
 to have the bags.
  Very well detailed and with plenty of monsters it's a game to pass a lot of time playing it.
 
  IF at the beginning you think it will be short don't think so, it's very long and with a lot of 
 places to visit. I thought when i was finishing the Greece part that it was the end but then i 
 traveled to Egypt, and again i thought it was the end only to find there was another place. So 
 you travel from Greece to Egypt to Persia and so on.
  Every place is very well designed and enjoyable. Also the characters and villages.
  Buy it and 
 play it, you'll like the game very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picatef
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  Yes, it's just like Diablo. Keep clicking. Click click click.
  This game has amazing graphics, a constant 3D world ( constant because you only have on load time, 
 then you just run all along) but it's not original, it doesn't shows anything new. I think it's 
 a great game for those Diablo fans who are waiting for Diablo 3 or something like that, but it's 
 just that.
  And it's so long... soooo long... I thought it wasn't going to end. As I had already started to 
 play and finished the Greece part, I kept playing, but it was all the same till the end.
  It's an easy game. The only thing you need is time. I must have died... around 12 times. And the 
 only thing i had to do was run again to where I was and keep clicking. What I hated since the first 
 moment I started the game, was that there was only one dificulty level, and to enter the others 
 you had to beat the game... and imagine that after playing a game so long, i don't want to play 
 it all over again with worse enemies (when you beat the game you keep all your stuff, your armor, 
 weapons, stats, all of it) .
  
  The other bad thing I found (actually, it came up on me) , was how the game freezes all the time. 
 I was playing wishing to find another well to save game before the game freezes my computer. That 
 sucks, but it doesn't happen to everyone.
  
  Closing... you liked diablo? you have time? then play this game... otherwise, check other titles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  Anyone who's played Diablo II would have heard of Titan Quest. Some call it a D2 spin-off or whatever. 
 But honestly TQ deserves credit, it's one of the best hack and slash games ever if not the best. 
 For me I would pick TQ over D2, graphics comparison aside, TQ beats D2 hands down in terms of character 
 customizability. You get to choose to be a single class or dual-class, each with unique abilities 
 and names for it. If you like melee characters then the warrior, if you prefer using skill and 
 cunning then the rogue, or if magic and melee appeals to you then a battlemage would be sweet. 
 Basically, this skill system alone makes for alot of replay value, furthermore many side quests 
 kept me playing for a long time.
  
  Storywise, TQ takes on a more mythological feel, taking you from Greece to China. Expect some beautiful 
 scenes. As you go for quests, you get rewards for accomplishing it, from items to experience. The 
 layout of the character inventory and stats are simple and easily recognisable, a nice feature 
 is that pressing one button brings up both. While pressing the Alt button allows players to differentiate 
 items on the ground easily. Gameplay makes for alot of cool stuff, scrolling the wheelmouse button, 
 you can zoom in and out of the battle to admire your character slashing up that critter. Monsters 
 are tough during the last stages, expect to be doing alot of hit and run. A nice feature is the 
 skill re-allotment, simply visit a mystic in any town and you can claim back skill points at a 
 cost.
  
  Overall TQ scores best for its innovative skill system. If you love hack and slash games, get this! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnubisTCP
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  What is Titan Quest? Basically it's one of the many Diablo knock-off games. And if you read more 
 of these user reviews that's the idea you will get. But you should take Titan Quest for it's worth. 
 A fast paced mouse button killer frenzy. Good graphics and a few of the bad features from Diablo 
 re-worked. Plus like its predecessor Titan Quest is highly addictive.
  
  On release did it have bugs? Absolutely. As with most games, there we numerous bugs discovered 
 after its release. A few patches later and a lot of bugs have been taken care of. And unlike its 
 predecessor Titan Quest has a little more variety in your character creation. With 8 different 
 character classes and the fact you get to pick 2 of these classes, you get a big boost to replayability.
 
  
  So to sum it up. Diablo knock-off? Yep. But with the folks at Blizzard dropping all of their projects 
 save for World of Warcraft, folks waiting for a Diablo 3 can warmly welcome Titan Quest. Definitely 
 worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmacg
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Like it is said everywhere - if you like the diablo games then you will like Titan Quest. It is 
 the same thing, not that it is necessarily a bad thing, but you have been sufficiently warned. 
 The main problem with this game is the tremendous about of bugs that they released it with, and 
 I'm not the only one. Definately check out the tech support pages before deciding to buy this game.
 
  
  Unskippable cut scenes, faulty quests so you can't progress through the game, and more. If it's 
 any indication, the most popular feature in the new path (1.11) is the inclusion of the "exceptions. txt" 
 file that gets populated any time the game crashes.
  
  I wish I could provide a rating on the stability of the game because the gamespot reviewer must 
 have been one of the lucky ones and the game actually worked.
  
  Don't buy until the patches have reached 25.98 (funny because its true) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  My rig isn't exactly elite, but when Oblivion runs smoother than this Diablo style game, I know 
 something is wrong. A GeForce 6800 on a Athlon XP3300 and 1.5GB RAM, Soundblaster Audigy 2, and 
 this game plays spotty at best. I've updated all of my drivers and codecs, and Oblivion plays great 
 on my PC.
  
  I love the graphics, the music... I really want to like this game more than I do. It is addictive 
 to play, but I literally cannot play it marathon style because of the jittery frames. Even patched, 
 this game stutters and stumbles on decent hardware. The sound tends to stutter when buffering new 
 areas... really poor memory management in this program.
  
  The gameplay just isn't nearly as fun as it could be with better performance. The graphics are 
 great on full settings, but turning down the options to get better framerates knocks it back a 
 full point. I really enjoy the music and sound, but the stuttering gets annoying quickly.
  
  Textures and surface maps have a tendency to disappear when using the portal system on my PC, 
 and I haven't seen that since Anarchy Online Beta... OUCH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyBridFuRy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The overall Gameplay of the game was sort of the most interesting thing way how their are a unique 
 different diversed Classes you can choose from. Gameplay and story mode seems to be quite addicting 
 sometimes which gives a hands-on anticpated loots from monsters (the classic hack & slash style) . 
 Due to the Gameplay's general view Titan Quest serves to be one of PC's summer great summer rpg 
 game. Whether if you have internet acces or not, the game is all about the offline gameplay. It's 
 the way how most rpg games seems to go like. With that being said, Most of your time will be consumed 
 playing this game.
  
  Generally, their was some bugs in the game, that made the game somewhat dissapointing. Fortunately, 
 the company realized this problem and their was apparently a patch you can download. But the game 
 itself is worth your time and can embark you on many quests. Like i said, the engine's diversity 
 of classes will remarkbly change your way of playing the game. In addition, quests and generic 
 RPG style stuff is implemented in the game to make a good phenomenon game, this way the person 
 playing the game is intrigued by the way how the gameplay's story line helps you through knowing 
 the game well. Overall, the game alone has to be my all-time summer RPG favorite game, due to the 
 addicting Hack & Slash Diablo style game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubiquityxx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Oh how my mind wanders back to the many days I spent playing through Diablo 2 and Dungeon Siege 
 and loving every second of it. Didn't matter if it was in single or multi-player mode. Both of 
 those games are in my book as classic action RPG's with their fast-paced action, battles, and loopy 
 volumes of loot for us whores of collection.
  
  So it comes as no surprise I was eagerly awaiting Titan Quest upon its release. Per usual form 
 for games I'm anticipating - On release day I'm at the door of Fry's Electronics as they open. 
 I pile into the store, steal a copy from the cart (they haven't even tagged or placed the game 
 on the shelf) and run to the checkout. I'm late for work already, excuse me if I don't have time 
 to chit chat.
  
  After a long day at work (as my mind drifts back to the dvd copy of Titan Quest in my car) and 
 after chilling with the wife and scrounging some eats - I'm off to my studio to install this beast. 
 10 minutes later ... I'm playing.
  
  Beautiful game. Wow. And it sounds good too. The amount of detail the developer has put into the 
 levels is bordering on photo realistic. And this isn't just the renders of the game engine. The 
 layout of the levels are as much contributors of that feel as the graphics themselves.
  
  This game is fast, frenetic, mouse death inducing good times. Early on in the game (we're talking 
 character levels 1-15) the fun is in the discovery of the infinite variety of ways at which you 
 can customize your character's classes and abilities, learning how the loot plays a role in the 
 balance of your character, and really playing with styles of play to ensure your ass doesn't get 
 handed to you by a mob of undead. There's some serious replay value in all of those mentioned above.
 
  
  As you traverse the 4 different worlds, infinite amount of quests, and idle chit chat with the 
 locals, one thing starts to stick out. This game has no character - if so it's a dull coder with 
 no sense of humor. After 15-20 hours what was once interesting and fun becomes tedium. But here's 
 the kicker - I don't think it's anything you would imagine, it's a combination of many smaller 
 unrelated things.
  
  The camera. Completely under utilized. This could have really been used to zoom in at conversations, 
 intense battles, or emphasize items, places of interest, or put an exclamation on an emotion. Instead 
 the camera zoom is adjustable via your setting - boring. I'm not talking aggressive camera pans 
 and zooms either - subtlety is key - and on this point it was missed. Aside the face use of a close 
 zoom is ... well useless.
  
  The text. Too small and too much of it. I'm a designer, usually it's people telling me that. Now 
 I know how it feels. Additionally, there was way too much NPC talkie talk - to the point once I 
 realized it didn't further my story, I bypassed it completely. It might have set the stage for 
 the world of Titan Quest, but the way it was told - I wasn't interested. And I'm an avid reader.
 
  
  The user interface was bland. It didn't excite or enhance my experience. It was just there. A few 
 times I'd wished it could disappear because my key commands served my purposes save the health 
 and mana meters.
  
  Like a run on sentence you just wanted this game to end. And it did ... at some point. Once I finished 
 I actually had the ping of desire to restart my game and replay all 33 1/2 hours to advance my 
 character through Legendary and collect some more bad ass loot. Dejavu - that's why I stopped playing 
 World of Warcraft ... Why would I do that to myself once again?
  
  I didn't. I put it up for sale on eBay and moved onto the other games on my desk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  When I noticed months ago that Titan Quest was under development, I was waiting for a different 
 game, an original one. Let's see: an Action RPG game set in the ancient world of Greece, Egypt 
 and Orient, with a lot of character customization, weapons, spells and combat skills, imaginative 
 monsters, cooperative multiplayer and great graphics. I was feeling that it would be worth to wait 
 for the Titan Quest release. 
  
  When I bought the game, I've started to play it with care, talking to everyone in the Helos village 
 (the first city in the game) , killing all the monsters and picking up all items. Naturally I didn't 
 forget to look the world, the well-rendered water and so. Then, this was my first impression: ''finally 
 a great and innovative hack 'n slack game, with a ground-breaking storyline and a lot of nice mythological 
 places. Indeed there're innumerous beautiful places in Titan Quest like caves, ruins, pyramids, 
 swamps etc., but the game fails to be original, since it's just too similar to Diablo II.
  
  Here goes some the copied stuff from Blizzard's game: 1. Portals to travel between long distances; 
 2. If you die, you'll lose experience and gold; 3. You cannot save the game and load it from a 
 file, since all things you do in Titan Quest is saved in your character file, therefore not allowing 
 you to load the progress before doing something wrong; 4. Three regular acts featuring one boss, 
 a Telkine, at the end, and a forth act with the final encounter; 5. The character development is 
 very familiar, except to the points that you need to spend in the Mastery to improve the higher 
 skills, but that's it. There are even more things that you can compare with Diablo II.
  
  But the game has also some shining concepts: 1. The graphics are as amazing as the artistic job 
 is. Everything looks awesome and realistic: water, forests, cities, monsters, places (ruins, temples, 
 pyramids etc) , weapons and so. The sound is also great, sometimes the voice and music fails, but 
 it isn't a serious problem. Sometimes you'll face mythological creatures, such as giants, gorgons, 
 minotaurs and even the Manticore. All of them have special abilities and specifics strategies to 
 be defeated; 2. The player, at the start screen, chooses a genre for their hero and the game begins. 
 When you reach level 2 of character (you earn experience by killing monsters and accomplishing 
 missions) , you can choose one of the eight Masteries in the game. Masteries can be selected to 
 create a spell-caster, a fighter, a ranged warrior, a rogue etc. When you reach level 8, you can 
 choose the last mastery, mixing the powers between them. This is a very nice idea and offers a 
 great replay value; 3. The multiplayer is well done; the problem is that you cannot play in Player 
 vs. Player, only in cooperative. Playing with allies is pretty cool, but it has some sync problems 
 until you apply the patches; 4. I spent about 15 hours to finish Titan Quest, completing all the 
 quests in the campaign. As in Diablo II, you may replay the game in higher difficult levels: Epic 
 and Legend. The game offers a good challenge in all difficulties.
  
  However there're some problems as well, despite the lack of originality: 1. The storyline is poor: 
 a telkine wants to release a titan from its chains. You, as the hero, must stop. But you're late, 
 the titan is released and you must confront him. You kill the huge beast, and that's all. Where're 
 those characters who the historians in the towns had spoken about? Herakles (or Hercules) , Zeus, 
 Prometheus, Typhon, Echidna...? You'll find some items that have some of those names, but you'll 
 never face a god or something. The mythological theme offers so many great stories, so a game based 
 on it cannot have such a simplistic and uninspired one; 2. Now, the worse: the engine is really 
 flawed; you'll experience choppy performance all the time. For example, when the night comes, the 
 game becomes very slow for no apparent reason. The slow down also occurs when you approach a tree 
 or enter in a cave, where the frames per second become incredibly unstable. The last patch (so 
 far v1.15) will not correct the issue, and we are still waiting a patch to improve the slow performance. 
 Really bad, since you buy a game and need to wait months for a patch to make it ''more playable''.
 
  
  To finish, what makes me so disappointed really was the lack of originality by the developers. 
 Nonetheless, if you liked Diablo II I'm sure you'll find something to enjoy in Titan Quest, at 
 least if you can overlook its technical problems. If something shines in this game, it's definitely 
 the good action sequences in this great-looking mythological world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Game demos today suck. I am sorry but there is no other way to put it.
  I do not care which company it is or what genre.
  Games today can not be judged by their demos.
 
  Example. I D/L the Titan Quest demo and I would probably give it about a 7 or so. Man would I 
 be wrong. This game would be a perfect 10 if only you could rotate the stupid camera. The graphics 
 are awesome for a top down game though, Amazing. Anywho the full Titan Quest game is lacking for 
 nothing.
  If you are a fan of Diablo II then there is finally a clone that is worth your money.
  Trust 
 me if you like the Diablo games you are going to love Titan Quest.
  I just wish they would do a similar game around Norse mythology.
  I like Greek Mythology ok but 
 Norse Mythology is just awesome.
  The multi player in this game is SWEEEEEEET.
  Me and my wife play over our home network and it rocks.
  Of all the Diablo clones this is likely 
 the best one for the PC.
  I think the best Diablo clone period is Champions of Norrath.
  That was fun. First one was better than return to arms though.
  well, that is my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h3rb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  A Diablo 2 clone through and through, Titan Quest really doesn't break any new ground in the action 
 RPG realm. However, as an extreme fan of the Diablo series, I find myself sucked in once again 
 for many hours of hack'n'slash, point'n'click fun. Titan Quest has made a game so similar to the 
 classic retail giant from the boys in blue, that you'd half expect to find boredom quickly around 
 the corner. This is just not the case. From the graphics angle, Titan Quest has some really amazing 
 landscapes to explore, particularly in swampy areas of the game where you wade through pools that 
 look amazingly realistic. Still there are some minor issues with frame rate, and pretty hefty system 
 recommendations for an action rpg.
  
  The main point of interest, and probably the only thing that truly separates this title from its 
 successful predecessor, is the skill system that allows you to choose two different masteries. 
 This is a feature that will keep you playing again and again. I really like the idea of starting 
 out your character's lifetime with a particular class, and then to have the option shortly after 
 of taking an entirely different path. It really allows some of the adventure to remain throughout 
 the process of reaching your character's max level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: springy75
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  One thing I dont get with this type of games why the weapons for all games are all look alike 
 starting with fast sword, slow bow and ending with a stick that fire horizontal lightning!!!...
 
  
  Titan quest is very traditional role playing game that u will feel yourself too much familiar after 
 the first hour. Killing monsters for experience and gold and leveling up to increase your strength 
 and magic power.
  
  The story line is somewhat captivating may be because I really do like the Greek methodology or 
 may be because I am still enjoying my time playing God of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiCk_99
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  If your still praying for Blizzard to release Diablo 3 then BUY THIS AND STOP PRAYING!!!!
  
  Graphics ~ Unrivaled................. unless u cant run them on full, but there still pretty 
 good.
  
  Gameplay ~ Awsome. Skill system rocks, TONS of different "classes" I suppose u'd call them, and 
 just too much stuff to name.
  
  Sound ~ Great attacking, death, and such effects. Music fits perfectly with the game.
  
  Value 
 ~ Worth $50.
  
  Tilt ~ A couple things keep it from perfection: Quiete a few glitches, which, hopefully, will get 
 fixed in time by patches, the storyline is nothing compared to that of Diablo plus it just seems 
 short, and after about lvl 45 everyone at least if ur playing multiplayer (much better than single) 
 everyone u play with has pretty much the same purple armor.
  
  Thoose problems are really pretty minor somewhat because in epic and legendary ( the harder difficultys) 
 the story slowes down alot because it is alot harder. So anyways the glitches are pretty minor 
 and it definetly the best Diablo like RPG out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  On playing Titan quest it reminded me strongly of Diablo. I found it quite linear at first and 
 smashed my way through wave after wave of nasties. Gripes First:-
  You can't move the camera about other than just in and out, which annoyed me at first. If you save 
 the game, leave it and come back to load it again later you start at a rebirth shrine, another 
 annoying bit. Another annoying bit is that if you teleport to a town you can fight the same monsters 
 (including main monsters) again. To that end you could just fight, say the Massive Cyclops over 
 and over until you gain all the levels you need.
  
  Good Bits:-
  Absolutely stunning graphics. I love ploughing along through corn fields to see the wind effect 
 blowing it. I love wandering through water to see the ripples. The trees blow in the breeze, the 
 characters and monsters a really well animated too. This game has an amazing array of weaponary 
 and armour, topped off by the fact that you can find relics to imbue the aforementioned with special 
 power. Should you find all the relics of that particular make you gain a special bonus.
  
  To sum up.
  
  If you love diablo type games give this a whirl. It's slow to start but soon 
 warms up. Just see if you can stop playing when there is just another dark spot to be discovered 
 over there........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weirdo999
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  So yeah, I bought this game, and well I thought it was not good.
  But then the game opened up to me, and it is very, very good.
  I don't want to say more, because 
 everything has been said before...
  
  Yeah there are bugs, but maily it can be your pc :P.
  
  But the bugs are nothing to worry about, 
 they are only annoying and don't really spoil gaming pleasure, well it does if you are not forgiving.
 
  
  Okay the story is very cliched, and done many, many times, but quit frankly I don't care haha.
 
  
  Just go and get the game, you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is one of the best Diablo clones i've ever played.
  
  You start off practically naked and with nothing but a rather pathetic knife - no skills whatsoever, 
 and no defining class either. This is a little odd for any RPG, especially one of this variety. 
 You usually at least get to pick a class.
  
  In Titan Quest, you dont get to pick your class untill your first level up. Well, sort of. Once 
 you level up, you can pick one of eight masteries, which will choose what special abilities you'll 
 be able to play around with. At level 8, you're given the option of adding another mastery, but 
 are not forced to - so you can either highly specialize your character towards one speciality, 
 or pick up some of your favorite skills from two mastery groups. (If i remember correctly, the 
 masteries are seperated into more or less Swords, Sheilds, Bows, Lighting/Ice, Earth/Fire, Death, 
 Restoration, Nature)
  
  There's plenty of loot afoot. So much so, in fact, it often gets much more aggrivating then in 
 the genre staple Diablo. Basically every monster that has a sword, shield, helmet, whatever, drops 
 it when he or she dies. This often creates such a mess your "show items" key cant even display 
 the names of everything strewn about the ground, and after a while, you start to just mostly ignore 
 the weapons and armor that fall down, and only pick up potions and gold.
  
  The questing system is done almost exactly as you would expect. You progress through a mostly linear 
 story, and on the way your given the option to do sidequests. Doing sidequests usually just gives 
 you extra experience, so may not be worth the hassle, considering experience comes so easily in 
 Titan Quest - whenever you load a game, all the bad guys come back.
  
  One of my favorite features of the game is part of the inventory system. While the inventory is 
 pretty much what you would expect - a series of squares that lets you move around items to store, 
 when you hover the mouse over any item, instead of just putting that items stats up, it also shows 
 you the stats of any item (s) of the same type you have equipped, so you can easily compare the 
 two without frantically moving the mouse back and forth, a la Diablo.
  
  And of course, we mustn't forget the purdy graphics. Suprisingly, the game manages to run rather 
 smooth even on older systems, and on newer systems that can handle it in higher resolutions, the 
 game can look stunning. In a wise move, the developers chose to disallow you from moving the camera 
 around, so this avoids a lot of confusion that could otherwise be caused, especially in multiplayer 
 games. (You can, though, zoom in and out fairly far.)
  
  At the same time, however, i keep noticing that my avatar never seems to have any pants on. I mean, 
 the graphics are great, but my avatar is supposed to be the coolest thing in the game, and its 
 just not happening, because for some reason he just wont wear pants! (Seriously, the equipment 
 screen lets you wear something for your head, arms, feet, torso, and two rings and a necklace. 
 Not a single place for pants.) Some armors come down far enough to make it appear as thought you 
 have some sort of pants on, but most dont, and if you ask me, it just looks silly.
  
  Besides my minor gripe with the avatar not liking pants, the only other downside to Titan Quest 
 is it crashes a lot, for seemingly no reason, especially in multiplayer. (Which is another thing 
 that really reminds me of the first Diablo - lots of crashes for no reason.) New patches have been 
 released to address some issues, but many people, including myself, are still having occasional 
 problems. (When it was first released, crashes came seemingly every 15 minutes, now there down 
 to once every 3 or 4 hours of gameplay.) In singleplayer, this isnt much of a problem, as its a 
 clean crash to the desktop, and autosave seems to back up your character every minute or so, so 
 you never really loose anything. In multiplayer, however, the crashes are much more frequent, and 
 make it nearly unplayable in its current form.
  
  Titan Quest is protected by SecuRom v7. This copy protection scheme installs a service that runs 
 in the background of your computer, while the game is running. It basically refrains you from using 
 CD Emulator programs. There seems to be no performance hit that this causes to the system, so long 
 as your willing to turn off your emulation program if you have one to play the game. While a slight 
 hassle, SecuRom 7 isnt as annoying as StarForce, so most users will be just fine and not see any 
 problems. All in all, Titan Quest is a good game. Its not the Diablo-killer we've all been waiting 
 for, but it is certainly a ton of fun to play. Once the developers patch the game a few more times 
 and get multiplayer fully stable, this will certainly be a top contendor for LAN parties everywhere. 
 If your a fan of hack and slashers like diablo, this is a very fun clone, that while it wont have 
 the same impact on the genre as diablo did, it will certainly offer you as much fun if you let 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sambado484
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  Everyone keeps saying this game is very similair to others, yes I agree the Engine of the game 
 is similair. But the Storyline, gameplay, characters, setting everything else is different. I got 
 this game not too long ago, when i first went on it I thought, oh here we go again, but later on 
 in the game It was great! The graphics are amazing, getting close to Oblivion standards. The gameplay 
 is great; smash up mythical monsters in Greece.
  
  I must addmit the sound of weapons and hitting monsters are terrible, but at least the music is 
 ok!
  
  Also there is alot of choices for your character; a large amount of classes, spells (passive included) , 
 items and skills. and you cant beat ball-joint physics or whatever its called.
  
  The best thing about this game is, instead of Dragons and orcs or goblins, you get Satyrs and Harpies 
 and centuars! But you dont need to follow the storyline and there is a feel of D&D, going into 
 huge dungeons clearing out monsters and getting treasure and then continuing the story.
  
  This game is one of my favourites upto date, I recommend it alot and I hope this review was useful!
 
  
  --Sammy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reliantk81
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  After starting this game two words came to mind "dungeon siege". This game is exactly the same 
 down to the color coding for how powerful the item the monsters drop are. While I enjoyed dungeon 
 siege 1 and 2 the strict linear journey this game offers really hurts it. The concept is fresh 
 with it set in the ancient world of mythology rather than a generic fantasy world but I would liked 
 to have seen more fantasy creatures. The first area is greece and that is fleshed out well with 
 all the appropriate creatures and bosses. However the other three areas feel rushed. In fact they 
 advertise babylon as an area out of 4 in the game but really you just get 2 levels in the chinese 
 campaign for Babylon. Once you leave Greece the game flys by and all the sidequests are on the 
 way from town to town. You could probably beat the game in under 20 hours. So after 20 hours you 
 can replay the same game in higher difficulty but nothing changes other than having stronger named 
 items that look like their conterparts from easy mode. So replay is kinda useless.
  Well for a dungeon siege clone the graphics are better and the class system is well done with several 
 different possibilities. Not a bad diversion especially if you don't mind replaying the same game 
 three times on different difficulties. Wait til the price drops for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dca5347
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  This game is really beautiful graphically. the gameplay is very similar to Diablo2. you can play 
 the Demo, but there is no way to export your save file from the Demo to the full version (my only 
 real complaint) . Vender trash drops everywhere so after a major battle you can fill your inventory 
 with enuff stuff to sell in town. Teleprting is automatic to all characters, and all items come 
 pre-identified (similar to Dungeonseige) . The maps are absolutely gorgeous, and seemlessly huge (also 
 like Dugeonseige) . You start out undifferentiated (like DungeonSeige & Fate) but you get t choose 
 how your character grows (like Fate) . If you are careful you can advance pretty fare without doing 
 any side quests (but I do not recommend this) like most games of this type, armour is still too skimpy 
 for spellcastors. so to sum up if you liked single player RPG's (Daiblo2, Fate, Darkstone) you will 
 in all likelyhood love this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to play Diablo 2 again but in a mythological setting with Gorgons and Titans? This 
 games for you. Its fun, its has a small bit of history mixed in with heavy mythology and its got 
 different locales to visit. Its also all in 3rd which really makes a purchase all that much more 
 worth it if you miss the hack and slash games missing since the day every developer got into First 
 Person mode. The story is pretty good, that being I'm a third into the game and all. The gameplay 
 is pretty simple, infact it way too simple at times given some of the skills aren't as fun as they 
 should be you're left clicking on everthing. Sure you character levels up and you can choose 2 
 Masteries (1 at the begining and another at Level 10) but somehow some of the skills in certain 
 professions don't seem all that aluring or interesting. Like say the netting ability for hunters. 
 Its fun and visually interesting but I rarely use it with my hunter. The enemy charges you so fast 
 in swarms that the last thing I do is fumble with a net that can be thrown on one character when 
 5 enemies are tag-teaming me. I think the developer should have looked at Diablo 2 and noticed 
 every single ability in that game was fun to use and worth spending points on. While we are on 
 the subject of spending skill points, an absolute waste of points must be wasted on unlocking tiers 
 which will then let you select better skills or additions that will augment already existing skills. 
 That said, I found my self trading lots of wasted skill points in so that I could purchase different 
 ones. Yes, you can trade in skills when you reach the 4th or 5th town by visiting a mystic and 
 buying back skill points thereby "respec"ing, a term all too familiar with people who've played 
 there fair share of MMOG's. This means you can trade back skills and get other skills if you feel 
 like you wasted points on a useless skill you don't end up using. Too bad this does not apply to 
 Masteries. Some Masteries are dare I say it, a complete waste unlike every class in Diablo 2 which 
 was fun, powerful and different in their own right. Not the case here folks. I haven't tried the 
 Online Play but I bet its fun seeing the different amounts of configurations that can be made selecting 
 to different Masteries. Another problem I find with the game is the camera. The camera can be zoomed 
 in thereby allowing you to take in the beautiful graphics the artists handcrafted right down to 
 the very high resolution texture but the problem is, the camera does not tilt. WHat good is zooming 
 in if I can't see 10 feet in front of the character? This is the same EXACT problem wrong with 
 The Age of Empires 3. Beautiful graphics, the ability to zoom but WHY? To see the ground? The camera 
 is NOT FUNCTIONAL. FORM DID NOT FOLLOW FUNCTION in this case. Thats said, those are my only gripes 
 and truth be told, I would not be reviewing this game and writing about it for so long if I wasn't 
 clearly impressed with the first effort from developer Iron Lore. They've made a beautiful, engaging 
 game reminiscent of games like Diablo 2, Baldars Gate 2 and Icewind Dale. Comparison aside, its 
 a solide entry in the dry rpg genre which Bethesdas Oblivion reawakened. Lets hope Obsidian Entertainments 
 Neverwinter Nights 2 follows up and brings us another quality RPG game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongpuikuan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  not even the movement and inventory, the quest is almost same like diablo 2... just like in Egypt... need 
 to searching for the tomb and the big boss also through a portal to reach there... well... graphic 
 is nice, i like the big monster, such like those cyclop.. but where to find that monster of the 
 cover page?? near the sea? i keep on playing just to looking for that monster.
  
  and if can place more ancient heroes that is nice... just like Achillies, Ajax, Jason... in the Babylion 
 section, should put Guan YU inside... and if there is a riding house section.. that much better.. cus 
 i saw so much of house there... but cant ride... i am tired for that portal, not every place have 
 a portal that is one of the mortal wound for me... just spending time to walk around.... tireddddd~~ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaioy
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  Graphics and character is done well, need more armor for the characters.
  Inventory size less can they think something-else.
  
  they need to increase the speed of the 
 game and strategy and also some more levels.
  
  When we go Night mood the gam runs very slow.... Inventory please...... need big. 
  
  I am 
 going blind when i'm in night mode (Game runs very slow) attack mode need to be worked on.
  
  I like to play this game for Once but not morethan that.. 
  
  Guys just try the and buy 
 the game its sometime amazing and sometime its really boring for those who really play action type 
 games (3rd Person) .
  
  Yeah Good and improve this bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksdowdo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Well yes this game is related to diablo way to much only the story is diffrent and at least it 
 a pretty long story....
  
  So This game Is just like diablo 2 for instince the mutiplayer is just like it......
  single 
 player in a way but not.....
  
  This is a butiful rich game if u can play it at high with out a proplem since this game is really 
 trible optimazed which is retard for this game......
  
  since it so good like i heard a sli setup of 7900gtx cant run this at high at night day fine night 
 bad.....
  
  but over that this game is really good but since this horrible crashing and lag and stuff its kinda 
 hard to play the game......... o and the audio has proplem to since it will skip alot which sucks..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Why on earth do human beings get pleasure in killing? How many violent video games are on the market 
 right now where the object is to kill 'things'? Not that I'm judging. I just can't help feeling 
 that someone was thinking this when designing the game.
  
  I've not played a game before where there were so many things to kill. Not even diablo had this 
 many. Fortunately it's quite a fun thing to do in this game. There are a variety of ways to dispatch 
 your enemies. Nothing you haven't see before. Beat them to death with weapons, cast spells, shoot 
 them with a bow, or let minions do the fighting for you. One thing which is quite novel is a kind 
 of 'overkill' where you do so much damage to a creature that they fly 100 feet in the air before 
 landing in a ragdoll heap.
  
  There are WAY too many item drops in the game. Almost every creature drops the weapon they were 
 using, and most are crap, but it gets to the stage where you start ignoring plain 'magical' items, 
 and only bother picking up the rare or exceptional.
  
  The game needs to be compared to Diablo - because I feel that almost every idea in it has been 
 done in diablo before. Shrines, runes on items, skill trees, minions, spells, boss characters, 
 resistance mods scaling up on difficulty levels, big bad demon mega bosses (who are all the same 
 in this game) . It's like they tweaked all the gameplay elements in Diablo they thought were good, 
 but unfortunately sacrificed some of the spirit of the game in the process. 
  
  Because the gameplay is so refined, you find yourself (well I did) skimming over the mission briefs. 
 "Please help me stra..." click "You must go.." click "Godsp.." click. Check minimap, head for monster 
 swarm, kill, get reward rinse, repeat.
  
  Anyway, the game was a fun game - I liked it enough to play through with a couple of character 
 builds. But I think once I uninstall this game, it's not going back on. Not like Diablo II. ;) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DV2THEFOX
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  the Diablo 2's Substitute?... well, we could say that..
  
  Graphics: Better than DIABLO 2, yeah, but no camera rotation, just zoom.. nice lighting FX's, thou some 
 times a bit small
  
  Gameplay: Easy as always from all Diablo's.. Interactivity in 1 click.. Weapon descriptions are nice.. thou 
 sometimes there are LOTS of times that you dont want.. aka ya a Warrior and lots of mage items appears 
 and you dont want 'em (except some Element resistance objects) ..
  
  Difficulty: THE BAD PART... the more fast you kill up ALL the enemies and the more far you get, the 
 harder it gets... even when you start the 2nd difficulty, all bosses might even kill you with one 
 POKE or elemental attack, no matter how small they touch ya.. Really Hardcore.. not for noobies
  
  Lenght: Less longer than what a Diablo could offer... but makes you wanna play more and more 
 after beating it up..
  
  Sound: Lovely soundtrack, inspirated a lot
  
  PROS: Graphics are ok, gameplay adjustable, choosing 2 CLASSES to dominate (w00t!) , no character selection.
 
  
  CONS: Graphics can get frustrated sometimes when lots of things happens.. like frame drops or lots 
 of effects, HARD, REALLY HARD GAME..
  
  Recommendation: Buy it if ya an RPG lover.. if not, dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  i love this game, it is very addictive and i play often to late in the night., like tree or 4 hours 
 in the night.
  
  Play it and you will see :)
  
  You will beginn in a small city where you can do quests. On these quests you can raise the skills 
 of your puppet and you can gather gold or objects. It is a bit like Oblivion, only this is less 
 talking and more action. So I think this is a better game the Oblivion.
  
  In short.. this is a very good game with nice graphics and sounds off course.
  
  Greetz..
 
  Reco 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crutch20
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  When I played the demo months back I was truly impressed with this game. I was a huge Diablo II 
 player for a year or so and this game captured those memories. 
  
  The story focuses on Greek mythology as it seems to be a popular subject in games these days. You 
 are "name yourself" and the Titans are trying to make a comeback. So obviously it's your job to 
 stop them. You hack and slash in that sort of overhead camera angle. Talk to npcs to get quests 
 and slay monsters to collect loot and experience. It's nice to see a game like this in 3D and some 
 fun physics when enemies are slain. As you kill you will level up and at a certain point you will 
 gain the choice to choose a skill set (and at a later level a second) . Choosing this and the subsequent 
 skill sets will layout how your experience in this game will be. For example, choose Warfare and 
 get up and close to your enemies or choose Storm and hang back and use some magic. Depending on 
 your combination you might be doing both. 
  
  That's pretty much the bulk of the game. If you have played Diablo II this will be all to familiar, 
 but in small ways an improvement (and in some ways not so much) . Take for instance that your health 
 can regenerate on it's own so that you won't be "as" reliant on health potions. 
  
  Now here comes the bad news. This game has some serious bugs. In my personal exploration of this 
 adventure it has crashed on me about once in an hour or two. I also have been using the LAN option 
 to play with others and if you get any lag issues beware it will crush your enjoyment of this game 
 slowly. I haven't tried to online component, but I've heard cries from abroad that they have no 
 PVP in this game. Personally, I could care less about that. 
  
  So, to make things clear multiplayer in any form is you and one to five others going through the 
 main story arc of the game either as a party or parties competing to get to that stages bosses. 
 I guess that could be a fun, but annoying thing to do (kill a boss before the other party so that 
 they have to start up a fresh game to kill it) . 
  
  The sound is great when there aren't any lag or bug issues. Music is themed to what type of terrain 
 you're in. Voice acting is great and comical at times. The only things that bring this game down 
 in score to me are the bugs and lack of blood, but I recommend this game to any D2 fan and anyone 
 into gameplay driving rpgs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmiekeyes
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  I tend to study my games more than most. I read the stuff the game's authors write and so with 
 Titan Quest I found a game that is right up my alley. I'd suggest that all do as I did with this 
 game because it makes it much easier to fight when you haven't chosen badly in the upgrades section.
 
  
  It has what we've come to expect. graphics that capture your attention and that size out when you 
 need to see what's going on around you and in when you want the fun of seeing your opponent of 
 the moment bleed when you stick him or it.
  
  The oppos are well done, this is the first time I've seen men with spider bodies FX and the story 
 line is fairly accurate historically. The places in Greece are historically correct.
  
  I'm at level 15 and everything in sight is bowing to my sword so I'll let you know how we did as 
 we progress later.
  
  Jimmie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I'll be short and brutal. This review is from a strictly veteran Diablo 2 player's point of view. 
 Yes, all action RPGs get compared to Diablo because it set the standard. If you don't agree get 
 over it. It's been half a decade since Lord of Destruction; one would think a replacement would 
 be out there already. Does Titan Quest get it?
  
  - - - [ What Titan Quest gets right ] - - -
  - NO SCROLLS -- town portalling and ID'ing were 
 just nuisances to me. Okay, ID'ing did serve to heighten the suspense in anticipating a good item, 
 but for the most part I can do without.
  
  - NO DURABILITY / AMMO -- Not much reason for either since a quick trip to town is all that's needed 
 to fix.
  
  - CARRY BAGS INSTEAD OF STASH -- not too large an improvement (it accomplishes the same goal = 
 more storage) , but the difference is that you bring your carry bags with you, removing the need 
 to go to town just to root through your loot.
  
  - SKILL MASTERIES -- customiseable character classes, that's always a good thing; they also added 
 the ability to buy back points which is a welcome feature.
  
  - TQ VAULT -- actually a standalone program, nevertheless it's available at the official IGN TQ 
 page, and it makes muling items between your characters much easier. IMO this functionality should 
 be built into the game, though - it's ALWAYS annoying to have your mage find a cool sword your 
 warrior never got.
  
  - - - [ What Titan Quest changed ] - - -
  
  - SOCKETS -- instead of hunting for socketable items, everything can be inserted with socketables, 
 barring epic and unique items. Unfortunately you can only socket the same series of socketables, 
 removing the ability to mix-n-match and no potential for D2 runeword-style socketing.
  
  - BEEFED SUMMONS -- unlike D2's pathetic summons (care for a skeleton-summon based necro past normal 
 difficulty?) , summons in TQ are pretty durable. They overdid it, though, which is why this is not 
 a got it right point. Btw I'm referring to pre-v1.10 D2LoD; apparently the summons got beefed later 
 and actually needed the v1.11 nerfs.
  
  - - - [ What Titan Quest blew ] - - -
  
  - NO RANDOM MAPS -- At first I put this under the previous category, but after a lot of replaying, 
 the lack of variety really hurts despite the huge default maps. There's only one way forward, you 
 know it and I know it. Boss runs aside, D2's randomness really helped keep players on their toes 
 and we appreciate that.
  
  - HOTKEYS -- the  idea was dumb. It only encourages you to pick 
 two uber skills, buttonmouse them, and spam away. No more creative tactical multispelling like 
 in D2. Couple this with the next complaint:
  
  - CROWD CONTROL SKILLS -- where are they? Aside from a few spells in the casting masteries, most 
 skills are single-target focused. Bow usage (hunting mastery) is my sore point. D2 bowazons had 
 homing shots, multishots, rapid-fire strafing... what do TQ bow users get?
  
  - MONSTER AREAS OF INFLUENCE -- monsters will return to where they spawned if you run too far... 
 which means cheapness exploiting! Lure a boss monster right up near the edge of his area of influence, 
 attack him until you need to run, step back, watch him turn his back on you and stab him from behind! 
 Compensated somewhat by locking bosses in small rooms with you, but this is just a lame workaround. 
 This also, btw, removes your ability to gather large mobs in order to nuke with mass-target skills... 
 since there AREN'T any mass-target skills.
  
  - MONSTER DENSITY -
  This is also my main complaint. TQ's most crowded areas, the monster camps, are few and far between. 
 Most monsters appear in small packs of anywhere between 2 to 5. No wonder most of TQ's skills are 
 one-target wonders. This genre is supposed to be about action, not mano-a-mano engagements. The 
 repeated one-on-one clickfests are what kill pretenders to the D2LoD throne, and TQ is replete 
 with solo encounters. You only occasionally get mobbed in TQ; in D2 it's standard procedure.
  
  - LIFE, ARMOR, DYING -
  Major annoyance. In D2 it was possible to do hardcore; given a careful 
 player, deaths really only resulted due to inexperience or really bad luck. In TQ, armor doesn't 
 mean jack and even a Nature hybrid with 10,000+ life can die in several hits. What the hell? This 
 means even if you're careful about your defense and don't play recklessly, you can get killed anyway. 
 No wonder TQ sports so many Rebirth Fountains, since you die so often.
  
  The fast dying pace applies to both players and monsters, which means when you're not dying real 
 fast, the monsters are dying real fast. THIS is what we mean by clickfest. At least in D2 you need 
 a modicum of skill to realise if your attacks are having an effect or not. In TQ you can use crap 
 skills and get away with it on the normal difficulty, which is why many newbies are misguided into 
 thinking that it's easy and fun. No it isn't, it's deceptive and mindless.
  
  - - - [ Summary ] - - -
  
  TQ had a chance at the throne for king of the action RPG of this 
 new generation. Sadly, the inability to mass nuke removes a lot of the joy from playing, and the 
 weakness of melee coupled with the overpowered summons means most cookie-cutter builds will be 
 summon based. I don't care about the recent Ternion nerf, you should've seen that coming from miles 
 away, and anyone stupid enough to complain about it is a one-trick pony. What, nerf ONE skill and 
 you can't play? You must really suck.
  
  Also, since armor counts for very little and blocking has a cooldown (wtf) , melee chars are hosed 
 (they still have to look out for resistances too, and suffer more from it) . Most of the time the 
 game is reduced to a kiting and baiting game, or just straight flat-out rushing in the hopes of 
 click-clicking them to death. No strategic AoE positioning for you (unless you count spamming Squall, 
 and that just brings me to my above point about spamming single skills - at least in D2 you NEEDED 
 to use your other spells as well) .
  
  Titan Quest gets points for style and trying. Good try, but no cigar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1023
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was flat out, button mashing, hack and slashing fun. I truly enjoyed running threw this 
 game, killing every mythological beasty, and wallowing in the loot. The side quests did not take 
 from the game, but is a strong added bonus. The graphics were one of the best I have seen to-date 
 and did not slow the game play. Frame rate smooth whether it was one Harpy or a swarm of skeletons 
 and zombies. With all the side quests, looting and horde killing this has a strong replay value 
 to draw hours of fun. Now if I had to have a draw back it would be the co-op. Yes it was great 
 to team up and take on many a quest, but it was not always easy to team up. If you joined up with 
 a team that was no were near you, you had to try and find them. This sometimes ment going forward 
 in the game or back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaifrecap
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Incredible game, can play it for hours although I found it very similar to Diablo IIIncredible 
 game, can play it for hours although I found it very similar to Diablo IIIncredible game, can play 
 it for hours although I found it very similar to Diablo IIIncredible game, can play it for hours 
 although I found it very similar to Diablo IIIncredible game, can play it for hours although I 
 found it very similar to Diablo IIIncredible game, can play it for hours although I found it very 
 similar to Diablo IIIncredible game, can play it for hours although I found it very similar to 
 Diablo IIIncredible game, can play it for hours although I found it very similar to Diablo II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Eater
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  This a Diablo type game and is based on the same game mechanics, but the beautiful graphics, and 
 the ancient Greece, Egypt and Asia (perhaps one more, I didn't get that far) settings make it feel 
 like a brand new concept.
  
  Here is my view of the game so far: hundreds upon hundreds of diverse items that let you buff-up 
 your character, that are seen both in the character screen, and on your character, and another 
 nice thing, is that items dropped by monsters / foes / killed npcs are actually equipped on them 
 before their demise. Sound is exquisite, but In my opinion, otherwise beautiful music score is 
 ends too quickly and tends to follow you from one region to another when you warp. Equip menu is 
 well organised, the only thing I overlooked is the superb additional backpack slots that are awarded 
 after the first expansion, so I think that should be more obviously noted because it is very important, 
 as you'll be collecting tons of stuff. Holing down the alt key reveals the items that are worth 
 picking up, but not the broken ones which are worth 1 coin. This saves you a lot of space in your 
 backpack. There are more small things that make this game enjoyable, but there's no time to writ 
 'em all down. 
  
  As for the minus side, the item do not wear so this dimension of rpg is lacking, and because of 
 that, and the abundance of items, you're never really strapped for cash (this might be a plus for 
 some, but I like to sweat a bit for the cash in games) . The save feature is ridiculous, it only 
 saves your current items, and the last checkpoint. So when you continue, if you did not get to 
 the next checkpoint, you'll have to do that stage all over again... The only positive thing about 
 that is the fact that if you're strapped for experience and/or cash, you can re-slaughter all the 
 defeated foes again, and again, and again...
  
  So, my conclusion is: a very nice game, with loads of levels, just don't play it when you don't 
 have the time to spare.
  
  Gameplay............8 -checkpoint to checkpoint play, othewise nice
  Graphics..............10 
 -very beautiful
  Sound...................9 -if it were only better organised
  Value.....................7 -no comment
  Reviewer's Tilt.....9 -there's unexploited potential 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinneyb
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Although it truly does carry on many aspects of the Diablo series, it is in its own right a great 
 game. As with most detailed 3-D engines, you should have a decent AGP/PCI card to support some 
 of the higher settings and enjoy the overall scenes and animation. It may not be the best choice 
 for the more serious gamers. It's rather easy to learn -- with a single click of th left mouse 
 button you can move or fight. There are plenty of ways to enhance your weapons and a plethora a 
 magical items to use, which make it easier to take an advantage over the common monsters with one-hit 
 blows (although it does take some of the fun and challenge out of it.) The mastery option is a 
 great feature in that you can fine tune your skills [offensive and defensive] to accommodate whatever 
 you're fighting at the time. You can even buy back your skill points later on to build on others. 
 This also allows players to really tweak their characters and make them more unique. Some of the 
 'bosses' are not that difficult though, especially once you get the hang of using the quick keys 
 to dump some elemental damage, neutralize an opponent's magical ability and potion up when you're 
 low. You should definitely pay attention to types of magic used against you as you can increase 
 you resistance via rings, amulets, enhanced armor, etc. I was somewhat disappointed in some areas 
 of the maps where it just seemed like you walk around, kill, walk around some more and kill with 
 no real challenge.
  
  Overall, I was really entertained and will continue playing until I'm sucked into another reality 
 distraction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdnf92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Sorry for my bad English, Im Brazilian.
  
  This game isnt a bad one. I dont give 7.6 for it. I give 8 or more.
  
  Everyone who played 
 it before will compare to Diablo, but is normal. Diablo is a great game, and Titan Quest is too. 
 I can't describe all I know about Titan because I dont know English. The mythology within is great, 
 almost all monsters of the geek and Egyptian are there. The graphics are nice, especially in recommended. i 
 play it everyday and i dont find any tilt or anything that makes it boring. Nice game
  
  I cant tell anything more. If I know English better I would tell more, but sorry.
  I like the 
 game and that's all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellScream1359
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  i appreciate the work of designer ... he fixed lacks of diablo 2 in game play and graphics ... 
 but have minor bugs same as sound conflicts ... and multi player ... i rate it without multi ... 
 it is rich on items but not a great items ... i see this game little short in side quests ... but 
 going to better .... every hour of game you spent is gold ... you don't worry about your money 
 ... it's enough ... if you work on it ;) ... there is great work ... if you begin epic mode your 
 red monsters grow larger and stronger in new shape ! .... all your soldiers grow stronger .... 
 everything changes and you do not dislike this best rpg game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittencrusher
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, if there is one thing I noticed about Titan Quest, it was how closely the entire game resembled 
 Diablo 2. The user interface is EXACTLY the same for the most part. Sure, there have been Diablo 
 2 clones such as Sacred, etc., but they managed to produce a game and still have it feel unique. 
 In the case of Titan Quest, all I could think of is, "Wow, this plays just like Diablo 2."
  
  Now, depending on your stance, that is either GOOD or BAD. I say it's bad, if for no other 
 reason, Ironlore failed to be original with their game. Basically, you have Diablo 2 set in Ancient 
 Greece. So it's like Diablo 2 with a face-lift.
  
  Now, having said that, the game still manages to provide entertainment, especially if you're a 
 fan of action RPG's such as Diablo 2, etc. The graphics are done really well, and there's even 
 some good physics going on with the battles.
  
  The skill trees are where it departs from Diablo. They have some cool and unique abilities that 
 add to the game.
  
  Overall, Titan Quest is a good game, but it's hardly original or revolutionary. If you just want 
 more of the same, then you'll find some fun in Titan Quest. If you're looking for a departure into 
 something new, I'm afraid you probably won't find what you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonorme666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  When I downloaded the demo of this game, I wasnt expecting much from it, I had not read anything 
 about it but the graphics looked very nice and some of the monsters looked interesting. So I went 
 ahead with the download.
  
  To my suprise after the first mob of enemies fell to the ground I was hooked, It took me a few 
 mobs to then realise that it appeared to have ragdoll physics, fantastic. So when my Warrior goes 
 into a rage mode, bodies fly everywhere.
  I think the unique deaths are what keep this game interesting, as enemies falling the same way 
 every time after killing hundreds of them can make a game very repeatative.
  
  So, by the time my fiance got the demo I had completed it. We both found the charm in the game, 
 so I ordered it.
  
  27 hours later from getting the game, it was complete, and it was fantastic from start to end, 
 and I will definatly be playing it again.
  
  This game is great on many levels, there is alot of treasure, alot of monsters and the skills tree 
 branch system works really well. Not only that but even if you are not a RPG fan but a fan of Beat 
 em ups in the style of Gauntlet, you will get a kick out of this game.
  
  What will also keep the game alive is the mod community as the game comes with the ability to make 
 your own maps and quests, so you can download or make your very own version of this game.
  
  I hope in the future to see an expansion for this game, but at the moment I currently do not 
 see this happening as I don't know how well the game sold.
  
  But my fingers are crossed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digita
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  I ran through this as both as a Hunter and a Druid. Both were extremely fun to play... While damage 
 lagged for the hunter at higher difficulty on a bow, a Druid rolls through each difficulty setting 
 with the right skill build.
  
  Loved the settings and the scenery. The mobs were varied and interesting, with some unique monsters 
 not found in most other games.
  
  The skill trees were varied, making for a very customized game each time through as you tweak your 
 skills to shape the type of class you want.
  
  Lots of treasure, and half the fun is replay and attempting to gather a complete set together to 
 see what the Set bonus will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odessaman66
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Having waited to purchase this particular game I was quite disappointed with this one. Installation 
 went fine. Game is quite choppy and Text disappears occasionally. Its quite similar to Diablo as 
 many have described. I found it to be quite boring. A monaural game to say the least. Like many 
 I was hoping this game would capitalize on the newly found interest in RPG games. However, it only 
 made me want more of something else. If you've played Diablo, Dungeon Siege or any number of similar 
 games I think you will be bored. Graphically the game is fine but nothing spectacular. Sound is 
 sufficent but lacks an impressive qaulity in my opinion. Overall I was disappointed. If you can 
 find it for under twenty bucks then go for it but its definately not worth fifty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  If you've played Diablo 2 with the add-on, then you know exactly how the gameplay works in this 
 game. The biggest improvement to Diablo 2 is that the are far more choices in how to build your 
 character. The 2nd big improvement is the move to a 3D world. Though the game would benefit from 
 more diverse enemies and environments, what we do see in the game looks fantastic. The textures 
 on everything are hi-res and well-done so there isn't a need to blur or haze the graphics like 
 one sees too often in Oblivion. You will need a very fast PC to run with all of the effects enabled.
 
  
  The only negative is that the difficulty level is too easy for Diablo veterans and you cant choose 
 a harder level when you first start the game. They need to patch that.
  
  There's little to complain about with Titan Quest: if you like the style of gameplay in Diablo 
 2 and you have a fast PC, you really ought to try out Titan Quest. 
  
  GS' 7.6 score seems a tad too low to me if you liked playing Diablo 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalflame_04
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  now give this game a chance many say it is a diablo clone sure it is but if you dint like diablo 
 you were on crack or just dint see reall fun this game is diablo with a new haircut so to speak 
 its better ironed out and new weapons is always fun just the leveling needs some work but w. e its 
 fabulous hack hack hack slash slash slash we all love it dont we anyways great alll around gaming 
 im sure if you fell in love with diablo you can much more easily fall in love with this and the 
 single player is actually enjoyable :O i had fun beating this game by myself where in diablo i 
 became people reliant lol anyways fun fun enjoy yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  A nice game that reminds me a bit of "magic the gathering" where you can customize you caracters 
 with differents equipments, spells and attributes like fire spells and such and even creatures to 
 become the ultimate kick butt warrior.
  
  pros.
  
  Graphics are awesome even when you zoom in close. 
  
  Sound is a bit generic but not too annoying.
 
  
  Like the feel of a third person view in this game.
  
  Point or drag your mouse and you caracter will follow your mouse no point and click and move a 
 bit like in the old starcraft days. A real innovation there for me anyways.
  
  Inventory can seem overwhelming at first but you will catch on very quick and find out that it 
 is in fact really simple and easy to deal with and it is super user friendly.
  
  Night and day is awesome.
  
  Learning curve is good and tuts are user friendly.
  
  gaining 
 experience is easy and fast and the abilities system is good.
  
  Cons:
  Repetitive fights with same npc's over and over but you get to fight new ones as you progress in 
 the game and they just keep getting cooler.
  
  There is no camera rotation you can zoom in but you can't rotate the map like other similar games.
 
  
  Save system depends on rebirth fountain and can be annoying a bit because you can end being thrown 
 back almost to a start point on a map if you dont save your games at the fountains.
  
  A bit linear...
  
  Overall a nice game that is different to what i am used to play.... i played 
 starcraft to death and dawn of war and tough i liked them i was in charge of a bunch of loonies 
 that i basically have to throw against ennemies and restart.. this game while having the same kind 
 of premiere let's you deal with one caracter that you have to evolve thru playing the game and 
 i loved it a lot... not the first game like this but titan quest does it nicely.. i hope they make 
 expansions packs....
  
  awesome game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorgar21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is another game that promised a bunch of innovative features prior to its release and 
 didn't follow through. Nevertheless, if the player is willing to look past some technical issues, 
 it's the best Action RPG to come out in years, since Diablo 2 in fact. The graphics and class system 
 are the true stars of the show, with every other aspect satisfactory to fans of the genre. 
  
  Hack and Slash RPG's are known for simple gameplay and nonstop action, and Titan Quest doesn't 
 fail to deliver in this respect. A particuarly noteworthy feature is the game's class system. Instead 
 of offering the usual half dozen or so streamlined character classes, Titan Quest diverges from 
 its predessors and offers a whopping total of 28 classes alltogether. Unlike Oblivion, Titan Quest's 
 large number of class options really do play completely different from one another, and are not 
 just differentiated by name. This is accomplished by offering not one -- but two choices of mastery 
 options. 
  
  Titan Quest's visuals are some of the most vibrant and intricate in any RPG to date, but unfortunately 
 they are marred by instability and demand extreme system resources. The graphical style is somewhere 
 between Oblivion's and WoW's, but is superior to both. The lighting and shadow system is easily 
 one of the most advanced in any game to date, but beware of a significant performance hit with 
 all the video settings maxed out. 
  
  The ambient noise is very well done, while the soundtrack and voice-acting are somewhat uninspiring. 
 The handling of item enchantments can get to somewhat of an annoyance as well, since only lower 
 quality items can be enchanted and the relics/charms take up too much inventory space. Very similar 
 to one of the main flaws in Dungeon Siege is the collection and availabilty of just too much loot. 
 By the time Legendary difficulty is unlocked, the amount of gold one acquires reaches up into the 
 millions. Also, another fairly significant flaw is that junk loot is almost guaranteed to be picked 
 up by accident from just moving about and clicking on the ground in the heat of battle. 
  
  Iron Lore knows how to appease fans looking to satisfy their Diablo addiction, and Titan Quest 
 is easily the most ambitious hack & slash to date. The game provides 30-40 hours the first time 
 through, and the unlocking of harder difficulties provides a strong replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riyad_94
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is like a lot of people have said exactly like Diablo but that isn't necessarily a bad 
 thing, this game takes diablo polishes its graphics, sound, and many other things, But with the 
 town, the portal, the whole storing system its point by point as in Diablo. I really enjoyed this 
 game. I really regret that there isn't a better customization system in this game. there is also 
 a problem with the audio, when someone is talking there voices get cut off, other than these minor 
 problems this game is very good and i recommend it to people who love action rpg's, (aka me, lol) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussinator
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is a hack and slash, not quite of the geographical magnitude experienced in Sacred, 
 but big enough, spanning over three culturally significant ancient areas: greece, egypt and asia.
 
  Like all hack and slash games, the pace and excitement of chopping apart numerous foes draws the 
 players unwavering attention. From personal experience, this game grabbed my attention for...4-6 
 hours straight, which is a respectable effort. Unlike games like world of warcraft, where you want 
 to get the most for your money, playing until agonising hours often pulling 48hour days, Titan 
 Quest is more relaxed and enjoyable, with the ability to save and exit, and then start right back 
 up where you were. However, this linear-style of gameplay has it's draw backs since it leaves no 
 room for open endedness, that players may experience in games like the Elder-scrolls recent releases. 
 
  Item customisation is somewhat limited, with set combinations of relics that players can apply 
 to gear. Player customisation is almost null, however, the counless combinations of skills and 
 the fact that armor covers up the characters face and skin etc, makes up for the lack there of.
 
  In summary, it's 2006 version of diablo 2 set in the ancient world with minor gameplay changes 
 a highly upgraded graphics interface and little in the way of originality. This game hogs systems 
 so watch out... but appart from that it was a good waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is another in the long prestigious line of hack and slash rpgs, the big daddy of them 
 all being Diablo. Some of the great points about TQ are the dynamic character classes, you can 
 freely mix and match to create a totally unique, well almost unique character class which can be 
 fined tuned to the players overall taste.
  
  Gameplay as I've already stated is typical hack and slash, click on a monster and kill, find a 
 misc magical item or unique item and slowly level up and equip you're character whilst progressing 
 through the many quests and areas in ancient Rome and Sparta.
  
  Many of the current problems which cause problems are a now infamous memory leak bug which causes 
 critical crash problems and even character save game corruption, even less well known is the frame 
 rate loss issues during the evening hours, all of which Ironlore have promised to fix in up and 
 coming patches, only then I would rate this game higher. Another problem is the rampant cheating 
 in multiplayer games, closed monitored servers would have done wonders for the game, most likely 
 might have even surpassed Diablo 2.
  
  Any potential buyers, I would recommend waiting for a few more patches to fix the awful bugs, once 
 fixed Titan Quest will definately become a classic.
  
  Update: At least with the new patch the game is alot more stable now and i've not experienced any 
 crashes since, so i'm raising the score up from 6.9 to 7.9, still could be better, some minor bugs 
 are still present but definately keep up the good work!
  
  One thing that it defintely needs are closed servers to prevent cheating, it will never happen 
 though unfortuntely : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbalk
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Topic sounds very catchy. Imagine fighting Gods against Titans! You could do a lot of things with 
 such stuff. Unfortunately the plot is thin, repetitive and mindless. The game is unstable, haven't 
 applied the latest patch yet.
  
  Starts off pretty good in terms of graphics and gameplay while still in the Greek campaign. The 
 only odd thing is that you chase after something called a Telekine, no relation to either Titans 
 or Gods! Anyway, it becomes the major goal of the game.
  
  Once you finish the Greek campaign, ~50% of the game, you move to chase the Telekine to Egypt. 
 First bad thing. you can no longer upgrade your monster or god relics from the Greek campaign. 
 Even more, excellent armor sets you have invested in like the labyrinth set, you cannot any longer 
 complete!
  
  To make a long story short, when you move to Egypt, the story line is so boring that the whole 
 game reduces to mindless slash and chop. There are many games better than this if you want to do 
 just that. After about 60% of the game, I just quit it and I pity the money and the time I spent 
 on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SycrJohnny
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  I have to say the truth. At first, this game didn't say anything to me. It seemed to be another 
 semi-copy of Diablo with much better graphics (Hell, way better) . But from the start, I was surprised 
 when I didn't see class selection. So I played it anyway.
  When I leveled up the first time and the mastery selection appeared, I started to love the way 
 skills and classes was dynamically managed. It was amazing how you make your character totally 
 according the way you go on your gameplay.
  Then I see that you could reassign the skill points. That was even a better Score to the game system.
 
  As great I think those features to be, I still think it as an average game but entertaining. It 
 worth the time played, but don't expect it to blow your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P_R_E_Y
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  No way does this game not beat guildwars. I like guild wars but i dont think its worth 9.2 i would 
 say 5.8. 
  Anyway this game is amazing theres nothing wrong with it however i think it should have a target 
 system on it. You don't know how hard it is to use long range weapons. If u dont click on your 
 target EXACTLY you run around like a headless chicken while monsters are bashing your head around 
 with a spiky club. If it had that I would give it 11 but without it i will give it a 10.
  Leveling up is easier than WoW to get to lvl 65 (WoW is a max cap of 60 but the second one there 
 will be a boost to 70 for all those who dont know) and the game play is educational (but who cares) 
 and action (but mostly action 8D) tho i still think it could do with a target system to help the 
 long ranged people it is hard trust me. i would say it is a definite buy as soon as you see it 
 but if ur really edgy i would rent it to try it but ull soon see that u need to buy it. Though 
 u can get pretty lost where to go as ive found myself (and still is for a matter of fact) trying 
 to know where places are and guides dont help that much they only give briefs.
  10/10 good work ironlore and THQ and nvidia and all the companys who made this good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-drumer
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest had the potential, great graphics, great context, bur they simply made it like a hack 
 and slash, what at the begining is kinda fun but gets boring along the way, very good enviroments 
 and cultures, at least it has a diversity of spaces to paly like greece, egypt, ect
  
  Gameplay
  Very simple, you can play using just the mouse, nothing fancy, nothing bad, for the 
 type of game we can say it is suitable.
  
  Grapichs
  Amazing.... the strong of this game, the sense of space and heights are fantastic.
  
  Sound 
 
  Nothing to say, does his job, adpating to the enviroment.
  
  Value
  If you have patitience... you may play it more than once... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Descarte
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to compare it to the Diablo series but being a fan of those games I awaited Titan 
 Quest with much enthusiasm and I tried very hard to like this game. I played a couple of sessions, 
 shelved it for a few days, played some more but it just didn't grow on me.
  
  What needs to be said first is that the game itself is very well done. The graphics look nice though 
 it's not fully 3D which was a bit of a letdown but it works. The scenery is great and lively looking 
 and the maps are good. A minor graphical disappointment was the lack of character customization 
 which was pretty much absent when compared to other RPG/Adventure type games it is not really a 
 big deal for a game like Titan Quest where you will mostly want to have the camera zoomed out a 
 bit for a proper overview of the map.
  
  What else is there, for one the class system is quite innovative. While playing you will eventually 
 select 2 from 8 possible class masteries creating your class which means there are a total of 28 
 possible classes which all have plenty of different variations to them since you can freely decide 
 what powers and skills to invest in and which ones to cast aside.
  
  My big problem with this game however is that even though it looks great and the gameplay is solid 
 it is just so easy that it gets boring really fast. I know it is a hack and slash game but come 
 on, I want at least some of a challenge. Just point and click with your attack or spell at a group 
 of mobs and they're dead. It takes a lot more time selecting what to loot than it takes to kill 
 the mobs. After a while I started to get the feeling that it was all I was doing, sorting out loot, 
 which items would be worth picking up to sell or equip since your inventory space is quite limited 
 and needs plenty of sorting also to make everything fit. Loot is also so plentiful that making 
 money is also not an issue and the game might as well not have a monetary system and have the merchants 
 sell everything for free. Most of your equipment you won't be buying anyway.
  
  This game may be the best since Diablo but it just does not offer the same kind of immersion. The 
 complete lack of challenge means the game won't be able to hold on to the attention of the more 
 weathered gamers for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Yes.. if you played Diablo 2 this game is gonna feal very similar.. If you loved Diablo 2 youre 
 gonna like this game too. There arent many differences between the two games in terms of gameplay, 
 the more obvious being the characters but even there you can still make very similar charaters 
 to D2. If youve never played either of these games.. i would say try Diablo2 first - that is if 
 you can stand the weak graphics. Diablo 2 is a more solid game in almost every aspect. And again 
 yes... this game is very very buggy and things can get very choppy even in a middle-to-high end 
 machine (A64 4000+ X800XT) so extra patience is needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stpkg
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  PROS
  1) TQ is a Diablo 2 alike game reborn in 2006.
  2) 8 classes available for selection of any 1 or 2.
  3) Skill points reassignable.
  4) Huge 
 maps and long story to play with.
  
  CONS
  1) No public server to keep the game alive. (-0.5)
  2) Poor AI
  3) No camera rotation function.
 
  4) Inventory problem as Diablo 2. (-0.1)
  5) Graphics is not smooth and need debugging. (-0.2)
  6) Interface problem: many skills is not 
 convenient to use unless it is being assigned to the left or right mouse button. (-0.2)
  7) Human only.
  8) Game is not well debugged before release. (-0.2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GPAddict
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  First things first, make sure to install patch 1.08 before playing to make sure your character 
 doesn't dissappear or something else bad.
  
  First let me say that the graphics are great! And the interface works well. The game play is addicting 
 and very Diablo-like. Good variety of weapon and armor is available. 
  
  Only bad thing is that the camera is fixed just like Diablo, but it is still ok. It would be nice 
 to control the camera in certain spots.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone needing a fix until Diablo 3. 
  
  Hope my review helps.
  
 
  Next game I will review is probably DarkStar One, which will hopefully be a good fix until the 
 next Wing Commander: Privateer games comes out. If it ever comes out. One can only dream! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorlin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Some may say that this is a perfect game. It's not however it definitely does a good job in filling 
 the gap from where Diablo 2: LOD left off. There hasn't been a good game that does a similar job 
 as D2 in years and this effectively is what has filled the stop-gap.
  
  Others may say it's a horrible game, or that they've "been there, done that", or that it's "outdated", 
 etc. Once again, I have to disagree here too. The game fits a role and that role is a mouse-driven 
 click-fest across multiple levels and various bosses and puzzles. That's exactly what the Diablo 
 series did, as did multiple other RPG games. I'm willing to bet money that the same people complaining 
 about this game also complained about Diablo, however small it may be.
  
  I've been pretty impressed and happy that this game came out. I play a variety of games and this 
 one is the only one that comes close to Diablo 2's playstyle. If you like the idea of a roman/greek 
 setting instead of fantasy, then this is for you. If you like the idea of upgrading your equipment 
 and improving your characters in a manner that's refreshingly new (skill points for your specialty 
 classes) , then this is for you. Instead of three tree on each character, there's the chance to 
 pick two classes across more than 8 sub-sections. 
  
  Sure it's been done before, sure it's nothing more than a rehash of a lot of other games, primarily 
 Diablo 2. Who cares? It's a fun game and not since Starcraft: Brood Wars have I joined a multiplayer 
 game with just me and a few friends and spent a good few hours hacking apart things while blabbing 
 about it over Teamspeak. The game's well worth the money spent especially when you're bagging some 
 boss with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Great game, if you need a low stress hack n slash. A few let downs with this game though. The graphics 
 are nice but not near what was boasted to be, and Titan Quest suffers from bugs. Even with the 
 latest patch, the game doesn't run the greatest, even with pc performance well above the requirements. 
 It is fun to play, if your into games like Diablo, Divine Divinity, etc. It was nice to see added 
 effects to character abilities with points spent on character skills, something that was long overdue. 
 Good amount of content and at least a little replay value. Just wish the performance was better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lascivious
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Diablo II, was a brilliant game. Dungeon Siege was a great adventure. Scared was fair, Dungeon 
 Siege II was innovative it was incredibly fun and addictive. This game is very similar to them 
 all however it does not show much progress in the industry of gaming. 
  
  Further more like in all "point and click" to move rgp's there needs a strong and new storyline. 
 I can't find myself involved in the story of this game, the world is no where as vivid, nor the 
 leveling system as well developed as Dungeon Siege II. After so many games that are very much the 
 same, the experience of this game is and plain and dull.
  
  It is a solid and decent game but after playing all the above mentioned games, it feels like im 
 replaying a game that has been lying on my shelf for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyros_P
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Wow!
  Talk about addictive! As soon as I got the demo in my hands and installed it I new that I would 
 be having a great time playing this game! For all you DIABLO lovers out there, TITAN QUEST has 
 something of that formula that glues you to your chair and keeps you from averting your eyes from 
 the screen!! Fast paced with FANTASTIC graphics, quite good sound F/X and a cool little story, 
 TITAN QUEST can easily be a favorite. Make sure you have a good enough machine though, or you will 
 miss out on all the fun!
  
  Enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Well, basically if you've played Diablo 2 then this pretty much feels the same. Most of the gameplay 
 is like in D2, the inventory system, the kill-walk-kill system, and the quest system. The only 
 major difference is that the theme and story, and the graphics are different. And also the way 
 that you can have skills from other classes, which was impossible with D2. Though all in all, i 
 still think the game is pretty good since i haven't seen much of these types of games that are 
 made quite well. Ah, the D2 days have come back.
  
  
  Update:
  I've actually finished the thing in normal mode, and each of the 3 levels took 18 hrs to complete 
 (roughly) , or around 54 hours for the whole game. This is where I have explored every inch of every 
 map. Though half-way through the game it kinda got really boring as it became "kill everything 
 in sight" and the types of quest were simply either kill or retrieve something. Don't know how 
 long it will take to finish the epic or legendary modes as for me, these kinds of games are "once 
 around the bend" only, as there will be nothing new.
  
  The value of this thing really only goes up when you have friends to play with all the time. The 
 single player is simply too lonely and monotonous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  First, there is no way to avoid comparing Titan Quest to Diablo and Dungeon Siege series. It is 
 the same basic template that was used to create Titan Quest but with a different setup and context. 
 You are now fighting against Satyrs, Cyclops and Centaurs in the Greek/Egyptian region. The basics 
 of the game are quite simples; witch is the best part of the game according to me.
  
  Gameplay: Simple, intuitive, fast and sharp. One example is when you create a character using a 
 ranged weapon as a primary weapon, you don't have to worry about having enough arrows in you quiver, 
 you just shoot and you'll never run out of them.
  
  Graphics: Amazing setup and really nice graphics. The camera can be adjusted almost as you want 
 it to just using the mouse wheel and this adds even more deepness to the game.
  
  Sounds: I am disappointed on this aspect of the game. The sounds are always the same ones and the 
 special effects are limited to the sound of a blade hitting a buckler and a monster calling for 
 help or raging before charging you. I would have expected more weather effects like rain or thunder 
 with sounds according to those situations. 
  
  Skills & Skill System: That is my major disappointment with the game. The skills are really limited 
 and levelling up doesn't really make a difference compare to finding new magically imbued items. 
 The skill system is simple and efficient, but is rotten by the poor selection of skills available. 
 
  
  Storyline: This is the part of the game I mostly enjoyed. The story is nice and sticks to what 
 you would be expecting for this type of game. It is well divided between the main quest and many 
 side quests which complement the game. 
  
  Tilt: Titan Quest was a game I was expecting a lot from, but was finally disappointed in terms 
 of not delivering as much as I was expecting, but at the end, it's still a good game. It represents 
 well the Hack-and-Slash type of game and for any new players of this genre, or old timers feeling 
 nostalgic of Diablo, it definitively recommends this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippythezip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  First lets tell the people who complain about this style of game, dont buy them .
  
  Well, I have not bought a game for some time. I borrow or download them, then my eyes see this 
 on the shelf, $49. I can play Oblivion on high, should be able to run this no problem. Wrong!, 
 game can freeze for seconds, cant turn the shadows off, cant save at good times, so much lag you 
 can go nuts. Game play is not bad with, loads of loot but after a few hours you dont even bother 
 picking it up. I now run the game on low with shadows on high or medium. The game could have been 
 the best so far, its still good enough to get to play through the pains, but there should not have 
 been any. Why do we pay for games and then have to wait for patches to fix them. I will return 
 to buying from bargain bins before buying new. My advice for anyone thinking of buying this game 
 is read the titan quest forums and wait to see when it is finally patched to work well.
  For the plus side the box is nice, and comes with a manual. The graphics are very nice, the game 
 play is good. ok you you have to follow the only road, but the journey is still good fun. For this 
 style of game to be able to play when you want would have been nice instead of fighting to the 
 next rebirth fountain.
  Final advice, dont do what I did and buy now, wait till it is fixed, and if its not fixed never 
 buy it. When Iron Lore make a new game let others try it out first with their money.
  
  I feel it is only fair to come back and edit this review. Upon advice from friends I bought the 
 expansion to this game and wow what an improvement. The game now runs smooth and is what I would 
 call a good game. Shame the game was not fully tested at the start and I am also sorry to hear 
 Iron lore has gone under. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxRobespierre
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  It has been way, WAY too long since I have picked up a game this generally flawless in it's simplicity, 
 as well as it's presentation. The last one was probably Diablo II. And since we are a long way 
 off of seeing a Diablo III, it is important to realize that the hack-and-slash action RPG genre 
 isn't stagnating. The first thing I noticed was how quickly Titan Quest wanted to get me into the 
 game. 
  A very short DVD-install (YAY, bonus points for DVD) , followed by a simplistic menu screen and 
 a nearly negligible character creation screen dropped me right into gameplay. Literally 10 seconds 
 in I had kill a satyr, and realized that this is indeed the game that I would love Diablo III to 
 be. Generally combat is very visceral, with the physics engine in the game often tossing enemies 
 about to and fro as I smash them with my weapons of choice. Sadly for weapons, the choices are 
 too few in terms of overarching types. There are swords, spears, maces, staves and bows. That's 
 it. If I am missing any, they are either A) useless beginning of the game drops, or B) some variation 
 of a larger group (swords count as daggers, short swords, long swords, etc.) . Also mysteriously 
 lacking were my favorite weapons of all time, two handed polearms. Or two handed weapons whatsoever. 
 You will almost certainly ALWAYS have a shield if you choose to be a warrior of any sort. That 
 could be a pro, but I always lean in favor of better damage rather than higher defense. 
  Also notable are the lack of different kinds of enemies. You will find yourself killing lots, and 
 lots, and lots of satyrs. And Maeads. And harpies. In fact, for the entire Greecian campaign, it's 
 the aforementioned beasties, some animals, and undead. Plus or minus some boss monsters, and the 
 few new baddies in Knossos, and you are left with too little change in too long a period of time. 
 
  The gameplay, however, is great. Maybe it's just nostalgia for the years lost to D2, but I just 
 love this game. It's frenetic, I don't need to think, and it's gorgeous to behold. This may be 
 one of the most beautiful games I've ever played. If it weren't such an obvious clone of Diablo, 
 I would have given it a ten, but hey, reward originality. 
  All in all, Titans Quest is definitely worth the 50 bucks. You'll have fun for quite some time, 
 and come an expansion, a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trewl
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid and pretty fun RPG, lots of interesting mythology and such, but some parts are 
 really too plain and dull.. not enough soul and personality to a lot of towns, just seems to simplistic, 
 like nothing interesting is going on in the towns, just same ol' .. very simplistic like the towns 
 got taken straight outta Dragon warrior 1, very little interraction with the town, no going into 
 buildings, etc, just a few people with a little dialogue, and a couple people sellin stuff, voice 
 acting was decent, but what they had to say was just so simplistic.
  
  This game is just too 1 track mind, all about the main quest, not enough interesting characters 
 with depth to them, and side quests are not too colorful, just mostly plain and not too fun, very 
 basic, and a few bugs here and there in single player.. memory leaks, etc. 
  
  items (swords, armor, etc) wasnt too interesting, just sorta stuck to basics, none of the stuff 
 really pops out at you, just sort of bland.. just the generic setup for that sort of thing, nothing 
 u aint seen in 100 other RPG's. The enemies need more variations (lot of recycled enemies, seeing 
 them over and over, except they keep getting stronger) .
  
  all i can really say tho, basically, is its got beautiful grafix, and a pretty interesting little 
 story, the gameplay kept me goin hour after hour, thought it wasnt the most fun RPG i ever played, 
 just needs more soul, more interesting lands and such that keep the story exciting, it was pretty 
 plain, not enough personality, not lively enough, just too NES.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are good and what games are boring or just 
 realy bad.. 
  but off course other like cars and other like girls so... do u like this its up to u =)
  
  
 --   Sory my enghlis its not my main language so i try to write only short Reviews
  
  
  
  
  Graphic 7/10
  nothing so bad there.. nice looking
  
  
  Sounds 7/10
  not bad, 
 music is ok and hit and other effects is good to
  
  
  Gameplay 8/10 
  easy gameplay, hack and slash. nce rag doll effects.. enemys realy can fly when u hit them
  
 
  
  Time Spent Playing 
  +10hours
  
  
  Difficulty 
  easy
  
  
  Worth to buy?
  if u like hack and slash rpg games whit nice graphic and easy gameplay i say.. YES
  
  
  
 
  Gamevalue 7/10
  its good SP game.. but u realy need to be ready to kill many many and MANY enemys.. if u start 
 region over again.. all those killed monsters are back... so u need to kill more..
  
  i enjoy when playing the game and maybe u will enjoy to
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  From one of the co-creaters of the Age of Empires series, comes this mythological action role-playing 
 game much along the lines of other hack n slash games before it including Diablo and Dungeon Siege. 
 Iron Lore took hack n slash gameplay and tacked a decently long campaign written by the same man 
 who wrote the story for Braveheart, and gave the player a exciting setting to master their own 
 character from a string of different classes and skills.
  
  Titan Quest starts the player off in a small village in Greece that is being overrun by satyrs 
 and other mythical beasts. From the start, youll know that Titan Quest is a step up from everything 
 previous to it with its great looking graphics and just the setting itself. If youre a fan of 
 history or mythology, you should really give this game a try. As you start off in the small village, 
 youll come to the realization that the mysterious creatures known as Telkine have broken from 
 their prison and plan on releasing Typhon, the titan, to wreak havoc on the gods and the world 
 itself. Youll journey through Ancient Greece, Egypt, and also China as you make your way through 
 different mythological stories and characters such as Chiron, Medusa, the Lord of the Labyrinth, 
 the Chimera, and various others that youve read or heard about. Along the way, youll hear that 
 gods are unable to help you or mankind in ridding the world of the three Telkines and Typhon, so 
 it will be all up to you. Although, you will get some help along the way, in short spurts, youll 
 be on your own for most of the trip and it is quite a long trip. If you decide to check out every 
 area, gather and complete every sidequest, you can easily rack up between twenty-eight and thirty-five 
 hours. It really depends on your playing style, but this game will take you awhile. Its quite 
 long, but throughout the campaign, your interest will be held by the interesting storyline, unique 
 setting, and overall presentation of the game. Youll travel to historical settings such as Athens, 
 Delphi, the pyramids of Giza, Memphis, the Great Wall of China, and Mount Olympus itself. The developers 
 took their time in making the mythological and historical sense of Titan Quest both accurate and 
 exciting. And after you complete the normal difficulty setting, youll unlock epic difficulty and 
 after running through that, youll finally unlock legendary difficulty where youll find more bosses 
 and enemies that will try to stop your from reach Mount Olympus. 
  
  Much like other hack n slash action games before it, Titan Quest offers a class system, but youll 
 be able to pick two from the list of eight thus giving the game more replay value as you can try 
 multiple combinations finding the best character suitable for you. The different classes consist 
 of Defense, Warfare, Spirit, Nature, Hunter, Earth, Rogue, and Storm. With the different combinations, 
 youll garner new classes for your character such as the pairing of Hunter and Warfare creating 
 Slayer or Warfare and Spirit making Spellbreaker. Each class and class combination has a different 
 combination that makes a fun and unique play-through each time you start up. With the different 
 classes, there are a specific set of skills that youll be able to choose from, making your character 
 more powerful with each level you gain. With your character, youll have the choice of either being 
 male or female and thats basically all the customization youll have from the start. Unlike newer 
 role-playing games like Oblivion where you can change everything down to your eye color, Titan 
 Quest gives you the choice or male or female, but the real separation between you and others online 
 will be the different types of armor youll be able to find and wear throughout your travels. There 
 are multitudes of combinations of different armor types for each class, among a ton of set items 
 you can find throughout the games extended campaign which, when you have the entire set, youll 
 gain a bonus feature to it such as more armor or more health, among other things. While the sets 
 range in quality and helpfulness, youll soon find something suited to your needs. Like other hack 
 n slash games, Titan Quest has different colored items consisting of how often theyll show up 
 Colors ranging from grey, which means its pretty much junk and broken all the way up to purple 
 which means its legendary and all the items have something to do with the mythological standpoint 
 and this is a cool perk when collecting different items and sets. A nice feature that youll have 
 during your travels of finding great equipment is the ability to teleport back to each town that 
 youve already been in to sell the loot you dont need. This teleport system really helps the gameplay 
 where you wont have to run back and forth everywhere for equipment, potions, or even quests.
 
  
  The game has great graphics. If youve looked at any of the screenshots for this title, youll 
 notice the hard work the design team and programmers have put in. The thing youll appreciate the 
 most about Titan Quest is the attention to detail. Such as the level design throughout the different 
 areas, whether theyre above ground, in caves, or spread out inside temples and labyrinths. While 
 running through a field of wheat or grass, it will actually separate around you as you pass by. 
 Inside the tombs in the Valley of Kings, youll see different pictographs and hieroglyphics that 
 just add to the sense of the atmosphere in the game. Light sources are just that in Titan Quest, 
 sources of light which arent static. Torches along the walls will illuminate different areas and 
 while you carry a torch, youll see how everything reflects off of it and youll see how the light 
 influences its surroundings and bounces off others. As you traverse through the deep jungles of 
 China, you may want to carry a torch just to light your way because the developers made the night 
 and day a little more realistic than the average game where it can be quite hard to see at night 
 without a light source in your hand. Within Titan Quest, theres a small physics engine which does 
 come into play. While battling deadly demons and zombies within ancient tombs of pharaohs, youll 
 be able to beat your enemies into deadly crevasses and pits, but watch out how you open chests 
 around pits or the ocean side, because some items will role down and fall into both and be lost 
 to you forever. As you kill different enemies and beasts, youll see how their bodies fall to the 
 ground with the cool physics engine. Some enemies, as you kill them at the top of stairs, their 
 bodies will fall and role down each step and the physics will make the game comical at different 
 points. One thing to note with the graphics is that with older systems, there may be a little bit 
 of slow down when battling a bunch of enemies which is expected, but also, when traversing between 
 a cave/tomb and an outside wilderness area, the game will stutter for a few moments while it loads 
 up the environment one can only imagine. While this isnt a huge drawback, it does get a little 
 tricky when dealing with enemies right outside a cave exit.
  
  The sound within the game is great. The musical score that plays throughout the games campaign 
 really adds to the experience and youll find yourself trying to find a soundtrack to listen to 
 afterwards when youre done playing. Different NPCs that youll be able to communicate to gain 
 quests or just to gather knowledge about the different environments will have their own voice and 
 while most sound fine, some of their seem a little dramatic and have quite a funny accent, but 
 who am I to say that the Greek accent sounds funny right? With the initial release, there have 
 been problems with the sound in the game. Like, when you go and talk to an NPC, the background 
 music will just quit playing for a few seconds. And the strange thing is, this isnt the only time 
 the sound has problem, sometimes out in the wilderness or roaming through a cave. The developers 
 havent quite found the problem and neither have any of the fans, but hopefully this will be fixed 
 in an upcoming patch.
  
  The game does have multiplayer where you and five other friends can run through the games single 
 player campaign and while this may not seem that great, it does provide a lot of extra fun gameplay 
 experience. While these are not closed servers like Blizzards Diablo, the multiplayer is fun enough 
 as it is right now. Time will tell if Iron Lore decides to move in the direction of closed servers 
 like Blizzard. The only thing that is truly upsetting about open servers is the ability to cheat 
 and this can be a detriment to anyone playing. So far, there isnt any player vs. player (pvp) 
 included in the game, but on the day of release, the developers let the public know how they could 
 enable an early stage of it for players to fool around with. The game has also shipped with a very 
 extensive editor for players to create their very own adventures with. Its practically the same 
 thing that the editors used themselves. So, if someone were so entailed and had the time and patience, 
 they could literally make a new game or create an expansion for the Titan Quest itself. Some different 
 smaller mods have been created already and they show real potential for what can be done in the 
 future with these tools.
  
  Overall, Titan Quest is a great experience from beginning till end as your character gains levels 
 and becomes stronger. Youll have great gameplay as you travel through historic environments and 
 take down mythical beasts such as the Cyclops, and the hundreds of gorgons blocking your way. Although 
 the game has a couple short comings in the way of stuttering slowdowns and sound skipping, they 
 dont truly take away from the experience and fun youll have throughout the games single player 
 campaign whether if youre alone or with friends. Collecting items and gaining sets will keep you 
 coming back each time as you make your character that much more powerful so that youll be able 
 to traverse through the legendary difficulty without getting ripped apart by the many-headed hydra. 
 If your fan of history, mythology, or hack n slash games, you should really give this game a run 
 through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster067
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The gameplay is very simple and easy to learn. The only problem is that it 
 has graphics problems on some computers. the screen sometimes messes up in certain parts of the 
 game. Another problem is that it can crash in multiplayer. But its only crashed on me once. The 
 difficulties vary depending on how good your character is. Spellcasters will have a easier time 
 while warriors will be more challenging on harder difficulties. To unlock the harder difficulties 
 you must beat normal to unlock epic and then you must beat epic to unlock legendary. The difference 
 between them is that they offer extra bosses and better items. Its a good overall game though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Even as far as Diablo wannabees go, this game fails to draw much if any interest from me. I've 
 played Sacred/Underworld and Dungeon Siege 1/2, and while not a big fan of either of those two 
 series, I still found them marginally more interesting than Titan Quest. Dungeon Siege has party 
 members and a little bit of story/character interaction to its credit. Sacred has more varied player 
 characters - dark elf, demon, seraphim, etc., which help to make its endless hack-and-slash a little 
 less dull.
  
  TQ seems even more repetitive than any other previous Diablo clone that I've played. Maybe it's 
 just because there are so many of them now, it's like beating a dead horse, but TQ makes even less 
 of an effort to be somewhat creative or different than the others. Another downside is that the 
 lowest difficulty setting (which you are forced to play at your first time through) is stupidly 
 easy, with most monsters dying in one or two hits (the triple staff attack w/ explosions can clear 
 a mob out with one shot before they even get a chance to move) . It's probably just as easy for 
 melee characters. Only in the last 10% of the game do the monsters become a real threat, and even 
 then, it usually takes a large group of spellcasters to actually kill the player. There is very 
 little variation or strategy in combat - you're doing the same stuff at the end as you do when 
 you start , which is mindlessly plowing through hordes of monsters without pause.
  
  "NPCs" deliver quests in monologues, merchants buy/sell stuff, and the towns are there to be portal 
 pitstops. Other than that, there is nothing else to do but kill things.
  
  On the bright side, the graphics and artwork are very nice indeed. The monster models are surprisingly 
 detailed and the  mapping is excellent. There is also a large 
 selection of weapons/armor/magic item sets, most of which have their own unique mesh, unlike many 
 other games which will simply slap 10 different textures onto the same model. The monsters are 
 also distinctive and well designed, and you can see their actual equipped weapons and armor as 
 they appear on the model, which they drop once killed. The ragdoll physics are effective, although 
 tend to be a bit on the rubbery side as sometimes you'll see some pretty bizarre deformations when 
 a flying body hits an obstacle.
  
  On my system, this game was unstable, oftentimes becoming jerky/hitchy for no apparent reason, 
 usually followed by a crash or freeze after a period of time. Resetting the graphics options seemed 
 to clear up the death spiral crashes. 
  
  Since finishing TQ, I have no desire at all to play through on the next higher difficulty setting. 
 It just left me with an empty feeling that I don't want to revisit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breuer85
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I have a high-end machine and this game barely keeps it's head above water at parts! Especially 
 when inside, the game can get slightly choppy and loose fps. That said, I am relatively new the 
 the RPG genre and I never played Diablo or Baulders Gate. This game got me into the genre and didn't 
 let me down, too bad. 
  The game can be a tad bit repetitive and it's frustrating just how little you can carry around 
 with you. You get magic spells, and get little quests to guide you along a one way street. Enemies 
 get a bit tiresome too fast, and it really doesn't feal like theres any large challenges. I personally 
 feal that if you only have to load a saved game ONCE while playing a game.... it's far too easy.
 
  The story in the game doesn't keep your attention for long at all. I do need to mention that the 
 game lets you "walk away" from the story and not have to watch dozens of cutscenes. Which is nice 
 because I don't buy games to hear a nice story anyways! 
  In the end, Titan Quest delivers an epic journey through the old ages of gods and monsters, and 
 makes remember old high-school books like the Odysee.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick-CT
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I was very much looking forward to this game, but it was a huge disappointment.
  
  I finished the single player in a week, and am not in the least interested in going through the 
 story line again with the next unlocked level, the game was THAT boring. 
  
  After playing it once through, I have un-installed it, and the game is back on the shelf to collect 
 dust!
  
  The creators had a few good ideas, with the different classes etc, but it all seems superficial. 
 There is not interaction between your classes, which makes it irrelevant which class you chose 
 first or second.
  
  Guess I'll have to wait for Sacred 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrealhk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  If Blizzard was to make Diablo 3 it would be similar to Titan Quest (TQ) from IronLore. In fact 
 the game play down to the default keys are almost identical, (but that can be said about most FPS 
 games) . The graphics are better, and story set in ancient Greek era, and some changes to character 
 development. All in all it is the closest action-RPG I have seem to the frantic click-fest of 
 the Diablo series.
  For those who are unfamiliar with the Diablo style action-RPG, here is a basic description. It 
 is not a RPG, dont expect amazing story unfolding before you, or interesting dialogs and conversation 
 trees with NPCs, dont expect an interesting world, full of guilds, people going about their lives, 
 dont expect inventing potions etc. TQ is action , which means it concentrates on pure combat, 
 both melee and ranged. There is no amazing skills with the mouse or the keyboard, just click to 
 kill ( and click to talk and click to pick up items) , and there is plenty to kill; hence the tag 
 of click-feast. So whats so good about just clicking and killing, well, the answer is you get 
 to build the ultimate killing machine.
  TQ is about creating a character which can basically kill all beasts as quickly as possible, with 
 weapons of choice, skills and special items which add bonuses to your attack or defense. Unlike 
 normal RPGs, TQ is quick paced, in less than ten seconds, pick up another weapon, whack a few 
 enemies, and decide if the weapon is worth keeping. Theres lots of weapons and items and skills 
 such as armor, shields, special bonus enhancing stones etc, which boost you attack speed, damage, 
 defense, or attributes. This means there is many many possible ways to tweak your killing machine, 
 and it is a constant and fast pace. You will always find a weapon that is slightly better, in damage 
 it does, or speed, or range, but also items which are slightly just beyond you characters attributes, 
 eg. Not enough strength, or dexterity or level, which makes you think about your character planning. 
 So everything to improve your character is right before your eyes, but just slightly out of reach.
 
  
  So onto the differences (compared to Diablo series) . The first noticeable difference is the graphics, 
 it is full 3D which means you can zoom in and out, and has a lot of pretty effects, such as water 
 reflections etc. They are not amazing but good enough to set the scene, and acceptable in todays 
 standards.
  The second major difference is the character development. You are basically given a blank slate, 
 instead of a pre-defined class. This means that your character will develop to whatever you wish 
 (choosing two masteries from eight) out of a possible of 28 classes. Other differences are less 
 obvious. Here are two that I like very much.
  1. In inventory when you move your cursor over an item it immediate displays the items attributes 
 (e. g. damage, speed etc) as well as the attributes of the currently equipped equivalent so you 
 can do a side by side comparison.
  2. When you use the ALT to see the items littered around the landscape, you only see the unbroken 
 items. There are two extra keys, one to show all items including broken and damaged items, and 
 one just to show all the interesting items. This is a nice touch.
  
  There are some small problems.
  People reported a few bugs, which I have yet to encounter, which 
 can spoil the fun of the game. IronLore has already released two patches and are actively working 
 on the fixes.
  Secondly I have a decent graphics card (7900GT) and default settings of the graphics is set to 
 high. There have been a few cases of lag and low frame rates, which is annoying considering the 
 graphics dont look as complicated as say Oblivion. However, the lags are short and does not go 
 bad enough to get you killed or spoil gameplay.
  
  This is not a game for everyone, but a lot of people will like it, just because you can basically 
 play it without any learning curve. No special skills, just click to kill. Do not expect a game 
 where you talk about the amazing story, or fantastic adventure, but do expect to talk about how 
 you killed 10 enemies in 15 secs with your super hunter with uber long bow.
  It is a game where you can sit down and play for hours without noticing time going by, or just 
 play for 30mins and know that after the 30mins you character will be better (more dangerous) than 
 it was 30mins ago.
  
  Good game, hope IronLore can fix the bugs and make it more stable. I rate it an 8.3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaselBiggs
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Some games are like wine. They start out fairly badly, without an ounce of surprise. Grape juice 
 games, you could call them. Frustrated, you shelf it and seemingly vow not to touch it again. However, 
 the game won't let go that easily. It'll mature in your game collection, lying in wait for the 
 perfect time to be REALLY cracked open.
  
  In Titan Quest's case, it started with a sudden jones for some Diablo II corridor-crawling. Then 
 I spotted Iron Lore's first offering and went with it. Some kind of odd wishful thinking made me 
 imagine that the game wouldn't lag as much as it did the first time. Usually, you know, wishful 
 thinking applied to a game isn't such a good potential indicator.
  
  This time around, though, I was right. I don't know what causes it, as I haven't added any RAM 
 or deleted any other programs, but the game almost runs without a single drop. Almost. The point 
 is, I finally got to really try out this game. And I must say that, as I'd predicted, my opinion 
 changed for the better. Unfortunately, it doesn't keep me from finding a few hitches to point out. 
 I'll start with the good stuff, though, just for kicks.
  
  Graphically, the game indeed is the Diablo II killer I've heard it being dubbed as. Grass sways 
 under your feet, the enemies fall according to ragdoll physics, most particle effects are gorgeous 
 and the subterranean levels are nice to look at. Best of all, Titan Quest's version of Antiquity 
 is a seamless world, without the predictable bottlenecks found between areas in Diablo II. At the 
 very best, you'll find two pillars with craters on top of them. They light up as you pass between 
 them, acting as a visual aid in order to determine where one area starts and the other one ends.
 
  
  Other than graphics, I'll admit that the only other strongly positive point I've found is the portal 
 system. You can warp out of a zone and back to the last visited town almost only at the push of 
 a button. No longer do you need to manage portal scrolls or the like. It's certainly needed, considering 
 the sheer amount of stuff dropped by the game's enemies. As explained in the official review, only 
 the relevant , or player level-related items, show up when you press the ALT key. However, most 
 monsters usually drop one or two more which won't show up and aren't worth equipping. You can still 
 zoom in to pick them up easily and then sell them back. Beyond this point, I have to start taking 
 points off. To say a few words on the aural department, I could say that it's fairly run-of-the-mill. 
 Hammy dialogues delivered in coarse imitations of the accents of Greece, China or Egypt, and lots 
 and lots of various moans, groans, fireball surges, electrical buzzes and the like. A few of the 
 enemies in the game may LOOK impressive, but they don't quite sound the same. As you'll see below, 
 the same can be said of the gameplay proper. It comes close, but ultimately fails at besting Diablo 
 II.
  
  It feels as if Iron Lore desperately wanted to create an homage to Blizzard's talent, but had also 
 shied away at the fact of using the same clarity of use Blizzard had devised. Splitting the skill 
 system in six disciplines and allowing the player to choose two is an interesting concept, but 
 having to spend point in the actual MASTERY of each discipline, to unlock certain skill levels, 
 is more an annoyance than an innovation. It means you'll be cleaning out the same areas even more 
 often than in Diablo II, just to buff up your skill mastery. Unfortunately, the skill mastery gimmick 
 is nothing if a big, complex locking system. If putting points into it had served as something 
 akin to Blizzard's Synergy bonuses, the whole process of levelling up would have been far less 
 strenuous. Better yet, unlocking skills based on player level would have been not only easier, 
 but also far more rewarding.
  
  As for the action proper, what's to say other than it's your standard action RPG? Very little, 
 to be honest. You'll be on your lonesome in the middle of frankly gorgeous locales, endlessly slaying 
 beast after beast after beast. I hate bringing up Blizzard as my own reference schematic again, 
 but D2 had a better hand at unfolding its own plot than Titan Quest does. It may have something 
 to do with the classic's shortness, even with the expansion. In Titan Quest, as the environments 
 are expansive and diverse, you'll hack your way through a smorgasbord of enemies before even reaching 
 the entrance of this cave tagged for questing, or that overrun sacred grove. Progress is long, 
 slow and quickly loses its fun factor, mainly because you'll frequently find yourself needing to 
 revisit old locales not to gain more skills, but to augment your chances of survival by pumping 
 your two points in Health.
  
  Not to mention that the game makes ill use of its mythical references. Just running into Polyphemus, 
 Chiron, the Oracle of Delphi and other spared mythical figurines that give you a quick chat and 
 leave isn't enough. The premise should allow the player to kid around with mythology itself, by 
 teaming with some of these figures, or make more central plot elements out of them. We couldn't 
 complain with Diablo II, as the universe was largely original. But with something as generally 
 known as Greek mythology, I think most of us have the right to expect something more, plot-wise, 
 beyond the usual go and fetch me this or go and kill this quests.
  
  I mentioned the two-point level-up system earlier. It.'s another system that might leave some disoriented. 
 I understand it's done this way in order to avoid copying Blizzard's easy literal five-point scheme, 
 but constantly having to remember that one skill point is multiplied by four, once pumped in a 
 given area, adds a slight mathematical bend to character levelling, where there clearly shouldn't 
 be.
  
  In other words, I tasted of the game's potential, and found it was pleasant, but not quite as polished 
 as it could have been. If I've seen my fair share of grape juice games and a few expensive bottle 
 ones, I'd say Titan Quest is somewhere in the weaker end of the midpoint between the two. Something 
 like a pleasant twenty-dollar bottle, albeit one that's forgotten quickly.
  
  My advice: grab it if you really must, but don't kid yourself in beleiving this to be a premature 
 offering of a hypothetical Diablo III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  I dont know if this company asked for the rights to produce this game or had to from Blizzard, 
 but it is shockingly similar to Diablo 2. Diablo 2 had some advantages over this game even though 
 there is a big timeframe difference in their releases. Diablo 2 saved the character to their server. 
 This is something that TQ should have done to eliminate hacking/cheaters. Diablo 2 didnt discourage 
 cheating and duping items, but you would have thought that TQ could have developed something more 
 secure by now. Diablo 2 has a storage box where TQ does not. Other than these downfalls, TQ is 
 a great game. You will eventually find yourself just clicking on the quest NPC's and not reading 
 the dialogue. This is both from repetetivness and also because the dialogue is somewhat broken. 
 You will see what I mean. Titan Quest will keep you wanting to play to advance through the 3 difficulty 
 levels. Aftrer you beat the normal level you get to start over in epic mode, then legendary mode. 
 Each mode has better equipment and harder mosters. There is also some variations to the maps on 
 the different levels and different high level mosters Ive noticed. Titan quest has a great skill 
 tree system. The nice thing about the system is you can reverse the points you put into skills 
 and pu them into other areas. for example, if you chose to use lightning as you primary spell but 
 later you wish you chose fireball instead you can see a npc that will allow you to take the points 
 out of lightning and use them for fireball. This is all done at the cost of gold. This feature 
 keeps the replay value very high also. This is a very addicting game with good online support although 
 I wish they set up a server with character saves on it instead of saving on the hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkwelch
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  The game is good in a sense of gaphics, story, quests and the character building. The amount of 
 skills and different ways of building your character is really good. The fact that you end up having 
 2 main skill trees or classes really makes it fun. The items I found in the game could be a lot 
 better. Most of the items that drop are not as powerful as the stuff you do have. You find yourself 
 selling most of the items that you do pick up. This game does resemble Diablo 2 in most ways. You 
 have waypoints and the fights are like DB2. One reason why this is better then DB2 is because you 
 do not have to repair equpiment or buy arrows and oblviously the gaphics is better and there many 
 main story quests and there is also a lot of sidequests. The downsides to TQ is the mulitplayer. 
 The multiplayer is broken because most games you can't connect to and if you do you would get booted 
 fairly frequently. Another is the amount of bugs the game has. One bug which I ran into was part 
 of the mian story and I couldn't go on with the game, Later I found out that by playing online 
 for 1 hour my character happen to get corrupted and I had to start over. I did make a new character 
 and Im happy to say I got past that part. I would recomend this game to all DB2 veterns and anyone 
 who likes a soild hack in slash game and if you dont mind the occasional crash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slonor
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Where to start. It's basically your average point-and-click RPG where you kill stuff, talk to people, 
 get loot, sell it, rinse and repeat. It reminds me of Diablo, except that it has been created years 
 later. The character design screen is terribly simplistic, since you only get to customize your 
 character by choosing sex and the color of the clothing (about six colors if I remember correctly) . 
 The gameplay is bland with the main quest system where you just go through a linear quest and some 
 linear side quests which you can choose to take or can choose not to take. You click to walk, click 
 to attack and press a key and click to cast a spell (unless the spell is a cast-on-self spell, 
 in which case you just press the key to cast it) . Mana and health regenerate on their own or can 
 be healed. A big let down is that you cannot rest to heal or regenerate mana, so you have to heal 
 or wait a long time, which is a pain. When you gain a level, you choose a field (various mage fields, 
 an archer class and two fighter classes) and gain HP/MP according to that class with every level 
 you take in that class. You can also spend experience on class-based abilities such as shooting 
 spells (each of which can be improved with each level in that spell) or attack abilities for fighter 
 classes. All very bland.
  
  In terms of the gameplay, you just walk around and kill enemies with the boring point-and-click 
 fighting system to gain experience and continue in the game. If you come across a difficult enemy, 
 just attack them, lure them out until they decide to return (apparently they are scripted so they 
 cannot follow you past a certain point) , and attack them once they return to the start point. You 
 can kill many bosses this way. After you kill the enemy, you also loot them. Once your inventory 
 is full, you teleport back to the town, sell it off, and teleport back to where you teleported 
 from originally and continue. Before long, you can have hundreds of thousands of gold pieces. Before 
 you know, you'll figure out that looting is a totally boring waste of time in this game and that 
 you should just cheat to get yourself gold and only pick up weapons that are superior to the ones 
 you are wielding. That and pick up the potions. This is how the game continues for a LONG while, 
 until you get the ability to summon "pets" (if you're a caster) , which will make the game even 
 more boring since now you don't even have to avoid getting hit.
  
  The sounds produced by the characters that hand out quests aren't that bad, but you'll soon figure 
 out that you just need to click on the quest giver and leave and just loot until you stumble upon 
 the quest target. The game really doesn't get any more interesting or boring, at least not in the 
 first part of it (as far as I played because I couldn't stand the boredom) .
  
  The graphics are just awful and are outclassed by Neverwinter Nights, an RPG that was released 
 FOUR YEARS earlier. That and the game somehow manages to be choppy even with my comparatively upgraded 
 system, whereas the graphically-superior Neverwinter Nights was NOT choppy on my earlier system. 
 Not to mention that this game is worse than Neverwinter Nights in virtually every aspect, even 
 if the same Neverwinter Nights were released today.
  
  Definitely not worth it. Do not buy this game, it is total crap and a complete waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9host
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  I do not understand why this game gets such a low score. Especially in the graphics department. 
 The graphics are great! 7/10? Was the reviewer playing on a Geforece 3 system? Maybe it is a game 
 for the fans of the genre, but it is a great game and i find the score too low.
  
  The game has a good storyline, it plays very easy, nice effects, decent music, lots of items and 
 nice classes. 
  There might be a bit of a balance issue as casters are easier to play than melee classes but that 
 might be sorted with a patch soon.
  
  Anyway, try the demo and if you like it you will love the full game ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shundhit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is a highly addictive, Diablo based RPG game. This game was made by THQ and Iron Lore 
 studios. It's a great RPG game for all those 
  die-hard Diablo fans. It also has good strory. You are a traveler who becomes a helper of the people 
 around him and the ultimate opponent for the Titans. They are the evil gods of Greece. Before the 
 game's beginning
  Zeus had imprisoned these Titans and just suddenly in the game when you were having fun with solving 
 side quests and your main quest, you come to know that the Titans have escaped. Then you're on 
 a quest to solve the problem. During this adventure you'll encounter skeletons, beastmans etc. 
 and you'll have a time of your life exploring that BIG world out there. But sometimes you'll have 
 to fight Bigger monsters to complete your main quests. You also have to solve side- quests which 
 are mini- quests that will grant you experience, money (gold) etc. You'll come across items that 
 you can pick up from dead enemies or chests etc. and to make sure you get the right thing for you 
 there is a colour on every item's name to say which things are good or bad. The gameplay and AI 
 is awesome like when you encounter some skeletons which are backed up by skeleton archers and if 
 you try to draw them off from the archers they will not follow you as they will get smashed and 
 when you want to charge the archers the infantry skeletons will block you from going and will want 
 to kill you. The graphics are also gorgeous and you'll wanna see more and more of the beautiful 
 land. So here is my review. It's honest. So read this thoroughly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wierdlizard
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  A nice game, but it is about five years late. It's a basic hack and slash RPG with no real improvement 
 on the format. 
  Titan Quest did include some nice features although none were really finished. For example, it 
 includes a damage per second amount, but only once the weapon is equipped so comparing a new to 
 a current weapon is not useful. The inventory is the same painful one from the Diablo series, but 
 without a private stash to store items, even worse you must carry potions with you as you quest 
 taking up storage space.
  
  Ultimately the game is best for someone that enjoyed the old hack and slash style to the newer 
 types of combat systems like that employed by WOW. While there are still a number of pitfalls in 
 the gameplay that I believe have been improved on already, it is a good game for a return to the 
 old days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Off the bat Titan Quest feels like Diablo 2 on steroids and better graphics with a hint of ancient 
 feel. TQ sports tons of gold and items that are usable but most items if aren't your character's 
 class will just be sold. Gold is plentiful in this game and is practically useless after lvl 5 
 because there is so much of it. The skill and level up system is another copy but has some cool 
 features even though a player has to play through the game more than once to unlock most of the 
 useful skills. TQ also has a cool portal feature that instantly spawns a portal to an already visited 
 city if your inventory is full or you are in trouble. Downsides of Titan Quest are too much gold 
 and no free flowing camera. Crashes and sounds problems can also occur while playing TQ. At the 
 end of the 20+ hour Titan Quest it feels as if the makers used D2 as a base and just added on making 
 it a good game but not quite a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammamaster
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I rarely write reviews, but I had to post one for this game.
  
  Sure the game is a click-fest.
  
  Sure the game makes ya suck potions, and upgrade your weapons 
 and armor, just like in Diablo 2.
  
  But what you get in this game, that you dont get in others is some of the best art design i've 
 seen in a game in years.
  
  I dont mean graphics, which is incredible, (there are some parts of the game where I think my head 
 is going to explode) .
  
  I'm talking art design.
  
  Keeping it brief, there is no doubt that IronLore spent their time making sure that the artistic 
 flare of the game was top notch. When you see a mummy burn bright red after dying, or see the hyroglyphics 
 on the walls of a dark tomb - you'll see what makes this game reall worth playing.
  
  Diablo 2 fans, dont pass this one up. Spend the cash, its a great game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bldalyncsu
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is a surprisingly good game. I wasn't expecting it to be this good. Assuming you're 
 a fan of Action-rpg's, there's hard to find much to complain about in this game. Its been awhile 
 since I've enjoyed an action-rpg as much as I do this one. If you haven't bought it yet, play the 
 demo. If you like the demo then you will most likely love this game.
  
  The Good: 
  Beautiful graphics (technically and artistically)
  Diverse environments to explore
  Nice repertoire 
 of enemies 
  multiple skill masteries allow multiple playthroughs, fighting strategies and character configurations/classes
 
  spectacular spell effects
  mythological/ancient theme is refreshing
  inventory management system is more user friendly due to availability of DPS calculation and item 
 comparison with equipped versus inventory equipment
  day and night cycles
  ability to buy back skill points
  plentiful rebirth pools eliminates artificial replay
  engaging 
 story
  good voice acting
  
  The Bad:
  Environments are linear
  Traversing the environments feels like you're mowing the lawn
  rare and epic items are rarely 
 available for purchase from merchants, no matter how much gold you have
  Boss battles on normal difficulty are a little too easy
  Inventory items are not auto arranged 
 according to size
  
  The Ugly:
  Depending on your system, frame rate can get laggy with AA turned on; especially at night
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassmike187
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  It's just like Diablo II without the annoying minor stuff, like arrows, repairs, scrolls (townportal, 
 identify) . You will need a very good system to run this t high settings.
  
  It's just like Diablo II without the annoying minor stuff, like arrows, repairs, scrolls (townportal, 
 identify) . You will need a very good system to run this t high settings.
  
  It's just like Diablo II without the annoying minor stuff, like arrows, repairs, scrolls (townportal, 
 identify) . You will need a very good system to run this t high settings.
  
  It's just like Diablo II without the annoying minor stuff, like arrows, repairs, scrolls (townportal, 
 identify) . You will need a very good system to run this t high settings.
  
  It's just like Diablo II without the annoying minor stuff, like arrows, repairs, scrolls (townportal, 
 identify) . You will need a very good system to run this t high settings.
  
  It's just like Diablo II without the annoying minor stuff, like arrows, repairs, scrolls (townportal, 
 identify) . You will need a very good system to run this t high settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eugeneluah
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is first and foremost, an almost identical game as the Diablo series. It does not introduce 
 anything new or innovative to the genre, which means that gameplay itself basically involves hours 
 upon hours of clicking and slaughtering never-ceasing hordes of mythical creatures. Just 15mins 
 into the game, and i felt as if i'd already played this for years. The developers have no qualms 
 of ripping ideas directly off diablo, but very unfortunately still cant quite match up with the 
 quintessential heck-and-slash game of all time. The loot table is not as flexible or dynamic as 
 diablo's, resulting in large quantities of very similar loot, most of which is useless.
  
  Do not be mistaken though, this game is still a pretty solid effort on its own, and will most definitely 
 satisfy fans of this genre. If your idea of fun is to click on your mouse mindlessly for 40hrs 
 of gameplay (it even has a monster-killed counter, as if it is an achievement to be proud of) , 
 then this will most certainly fill the void that diablo2 has left. But as a game, it has outdated 
 gameplay mechanics, and if you're not into this genre, then your time and money is better spent 
 at other fantastic games out in the market now. 
  
  Just a note, the game is very buggy out-of-the-box, and often crashes to the desktop. This problem 
 seems to be fixed with the 1.08 patch, but there are still numerous glaring problems with lighting 
 and clipping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forrest666
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  It is a fair game, the graphic is good and the game's physic is awesome (but still too bugged...) , 
 i realy liked to hit an boar and send him many meters away and them whach him fall on the clif's 
 rocks :P
  the bad thing about this game: its playability is so "Diablo" that i couldn't play it enougth to 
 like it... and it is too HEAVY for my machine... 
  And the sound is bugged... and another bug, i was in a cave and when i killed the monsters they 
 bypassed the ground thogether with the itens they left...
  i am expecting for this game lots and LOTS of fixing patches...
  The game history is cool (unless 
 u are expecting any logic on it... a man arises from nowhere just killing every poor monster he 
 seens in his front) , all these "Age of Mithology" things mixed with something like a nordic ragnarok 
 just give a great history to tell!! and a great game too!!!
  I think this game mark the end of "Roman and greek mithology fashion" which almost every game is 
 based in, and i gess that no other game will do so... at last after this one LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Diablo clone with much bettre graphics , it pulls conseqences   hardware demands. I have 6600gt 
 1024 ram and 3200+procesor and can play PREY with full details -new FPS, and cant play this one 
 on medioum evin low,
  Nothing special in game , game developers are making 8y old idea and made too demanding for Pc's 
 .
  I diont like also Antic greece and you cant choose char portraits etc.
  Without patch you can't even play always crashes firat 8 lvls 30 crashes in game, good statistic.
 
  I was waitin for this but i am bit dissapointing although Diablo fans will be playing this for 
 sure.
  That s it from me,.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  If you look back at my reviews, you'll see that i'm a longtime Diablo 2 fan. I've played through 
 the game a dozen times from beginning to end and break it out at least once a year. Finding a game 
 that played similar to this style was never an easy feat. There were some bad attempts in the past 
 few years, but never anything that matched. Until now...
  
  Titan Quest's developers were obviously fans of the Blizzard game as they modeled TQ very simliar. 
 That's not to say that TQ is a knock off, because it's not. It's an entire game, in and of itself 
 with it's own strengths and weaknesses, but plain and simple, it's fun.
  
  Graphically, you can see right off that TQ meets today's difficult standards even from the top 
 down camera view. By scrolling your mousewheel, you can zoom in to almost a first person view, 
 but up close, the view is beautiful and the attention to detail in this greek based game doesn't 
 leave anything to fill in. Graphically, on higher settings with a good video card, the game can 
 get choppy and occasionally, even a slide show, but this is more frequently in MP and Coop. A recent 
 patch took care of some of these problems and no doubt, Iron Lore will continue to squash bugs 
 in future patches.
  
  The gameplay is hack and slash, pick up items, upgrade your weapons and gear and sell the rest 
 to vendors. There's never a lack of cash in this game as most enemies drop coin and payoff for 
 items picked up gain you a pretty penny. Items are color coded by their strengths and costs. But 
 monsters frequently drop yellow, green and blue items leaving your need for purchase with a vendor 
 almost needless.
  
  Levling up is done in a different way than normal. All players start out exactly the same and at 
 level 2/3 and then get to chose their 'class' type which is basically a direction to take whether 
 it be magic, melee or ranged fighting. For melee, there are plenty of great weapons for which to 
 battle and for distance, the bow options are great fun. The magic options, there being many of 
 them, are great fun and at times, overpowered. The interesting thing about classes are when you 
 reach level 8, you are given the option to choose a secondary class. So if you chose magic as your 
 first class option, you could go for melee as your secondary and use both. Each class option has 
 a multitude of ways to level up and over a dozen or more ways to enhance your character. Or if 
 you chose to be purely one class, you can forego the secondary choice and stick with your first. 
 Also, there are NPCs in most large towns that will allow you to take back any number of class choices 
 and reassign the points elsewhere.
  
  Single player is and enjoyable play, but really shines in MP and coop. The battle intesifies when 
 two or more players play together with different class options. So, a melee player will play wonderfully 
 with a healer or a magic user.
  
  For a wonderfully mindless but thoroughly enjoyable rpg, this is a great chose and at well over 
 40 hours of play and three difficulty settings, you'll not run out of game to play for some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZX1234R
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  This game rocks! Based on ancient mythology it will really blow you away. But let's take a closer 
 look on it's different elements.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The story is based on mythology mostly and someone will find many creatures of the game taken entirely 
 out of mythology books. The game tells the tale of when the titans (also the game's title) tried 
 to take over Olympus by fighting the gods. After the Titans lost, they were locked in Tartarus 
 and could never be released. Until an evil mage came along and tried to destroy everything. That's 
 when our hero enters the scene and tries to save the world. The story will keep you from napping 
 on your keyboard (unlike some other games out there) and will teach you many interesting things 
 on ancient greek, egyptian and asian mythology.
  The RPG system is not very much different than most RPG games but has some features that i found 
 very nice. The choice between 8 major masteries and a plethora of minor skills can make your character 
 either a powerful mage, a strong warrior, an archer etc. This way you can create your own type 
 of hero instead of choosing between templates as seen in Diablo and Sacred.
  
  Sound
  
  This area of the game had some glitches even in version 1.08 of the game but it can be fixed with 
 a patch later on. The music will thrill most of you and will keep in tone with each situation. 
 The sound effects are very well engineered and the weapons' effects are very nice to listen to.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The game has an excellent atmosphere and very beautiful graphics with very good shadows and lighting. 
 It's engine has some advanced physics. I was amazingly impressed when i hit a satyr and watched 
 it as it flew over the hill and fell into the sea with a splashing sound. Although it has many 
 good quality textures it is not as heavy as i thought it would be (given the fact that it is an 
 RPG title) and can run smoothly in a typical system.
  
  Overall it is a very nice game and above all it is enjoying. Definitely the next Diablo game (until 
 Diablo 3 of course) and you should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_trooper92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is the perfect strategic RPG game where you control only one person at the time and 
 not a big army like happens in Age of Empires. There are some enemies that will make you a hard 
 time to kill; you need patience and ability to train your player enough for beating a boss. It 
 may be noticed that the missions are very long and for leveling up is a hard time; that is why 
 I told you about the patience. You may choose if you want to be Men or Woman and color your tunic 
 at the beginning of the game. You also are gaining money and experience points throughout the game 
 that will help you buy and use better weapons and armor. Titan Quest takes place at ancient Greece 
 and Egypt. This will make you learn more about ancient history and develop your mind. The game 
 play is just right and the graphics are good but they could be done better. 
  
  Thanks Iron Lore and THQ.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRussianRoket
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Where does one start? The game Titan Quest, evokes so many emotions at the same time, one does 
 not know where to begin with.
  From the screenshots, the game seems like a clean and standard Diablo clone. The description boasts 
 expansive character customization, stunning graphics, and immersive world with Interactive characters, 
 and promises a historical theme!
  Let's examine each of those aspects and compare to what actually happens within the game. 
  
 
  That game is broken. It is so broken, that the only good use for the CD is to serve as a wheel 
 on a physics project or some sort of projectile terrorist weapon. 
  The game randomly crashes, restarts your computer, freezes up and half a dozen other things you 
 can imagine a game doing. 
  The official technical support forum for the game has been absolutely overrun since the game has 
 been released. Hordes of people reporting random crashes at random points in the game, to the point 
 where playing the game is a test of mental stability in the person playing it. 
  Most notably, was a thread created by a user asking others to state the number of crashes he/she 
 has head while playing the game. The results were spectacular. The answer began at 20 and ended 
 at 100. The only consolation to these irate users is a person who is apparently part of the development 
 team, who browses the forums and attempts to troubleshoot peoples problems. Because there are 
 so many, he has made a thread where he attempts to address the 20-30 major problems people have 
 been having. 
  
  It seems the game has been released half done. THQ released a patch to address some of the concerns. 
 This just created a brand new wave of users who were reporting worse problems than those originally 
 experiences. Up to a gentleman who claimed the patch screwed up some important system dll files. 
 
  
  Now, let's take a look at the plot.
  
  Those who have played the game might ask themselves... what plot? The game attempts to establish 
 some sort of Greek mythology setting, the titans created the Olympus gods; they then clashed in 
 a battle amongst each other. This is because wanted the Humans destroyed, but since they were the 
 gods most loved creations, they defended them. Gods won imprisoning all the Titans... or so they 
 though. I just summarized you what is told on the official website+ the opening cinematic. The 
 game does absolutely nothing to expand on the plot, or why you, the character must run around killing 
 things. Sure, I understand the world is being overrun by monsters that are being led by an unimpressed 
 titian, but what then? What about small mini-stories? What about explanations of why you are sending 
 me to kill monster-x. The NPC's send you from one point to another, in the way killing things. 
 That is ALL! The massive dialogue usually in length of 2-3 paragraphs lets you know that you must 
 now travel there to unravel a piece of the puzzle. Once there, another NPC prompts you to continue... etc... Etc... Etc 
 the game has 3 major areas of play. Set in Greece and Egypt. I assumed that in these major transfer 
 points there would be some plot developments. However, as I was preparing for an epic story that 
 would transfer me from Greece to Egypt, I was prompted by another NPC to go to Egypt, because that's 
 where some fella who knows about the unleashed Titan lives. COME ON!!! YOU HAVE TO BE KIDDING ME?!?!?!
 
  I feel sorry for the decent voice actors within the game, they seem to be performing their lines 
 with some hope that their words somehow fit into a grandiose plot and colorful storyline, little 
 did they know, they are the best part.
  
  InteractiveCharacters. I have yet to find any in this game. As I have touched on above, the 
 NPC say 2-3 paragraphs and send you on your way. There are also 3-4 space-filling NPC's who randomly 
 blabber about something or another, having no relevance to the game itself. Just general Greek 
 mythology if you have a test coming up or something. You cannot interact with any of them. They 
 all seem to know you and what you want from them. They spit out information in a Coles notes style. 
 Maybe they signed up to your newsletter or something. 
  
  The graphics are great. I was happy with them; it's too bad that the game lags. Lags for no reason 
 at all, at random points in the game. It might lag when a tree comes into view, or it might lag 
 because you are in the shade of a bush. There is no explanation for this. People posting in the 
 game's support forum, have reported lags on system rivaling those of NASA. 
  
  Sound is as random and choppy as the ingame lag. Some players reported no sound at all or crashing 
 of the game because of sound.
  
  The game play is so so. You run up to things and you hit them. I have been killed 3 times while 
 passing the whole game. Just stock up on health potions. Very few creatures in the game are able 
 to deliver enough damange than you can heal with one click of a button. 
  
  The only thing that delivers as promised is the array of items. I was pleasantly surprised with 
 the amount of different types of weapons, armor, and rings/pendants I was able to use. Sorry to 
 say, that was not enough for me to enjoy the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionreplay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  I've been missing a game like this for awhile. People raise an eyebrow at its Diablo-like game 
 play, but I like it simply because of that imitation. At its core is a great dungeon/world crawler 
 with plenty of fast clicking action. The graphics are outstanding and add to its punch. The sounds 
 are top notch. Zooming is an awesome feature to capture much of the game's graphical detail, but 
 way too hard to play that way due to lacking a field of view.
  
  If you like the Diablo series and are looking for something 2006-similar, you simply can't go wrong. 
 Don't beat it up for being like Diablo- embrace it and lose yourself in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackliu239
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  First of all, this game looks great. Greece really feels like Greece and China feels like China. 
 Unlike Diablo in which all the locations looks and feels much the same. In TQ, playing at different 
 locations could almost make you feel like it was a expansion. Fighting on the Great Wall or Pharaohs 
 tombs are awesome.
  
  The skill tree in this game is nothing innovative, but the way it offer in this one is pretty generous, 
 which mean its pretty good. Unlike Diablo 2, every level up gives you one skill point, in TQ it 
 gives you 3 points and also let you choose two completely different skills. Which this would offer 
 some very interesting experiences, but with so much to choose from, your skills would end up spread 
 too thin to be any effective (I learn it the hard way) . Luckily this game actually let you buy 
 back already committed skill points and redistribute them again at your choosing.
  
  The Bad
  
  Like many games coming recent years, the publishers rush to them in the stores, 
 TQ was one of these games. For me it was almost unplayable in the beginning, the game crashes every 
 30 minutes and sometimes I wouldn't even load up my profiles. Which resulted in some very nasty 
 cursing by me. But thankfully the patch two weeks later fixed the problem. After the patch the 
 game runs very well and has never crushed me for since. However I still this it was very irresponsible 
 for the publishers release an unfinished game in the first place.
  
  Maybe its just me, but it seems this game seems to have some skill balance issue. The game is 
 seriously underpowered for the melee players and not much better for the range players. However, 
 the game in comparison is extremely easy for casting players, and especially easy for pet players. 
 For normal difficulty, I first played as an hunter specialty and by the mid game it was almost 
 unplayable because I was not doing enough damage and the was constantly slaughter by the monsters, 
 by then I had about already 25 game play hours. Then I just started a whole new game that focuses 
 on the Earth plays and put all my skill in to the Core Dwellers (pet) . I mean, no sh! t, the dwellers 
 was so powerful, it completely owns the monsters and almost never drops below to 90% of its health, 
 and this time unlike my range character, I never had to run away from the enemy. In the end, me 
 and my pet finished the game at only 19 hours of game play with majority of the side quest done. 
 Hopefully later patch can fix this issue
  
  Like Diablo series, like all heck and slash games, the constant repetitive actions gets really 
 boring really fast. But I guess this isn't really just one of TQ's problem since this is the problems 
 suffered by all the similar genre.
  
  Overall, this is a good game and has accomplish what it set out to do, which is the attempt to 
 copy Diablo 2, and in the process it did offered some good features. Nevertheless in the end its 
 really nothing revolutionary.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matttrd
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  How could it all have gone so wrong?
  
  This was a game that I was really looking forward to, especially after spending so many happy hours 
 with the Diablo series.
  
  The developers clearly messed this one up as although the game used an interesting and unique setting 
 none of its potential was fully utilised.
  
  I was expecting a Clash of the Titans or Jason and the Argonauts experience unfortunately what 
 I got was none of the aforementioned experiences.
  
  The game is a ponderous boring experience that isn't nearly as well polished or interesting as 
 Diablo II even.
  
  The quests are dull and never actually prove to be that important the main story was derivative 
 of the genre and negates any desire or compulsion to see its closure. 
  
  Mythical beasts are not fully utilised nor are the Gods in the game it would have been so good 
 to have talked t the Gods and received gifts from them. 
  
  I won't even start to tell you about all the bugs I encountered as it would take far to long.
 
  
  It must be said though that the game looks fairly good, has an excellent skill tree system and 
 some nice items. The combat is also pretty good but lacks variety. There is a lot of replay value 
 due to the skill trees that is if you can be bothered though.
  
  This could have been a truly wonderful game had the developers spent some actual time on the story 
 and quests unfortunately they didn't consequently we are left with a game that takes hours of your 
 time but rewards with very little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veagen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  pretty fun if you like diablo style games. 
  
  bad:
  i was annoyed with the fixed perspective and a camera that follows your player. e. g. getting attacked 
 by something off screen is lame. it also doesn't warn you before it wipes out your minor quests. 
 running vista beta 2 and it crashes sometimes which has a tendancy to interfere with the state 
 of current quests. not much challenge in the monsters, pretty brainless to beat everything except 
 when you have to use a potion every couple of bosses.
  
  good:
  nice diversity in character direction, fighter / mage / archer etc... spells are pretty cool but 
 you have to use points to raise your "spell level" before you can learn certain spells. so you'll 
 gain a level and use all your points to raise your spell level and have nothing left for new spells. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  I decided to buy this game after I gave the demo a whirl. I was a little worried about the performance 
 on my box, but, throwing caution to the wind, I plunked down the $50 for the DVD version at Gamestop, 
 mostly so I could play multiplayer over the Internet with my brother-in-law.
  
  My first experience, as with any other RPG was the character creation screen. I was a bit disappointed 
 to find that I could only create a male or female character with different colored tunics, with 
 no other customization available. Of course from the top down perspective, a la Diablo II, you 
 don't really notice much anyway. After creating my new Greek Hero, I entered the world, first in 
 single-player to try out the quest/loot/level system. 
  
  The first bit played exactly like the demo through the same quests, so I was able to focus more 
 on learning my new skills (once I hit level 2) . This is one area where I think TQ really excels. 
 You have your choice of 8 skill masteries to choose from, including your more standard melee, assassin, 
 magic, and ranged skills, but within each mastery exist a plethora of passive, active and additive 
 abilities that you will have great fun playing with. When you hit level 8, you then get to pick 
 a second mastery, so combinations become diverse and exciting to try. I have two characters past 
 level 8 now, one has Spirit (necromantic skills) and Nature (healing, summoning nature creatures) 
 - a very strange combination that I didn't think would work at first, but now I love it, and the 
 other with Hunting (ranged and spears) , and Rogue (poisons, etc.) . The customization at this point 
 is something hard to resist. I look forward to every level up, where I get to struggle with figuring 
 out where best to spend my next skill points. You either choose to invest in a skill (or level 
 its power up) , or in the mastery itself. Some skills are only available after you reach a certain 
 level of mastery, so you'll want to balance your abilities with mastery. Don't worry though, if 
 you buy a skill that later becomes useless (unlikely, but possible) , you can pay a mystic to give 
 you skill points back for a bit of a change (you cannot remove master points, just ability points) .
 
  
  If you are a loot whore, you'll love this game. If a creature is wearing a piece of armor, when 
 you kill it, you can loot it. Of course, it may be broken (gray title) or just a normal (white 
 title) piece of armor or weapon, or you might get lucky and find the creature was toting a pretty 
 powerful piece of gear (yellow, green, blue, and purple levels of loot are all available) . Magical 
 attributes run the gamut, from elemental resistances to stat bonuses. Some of the bonuses aren't 
 very clear to me as to what they do (what does a +14 to defensive ability do compared to a +7 to 
 strength for example - probably in the manual, but who reads it for this kind of game?) . But it 
 is fun to play around with it. Once in a while, a creature will drop a charm that you can use to 
 enhance your armor, weapons, rings, etc. You may also combine similar charms to make a more powerful 
 charm on your character. I have found enough of these, that enchanting your lower level armor isn't 
 too bad, since you're likely to find more charms to enchant your more advanced gear.
  
  After taking the game to multiplayer, I found some real issues with the performance. When the game 
 transitions from day to night, the dusk shadows wreak havoc on my frame rates, and transitioning 
 from a cave or tomb back to an outdoor environment really stutters as well. I do admit, since the 
 1.08 patch came out, these problems have been greatly alleviated, particularly a memory leak that 
 slowly degraded performance to the point where I couldn't even bring up my skill tree without logging 
 out and back in. I am very happy to report that these issues have been taken care of from what 
 I can tell.
  
  One final note, I understand from reviews and previews that the game takes you through Greece, 
 China, and somewhere else. I have been playing for quite a while, and still haven't gotten out 
 of Greece. While the skeletons get a bit old, the other creatures are fantastic, and the boss encounters 
 are memorable (and dangerous) . I think this game will provide me with some long hours of gaming, 
 and I'll probably go back and revisit it at higher difficulty levels just for the loot and the 
 skill progression. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remy272003
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I have to say when I heard of Titan Quest I was quite excited. I love and finished both DIablo 
 games and their expansions and loved every second of it. Diablo with a greek mythology twist would 
 be a dream come true because of my high interest in greek mythology but I would end up being disappointed. 
 I wanted to love this game, I really did, but it just didnt grow on me some games do, I guess you 
 can say it wasn't "engrossing" enough for my liking. The graphics are nice but the programmers 
 seem to have have slacked off when finishing and testing the game. I can play Doom 3 with Anti-aliasing 
 on at 1024x768 on high settings smooth as butter, but this game at 1024x768 at medium settings 
 with no AA keeps on stuttering. This problem seems to due with the lack of loading during the game 
 but I have to say I would rather have loading every so often instead of a stuttering seemless world. 
 The game also has a problem with inventory. Not only does it sort items in your inventory in an 
 odd manner to best utilize your space (but so did diablo) but it is hard to find and pick up inventory 
 items that are dropped from chest and enemies. Important items do glow up a different color such 
 as gold, blue or green but its not nearly as intuitive as Diablo is when it comes to item pickup. 
 Also like I said the game isnt as engrossing as id like, its set in the world of greek mythology 
 but doesnt seem to play on it as much as I like. You dont hear or get involved enough with gods, 
 titans or other facets of greek mythology. I loved the part where you first fought the cyclops 
 because its a huge freaking cyclops but other battles with Spider queens and the like have been 
 more disappointing. They could easily have made this game more captivating having you do missions 
 with or for famous heros and other mythological characters. Its easy to pick on this games flaws 
 but I will say the graphics in this game, while buggy are good with some great colouring. The game 
 though does have a good skill system and is very diversified, with the ability to mix and match 
 skills, picking one skill to start off with then another once you reach level 8. The enemies have 
 a nice variety though im sure theyre could be a little bit more (I loved the Anubis type dogs first 
 when i got to Egypt and realized the enemies there would have an egyptian twist instead of a greek 
 mythological twist) . The weapons in the game are good but they seem to throw good weapons at you 
 early on that you dont have the skills to use but may want to keep for later but don't want to 
 keep them in your inventory. I wish there was a way to have a chest or something in the towns to 
 keep things you found to be used at a later date instead of being in your inventory. I have to 
 say though it is a good game, just has some nagging flaws to it. I hope Iron lore create a better 
 second game like this, maybe Norse Quest based off of Norse mytholgy maybe. Definately something 
 I would be interested in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIP-Jerry
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  I dont see any reason why not play Diablo 2 again. 
  
  There is so many bugs and problems in this game i dont wanna list em again cos ppl before me basicly 
 said it all. Game will random crash now and than and performance for kinda crapy graphics is horrible. 
 
  
  If its 3d why in the hell they didnt let me move my camera around my avatar. Devs its 2006.
  
 
  Im kinda disapointed because you GS guys hiped this game and when i was looking your live reports 
 i gt feeling this game could own.
  
  Whoever gives this game more than 7 he is offending human intelegence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyha123
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm not saying that Titan Quest is a bad game it's just that I was expecting
  something great and this is not better than DSII . Yes , yes yhe graphic is really nice but music 
 and sound are way beyond it . Themes randomly starts and stops god only know when . There are also 
 other irritating things . For example inventory - it would be to easy to open it on the half of 
 the screen and freely manipulate items , no you must first prepare free room in inventory , then 
 pick an item from the ground and only then you can see what it is , and if it was worth picking 
 . Why THQ did it ? Maybe because it prolongs gameplay . The other thing - skills . Haven't we seen 
 it before ? For example in DII , DSII and even in Neverwinter Nights . Was it so hard to think 
 about something new ? I guess it was . And the most irritating thing ( at least for me ) : WHERE 
 IS THE BLOOD??? C'mon I'm slashing some kind of wild pig with rusty cleaver and there isn't even 
 single drop of it ? Sick . Of course Titan Quest have some good sides like graphic , and eee... 
 Well this Mediterranean environment is pretty interesting and refreshing and gameplay is quite 
 pleasant . It's main plus is that anybody who loved DII had already finished it in every possible 
 way and there's no sign of DIII so TQ could be a bestseller . I think Titan Quest is worth playing 
 it's just that it could be much better . 
  
  Oh and sorry for my english i learned it from anime subtitles : ( well mostly . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerubian_Lord
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics, long single-player campaign, variety of character classes, and easy character 
 creation.
  The Bad: Many technical problems, repetitive game play, shallow plot, recycled enemies.
  
  
 Back in the day, when the first Diablo game came out, it revolutionized the genre. After that came 
 Diablo II and its expansion. Along the years there have been many attempts to copy Diablo, and 
 deliver the same enjoyment that players received from the hack-and-slash RPG, but so far, only 
 a few have managed to distinguish themselves from the others. Titan Quest isnt really one of those 
 games. While it does offer some new innovations, it keeps the game play pretty close to Diablo, 
 without offering anything spectacular. 
  
  Let's start off with the good sides. First of all, the graphics are all 3d and you can zoom in 
 or out of the character. The animations and different character movements are all very polished 
 and look quite good. The environments are varied and have a unique look to them, whether it is 
 indoors (in a cave) or outdoors - in the fiery desert, through the lush jungle, and to the icy 
 mountains - these all look great. The spell effects are also very well-done, and each one feels 
 like it's got its own look and feel. 
  
  Overall, excellent graphics. Another thing that impressed me was the variety of character classes 
 that the player could choose from after he gains a level. Each has its own special array of abilities, 
 and each is different from the other. They range from storm, earth, and nature to warfare, defense, 
 etc. 
  After level 8 you can choose a second class, creating a unique mix of two different styles. This 
 adds to the variety and value of the game, but it also has its downsides. You still gain the same 
 amount of points as you would if you focused on only one character class, which could slow character 
 development. 
  
  Turning to game play, the player will immediately notice that the game works on the basis of go 
 there- kill this - get that". The quests are basically all the same, and the story is not very 
 spectacular, even though it will keep you busy with the very long single-player campaign. It is 
 about the rising of the titans, who want revenge on the gods for being banished. You explore countless 
 mazes, fighting the same creatures, just recoloured. I expected a bit of more variety, since all 
 the boss battles but the final one consisted of battling the same creature - a Telkine, which isn't 
 even present in Greek mythology. Strangely enough though, the hydra on the box art wasn't even 
 in the game. If you manage to beat the game (which isn't very hard) , you unlock the epic difficulty 
 level, and after that the legendary one. Another thing that adds to the replay value is the tool 
 set for creating your own adventures. This can really help to further stretch the game time especially 
 with the growing community and many fan-created mods.
  
  Another not-so-impressive feature was the sound. It seemed like there were several tracks repeating 
 each other throughout the game. Other than that, the sound wasn't really spectacular. One thing 
 that was very spectacular was the many times that the game could crash, seemingly without any reason. 
 The game was tested on several different configurations, but still it crashed every 10 - 30 minutes.
 
  
  As a whole, Titan Quest provides a very good experience to any RPG fan, even though it is quite 
 the same all throughout the game. However, its splendid graphics and great replay value, will help 
 you overlook some technical problems that you might encounter. As a whole, this game offers a lengthy 
 hack-and-slash adventure that will keep you busy for at least a weekend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphidius
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Takes the good stuff from D2 and builds on it. The result: an immersive hack-and-slash RPG with 
 good looking graphics! Many of the things that is good in Diablo 2 is back in this game, making 
 players feel right at home. Hotkeys for abilities, familiar 'Alt' highlight items key and 'Shift' 
 left-click for range, etc...
  
  Now many of the other reviews have graded upon this wonderful game's graphics and sound, so I'm 
 not going to touch on that. Instead, what I'll focus on is the tiny things that we take for granted 
 when playing this game.
  
  1) Free Portal
  Yes, that's right, free portal! Just press 'L' and pronto! This is one of the best features, just 
 behind right to bear arms and kill anything in sight!
  
  2) Rebirth Fountains
  Instead of starting a saved game where your character spawns back in the town and need to wade 
 through hordes of monsters just to do the next quest, rebirth fountains are plenty around. There 
 is almost one in every locale and your character respawns there when starting a new game or after 
 a death!
  
  3) Death Penalty
  Experience points is lost, that is all. Gold, armor, items and everything else stays on your character. 
 
  
  4) Custom Key Binding
  Yes, you can customise the keys to suit to your liking and play-style.
  
  5) Extra Packs
 
  Due to the lack of a Stash for the player, Titan Quest rewards us by giving us additional inventory 
 space in each of the Acts. Three additional storage space to be exact. This means that we can hold 
 more items before heading back to Town to sell to the merchant!
  
  6) Second Mastery
  The exciting thing about this game is that characters can go into a second Mastery and learn the 
 skills there making it highly replayable for us! There are 8 Masteries in all and the combinations 
 of these will give us many play hours!
  
  In all, building upon the tested formula of Diablo 2 with beautiful graphics and great sound and 
 music, Titan Quest takes the player into an immersive world of ancient Greece, Egypt and China. 
 With eight different Mastery and the possible combinations, two additional level modes to unlock 
 (Epic and Lengendary) and new boss monsters to unlock with these two new modes, coupled with co-op 
 multiplayer, this game will definitely be taking up much of your weekends and social life. For 
 me, this game is worth up till the very last penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardo_numspa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  No need to pen a novella here, Ill keep it short and to the point.
  
  If you dug the Diablo franchise than youll dig this one equally, or perhaps even more so. They 
 say the sincerest form of flattery is imitation; well, for all intents and purposes this game is 
 Diablo with a Greco-roman feel. Which in and of itself is an excellent thing. The only caveat I 
 have is that there was a crashing issue with my onboard sound card, but that was easily rectified 
 as I had an extra sound card lying around. those of you who dont may wish the look into the problem 
 further before purchasing the game. That aside, the game is near perfect in every way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avane_Master
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't review the games... but this worth my time...
  
  Let's start from the best thing...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is the best part of the game... when 
 you slash a monster and you see all its wearings falling on the floor, and you can take it and 
 wear it... its amazing!!!
  And its similar Diablo Gameplay is that i was waiting for so long...
  Since neverwinter Nights 
 im waiting for something like this...
  
  And the inventory size is very well resolved by adding additional bags that duplicate the inv. 
 size... so... no problems with the inv....
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics is the disappointing part of the game.... even all on high the textures seems not to 
 change... and its too low for an 2006 game...
  I dont think if i am too much accustomed with Oblivion, but the char graphics could be better...
 
  
  The world textures is just fine... but the char.... worse than Diablo2...
  
  Sound:
  
  Well... the sound is something acceptable... when you can hear it... the sound of the weapons 
 of enemies falling on the ground... the incidental music... and the dialog are the best examples 
 of its quality...
  
  Value:
  
  I didnt finish it yet... but if when i do it and restart, the map shoud be all different... or itll 
 be a real shame and waste... and the value will go below 5.....
  
  Final notes:
  
  Thats it... if you are a great fan of Diablo hack n Slash 2 mouse buttons gametype, you wont find 
 anything better than Titan Quest..... besides the cracks... that some patches should fix...
  
  It Worth Playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterrro
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Someone better tell me why didn't I try demo before buying TQ... God first of all for about 95% 
 time I thought I'm playing Diablo II in 3D and in ancient times, it couldn't be so bad except that 
 we live now in 2006 not in 2002 . Secondly it ain't looking so fine that everyone says, when i 
 saw trailer i was disappointed by the animation but now... IT REALLY REALLY SUCK!!! And bugs - 
 bugs those really pesky thingies; after applying patch nothing improved I even could risk saying 
 that game quits to desktop more often, crashes, etc. Man I'm angry i felt ripped off of my hard 
 cash. Shame on you THQ/Iron Lore !!! 
  BTW whats with that reviewers that gives 9/10 or smt like that? Did they got special better copies 
 of game or what? for me it smells funny... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindfury
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Admittedly, Titan Quest is very, very similar to Diablo 2 in many ways. Though this could be perceived 
 as a negative in terms of not being original, fans of the Diablo franchise have been waiting for 
 a sequel from Blizzard for 5 years that never came. Titan Quest is a worthy substitute. In fact, 
 if there had been a Diablo 3 I don't believe that Blizzard would have done a better job. The ancient 
 mythology theme is somewhat refreshing, though the monsters in the game have many of the same characteristics 
 and abilities as though from Diablo. The quests and Titan Quest universe are expansive and offer 
 some variety. Probably the best enhancement offered by Titan Quest is that ability to have dual 
 masteries. Though the familiar skills and traits of the Diablo characters are all here, with Titan 
 Quest you are able to create unique and powerful combinations. Imagine a Barbarian with the skill 
 set of a Sorceress. Or a Necromancer with the ability to also summon wolves and nymphs. 
  
  Bottom line: If you have been waiting for a worthy sequel to Diablo 2, you will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_louis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Yes it's a Diablo RIp-off, but it's a good one. The gameplay is the same old good click and slash 
 and the story is quite the same but with a base on the greek and roman mythologie. So it's not 
 an angry devil that as been release, but a couple of angry Titans. Weapons are cool and armor too, 
 most of them are real based items, like a steel axe, pine bow, torch on fire. But there are the 
 magic one like specter torso and others. It's really good but it's really long to go from one point 
 to another it's a bit hard, so I suppose it's really important to kill everything in the way to 
 get the most level up to be able to get going farther. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbato_mwongo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  I initially bought this game for my father, as he is an avid fan of the Diablo-series. Not a gamer 
 at heart he still manages to get lost in the world of Diablo2. I decided it was time for him to 
 upgrade, playing the same game for years seemed either way to nostalgic or insane to me.
  
  Having bought the game, I brought it home and said to myself: "Hey I may as well try it out for 
 a while".
  
  I played 4 hours nonstop.
  
  I'm mostly into Fps-games, but I was spellbound by the sheer size of the game. The game was instantly 
 recognizable for it's Diablo-style interface and gameplay. A comparison between Titanquest and 
 Oblivion is perhaps misplaced but since both titles are rpg's there are similarities, small but 
 still. Although I find Oblivion more immersive with a solid story and certainly superior AI, it 
 takes far too long to get into, I'd have to be unemployed or on vacation to give it my full attention, 
 whereas with Titanquest I could (in theory) play a few levels and achieve a higher sense of accomplishment. 
 
  Oblivion however, doesn't seem to create nearly as much a compulsive disorder as Titanquest though 
 ;) .
  
  That said, there are still some issues which bother the hell out of me. The main ingredient lacking 
 is AI. Surely in this day and age one would hope to see a bit more tactics employed in games such 
 as this. Instead I'm treated to hordes of dumb creature prone to bashing my head in, sheer resourcefullness 
 gets traded in for numbers. Not much better than it's father figure, the Diablo-series.
  
  The graphics are superlative, but I would be grateful to see some improvements on the framerates 
 from the developers. Even with a powerful SLi-system the gameplay occassionally stutters. Wonderously 
 lush forests and plentiful detailed creatures does take it's toll
  
  The sound is, neither good or bad. The sound of metal, screams and ambience does get repetitive 
 after a while and can drive your  mad so invest in some good headphones. 
 As for soundtrack, an expectedly Greek cultural touch is added. The good thing it's all top-quality 
 work in the sense it doesn't hinder the gameplay with inappropriate or inadequacy. It's just there 
 and the best music-scores for games are either memorable tunes or lowprofile in my opinion.
  
  Multiplayer is as of yet, untested. But the ability to rush at arms with friends to battle 
 does sound intriguing.
  
  Longevity of the game should, in my opinon, be fair due to the cleverly implemented open-class 
 system & multiplayer support. 
  
  Great game, well worth anybody's time & money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepearson85
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  Another diablo 2 clone. Almost embarrasingly so at times (undead zombies dying in a puff of poisonous 
 gas?) , but still highly enjoyable. The mythical element does add a lot of spice, with a much more 
 involved story and sub-quest system than Blizzard's alma mater.
  The gameplay is great, slighty slow at times, but easy to navigate and employs nice features like 
 a portal facility to transport you to any town from anywhere in the game.
  There are items aplenty, which all look different, another cool touch, it is however sometimes 
 difficult to discern which items are more powerful as some benefits tend to be obscure.
  The character development is very interesting as you specialise your character in two fields as 
 the game progresses, but if you get tired of your hulking barbarian you can speak to a skills master 
 and re-allocate yout skills points to different masteries, for a price of course.
  All in all a very enjoyable finger thrasher, will occupy hours of your time and suitably satisfy 
 those fans who have been hungry for a decent hack 'n slash since Lord of destruction became jaded. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh-Fu
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  When you pick up Titans Quest you have no choice but to compare to several other games out there. 
 Diablo 2, Dungeon Siege and so on. Why fix what is not broken right?
  
  I think that is what Iron Lore said to themselves as they made Titan's Quest. Well the gameplay 
 is tired and true fans of hack and slashers will fine plenty to enjoy in this game. The game will 
 take you about 20-30 hours to complete with a straightforward set of "Kill this guy" Missions and 
 Side Quests. You will not run into any puzzles in your adventures, which would have been a nice 
 change of pace. You will however have access to a great skill system that is fun and engaging. 
 You will find yourself staying up an extra hour just to max out that one skill or go for a higher 
 level skill.
  
  Titans Quests main showcase is its environments and graphics. Using advanced shaders and DX9 technology 
 its the best looking Action RPG to date. The Physics engine is nothing new but nice to see in 
 a game like this, often you will say to yourself "Wow that was a good hit" as you send a skeleton 
 reeling. Great ready to slay lots of different looking monsters as well. You will enjoy some great 
 effects and character detail in this game, even though it doesnt seem to run as good as it could. 
 Im assuming Iron Lore will release a patch so I wont let that affect this review.
  
  The sound and Music really offer nothing breath taking, but do its job well and pull you into the 
 world. Hack and Slash games can bring a repetitive feel, but you will appreciate the deep sound 
 of cutting through hordes of baddies.
  
  The Gameplay is basic yet fun. You will point and click you way through Greece, Egypt, and The 
 Orient using powerful great looking spells, devastating skills from throwing daggers to party buffs. 
 The character creation really adds some great replay value as there are many many ways to have 
 a unique character. TQ also allows you to CHANGE your skills mid-game allowing you take a different 
 path, for a cost. I think this is a nice touch. You will find yourself effortlessly progressing 
 and TQ is also really pain free, you will respawn quickly and progress is saved often. An auto-organize 
 feature for the massive amount of loot you will gather would of been nice. 
  
  Multiplayer is TQ's greatest weakness. The games as hosted via players computers which means CHEATING 
 GALOR. Games do not seem to run well at the moment and you can effortlessly take a single player 
 character on or offline. This really depends on the players preference if this is a bad thing or 
 not. A BANK system of sorts would also have been nice to share equipment between characters, perhaps 
 in an expansion.
  
  All in all TQ could of pushed it a bit further to bring the genre in a different direction, but 
 by no means is jazzing up a good formula a bad thing. Fans of Similar Games will enjoy TQ for a 
 long time to come, for those looking for something different you will have to keep holding your 
 breath.
  
  Josh
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unrest
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest begins with a familiar formula and progressively introduces a couple of interesting 
 methods of playing the same adventure hack & slash in a slightly less familiar way. If you've played 
 entries in the Diablo series, you will immediately be at home in the first five minutes playing. 
 
  
  This is not a bad thing, as Titan Quest does try to introduce some welcome game mechanics, such 
 as the Mastery system, which allows you to travel up to two of eight different paths, creating 
 28 possible character classes.
  
  You begin the game with a rather blank and boring character; you simply name a male or female character 
 model -- you will find no appearance customization options, and you will not choose your class during 
 creation. How you set your character apart from everyone else will be determined by the choices 
 you make while spending your skill points in the Mastery system, and how you choose to strengthen 
 the 3.2 attribute scores that comprise your character's strengths and weaknesses. These scores 
 are the 3 primary, Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence, and the 2 secondary Health and Mana.
  
  The game varies in difficulty, from 1-hit hack & slash kills, to gruesome boss fights that 
 will force you to run and regroup.
  
  Making your way through Titan Quest can go as slowly or as quickly as you'd like: you can set the 
 pace. If you like to explore every corner of the world, there are secondary quests and non-essential 
 lore in place for you. Conversely, if you like to fly straight from objective to objective, following 
 the main story, the path is often clear, even despite the droves of monsters blocking it.
  
  The multiplayer is seamless with up to 6 players -- much like Diablo, the difficulty scales with 
 each additional. There are group-specific skills that allow you to bestow buffs, auras, or enchantments 
 upon your friends and allies. The only notable thing missing from multiplayer is any form of player 
 vs. player (PvP) combat.
  
  Another notable feature missing from Titan Quest that made Diablo so interesting is the terrain/environment 
 randomization, which Titan Quest is lacking. Re-playability may become a little stale as you progress 
 through the same areas time after time, but the game makes up for it by offering three difficulty 
 modes that are only available by completing the previous -- the drive here is finding those "ultra 
 rare -- rarer than rare" legendary (purple) items.
  
  The bottom line: if you enjoyed games like Diablo, Sacred -- maybe even Divine Divinity -- and you're 
 not tired of the genre, you will most undoubtedly enjoy a few times through Titan Quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigga1801
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok so you hear everyones complaints on this game, theyre all the same, like the performance being 
 choppy on good PC's (which will be fixed on the patch July 7th) a diablo 2 clone (this is not a 
 clone people, these type of games have to play with a mouse) and repetitive gameplay (this game 
 is so far from repeated its not even funny, the only way it would be repetitive is if you kept 
 going back for exp) first you head to farms, then fields, then all the sudden your first cave, 
 followed by more fields, then a beach, and it goes on and on, its fully crafted no randomly generated 
 but thats ok because the monsters/items still are, and on higher difficulty you encounter bigger 
 bosses (Hydras, Dragons) .
  Now to the good stuff, the spells are absolutely astounding looking, and very impacting on gameplay, 
 weapons do get better as time goes on and Green, Blue, Purple items also come somewhat easier, 
 ive also heard people say this game doesnt advance in items picked up but let me tell you that 
 is a LIE. now as ive put 10 hours into this game green items are coming alot more commonly, but 
 still very rare, this game is balanced and truely has no limits as your 2 professions mix together 
 into (example: Im a Storm/Nature which creates a Druid) and unlike guild wars and etc. it doesnt 
 have fixed armor and is very limitless, all the problems that do consist can and will be fixed 
 in the next patch coming in a day, so if you have the littlest interest in God of War or Diablo 
 1/2 go get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavyn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game may as well be called Diablo III. Iron Lore has taken a tried-and-true formula and expanded 
 on it, on a much larger scale with great graphics and addictive gameplay. 
  
  THE BAD: 
  To their discredit, the retail version of Titan Quest is pretty buggy. There are some serious graphic 
 issues, and some install issues that I personally experienced. I have a pretty nice gaming system: 
 AMD Athlon 64 3500, GeForce 6600 with 1G RAM. I was expecting to run this game with all the settings 
 at maximum, but I experienced some wierd graphic issues and terrible framerates until I lowered 
 the settings a bit. I read some forums and found that many players had similar issues. It seems 
 like the game wasn't tested as much as it should have been before final release.
  
  THE GOOD:
  This game is really fun. The GameSpot reviewer was a bit harsh. Yes it is more of 
 the same, we have seen this type of game before. But when it is so well done, who cares? I played 
 this game for 6 hours straight the first day. It has just enough story to hold it together. The 
 rest is hack-and-slash goodness with TONS of LOOT. The class system is brilliant, probably the 
 only innovation you will find in the game. Players can combine two classes out of a total of eight, 
 with lots of choices for skills. No two characters will be alike. I would like to have more options 
 in making my character LOOK unique, however. You basically have two choices: male or female.
  
  The action is fast and furious. The combat and the spell casting is very satisfying. The game 
 world feels large, the environments are beautiful and lush. The music is excellent. A few of the 
 NPC voices sound cheesy, like they ran out of character actors or something and used whoever was 
 on-hand, maybe the company accountant or the cleaning lady.
  
  I finished the game in normal mode in about three days of hardcore playing. I plan on starting 
 a few new characters to try out the the other classes. There is a lot of replay value here, and 
 the multiplayer is excellent. Once Iron Lore issues a patch to fix some of the bugs, this game 
 is going to be a big success. I got exactly what I was looking for. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryl
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Did anyone do any testing on this game on more than one kind of PC setup? I was really looking 
 forward to another Diablo like game and Titan Quest has a lot of fun options for this genre - when 
 you can play it. I can't believe how many people have complained about crashes. I have a new rig 
 with two 7800GT video cards with latest drivers, Athlon dual-core processor, and 2 gigs Corsair 
 Ram so nobody tell me I don't meet the specs. This was just a poorly tested and rushed game. Anybody 
 who buys this game before at least one patch comes out is asking for major frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scooch2K
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  I truly loved the Diablo franchise from Blizzard when it came out. It was new, innovative and a 
 helluva lot of fun to play and get into with your friends. Additionally, it was also a game that 
 featured co-operative multiplayer which is still sadly lacking from many of today's titles. Fortunately, 
 it's all back in this game which features updated graphics, a lengthy single player campaign and 
 the same co-op multiplayer which made Diablo what it was. Make sure that you at least have an Nvidia 
 6800 or ATI x800 series card to run this smoothly. Overall, I highly recommend this game to fans 
 of this genre. I would have given it a higher score but I didn't find it to be a ground-breaking 
 game like Diablo was when it was released. However, Titan Quest is a great fun in itself and will 
 certainly keep you occupied for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artofgames
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  i love this game, it is very addictive and i play often to late in the night., like tree or 4 hours 
 in the night.
  
  Play it and you will see :)
  
  You will beginn in a small city where you can do quests. On these quests you can raise the skills 
 of your puppet and you can gather gold or objects. It is a bit like Oblivion, only this is less 
 talking and more action. So I think this is a better game the Oblivion.
  
  In short.. this is a very good game with nice graphics and sounds off course.
  
  Greetz.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  When I first saw some pictures from the upcoming game sometimes early this year I know that this 
 is the game I waiting for!!
  The reason that I was Diablo 2 fanatic made me to love this game, becouse I found all the major 
 elements in it like in D2. It`s atmosphere that is mostly created by the stunning grafics, is genius. 
 I`ve never seen like this before, trust me, I am a gemeaholic I`ve played all major games since 
 1998 and I don`t feel this since Diablo 2 or GTA 3.
  Finally it was released a hack and slash RPG in these days, Oblivion like games are great but I 
 always wanting more when I saw them.
  The conclusion is, that if you want to play an addictive and cool game titan quest is the best 
 choice.
  The only thing that frustrating me about this game is that it crashes 5-10 times per hour so I`m 
 crying for a patch that hopefully will fix this ISSUE !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerG2300
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  alright that Galamode guy must have been playing the wrong game, or his comp just was really bad, 
 
  
  I found the game to be great, i mean amazingly fun i useally dont like games like this except for 
 diable but wow this is diable with a giant face lift, the general physics and ragdolls give this 
 game a very unique apporach to this type of game play. ive had just so much fun beating the heck 
 out of all these monsters i mean even if i died.. i looked so cool doing it with my body rolling 
 in a ragdoll no lame death animations! I think the death sounds and general enimes sounds where 
 kinda lacking in the way is they didnt vairy they all had the same uhg when they died and all the 
 brids have the same skwak. I think they sounds made a few more creature sounds. aslo sometimes 
 ive experienced lag for no reason, and sometimes the audio just stops out of nowhere. but over 
 this game is plain amazing the moves are great, the class selection is so huge, its so hard just 
 to pick t10 and stick with em, some basic story problems, but the whole world pretty much loads 
 in just one screen which is awesome. great game i recomend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galamode
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I had somewhat high hopes for this game, after all, its a Diablo remake, with some mean graphics 
 to boot. However, somewhere along the lines quiet a few things went terribly wrong...
  
  Gameplay - 4/10
  While the game does sport a somewhat intresting class system, teleport system, 
 and etc., the thing that destroys all games on this genre has happened. Its Clunky, and its noticiable 
 from the start. Whereas Diablo had a nice and snappy respone to every click; there is a small, 
 but game crashing, delay present in nearly all cases. This not only causes for frustration, but 
 it kills the game, end of story.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics - 8/10
  Even on a lower-end system, the game looks spiffy, with models for differant weapons, and more 
 importantly the enemies look like how they are; from weak and scrawny to huge and boulder-some, 
 the game has the right look
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound - 6/10
  It's basically as should be expected; as with almost all video games (for me) the music usually 
 starts to wear thin about about 2 hours, so I immediatly pop on some of my own tunes with music 
 muted. However, the game tracks were never very impressive to start with. The sounds of attacks 
 were about average, so I kept them on like usual.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value 2/10
  If your planing on spending $50 on this. Don't. The delayed reaction butchers this game. In online 
 mode its the EXACT SAME, the only differance is that you have 2+ people playing, and from my experiance 
 I've had some latency issues, so your not getting much (if any) more playablity from online play. 
 I, after having spent ~15 hours on the game was so turned off that I quit it, and promtly put it 
 on the ol' shelf, and even if you DID enjoy the game to a great extent, as I recall the dev's saying 
 the game is about ~30-40 hours long, which still isn't all that great.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Final Notes:
  If ever you sometime in the future see this in the "bargain bin" for under $10 it might be a grab, 
 but otherwise, just keep walking by this one.
  
  Update: 2 people have hated this review enough to dedicate their review to telling about how wrong 
 mine is, if you feel strongly enough against this review then please just first PM me about how 
 wrong I am, and if you still have an uncontrollable urge to write a review about how bad mine is 
 go right ahead. However, I do feel as though I made valid points, after all, this isnt just a review 
 like "ITYS SUXKZ, 3.9/10 BC I R FELING LIERK IT LOoL". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphamaslak
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I like these games. You dont need care about something else: just kill, and then kill again. If 
 you played one of Diablo games (didnt ya?) , you will curve the gameplay of TQ easily. The game 
 is good, but there are too much Diablo in the game. Graphics are good. Voice acting is the best 
 I saw ever in any game. Greek atmosphere is quite right, monsters and other NPC's are well designed. 
 Ragdoll effects are amazing at all :) If you want to play any game like Diablo, Titan Quest would 
 be a good choice. But there is nothing more than Diablo in this game. And yes, I like these games 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Ill be honest to start off. I had not even heard of this game until about 2 weeks before it was 
 due out. Ive been trapped in the gaming vacuum known as WoW for the last 6 months. I also had been 
 playing my 360 more so between that and Wow I had not really been keeping up with much of anything 
 else.
  
  But one night I was bored and decided to download the demo. I was hooked. 
  
  The game gave me instant flashbacks of my fun days wasting the night away playing Diablo and Diablo 
 2. But the game fixed the biggest problem I had with Diablo 2 (even right when it launched) in 
 that the graphics are great! I always felt Diablo 2 was a good game but Blizzard pulled a fast 
 one in that the graphics and gameplay really were not improved alot if at all. 
  
  TQ solves this though. The graphics are great and for a nice change the setting is not some Medival/Demon 
 infested world. The game is set in the now becoming more popular (Thanks to God of War) Greek Mythology 
 time period. Great call by the developers there.
  
  Anyway... I wont go into all the details as many others already have... but a few things Ill point 
 out.
  
  - The game is Diablo 3 in Greek Mythology. Anyone who tells you different probably thought all 
 RTS games are not the same either even though 90% of their content is all identical.
  
  - The game is fast, pretty and fun. If you go into it expecting what everyone is telling you.... its 
 Diablo 3 in Greek Mythology.
  
  - Some people are having issues running the game. More then anything with Multiplayer. A patch 
 is due on 6/7/06 to fix these issues though according to developers.
  
  - You need to have a decent system to run it. I tried it on 3 machines. The lowest of them a laptop 
 that is a 1.5ghz Centrino, 1gb ram, ATI Mobilty 9700 with 128mb. It runs in single player on it 
 ok... and you can play it... but forget multiplayer and if you get more then about 10 mobs on the 
 screen you get slowdown. So dont try to push it with your specs. 
  
  My main rig is a 2.5 ghz, 1.5gb ram, ATI X700 Pro 256mb. I cna run the game with medium settings 
 and at 1024 and that seems to be the sweet spot. If your specs are less then that.... brace for 
 impact.
  
  Anyway.... to summarize I love the game so far. I have like 25 hours into it so far (playing a Storm/Spirit 
 = Oracle) and the game is just everything I wanted it to be. I think in a few weeks with a couple 
 patches the game will be much better. Also I think the inclusion of the Module mods was huge. I 
 cant wait to see new adventures people will be pumping out very soon.
  
  Anyway... if you have a decent rig, you have been waiting for Diablo reborn, like Greek Mythology...... well.... what 
 are you waiting for.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webrider
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game well done by the definitions defined here 7.6 is good. I would not give it better 
 just because the graphics are ok to good. Nothing in the game is exceptional. Sacred has about 
 as good graphics and if you compare Sacred, Diablo II and Titans Quest, it would be in this order. 
 It doesn't add more story, more depth, or more graphics, It offers fair story, depth and good graphics. 
 Not exceptional graphics, if you want exceptional see Oblivion on a big screen HDTV. If you're 
 going to spend hard earned cash and have to pick one game be aware it is only good game, not a 
 great or even exceptional. I would wait for it to be 30 bucks. You can buy Sacred Gold for 19 and 
 if you want a Diablo game and havent played that buy that until this price drops a bit. I would 
 definitelycollect this one at the right price point. Does have some crash bugs for now as do alot 
 of new games, but no glaring errors in game play, and is mostly stable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davievil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Within the age of sequels, spin offs and copy cats. It is honestly a relief a see a game rip-off 
 another franchise. Why you ask? Because the Action RPG genre has never lived up to the games written 
 in stone as the Action RPG masterpiece, Diablo 1 & 2.
  
  The Action RPG genre has been quiet since the release of Diablo 2, but the others have always tried 
 to branch out with innovations and experiments that never captured the heart and feel of Diablo; 
 and thats why Iron Lore's new property does so well. Instead of breaking the mold, Iron Lore decided 
 that Diablo did for Action RPG's what Doom did for FPS -- Right down to the key sets and item types.
 
  
  Game play:
  While the game play might seem too simple to new comers or sceptics to the Action RPG genre; it's 
 simplicity is exactly what fans of the style enjoy. While the game is very "click click click ", 
 when compared to console games it would be similar to repeatedly hitting the b button to slash. 
 
  
  Levels, Experience and skills work like most other Action RPG's. Each enemy comes with a set level 
 of experience you can gain from destroying them, this experience will amount overtime to leveling 
 your character up and then allowing you to choose a series of skills. The skills in Titan Quest 
 are based on a Tree-Tier system, you have to upgrade your Tier to unlock new trees of skills. For 
 example if you want the uber defense skill, you have to first put points in both your Main Skill 
 tier, then into the skill trees for that defensive skill.
  
  The main issue with the game is its loot. While games like diablo2 defined loot based on difficulty 
 of area, Titan quest's weapon effects are nearly the same throughout the whole game. You can pick 
 up a weapon in the first act and only want to exchange it at the final zone due to the base item 
 loosing its armor stats, meaning if you are a mage finding new items is rare due to the fact that 
 armor stats do not effect your character much.
  
  The multi player has been a bit questionable, servers often drop and there are bugs which do not 
 allow certain users to connect to the games at all. Iron lore has already planned on releasing 
 a patch in less than 5 days after its release to adjust these problems, so im sure many things 
 will be fixed and added in the future to enhance the overall multi player and single player experience.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of Titan Quest are based on mythology, lore and historical references. When fighting 
 in Greece you will find armor and swords specific to their armies. Your character will travel through 
 epic landscapes and worlds; starting in Greece and ending up in Babylon. The creatures you fight 
 will all feel similar if you have a basic understanding of mythology, with a few creative beasties 
 like dragon-men and monster turtles to keep things interesting.
  
  Your character itself can boast a staggering amount of unique appearances, even though you only 
 have the option to start off choosing male or female.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds of the game are dead on and the music is extremely effective for pulling the character 
 into the game. There are options to adjust the music to whether if you want more dynamic switching 
 between songs, which is a very nice feature for those looking to tweak the soundtrack to their 
 liking.
  
  Value:
  Action Rpg fans will come in loving this game, its brings much of what was loved in the Diablo 
 series to a better graphic engine, but if you are unfamiliar with the genre, please check out the 
 Demo on www. Gamespot. com first, because what you see in the first 6 levels of the demo is going 
 to be alot of what goes on for the next 100 hours of the game.
  
  Overall:
  Buy this game, its a great deal and may also help World of Warcraft addicts switch to a new crack 
 that does have an end game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: struong
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are generally excellent and if you are a Diablo 2 fan, you should definately pick this 
 one up. The game is HUGE with tons of different creatures and places to explore, items to pickup 
 and things to do with a decent storyline through in as well.
  
  One caveat, there are a lot of bugs in the initial build of this game and you will more than likely 
 experience your fair share of glitches and crash. If you can look past that, hopefully until the 
 next update, then this is a very solid game that I am enjoying more than Elder Scrolls atm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenaLANcg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Hello every body, Thisis is the first time I'm actually witing in this spaces and english is not 
 my primary languaje thus, please forgive (or have a good laugh) my mistakes.
  
  I've been waiting for quite some time a good Action Oriented RPG and Titan Quest is worthy to be 
 added in my collection. I've been playing it for two days now and I'm happy to see the good ol' 
 Diablo elements in this game. I also like the theme of the game: greek mithology, weapons, and 
 the scenaries are awesome. One thing I noticed is that maps are not randomly generate but loot 
 you get from monsters is. I just dived into the first cave quest of the game (two times) and it 
 was the same. Even the monsters in it were in the same locations and the exact same number. Ah 
 well, at least is not a perfect copy of Diablo. 
  
  I was happy to encounter the portals in this game. Games like Dungeon Siege are ridicully hard 
 to travel because (at least in the first one) there were no portals. An even worse, when you cleared 
 an area and had to travel back to town to complete the quest.. the area stayed clear so you got 
 no more action... just looong loooong walking. (I've never played DS2 and never will) .
  
  It has the same "Aura" thing going one with your characteres but the skill tree is pretty well 
 structured. 
  
  Graphics are gorgeous and very playeble with a modest (normal) PC. I gave a P4 2.8ghz, 1Gb RAm 
 400Mhz, 128Mb XFX NVidia 6600gt, and I'm playing it at max with only minor lags when loading new 
 parts of the map.
  
  I haven't tested the LAN mode of the game, but I have great expectations for a strong Cooperative 
 mode.
  
  So far I recommend this game to all Diablo fans that long wor that excellent gameplay with new 
 content, and to all the newcomers to the genre that want some intersting action.
  
  Enjoy everybody!
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  I get a little tired of the constant "where's the originality? Where's the new ideas?". Here's 
 my take on that... I'll take unoriginal and fun over original and not fun any day of the week.
 
  
  Titan Quest features a lot to like with some thing not to like (as in should have stayed in beta 
 a while longer) . There are some crashes here and there, especially while leaving underground areas. 
 The interaction with NPCs can be interrupted by your pets. Performance optimization apparently 
 didn't happen and there may even be a memory leak thrown in there somewhere. A few patches later 
 and here is what we will have:
  
  The graphics are nicely done with a lot of detail everwhere you look. You go from area to area 
 and each has its own style and ambience. The boss creatures are impressive. Spell effects are OK, 
 but nothing spectacular.
  
  The music and sound is nice. You will find some of the usual Diabloesque pings when certain items 
 hit the ground which is always useful. You hear creatures grunting around and enabling their powers 
 when you get close.
  
  Control is a little choppy and the pathfinding is almost nonexistant. You can click on the same 
 creature 4-5 times and just run past them each time. You can also find yourself on one side of 
 a rock, and clicking on the other side will leave you standing there. Beyond that it is exactly 
 what you would expect from this type of game.
  
  Gameplay is a blast, and I've enjoyed every minute of it when its not crashing or acting like a 
 slideshow after extended periods of time. Luckily the developers are aware of these problems and 
 we should see a fix soonish. While there's not much new... the story is very interesting and what 
 is the same, is the same because its fun. The dual class system is nicely done and pretty much 
 every class can compliment another with probably the exception of rogue/archer.
  
  Final note: definately worth the money and time to play. The single-player campaign is long and 
 interesting. Go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorStriochBais
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Quick Summary:
  +++ unique classical/ancient setting
  +++ great graphics
  ++ lengthy game
  + I expect great mods to come out for this game
  - - - pauses and crashes 
 A LOT
  - - can get monotonous
  - some unrealistic map design due to linearity of game
  - not as random as Diablo II
  
  Before I get on with the review, I just want to say that Titan 
 Quest has more similarities to Dungeon Siege II rather than Diablo II, although it certainly does 
 contain many tributes to Blizzard's game.
  
  Titan Quest takes the player through ancient Greece, ancient Egypt, AND Asia in a quest (no pun 
 intended) to save the world from evil. The story is decidedly "been there done that" and can get 
 cheesy at times (just how do you connect the problems in Greece to places as far away as Egypt 
 and Asia?) , but I have to applaud Iron Lore's choice of setting. This is the first time that I 
 experienced an RPG taking place in the areas around the Mediterranean Sea. Heck, it even has Crete 
 and the Minoan Labyrinth. Now I have to admit that I like high fantasy/LOTR style settings for 
 RPGs and was actually not as interested when I heard that TQ wasn't going to be in that style, 
 but after playing the game, I change my mind. TQ's setting is a refreshing change from midieval 
 lore.
  
  The second thing that I noticed is that the graphics are quite superb. There is a day/night cycle 
 with unique lighting effects for each time of day (morning, midday, evening, night) . I believe 
 even the shadows change direction (although it's too slow to notice) over the course of the day. 
 At night, the light emanating from your character creates real time shadows as a tree, the enemy, 
 or even the items that drop from the enemy nears the character. The water effects are quite good 
 too, and on the highest settings reflect both the surroundings and the characters. It also ripples 
 and splashes when something passes through it. Spell effects aren't bad either. My character followed 
 the Storm Mastery, and the ice shards she throws out stick for a while against walls before disappearing 
 (unfortunately they don't do that when they hit enemies) , and the lightning blast is very satisfying 
 graphically.
  
  Of course, all these graphical amenities come at a very high cost. I played TQ on a new laptop 
 with the following:
  
  2.0GHz dual core Intel
  256MB GeForce 7900 GS
  100GB 7200RPM harddrive
  2GB RAM
  
  and it STILL becomes laggy EVERYTIME the game loads a 
 new area. A times, the game skips frames for nearly a second when I'm transitioning between zones. 
 There was also an area about 1/3 of the way into the Greece when it was skippy/laggy all the way. 
 Additionally, my GFX temperature remains at a high 68 Celsius even with the fans running on max. 
 Compare this to TES IV: Oblivion, where I'm playing at 1440x900 with everything on high, and the 
 temp is 63 with the fans on low. The game also noticeably slows (but does not frame skip) when 
 there are more than 8 enemies on screen. As for the crashes, I don't know what's up. They're very 
 random for me.
  
  Let's move on to gameplay: this is beyond doubt a hack and slash RPG. Click here; click there, 
 and your character will slash his/her way across the landscape. Occassionally you'll click to dodge 
 an oncoming arrow, but because of the way everything is animated (including turning) , manual dodging 
 took too long, and I just resorted to brute force and health pots. Still, even trying to kill everything 
 quickly, the gameplay can get monotonous. Enemies frequently come in groups of 4 to 8, making the 
 battles very predictable, and the boss fights on normal difficulty so far are hardly worthy for 
 a hero to fight - most die after a couple of hits. 
  
  The items that the enemies drop are usually broken (thankfully you can bind a key to show only 
 magic and above items) . The magic items that drop are also either useless or my character doesn't 
 satisfy the stat requirements. The result is that I'm still using some crap that I found early 
 in the game. The few set and unique items I've found were either for other character types or useless. 
 One thing that I found quite annoying is that the bosses don't drop much - usually just two or 
 three pieces of worthless magic items after the filter) . Instead, most of the loot (again mostly 
 magic) is stored in chests in the boss room, as if the bosses are keeping their best weapons out 
 of harms way and throwing themselves into battle with worhtless crap. Now I've heard that item 
 selection gets better with higher difficulty, but before you nag me for not playing on those difficulty 
 levels I just wanna say that by the time you've gotten to Epic or Legendary difficulty you've already 
 experienced the story, so the wider item selection is offset by the fact that the story is no longer 
 new or exciting. For me, once I've run through the story, once I've seen the sights, I'm done. 
 Diablo II was the exception due to its random map generator, but this game doesn't have that. Gamespot 
 mentioned that inventory was poorly implemented, and I have to agree with for the beginning parts 
 of the game, but once an extra inventory bag has been added to your character, inventory became 
 less of an issue.
  
  The leveling is also quite slow. It feels like I'm leveling in some MMORPG at times. This is compounded 
 with the lack of different attack skills in a Mastery. Let me explain: I chose Storm and Hunting 
 Mastery. Within Storm, there's a lightning ball attack, ice shard attack, a lightning blast attack, 
 and a freeze attack (that I didn't bother because it doesn't do much damage) . There's also a summoning 
 skill, some buffs, and skills that boost other skills. Here's the problem: in order to access some 
 of the more advanced skills, you have to put points into the base mastery, but in order to do damage, 
 you have to concentrate on a skill and stick to it. The result is that I'm not seeing a lot of 
 skill choices. Actually at the moment, I'm only using a normal attack and ice shards. (Don't have 
 enough points in the Hunting Mastery to really do much there.) I don't really want to compare to 
 Diablo II, but if I were playing that game, I'd be Frozen Orbing, Blizzarding, and Teleporting 
 all over the place, and heck, even in Dungeon Siege II, where your characters each tended to use 
 one skill - you still got six characters. The leveling could have been faster and more exciting.
 
  
  One minor negative that I put in my quick summary is unrealism in map design. I've already briefly 
 gone over this idea: the chests that hold all the loot in the boss rooms. But a few other quirks 
 include quest NPCs that stay in the boss room and what I shall call the "backdoor" of those boss 
 rooms. Let me illustrate with a certain labyrinth: so after travelling through 2 levels of maze-y 
 rooms and passages filled with monsters, I've finally made it to the minotaur's sanctuary. After 
 killing him, a quest NPC suddenly appeared on the other side, claiming he was hiding in the room 
 and directing me to go to his ship, which is just beyond. Wait a minute - you got here before me, 
 and you got inside the Minotaur's room without him tearing your head off? And what? There's a straight 
 passageway here in the back of the room that leads straight to a dock? So I get to travel across 
 the Mediterranean to Egypt, but I can't travel to this dock and sneak up on the Minotaur like you 
 did? Why didn't the Minotaur just walk out this back door and cause havok? Most of these oddities 
 arise from the linearity of this game, but luckily, they don't have a significant negative impact 
 on the game. One feature that I think linearity did hurt is the town teleport implementation. Once 
 you've gone on, there's really no reason to go back to a previous town, and since these TPs are 
 only available at towns, they don't really help with loot management. The linear nature of TQ actually 
 encourages the hack and slash style gameplay (just follow the path and kill) , which I think this 
 game was striving for. 
  
  So in the end, is this game worth it? I think it is. It's definately not perfect, but if you're 
 looking for mindless killing fun, this game offers quite a lot of that. It took me 12 hours to 
 explore all of Greece and Crete, with all the sidequests, and there's still Egypt and Asia to do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forever_Loner
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  As much as i would want to be able to love titan Quest, I just can't. The game installed just fine, 
 but then the problems started. For starters, this game suffers from frequent slowdown, even on 
 low settings. What really ruined the game for me though was when it crashed. I loaded it up and 
 loaded my savefile, only to find out it had been corrupted. Although I can stand slowdown, corrupted 
 savefiles I can't. It is now uninstalled and the game lies on my desk, hopefully to be installed 
 again once these issues have been dealt with. As for the score, if it works fine on your system, 
 id give it an 8.3 or so overall, sadly, I can't bring myself to give a game with such issues any 
 score nearly as good as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabcoolmanebay
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Titan quest is a game that brings nothing revolutionary to the genre, but what it does do it does 
 right. It's a fun game for those of you who like hack n slash games, collecting uber weapons and 
 armor as you play, and mastering arms and magic along the way. It is a very long and huge world. 
 If you can look past a few initial release glitches. The 8 classes of specialization are a cool 
 feature that helps every character be a little different. You can be a Warrior/Healer, or a Mage/Hunter, 
 or anything! And each specialization has MANY places you can place points into. So, have fun with 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanis_gr
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Like all the other games of this type (diablo, sacred, fable, etc) Titan Quest is a been there, 
 done that game (with a very simple gameplay) . But, it has a quite good scenario, graphics and 
 other elements! Handling is quite good, too. As for the sound, try headphones 5.1 - if you have 
 a pair - and you will see. Another thing I like - besides monsters, weapons, quests etc - is the 
 greek + egyptian mythology, and creatures like Cyclops etc. I think that TQ is much better than 
 other rpgs of this type but finally it has a major disadvantage: Bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs. 
 It is full of bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwinsi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest at first glance seems like a totally different game that could spell the difference 
 in isometric games: stunning graphics, cool cutscenes, lush environments and cool character classes, 
 and of course, it still falls under the usual pattern solidified by Blizzard's Diablo I & II. Actually, 
 the only thing missing in this game, besides the fact that it is no doubt a Diablo homage, is a 
 change in title like "Diablo III: Titan Quest". Unfortunately, it's not actually a Diablo game, 
 close, but not quite. But of course, one can only get so far with comparison. 
  
  Upon starting the game, the first thing you would notice is the stunning graphics. Light bloom, 
 multiple shadows and reflections, heavy textures, independent background animations and even an 
 accellerated day/night cycle are just some of the premier visual features of Titan Quest. Unfortunately, 
 being immersed in such a lush 3D environment, the camera is quite limited to it's fixed isometric 
 view. The only camera movement in this game is when you zoom in and out, adjusting the view from 
 a top isometric to a semi-third person type of camera angle. And, of course, because of it's great 
 visuals, the game calls for a great rig also - meaning if you don't have a powerful PC, you'd be 
 experiencing a lot of game skips, lags and (sadly) ocassional crashes. 
  
  Audio quality is ok in most parts, varying from good to bad in some. Ambient sounds subtly adjust 
 the mood, although more often than not, the voice acting of NPCs ruin it with the ocassional inconsistent 
 and melodramatic droll of dialogue. 
  
  Gameplay-wise, TQ features the all-too familiar point-click-hack-slash that the Diablo series introduced 
 us to. In terms of ease of use, TQ's quite straightforward and simple enough to accommodate seasoned 
 gamers and newbies alike. Although the initial character creation seems stiff, playeres will notice 
 that their heroes will "grow" as they progress in the game acquiring skills and masteries and eventually 
 being more formidable in battle. 
  
  The vastness in the number of items one can horde (or perhaps trade) is unbelieveable. Trying to 
 match the system of the original Diablo series, which has in itself a huge array of arsenal and 
 items, TQ attempts and succeeds in creating and supplying equipment to the player -- to the point 
 that it becomes a chore. The attempt to color-indicate every item as to its value only gives players 
 more reason to scour. In the end it all boils down to a humongous hunt for loot, killing what little 
 substantial plot it has. 
  
  All in all, Titan Quest is successful in its effort to emulate what Diablo gave. It has an equal 
 number of high's and low's, even unique points worth mentioning. It tried to give more but it just 
 fades in comparison; Diablo will still be the greatest hack-and-slash isometric game and Titan 
 Quest, for all its worth, will be just that: a look-alike, feel-alike trying to tap into the millions 
 who adored, played and replayed the Diablo series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greykor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It is a familar style w/ a new twist and enhanced graphics. I like the combinations 
 of classes.
  
  It is a solid action/RPG. when there are far too few out there. The game is fairly easy, at least 
 w/ my first combat heavy character. I look forward to seeing what the more stealhthy and magic 
 based characters d against the tougher monsters.
  
  I find it disheartening that all teh games now-a-days relies too much on the pretty factor and 
 leave the story to be desired. I certainly hope they come out w/ add-ons so you can get more spells, 
 armor combos and new classes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Iron Lore made one hell of a game in Titan Quest that'll make you wanting more. Everything about 
 this game is top noch. The graphics are absolutely amazing (if you have the system to crank them 
 up) , the sound is engrossing, and the gameplay is great. 
  
  My only problem with Titan Quest is the number of bugs I've encountered. The game has numerous 
 sound and performance issues that definitely need to be addressed. For example, don't plan on using 
 Teamspeak or Ventrilo while playing Titan Quest, it won't work. The game runs fairly poorly overall 
 when in High detail modes, even on a GeForce 7800 system. The framerate can go from an acceptable 
 40fps to 10fps to total jerkiness making it unplayable at times. 
  
  So far, I've completed the game on normal mode. Even with it's technical flaws, Titan Quest is 
 an amazing game. Even a hardcore Diablo II friend of mine admits that Titan Quest out-classes Diablo 
 II in a number of areas. One of which is the insane class system which allows you to pick between 
 28 class combinations.
  
  It's safe to say, this game will become and instant class among RPG fans, right next to the Diablo 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bushwanker
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The moment I started the game for the very first time, I was very pleased by the nice graphics, 
 smooth game play and good production values, but after about one hour it had already lost a lot 
 of its appeal: the enemies are repetitive, your actions limited and because of the abominable inventory 
 system you spend more time hauling stuff away to merchants than you do playing the game.
  
  In my view this is a typical "new" game : very high on graphics, but very poor on gameplay.
  
 
  Having played computer games for more than 25 years now (Anyone remember Tandy TRS 80-model I and 
 Apple II) it seems that nowadays the emphasis lies too much on how a game looks and not enough 
 on how it plays 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomFury_
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Before I start this review I'd like to ask where the hell do I use MONEY for ?
  I played for about 20 hours now and got around 100k of which I spent about 1000 to health potions. 
 Buying weapons is useless because much better ones are dropped in the game itself.
  
  I agree with the problem of bugs this game has to cope with. I can talk about numerous ones but 
 not in the mood right now.
  A solution to the SAVE GAME problem was to Host a Lan-Game and after that return to the main menu 
 and start your single player again (well it worked for some of us)
  But oh well I heard there'll be a patch around upcoming days so..
  
  A point of concern is 
 the Zoom. You are able to zoom in until you get a clear shot of the character you are playing with... 
 but the problem is that , in this camera view, you can not move the character TOWARDS you, because 
 there is no (t much) room to click.
  
  The grafics are under estimated. Some other reviews read things as: "I expected better" and "not 
 good enough for a game of these days" but if you zoom in you can see the high detail. I'm very 
 fond of the water in this game, the reflection is absolutely brilliant. The only other game I've 
 seen it in so far was HL2 with the Source Engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twugofski
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I like this game. A lot. Its not revolutionary by any means, but the gameplay is simple & addictive. 
 The terrains are richly rendered, the music is pleasing and not overbearing. The controls are easy 
 to master so I can be immersed in the game and not have to mentally step out to recall if its F3 
 or G that I need to hit to do something. I am also quite pleased to be in ancient Greece vs. the 
 Medieval or Tolkien -type setting .. leading to a fresh group of monsters to slaughter.
  
  This is not a "thinking" game in any way. I have Oblivion for that (and I like that game immensely) . 
 But this is the game I will turn to when I want to veg out, grab a rum and coke, and slaughter 
 things for a couple of hours.
  
  My only critiques are: (1) I have been spoiled by 3D engines that let me rotate the playing field. 
 All to often, I find myself in a situation where killing things coming from the south is considerably 
 more difficult that killing the same thing from one of the other cardinal directions. (2) I spend 
 waay too much time using the personal portal system (thank goodness it works so easily) going back-and-forth 
 the sell my loot. I have been playing 8hours and I don't know if its worth the effort (i. e., the 
 immense amount of $ I have accumulated, will it buy me anything later?) . (3) Framerate is a bit 
 choppy. I have a fairly good graphics system (ATI X1400 w/ 256MB) and am running at Medium.
  
  If you like Diablo, Sacred, or other games of that ilk. I expect you will like this game, too. 
 Pretty much all of the quests I have encountered so far involve killing a boss or grabbing some 
 treasure... so if you are really looking for puzzle solving, this is not the game for you. If you 
 like exploring large games, caverns, temples, and tombs... this is just what the doctor ordered. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doff1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  I never thought there would be another game I could enjoy as much as Diablo 2... which i played 
 for over 4 years.... but Titan Quest is surely the closest to it. They took the wonderful ideas 
 of blizzard.. and improved upon a lot of it... tho leaving some key elements out... such as dedicated 
 servers for multiplayer, and being able to save your character online. [which i'm sure is hard 
 for a new company] They also seemed to have rushed the release... with a few bugs here and there... 
 but most games seem to be that way nowadays. Beautiful graphics, endless action... and a wide variety 
 of loot/monsters will keep you playing this for a long... long... long... long... long... long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agility77
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, if you loved diablo, you'll love this game for sure. 
  
  The story is really good, the titans have been unleashed and monsters are attacking Greece, Rome 
 and Silk Road, which you get to travel in these places as the plot goes on.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is excellent. Very similar to diablo. Double mastery is a very cool feature, 
 thus you can check out various combinations and make your own unique character. 
  The skill system is good. Hack and slash massive hordes of enemies using your unique skills and 
 items is super fun. All in all gameplay is really good. Online play is a bit laggy but this will 
 fix with the patch.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not great, good, but not great. Some sort of diablo 2 upgraded graphics. 
 But imo, the gameplay makes up for it, so it isn't a real disturbance. Graphics are smooth and 
 clear.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty cool. Some good themes in boss battles and good voice acting.
  
 
  Value: Value is real good cuz the adventure is pretty much different at every difficulty level 
 you play. The harder difficult you play, the better loot you get and there are more bosses. 
  
  The bottom line: Titan Quest is a game well worth a purchase for any pc gamer, you'll have 
 a great time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tar1901
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  The good part of this game is that is uses the old stories of Grece, Egipt and Orient and it does 
 not create a new universe with endless stories to describe it.
  
  The monsters from Greek and Egipt mythology look good and locations look authentic too. The "diablo" 
 game play is also good. It is full 3D and it has good animation. The way the monsters fly in the 
 air when you finish the is very good implemented. You hit a monster, its armor drops down and the 
 monster lands in a tree.
  
  Ok, now for the BAD parts. 
  This game was supposed to allow a lot of customization for your character. Hm.... So let us customize: 
 man or woman? play. Well... that was it. Maybe it was about the skills, you can select one or two 
 classes of skills.
  How can you tell who is who in a multiplayer game when there are only 2 characters?
  
  Now 
 the game implementation. Can you say UNSTABLE? I think this game has a countdown for the crashes. 
 10s..5s.. booom. "the progam will be terminated, send bug report". At least it does not make a blue 
 screen. 
  I do not think there was a single dll from this game that did not caused an error. 
  
  I have 
 seen the gamespot marked this game as stable. Is there a game that is marked as unstable on this 
 site?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I get a little tired of the constant "where's the originality? Where's the new ideas?". Here's 
 my take on that... I'll take unoriginal and fun over original and not fun any day of the week.
 
  
  Titan Quest features a lot to like with some thing not to like (as in should have stayed in beta 
 a while longer) . There are some crashes here and there, especially while leaving underground areas. 
 The interaction with NPCs can be interrupted by your pets. Performance optimization apparently 
 didn't happen and there may even be a memory leak thrown in there somewhere. A few patches later 
 and here is what we will have:
  
  The graphics are nicely done with a lot of detail everwhere you look. You go from area to area 
 and each has its own style and ambience. The boss creatures are impressive. Spell effects are OK, 
 but nothing spectacular.
  
  The music and sound is nice. You will find some of the usual Diabloesque pings when certain items 
 hit the ground which is always useful. You hear creatures grunting around and enabling their powers 
 when you get close. 
  
  Control is a little choppy and the pathfinding is almost nonexistant. You can click on the same 
 creature 4-5 times and just run past them each time. You can also find yourself on one side of 
 a rock, and clicking on the other side will leave you standing there. Beyond that it is exactly 
 what you would expect from this type of game. 
  
  Gameplay is a blast, and I've enjoyed every minute of it when its not crashing or acting like a 
 slideshow after extended periods of time. Luckily the developers are aware of these problems and 
 we should see a fix soonish. While there's not much new... the story is very interesting and what 
 is the same, is the same because its fun. The dual class system is nicely done and pretty much 
 every class can compliment another with probably the exception of rogue/archer. 
  
  Final note: definately worth the money and time to play. The single-player campaign is long and 
 interesting. Go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasma8
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is an excellent Diablo clone. Its entertaining and has decent graphics. Of course, 
 all good games have their downsides. This game should have been kept in for a few more weeks for 
 testing. It crashes for too often and is very frustrating.
  
  Also, the fact that you need to take the dialog out to fix must of the crashes takes out some of 
 the immersion. The Greek mythology story is a decent one, but when you defeat the bosses, it just 
 isn't satisfying. 
  
  Now, the graphics are a similiar story. I have a mid end computer, and I have to run all the graphics 
 settings at the minimum, and it still lags up around caves, and when there a lot of monsters around.
 
  
  Lastly, the multiplayer definately has issues. I havn't tried playing online, yet, but my experiences 
 with LAN games were just horrendous. As soon as someone got in, it would crash, sometimes it wouldn't. 
 Just a bad overall experience. The ping in the LAN game was also over 100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUNEwon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to waste your time and tell you how every other reviewer out there is wrong and how 
 my opinions have been miraculously sent by the game gods themselves. 
  
  But what I will do is recommend this game highly! I have been looking for that Diablo-ish experience 
 from so many other games and haven't quite got rid of my jones. I mean dungeon siege and Neverwinter 
 were close, kinda, but Titan Quest nailed it. It isnt just a diablo clone, it feels just like the 
 darn thing. The music and NPC's chat definitely sounds Dialbo-ish. And the game play feels comfortable, 
 even though you dont have much control over the camera. And I think that is actually a big deal. 
 I was real mad about that, but after a few hours the game gets good enough to over see that flaw. 
 There's a butt load of goodies to collect, I have been playing for a day now, Im only at lvl 16, 
 but I've picked up 3 super dope epic items. I don't remember Diablo giving up any goodies until 
 after your first romp in hell. 
  Im not sure if this will become a problem down the road with re-playability. But there are very 
 few options when making a charater. Yeah you have your skills, but I am always looking for that 
 "City of hero's", crazy amounts of customization for my people:)
  
  Ok Im babbling now....
  Point is, this is a good game. I'm not sure why anyone that liked Diablo, 
 could find any reason why not to play this game. I will admit that I had some troubles with crashes 
 and bugs. I would crash anytime I tried to talk to a merchant. I almost gave up and uninstalled, 
 but then I came across this advice below and it fixed all my problems. 24 hours and not 1 crash. 
 
  
  Delete the dialog file or go to 
  My Documents/My  and setting forceSingleProcessorMode to true
 
  
  Play it, love it, have fun and shut up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diltonic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Im not good on writing reviews, but let me just say that I am a gamer and for quite some time 
 there hasnt been a real good quality title like Titan Quest for PC. The soundtrack is very climatic 
 and amazing, and the gameplay is fun and addictive, with a simple, but epic and entertaining storyline, 
 mixing diablo-style action with greek mythology.
  
  The graphics are awesome, as for the physics and combat. You begin choosing your character from 
 both male of female, and even though this might seem simplistic, its not. You get to develop your 
 character from lots of combat masteries and magic specializations, in a grand array of options 
 to build your Titan warrrior. You go battling monsters from town to town, as you unravel the secrets 
 behind the invasion of monsters on greek soil, and even though you just have to go fighting and 
 killing all enemies, the action itself is not repetitive like old titles before this one, because 
 the sceneries are very different as you go on you way, and theres always people to talk to and 
 sidequests to add a little spice on the story.
  
  I just cant understand how Gamespot reviewers missed the opportunity to give a decent higher grade 
 for this game, for its not a horrible production like Rise of Legends or the clumsy Sacred. Titan 
 Quest is a quality title, and you can see and hear the heart that the makers put in the game. I 
 would have given this a 9.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: songokudbz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Well first off all, the game is superb, but, and 1 big BUT, it has a lot of bugs. 
  THE GAME CRASHES very often.
  I haev played until level 5, i entered 1 cave, and the game crashed, 
 after a while it worked perfectly. I saved the game, and when i entered to play again it crashed 
 continuously. I thought i was my pc, but i've visited a site and analyzed my pc and i can play 
 this game a high quality. I have a 3 GHZ pc, 1024 mbram, and an ati x700 at 256 mbram. Well that 
 wasn't the problem.
  
  I hope they will get a patch out soon !!! 
  I can hardly wait to play it. I've got mad and un-installed it. 
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chernnunos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  I have had this game since day 1.
  
  Apparently alot of people find it necessary to level a character to level 10 and quit, calling 
 the game stupid.
  
  I am a level 30 "Druid" (Nature/Storm mastery) and I like this game BETTER than diablo II
  
 
  I am currently clearing off the overrun Great Wall of China, and the weapons/armor that drop are 
 phenomenal!! the summoned monsters are intelligent, powerful and long-lived, and the magic and 
 magic effects are equally so.
  
  This game was so well done with such fantastic graphics that I can't believe ANYONE who has the 
 computer power to run it cranked to its highest settings could give it less than at LEAST an 8.5 
 or 9 rating!!!
  
  Are you people even PLAYING this game? Or did you get a ripped off copy that doesn't run well from 
 the internet and played it for 15-20 minutes, MAYBE an hour, and quit, logged on here and gave 
 a rash stupid negative rating on a game that doesn't deserve anything less than a good score?
 
  
  I'm VERY happy with this game, and I can't wait to get to Epic level content and get some Legendary 
 weapons/armor!!!! Also I can't wait to fill out my skill trees and calld own lighting bolts that 
 Zeus himself would be jealous of!
  
  Make up your OWN mind about this game!! Gamespot did NOT do it justice!!!! And this isn't the only 
 time their ratings have been completely off!
  
  --C 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_976
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  well i am going to be quick about this. Well titan quest supposed to be a diablo 2 clone which 
 i think it failed miserably. Its probaly the easiest game i ever played, if you go like spirit 
 mastery or earth mastery which have summons you will whit no doubt spoil the game, they are in 
 fact so dangerous that you cant shoot magics or such at them because you summons have already killed 
 them. In fact if you choose any class you will spoil the game lol.
  
  There is also MASSES of item drops that is completely useless.
  Lets say you encounter a mob 
 of fiften enemies after you killed them you of course check what they have dropped. Well they drop 
 like 40 items! 
  And there may be one if not zero items that is worth look on.
  
  This game is also very unstable. I have read and experienced that the game crashes after a while 
 and the time gets smaller and smaller betwen crashes.
  I have read that people have played the game and had no problems beacause the game didnt crash 
 after 3 hours. Well it does after you played for 5 hours and then it countinues to crash after 
 less time spent.
  
  So my conclusion dont get this game until it gets patched!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  The game play is just plain booring!!!
  
  I loved Diablo from the first to Diablo 2 LOD and when i saw this game i sai to my self: I must 
 have it.
  
  So lets start, the graphics are decent and the renders are good but the archers are almost always 
 to far for you to see in the camera and also to far if your an archer for you to hit so you have 
 to keep on running if your a archer or a mage.
  
  The sounds are terrible and the action isn't really there. When you fight you don't really know 
 why for a really long time.
  
  Although the main idea is presented in the opening cinematic in the game it takes too much time 
 till you get to the myth part. For way too long you fight monsters without really knowing why or 
 where are they comming from.
  
  The weapons and items look as if they were drown by human hand and not some hot new game graphics. 
 Jst some plain old knifes or sword or really what ever weapon.
  
  The spells look just plain laim and the archer and warrior warior skill are just a unoriginal excuse 
 for skills.
  
  Over all the game is nice but not all that. You might just enjoy it for a short while but on the 
 long run it really doesent have all that much to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valentin11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  When you start the game you see the fantasy world of ancient greece. The style is similar to Sacred's 
 which I like a lot. There are some idead from the game too but they are well modified.
  The big question here is if the game is just another Diablo clone or is it something better.
 
  The gameplay is around 70-80% similar to Diablo's which is not bad because Diablo is a great game! 
 But they've developed the game even more. Now you can have more than one professions so whoever 
 wanted a fighting wizard or a healing thief can have one!
  The ID is just great. I've benn playing a lot and I've seen mobs running and making ambushes or 
 others trying to kill you no matter what. I like pet's id too. In Diablo merchants were just too 
 stupid. Here the pets are as you are commanding them. They can do tanking, lure the mobs which 
 have threat you and just simply run from the battle scene and attack again after they are healed.
 
  The graphics are really good for a rpg (full 3d rpg are still not good enough) . There are only 
 two things I don't like. The limited characters you can play with and the poor spell animation!
 
  Other than this the game is totaly cool!
  Enough rest for me I'm going to kick some Titan's asses now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdboomer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Why waste time complaining that this is a Diablo rip off, it is and its alot of fun. Of all the 
 clones, its one of the best I've played in years!
  
  There is a tonne of action and the player customization is really good. You can really tailor the 
 character you want.. The mastery options are extremely easy to use. You can see at a glance your 
 options and what you need to do to obtain them
  
  In a time of MMORPG it nice to have a game you can play and leave at will. I really miss the pause 
 button when playing MMORPG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlemrsnow
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  "Want a low poly game with terrible looking characters and shadows that give a slight illusion 
 of good graphics?"
  Then this is for you! its the perfect replica of diablo 2! your stuck with a view that makes you 
 want to scream, and if u zoom in it usually gets worse, and really shows off the awful graphics.. 
 most of the time i was playing i felt that the veiw was looking away from the action, making it 
 very annoying not to know where the archers and other things were. I never really got into the 
 game because i felt like i was playing Diablo.. It felt as if i had done it all before, Nothing 
 really new..
  I ran the game on high at 1280x1024 and it only looked like a game from 2003 with 2006 shadow rendering..
 
  It just wasent even near the game i was expecting.. It was way too easy.. 
  My final thoughts would be that its a way over rated version of Diablo with poor graphics and nice 
 shadows that barely make up for it.. By the looks of it the characters had to be under 250 polys.. 
 They looked very unprofessional.. By the videos i have seen it looked great, But of course the 
 videos are usually too small to go by, compared to looking at the game on a 19" LCD monitor at 
 1280x1024.. My final rating.. 3.7/10. Its a next gen PC game with ps2 graphics...
  PC Specs:
  AMD Athlon 64 3800+
  BFG Geforce 7800GT OC
  2GB (512mb 400mhz X4) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bibiqum
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  well i am going to be quick about this. Well titan quest supposed to be a diablo 2 clone which 
 i think it failed miserably. Its probaly the easiest game i ever played, if you go like spirit 
 mastery or earth mastery which have summons you will whit no doubt spoil the game, they are in 
 fact so dangerous that you cant shoot magics or such at them because you summons have already killed 
 them. In fact if you choose any class you will spoil the game lol.
  
  There is also MASSES of item drops that is completely useless.
  Lets say you encounter a mob 
 of fiften enemies after you killed them you of course check what they have dropped. Well they drop 
 like 40 items! 
  And there may be one if not zero items that is worth look on.
  
  This game is also very unstable. I have read and experienced that the game crashes after a while 
 and the time gets smaller and smaller betwen crashes.
  I have read that people have played the game and had no problems beacause the game didnt crash 
 after 3 hours. Well it does after you played for 5 hours and then it countinues to crash after 
 less time spent.
  
  So my conclusion dont get this game until it gets patched!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValiantDarkness
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I loved Diablo and Diablo 2 and all of the RPGs of this type. This game would be a mid-range 9.0 
 if...
  
  My computer is top notch and I'm having a few problems with the game. Most of the problems occur 
 when I zip through a portal, which I'm sure will be addressed fairly soon in a patch. Something 
 game creators need to be careful of is getting to excited about the release date, and make sure 
 your major bugs such as graphics and sound are slim to none. I understand that the first version 
 of the game isn't going to be perfect, but come on guys.
  
  On the better half I love the improved graphics. They are clear and the next step up for the fast 
 paced RPG genre. 
  The portal idea is great, and by that I mean the one you can make wherever you are, instead of 
 (in Diablo) needing to have scrolls with you. 
  The skill system is really neat too. It's original and I like the multiple class choice. The skills 
 are also unique to the game, which I also really like.
  The idea of the game being centered so nicely and strongly around the history of ancient times 
 is great. It made me smile to kill Medusa. 
  The bosses are HARD, I love it. I have when a huge arse Diablo runs up to me and dies in one spell. 
 These bosses are unique and bloody hard.
  
  In the end I give the game a rating of 8.7. Like I said, if they were to maybe stretch the release 
 date and make it more solid upon release it would be an upper 9.0. Great game, If you like the 
 genre it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sys010101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  What I think is right about this game is that it copied Diablo in a good way, not just another 
 weak clone. The graphics are jaw dropping (for me at least) , every little detail can be seen clearly 
 even when zoomed out. The sound is ok, not the best, but ok is a good word to describe it, the 
 storyline is just as it has to be (like any other game like it) , the physics implementation is 
 very good, it gives the player a good feeling when killing NPC's, the animations are also very 
 nice (they seem smooth enough to give the player a good sense of "realism") , also the gameplay 
 is very good, it's so good that makes it addictive in just a couple of minutes after loading the 
 game, all in all the game looks awesome, and I would recommend it to anyone that has played Diablo 
 games (especially fans) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is some what resembling to Diablo if you forget the hellish part of Diablo. This game 
 is just a great PC RPG for everyone. It has decent graphics and has terrific gameplay. The game 
 has sound that is crystal clear. I know that this game has great gameplay, but it is very repetitive 
 at times in diferent missions or quests. Like this: You take out he squad leaders too much. Also, 
 the map is poor and does not lead you to you objectives very well. I have to say I was a bit disapointed 
 with the game when I found those flaws. I really was looking forward to taking my gaming online 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 1, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I have been playing games of all genres for a long time and i think this game is the worst bug 
 fest i seen to date. I understand publishers sometimes rush a game so it can be a little buggy 
 until some patch (es) come out but this one is so bad it borders on lack of respect for the consumer. 
 I think we should make our voice heard and let them know that releasing games in such an unfinished 
 state is not acceptable. The game has an endless variety of graphical glitches that makes it a 
 pain to play and while there are things you can do to get past some of the glitches (changing any 
 graphical option setting and clicking ok seems to work often) many times it gets so bad you have 
 to ctrl alt del the dam thing.
  The game is good, its a very nice diablo-style game and we dont get many of those anymore, if you 
 liked Diablo, Sacred or Divine Divinity you'll like this one too. The inventory is probably the 
 smallest i seen and thats a problem, looting and selling to make money is not possible because 
 of the minimal inventory space. I dont understand why it had to be so restrictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Targzissian
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is similar to Diablo 2 and the Dungeon Siege games, but the graphics are far better 
 than either. The attention to lighting, realism and environmental detail are impressive. If you 
 have a powerful gaming rig and want a game just to show off what it can do, I would recommend Titan 
 Quest for that purpose.
  
  Unlike Diablo 2, which only supported 640x480 resolution when it was released (though support for 
 800x600 was added with the expansion) , and unlike Dungeon Siege, which only supported resolutions 
 up to 1024x768, and DS 2, which maxed out at 1280x1024, Titan Quest seems to support just about 
 every resolution out there, including widescreen. To be honest, however, I've only played it at 
 2304x1440 and 1920x1200. I have a high-end system with dual GeForce 7800 GTX 512MB cards in SLI, 
 4GB RAM, and an Athlon64 FX-57 CPU. The game is just playable at 2304x1440, but runs noticeably 
 smoother at 1920x1200. I have found, however, that after many hours of playing, the performance 
 can degrade, and I have to reboot my system to get smooth framerates again. This may be a driver 
 issue.
  
  Unfortunately, Titan Quest's UI is not scalable, so at 2304x1440 the mouse pointer and interface 
 elements are kind of small, and they are still small, but more useable, at 1920x1200. Since the 
 interface is almost entirely mouse-driven (although there are several hotkeys that you will find 
 useful) , a scalable UI with the option of a larger mouse pointer would have been an improvement. 
 I find that I have to run the game with v-sync disabled, because when I enable it, the backgrounds 
 become rather blurry as my character moves about the game world, and you spend the vast majority 
 of Titan Quest moving about.
  
  There is some downtime messing with your inventory, due to the lack of an autoarrange function 
 and the fact that there is a lot of loot to be picked up, most of which you will sell for gold, 
 though sometimes a rare item will be found that can improve your fighting ability. Fortunately 
 the game has a convenient portal system that allows you travel quickly to a merchant who will buy 
 all your excess loot, and sell you some of the often needed healing potions.
  
  One of my biggest disappointments with Titan Quest is the simplistic camera, which can be zoomed 
 in or out (I spend most of the time with it zoomed most of the way out so I can see more of my 
 surroundings) but not revolved or rotated to allow me to see the game's beautiful environments 
 from a different angle. Titan Quest has a 3D graphics engine, similar to Dungeon Siege in that 
 respect, but the camera controls are more like a 2D isometric game, such as Diablo 2. It just doesn't 
 feel right. I would prefer optional camera rotation so that I could explore the game world properly. 
 It would make for a much more immersive experience, and would be helpful in some combat situations 
 as well. Apparently the developers left this option out for performance reasons and to cut back 
 on development time. I personally think the game could have used a six month delay to implement 
 better camera controls (and to let computer hardware catch up with the game's powerful graphics 
 engine) . I believe that this would have greatly increased the value of the finished product.
  
  One problem I have had is that the pathfinding could be improved. For instance, my character 
 sometimes gets stuck behind a bush or at the edge a cliff and I have to click or hold the mouse 
 button in just the right spot to get moving again. Another minor complaint is that the games physics 
 are slightly exaggerated. In rare instances, when you kill a monster, it will go flying up twenty 
 feet into the air. In one case, when I opened a treasure chest and the loot went flying out, as 
 it always seems to, a shield ended up falling off the bottom of the screen into the ocean, and 
 I was not able to retrieve it.
  
  I could also complain that the game is very linear, a follow-the-yellowbrick road experience, similar 
 to Dungeon Siege. On the other hand, Titan Quest was not meant to be an open-ended adventure like 
 the classic Ultima or Elder Scrolls games, so the linear gameplay works, and is actually quite 
 addictive. It is following the formula of the very successful Diablo 2, afterall.
  
  The sound is good, as far as I can tell. I am running Windows XP Professional x64 Edition with 
 the latest drivers (the May 30, 2006 beta drivers) from Creative for the Soundblaster X-Fi Xtreme 
 Music. I find that there is frequent stuttering and static. However, when the sound does work, 
 the environmental sounds, music, combat sounds, and voice acting are all very good, and all contribute 
 effectively to Titan Quest's mood and Ancient World setting.
  
  I have not had any crashes, and the game seems to be stable, at least on my system. The only bugs 
 I have noticed, apart from my audio difficulties, are very minor.
  
  I can confidently recommend this game to anyone who enjoyed Sacred or Diablo 2, or the Dungeon 
 Siege games, and who also has a fairly powerful computer. Titan Quest's environments are well-crafted 
 and simply beautiful. The gameplay is enjoyable. The game is available in both CD-ROM and DVD-ROM 
 versions. I bought the DVD version because I abhor unnecessary disk-swapping. The version reviewed 
 was 1.01 and I hope that future patches will improve upon the camera controls and other issues 
 with the current version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sludgely
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Today, the RPG genre has expanded to cover a broad range of concepts and ideas, consisting of multiple 
 sub-genres. A few years back, Diablo defined a new, unique sub-genre of the RPG, and several years 
 later, mastered this genre with their title Diablo II. Diablo Ii offered an addictive style of 
 game play that compelled players to strive onward, countless times, persisting until they create 
 their perfect character or find the items they want. The atmosphere sucked the gamer in, and many 
 people could not resist the game. After a huge success, dozens of titles have since attempted to 
 emulate Diablo II's hack-n-slash style, but all for naught. Every single game failed at one point 
 or another and failed to create a game that could compete with the masterpiece, Diablo II. Today, 
 Diablo II has some competition. Titan Quest was released several days ago, and it is the first 
 hack-n-slash game since Diablo II to offer the addictive game play style that players so crave, 
 but unfortunately, Titan Quest has some dire flaws which will prevent it from succeeding in such 
 a way as Diablo II once did. 
  
  Game play: The game play is simply excellent. The game utilizes the traditional class system with 
 skill trees, but with a few twists, in my opinion, Titan Quest implements a skill system better 
 than any hack-n-slash game thus far. Having 8 different masteries, each character is allowed to 
 choose two. They may place their skills accordingly and if they dislike their choices, they are 
 always allowed to re-allocate skill points with a minimal fee. This is great. Diablo II emphasized 
 this perfectionist mentality where someone could not place a skill until level 18, 24, or even 
 30. Titan Quest's system allows for players to have a more enjoyable experience throughout their 
 character's adventure. Also, rather than choosing to have skills that simply are an upgraded version 
 of a previous skill, resulting in skills becoming obsolete after 5 or 6 levels and wasted skills 
 points, Titan Quest's higher level skills instead, oftentimes, function as upgrades of their predecessors, 
 thus, not rendering previous skills useless.
  The actual fighting system to very solid. It works using a system of clicking and hotkeys - foolproof.
 
  Titan Quest has the same addictive feeling of a search for treasure just like Diablo II did. If 
 you loved this aspect of Diablo, you will love it equally in Titan Quest. I do not think there 
 are as many items in Titan Quest as there were in Diablo II, granted I may be wrong, but then again, 
 Diablo II had several years of additions where items were constantly added. Titan Quest may have 
 extra items added as well.
  Diablo II did manage to create an online community that will be impossible for Titan Quest to ever 
 begin. Using protected servers, players could trade, level, play, and experience the addiction 
 of Diablo II with one another, online, on secure servers (meaning safe from hackers) . This is not 
 the case in Titan Quest. Offline characters can be played online and chances are that there will 
 be a lot of hackers. Also, many many players have been experiencing multiplayer bugs when trying 
 to connect to the servers. Thankfully, the developers of Titan Quest are already working to fix 
 this latter issue.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are sharp. They look great. Although my machine is only capable of supporting the 
 lowest settings, the game still looks spectacular. On my brothers high-end computer, the game looks 
 even better. There isn't much to complain about in terms of graphics.
  
  Sound:
  When I said that I had a lower-end machine before, I really meant it. My computer does not even 
 meet the minimum specifications; and consequently, I am rarely allowed to hear the music. The voice 
 acting is good. That I do hear. I have heard little clips of the sound track, and from what I have 
 heard so far, it sounds great.
  
  Value and Tilt:
  Let's settle this at, it's a great game, but you are going to need one heck of a computer to run 
 this game flawlessly. Many many many players have been experiencing bugs, crashes, corrupted save 
 files, multiplayer connection issues, choppy frame rates, and everything else that accompanies 
 a game lacking testing. However, the developers have been extremely responsive to player's pleas 
 and are already working out most of the kinks. The weird thing is, none of these issues have been 
 bad enough - and they are pretty bad in most people's eyes - to turn me away from playing this 
 game. Anyways, who knows, you may be like my brother and me able to run he game flawlessly. If 
 I were on the edge about buying this game, I would check up on its status in a week or so and see 
 what people are saying about the patch. The game might be totally fixed by then, and if this is 
 the case, and if if bugs were the only thing deterring you from buying this game in first place, 
 then get out and buy it as soon as you can! You won't regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubupriest
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. Just forget Diablo 2 for this reasons:
  
  -The good: Superb graphics and extremely detailed game world; Lots and skills and mastery combinations 
 for the characters; A lot of locations and monster types; The physics system; Good script; Voice acting, 
 sound effects, ambient sound, and music are all well done.
  -The bad: No cinematic moments; A couple of game breaking bugs, The game is linear.
  
  Titan 
 Quest is most definitely one of the best PC games on the market for the year. A solid all-round 
 experience that revives what was once a dead genre. I don't know why Gamespot gave this game a mediocre 
 score?
  ... And just one more thing : Gamespot gave 7 to Sacred (graphics) and to the Titan quest the same? 
 Be serious ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XLAXXLV
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  If any game out there feels like Diablo, TQ is it. TQ has upped the ante with better graphics, 
 slick interface, in depth story about greek mythology and loot, loot and MORE loot!
  
  The level of detail in the terrain is outstanding and immersive. Character development is top notch 
 as well.
  
  Traveling around is handled well, you can simply open a portal and get to a merchant to sell and 
 port right back to the fight or to a different part of the world if desired.
  
  Looking forward to playing my champion on Epic and Legendary levels! 
  14hrs in and haven't crashed 
 one time either :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bka4u2c_basic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I've had the chance to play for a while. The game is exactly the game I thought it would be. One 
 heck of clickfest. You'll be clicking here, click there, clicking everywhere.
  
  On a serious note, it's a very good hack and slash RPG. The graphics are exceptional with AA turned 
 on. The way it compares items in your inventory to the corresponding equipped item. The story line 
 has kept me interested so far. Has me looking forward to whats coming next. 
  
  On the other side, the inventory system needs some help. There is also some stuttering/choppiness 
 here and there.
  
  If you enjoy a good action RPG, pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinaswarlock
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I had been listening to the extreme hype this game has garnered for many weeks now. Usually when 
 a game is this hyped I wait for a few months to wait and see if the reality lives up to the hype. 
 This time, however, I went against my better judgement and bought the game upon release. Thus far 
 I am not dissapointed.
  
  I really enjoy the flexible classing system Iron Lore has put in place in this game, it allows 
 me to reset my spec at pretty much any time, though at an ever increasing price. Still, this is 
 much better than having to reroll and start over from the begining.
  
  The one problem I have with the game thus far is the imbalance between ranged and melee characters. 
 My melee heavy character routinely gets one shotted no matter how high my armor rating and resists 
 are. The ranged characters I've played with however have had a relatively easy time of things. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muzaki
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Experience the thrill of bashing your enemies with a spiky club, shattering them into a million 
 pieces with powerful spells, or shooting them down with a swift arrow. It's all in here - monsters, 
 treasure chests, quests, NPC's, spells, potions, and the most important of all, the hack n' slash 
 combat styles.
  
  Part of me calls this game Diablo 3, while the other part denies it. This game has similar game 
 play as Diablo and its series, but it lacks the mood and atmosphere. The storyline isn't bad, but 
 since it is set in Egypt and Greece, you will not likely be engaged in combat with winged demons 
 and ferocious dragons. Instead, you'll be fighting beastmen, insectoids, and many other imaginative 
 mythical creatures. Not that that's a bad thing, but it just lacks variety for some people. 
  
  The implementation of physics in a role playing game ultimately brings the game up to a completely 
 different level. It's always great to see a monster you've just killed fly right into a wall 5 
 meters away from its original place of death. It's also cool to open a chest and see the items 
 fly out and land on the ground so naturally. The portal system is quite useful. You are given an 
 infinite amount of portals to create, but you may only have one active at a time. Each town has 
 a portal, which you must activate by walking to it. By doing so, you may return to this point by 
 putting out a portal elsewhere, and walking into it.
  
  The only problem with the game's game play formula is that it involves a lot of exploring and the 
 same routine occurs. You walk out of town, try and find a cave that you must clear out to finish 
 your quest. You kill the boss, loot the treasure, and move on to another quest. Quests lack variety 
 - it's usually about killing something, or retrieving something. If you continuously play this 
 game for hours on end, it'll become tedious. So be sure to take breaks every now and then to keep 
 your interest on a decent level.
  
  The sound effects are terrific in this game, it's only the speech that bothers me. Engaging in 
 conversation with the NPC's is unavoidable, and some of them have such weird and awkward accents, 
 you might think they're high or something. But since the setting is in Greece and Egypt, I didn't 
 criticize too much upon the character speech. The clashing of the blade and the explosions of the 
 fire bolts really sounds exhilarating.
  
  The graphics aren't too bad, but they don't leave you with many options. It's either high, medium, 
 or low; on or off. They look great when you've got them all on high, but the performance may suffer 
 for some people. Overall, I'd say the graphics are done quite well since this is a role playing 
 game and you would expect to see a lot of things at once in one screen.
  
  If you're a fan of the Diablo series, or you're just aiming to try something new, run down to your 
 local digital store, and grab a copy now - you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayzup
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  first impressions are good, this game has lots of nice touches like how the wheat fields animate 
 when you walk through them and how clean the graphics look, if you have ever played dungeon seige 
 you will find this game very similar in playing style. another bug i have is that the game keeps 
 crashing to desktop every now and then , i know not everybody will have this issue but its annoying 
 enough to include it in the review im sure they will sort this out with a decent patch. (btw it 
 was the second game to be installed after a clean rebuild of the PC) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lescale
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  I don't understand people who are complaining this is yet another Diablo rip-off ... Rip-offs is 
 what the game industry is made off ... for every game you'll find a mechanism that has already 
 been used somewhere. So don't complain and go play Diablo for the 1248th hour.
  
  Now let's go back to the "game". The graphics are amazing. Not just good, but amazing. Agreed, 
 the path is very linear, but when you are coming on top of a cliff and see some ennemies running 
 on a beach that you will fight only 15 minutes later, I say .. "yes" !! On some configurations 
 and with a lot of clash boum bang going on, the framerate can drop but on my pc (1.5 gig ram, 2700+ 
 and gforce 8900 ultra) it never does (I play with everything on high) .
  
  Where i do have some issues is the sound. Not the ambiant one because that one is just fine. I'm 
 talking about the voice acting. Sometimes it's great (The Oracle) sometimes it's crappy (side quests) . 
 
  
  You also have the feeling (part because it is the case) that the game is modular. Quest = go there 
 or kill that guy. But if you have the game, go an take a look at the Mod section. Art manager, 
 game editor and quest editor and you'll see that Titan quest is not a game, but just an exercice 
 of the best modding tool I'v ever seen. Lower or raise terrain with a click, drop water in a hole, 
 click to place random generated monsters, brush texture on the floor ... and all this in real time... 
 it's not getting easier then this.
  
  So I say, Titan Quest is not a great game, it's an amazing tool to make the modding community go 
 crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelboylove
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I have played the demo of this game.
  The intro movie was pretty cool and i was expecting a good looking game. 
  I was disappointed 
 with the graphics. Looks like an edited "Diablo" or "Sacred" and it doesn't brings some new flavour 
 to the rpg type games.
  The controls are pretty ok to be mastered but still it was kind of difficult for me to attack the 
 monsters and use potions to regain health in the same time.
  I hope the full verion of the game will be much better.
  Also even with my new generation PC 
 i had some troubles with this game. It was using a lot of resources. Maybe un updates demo should 
 fix some tricks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabidcanary
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great. after finishing the game on normal difficulty, you can start again with 
 your same character on harder levels with better loot. I only had 1 crash after 7 hrs playing. 
 The game lags a little on max video settings in spots even on a XPS Gen 2 computer. I was easily 
 hooked on this game, just one more cave, one more side quest etc. I was burned out on Battlefield 
 2 and Oblivion and stopped playing games for a while. Titan Quest was just what the doctor orderd. 
 Many thanks to the developers for a fun game. Gamespot gave this game a mediocre score and gave 
 The Godfather a high score... sounds fishy to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  All right, a painful admission first; I never "got" the Diablo games. I played the first's demo, 
 and played through the first act of Diablo II before becoming hugely bored with it. For all the 
 dungeons and monsters, there was something missing. Maybe it was the ugly-as-sin 640x480 pixellicious 
 graphics, maybe the lack of weight behind my weapons when fighting... suffice it to say, I felt 
 completely uninterested by the whole experience. Bad effect for a game to have on a gamer. 
  
  Imagine my surprise, then, when I fell in spastic love with this game after completing the 
 demo! I'd read the reviews and seen it touted time and again as a Diablo clone, but the gameplay 
 movies made it look interesting, so onto my hard disk went the demo. LOVE I tell you, LOVE! 
  
  Yes, the graphics are simply astounding. The lighting (from spells, torches, fires and whatnot) 
 is excellent, and the detail is incredible. I never get tired of sending Volcanic Orbs into a flock 
 crows and watching each one explode into a ball of feathers which then gently drift to the ground. 
 The ragdoll physics aren't overdone, and it's always fun to watch your foes fly through the air 
 after you smite them.
  
  I can't say enough good things about this game, and I have to emphasize that this TRULY surprises 
 me. So far, I am really and truly loving it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Racnid337
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  For all those who don't like reading much here is the basic premise of the game in a nutshell: 
 left click bad guy, it dies, stuff comes out, pick it up and cheer. Then repeat this process eleven 
 thousand six hundred and fifty two times until you finish the game. Pinata games (hack and slash 
 as most people call them) can be quite fun, like Diablo 2 for instance. But when you base your 
 whole game on a clone of that game most of the time it turns into burning wreckage that just reminds 
 you of the game that it used to be before it exploded. 
  Titan quest has decent graphic that chug in some places but overall pretty good. Sound is also 
 pretty well done (I like the potion drinking sound, it makes me chuckle) . Past those things its 
 relatively mediocre at best. Level design has no randomness whatsoever to it, making it the most 
 linear dungeon crawler ever in my book. Hell, all the mobs spawn in the exact same place every 
 time. Which brings up my next jab, what the heck is with the loot system. There is a mage and when 
 I kill it, it drops mage items. That part is fine. But the lack of a set loot table for the higher 
 level mobs and the randomness of rarities makes me completely annoyed.
  This game reminds me of a giant recreation of Acts 1 and 2 from Diablo 2 for the most part. The 
 only thing that sets it apart is that they have "historical mythology" thrown into it. I personally 
 think they hopped on the God Of War bandwagon while trying to still hold onto the Diablo 2 wagon. 
 The mixture could have been could if it had more dynamic gameplay. There was not a single section 
 in the game where I didn't know what was coming.
  Multiplayer is nothing to cheer about either. Expect dungeon siege MP and thats what you get. Since 
 there isn't much left in the game but the multiplayer it actually falls completely short of my 
 expectations. No randomness at all, no pvp, and no extra unlocks to really have an incentive to 
 play it over again besides to create another character.
  I still have to give them a little props because if it had randomness to both the level design 
 and mob placement, it could have been a pretty decent game and I would have rated it most likely 
 an 8.5. If you don't mind playing a super predictable grindfest then this is most definitely a 
 pick up for you. Otherwise go back to playing Oblivion or WoW because this game just doesn't have 
 enough to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wyrmtongue
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  I am under no pretense that this is a revolutionary game. Admittedly, what I was after is a "Diablo 
 Clone" with updated graphics. Unfortunately the FPS is such that I cannot operate the game with 
 greater resolution than 1024x768. For context, World of Warcraft operates at 1650x1050, Far Cry, 
 Half-Life 2 etc. operate on the best settings as well. I am operating an Alienware Area 51-M with 
 1gb RAM and 128MB ATI video card. 
  
  I enjoy the left-clicking, loot grabbing, visceral experience. Unfortunately I cannot enjoy it 
 to the degree as a Diablo because of the graphics issues. If Iron Lore patched the engine/memory 
 utilization, I would be back in a second. For now, stay with Diablo 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casketfiller
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Overall a very solid fun game. Early levels are kind of boring but once you get to level 9 or 10 
 it starts to pick up. I would like to be able to pull your view point back more to see more of 
 the map as your running. This is my first RPG so I really don't have anything else to compare it 
 to. Some battles can be repetitive there is a good mix of monsters to kill. Pleanty of side quests 
 and different environments to explore. The bottom line is it's fun to play and worth the money. 
 Should be great for modding new levels also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrikreen80
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  Now I only have put in about 15 hours of gameplay into game. But already I can tell you all that 
 if you enjoy hack and slash rpgs like diablo or what not then this game is definitely worth your 
 time. This game beats Diablo 2 in every way except so far I have not found a storage container, 
 anywhere I look so I take there is not one. However, you get upgraded inventory slots as you go 
 on through the game so your inventory actually gets bigger. This game does offer something new, 
 and thats the setting and story line. There are not alot of games in this rpg genre that offer 
 the Greek Mythology setting, and personally I love it. 
  
  Gameplay: If you have played Diablo or Sacred, then you will know almost exactly how the gameplay 
 is. Though Titan Quest offers some more in depth features. For instance the skill system is the 
 best I have seen so far for this type of game. Yeah sure you don't get to do alot of to your character 
 right at the creation screen, but in the game you get to mold and bend your character to your preference 
 in not only one skill mastery, but two. For instance I have a defense mastery fighter, that basically 
 does what it says allows me to take alot of damage before dieing, not only that at level 8 I get 
 to pick my next and final mastery skill, which I took nature, which allows me to heal and summon 
 pets, and your other druid like spells. So now my character can take a large amount of damage, 
 and then when I get low in hp, I can heal myself. The game does have a little bugs and glitches 
 here and there, but I say if reviewers can give Oblivion 9 and up reviews with all the bugs and 
 glitches that game had, then I don't see why the little bit this game has is that big of a deal......
 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are nice, even at medium settings they are still the best graphics you can get 
 in a game of this genre. Think of Sacred with a buffed up engine, and running more efficiently. 
 The only thing that gets slightly annoying is the shadows in the game. At high the shadows look 
 nice, but as soon as you turn them down (which alot of people will have to, to get better performance) , 
 they start to look pretty bad, and pixelated.
  
  Sound: The music if fitting for the game, it sounds very ancient Greece. The sound effects are 
 on par, and the voice acting in my opinion is very nice. The game was written by the author that 
 wrote Brave Heart, and you can tell, the voices and slang and dialogue actually remind of the movie 
 when Im playing it in a sense that the npcs fall into their characters, just like the actors in 
 the movie. 
  
  Value: So far the value of this game is solid. There is a good feel from fighting to getting more 
 story line, there hasn't been that, "oh man when is this fighting going to end so I can get on 
 with the story" feel. The story line has been pretty involved, it seems like every village I come 
 to there is at least 4 or 5 people I can talk to that tell me some cool little story, or offer 
 some sort of side quest. Really what I would say this game is like is World of Warcraft for MMO's. 
 It's not nothing hugely new, its nothing thats offering the next and biggest thing to the genre, 
 but it has taken everything good from the genre, refined it and has made a game darn near perfection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcwleblanc
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  First off this game is very very good. Everyone has been comparing it to diablo 2 and the like 
 and they have been doing so for good reason. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  "The Cycle of Fun:
  Fighting monsters gets you loot and experience.
  Experience lets you graduate to new levels. 
 Each level lets you enhance your masteries and skills.
  Improved weapons, armor and skills make you stronger, which lets you fight more powerful monsters.
 
  
  And the cycle continues"
  -TQ handbook
  
  The character creation is weak but it can be overlooked as you are never really up close and personal 
 on your player. It would have been nice to have simple creation options though such as hair color 
 and style and maybe body size but it doesn't effect the overall play of the game. For those of 
 you who haven't picked this up but did play the demo and are wondering about tunic colors, well 
 there are many more than the initial few to choose from. 
  
  The gameplay is very framilliar It's layed out for you right there in the hand book, though that 
 is nothing to complain about. It's classic hack and slash at its finest. Most everything can be 
 done with the mouse and there is really no need to even touch the keyboard, making the experience 
 very simple yet still enjoyable. There is tons of loot and I don't think the loot system is as 
 messed up as some reviews are making it out to be, I have been finding new things here and there 
 and have still been using the merchants. Granted there are a lot of lower level item that are usless 
 to me but that's what the "show magic items only" button is for. The story is decent nothing revolutionary 
 but it gets the job done. I would have liked it to be a little more personal in the begining, something 
 like your family was killed so you had more of a sense of hatred for the baddies. But I suppose 
 if someone was burning my houses I would take up arms as well. The gameplay eventually does get 
 a bit repedative but it's addicting as ever and it's always fun to find that new weapon or armor 
 and to see the next mythical beast around the bend.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are stunning. Lighting, particle effects, shadows, detail everything is gorgeous. 
 Though the zoom is pretty pointless as when you zoom in the least bit you start getting attacked 
 by things you have yet to see. Also the lack of camera movement is annoying it would have been 
 nice to be able to spin and have a little control over the XY axis, but it's not to hard to real 
 with. There aren't too many options or any sliders to change the settings but they get the job 
 done. It would have been nice to have sliders as opposed to high medium or low choices but I can't 
 complain too much. FYI Turning on the AA doesn't really seem to have much of an effect other than 
 droping the frame rate at 1280x1024. Aside from all the beauty there are a few things that are 
 a bit bothering, first off the frame rate drop in certian areas. Now I know it's a RPG and not 
 an FPS so we don't need crazy frames to get the job done but it gets annoying when they drop for 
 no apparent reason at times. Secondly... where's the blood? there could be an option to turn it 
 on or off but at least put it in there, when I hack at someone with a sword I expect to see a little 
 red, or green, or whatever color some of these monsters would bleed. Anyways, the physics system 
 is far from realistic but boy is it fun, hacking a monster twenty feet off a cliff with a single 
 blow is a blast to watch and having monsters fly in the air all around you is hilarious. 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in this game is breathtaking, moreso than the graphics in my oppinion. 
 Now no there aren't any advanced sound options like EAX but it doesn't really matter. The ambient 
 sounds are solid, everything from birds and crickets chirping to waves crashing on the beach to 
 the wind blowing to the footsteps are all amazingly realistic. The score is equally amazing, the 
 music really helps get you into the game it rises up in certian situations and falls in others, 
 fitting very well with the overall feel or the journey. It's very apparent they went through a 
 lot of work in composing the sound track and it pays off big in the end.
  
  Then on top of this it's a 40 plus hour journey through three very different lands with much loot 
 and many enemy types, even if some are just new skins on the same old beast they are still interesting 
 to look at. Then once the games complete you can hop online to play with some friends. 
  
  All in all I have to say this is a great game and a solid first outing for Iron Lore. 
  
  Play 
 System:
  
  AMD 64 X2 4400+ 
  4 Gigs of OCZ Platinum memory
  2x Nvidia Gforce 7800GTX's in sli
  
  FPS steady 60 with drops to 25 or so for unknown reasons.
 
  1280x1024
  All settings on High 
  Vsync ON (prevents random horrizontal lines going up and down the screen and the FPS doesn't need 
 to be over 60, this isn't an FPS)
  AA OFF - As is doesn't seem to make a noticable differance other than droping the fps. 
  Nvidia 
 control pannel on High Quality.
  
  FPS figured out using FRAPS
  
  -Tyler 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawgutts
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  I just have to say WOW, this is an impressive-looking kick butt mind blowing great game. Graphics, 
 as we all know, dont make a game, but the graphical quality is just amazing to see in action. 
 There is some camera issues I have, like rotation of the camera that is driving me nuts, but I 
 can live with that. The sound is what sucks you into the game , I love the music and the special 
 effects sounds are awsome.
  
  I'm glad to be back into the rp world! It's worth the cash. Can't wait to play with you guys online... 
 That's after I finish the single player :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakretmac
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is an 3D Diablo with all those blessings that keeps you playing hundreds of hours killing 
 more and more opponents, walking alone a great world and become hero from zero.
  Grass is moving while you pass throug it, lights - best effects ever in this kind of games, you 
 have to see it yourselves because you may not believe me. Music keeps you in trance, greece, roman, 
 egipt, all ancient world become alive. 
  Do you love to kill hordes od monsters? You got it here a lot and they all are came from ancient 
 manuscripts and stories and they want to kill you and everything in their path.
  Nothing more to say, if you ever had played at Diablo or Diablo 2 you have to play an Titan Quest! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: models
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  Gamplay:
  
  Diablo 2 style! It's no secret this is an action rpg with specific gameplay elements in mind... 
 
  -TownPortals
  -PVM
  -Skills - there are very specific referances; for example, the warrior 
  class has a skill called 
 "WarWind" which is basically . "WorldWind"
  -Patch system
  ---------------------------------------------
  Graphics:
  Wow! Highly scalable, looks amazing 
 even on medium settings. (I run it on high)
  ---------------------------------------------
  Value:
  -played 20+ hours made 2 chars (both Conquerers)
  -highly modible!
  -Very good Story
 
  ---------------------------------------------
  Bugs:
  The reson this game is not perfect:
  -Some people with high end systems have problems
  -Some 
 times entering town can lead to some crashes
  (however me and my bro did lan for around 5 hours straight without any "hicups")
  ---------------------------------------------
 
  Conclusion:
  
  YOU HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE BUT TIME ON THIS AMAZING GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundsODD454
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is a mythological point and click style RPG from Iron Lore Studios. It appears that 
 the Titans, parents of the Olympian gods, have broken loose and are uncorking an ass-whipping throughout 
 the ancient world. You, the lonely hero (or heroine) are the only mortal that can stop them.
  
  Titan Quest plays just like the legendary Diablo games. You click to move, attack, click, click, 
 click, all the live long day. There is an absolutely staggering amount of armor and weaponry to 
 choose from, and the ability to choose not one but two combat masteries make Titan Quest a very 
 deep and replayable game. A lot of people have criticized Titan Quest for being too simple, a throwback 
 to the old Diablo games. But, Diablo was one of the best RPG's ever made. Isn't being mentioned 
 in the same breath as Diablo a good thing? I sure think so. Titan Quest brought back all the awesome 
 parts about Diablo, and threw in some good old fashioned mythological flavor, which I think does 
 a lot to ensure Titan Quest's originality, even if it is a whole bunch like Diablo.
  
  Titan Quest's graphics are a wonder to behold. I recommend everybody pick a spellcasting mastery, 
 just to see the awesome spell effects. The game world is intricately detailed, and you'll cover 
 a crapload of ground before you realize that you almost never see a loading screen. That, my friends, 
 is good environmental planning on behalf of Iron Lore.
  
  The sound is okay, the voice acting is a little ham-fisted, and the music is your standard RPG 
 fare, but it does the job, I guess.
  
  All in all, Titan Quest is one of those rare Diablo clones that actually manages to improve on 
 it's successor. It points, it clicks, it sure is pretty, and it's just fun to play. And in the 
 end, isn't that what makes a game great? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbill712
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  It is a fond memory to think about playing Diablo. I had recently purchased one of the most expensive 
 things in my young life (a Compaq) , and low and behold they come out with one of the best games 
 ever. Well I can say that after playing the demo of Titan Quest and having played the full version 
 for 2 days now, I can honestly say that I think I will love it as much as I did Diablo. No there 
 is nothing revolutionary about this game, but it sure does live up to the hype. If you are looking 
 for something that will change the way you think about games, play them, or any other earth shattering 
 revelations, then look else where. If you want a good fun hack and slash game that is a good looking 
 as any super model, then this is the game for you. That being said, this game has some of the same 
 problems as super models... improper storage and the tendency to belch things up once in a while. 
 Anyhow, get past the inventory and bulimia and we have a fine little game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaStOfThE
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  A Diablo clone with updated graphics. 
  Gameplay, C. D., even the shrines and sets are here. No more, no less. It looks good, but that's 
 not the point. Graphics scalability nears zero.
  You got a zoom option that is useless in the game. Because the map can't be scrolled, you have 
 tomove the character in order to see further. With a littlle zoom in you'll soon wonder who's shooting 
 at you...
  Sound is amongst the "weakest" I saw lately. Not even EAX support...
  
  Long story short, if you want toplay Diablo 2 with a 3D feel and some updated mechanics and a different 
 settings, this is for you. If not, stick to Oblivion ar another RPG.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arguyle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Finaly, a game that reminds you the good old time of a fun, yet simple and innovative, RPG hack'n'slash 
 game. Titan Quest is simply the best hack'n'slash/RPG game. 
  
  Gameplay: This is where everything looks familiar. Weapons, items, potions, skills, monsters, unique 
 items/monsters, quest, portals, etc... THQ did a great job doing the class/skills grid. You will 
 want to play this game more than one time, with more than one character. There is also some new 
 skills that you've never seen before. And, Greek mythology is really more fun than hell mythology 
 (like Diablo 2) . There is every ingredients to make a real nice H'n'S/RPG game. Everything works 
 well, and no new innovative features (such as skills system) will make the game less fun. The skill 
 system is particularly one of the features that will make you an addict of this game! :P I tell 
 you! Great multiplayer for those who to play with group of friends. Great co-op!! It's important 
 to balance well the group because monster are getting much tougher for each added player. Don't 
 expect that 4 mages will do the job (unless you have so much cash for potions) . You need tanks, 
 healer, rangers, mages... etc.. 
  
  Graphics: It's simple, those are the best graphics so far for this genre. So much animations, lots 
 of details, the good balance between high grounds and lower grounds makes it more impressive. And 
 shadows are just perfect (need a good computer though) .
  
  Sound: Great soundtrack that puts you in the mood of the greek mythology. Little sound effect problem, 
 seems like it bugs sometime... but this, honestly, doesn't matter since everything else is perfect.
 
  
  Value: As I said before, the skill system will make you play this game for dozens and dozens of 
 hours. There is much to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is a hack-and-slash treasure hunt set in ancient times. Your hero starts out a pathetic 
 weakling, and as you dispose countless throngs of foes, you acquire precious gear and master increasingly 
 powerful abilities. Here is breakdown that may help you reach your decision...
  
  Gameplay
  
  Click-click-click. Titan Quest can be played with one hand on the mouse, and one 
 hand lifting your favorite beverage. An occasional keyboard key is needed for revealing the drops, 
 spellcasting, holding a range fighter still, etc. It is a very simple and accessible control system.
 
  
  The animation, sound, and sense of control are improved in the retail version over the demo (at 
 least on my setup) . I had experienced mouse lag and noticed some sync issues that have seemingly 
 been fixed, and I am very pleased with the feel and flow of the battles. The ragdoll physics which 
 at first seemed out of place now feel like a true enhancement. Whack a beast, and you feel the 
 power of your blow as it flies across the land, comic-book style. Titan Quest is very satisfying 
 in that regard.
  
  Graphics
  
  Titan Quest is exquisitely detailed, particularly for an overhead perspective game. It definately 
 feels next-gen in the graphical sense as obstructions fade beautifully when you've travelled behind 
 them. The models are wonderfully crafted, particularly at the zoom level which suits the gameplay 
 best, and minute details provide an engrossing environment in which to thrash the many enemies.
 
  
  I have not had one single slowdown as some others have experienced. There's been no stuttering, 
 draw-in, mouse lag, or any other technical problems that have detracted from the gameplay. I get 
 some tearing, but it isn't a significant distraction, and I could enable V-sync if it was.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is good quality. The grunts during battle are particularly important 
 in a hack-and-slash game. Titan Quest grunts are fair to good, but not outstanding. The score is 
 good, and the voice work is very good (save the "your inventory is full" guy, he is not good) .
 
  
  Value
  
  I played several hours last night, and haven't made it 1/3 of the way through the first of three 
 campaigns. A single run through Titan Quest will likely provide over 40 hours of enjoyment. Two 
 more difficulty levels offer extended gameplay.
  
  Titan Quest lacks randomized areas, and this has drawn ire to the hordes of D2 faithful, including 
 myself. After I'd settled into playing Titan Quest a while, and started a second character, I found 
 it didn't detract as much as I'd thought it would. After all, my favorite D2 areas were NOT randomized. 
 For all the "Bloody Runs" I'd completed in D2, I should've known this already.
  
  Tilt
  
  I am having fun playing this game. The last game I played was Oblivion. I spent many hours 
 playing that game, but found myself thinking it was taking many hours for me to walk my hero around 
 the town. In the end, it just wasn't all that fun for me. Titan Quest has delivered visceral action 
 where it was sorely needed - the hack-and-slash genre.
  
  Demo
  
  When I played the demo I was disappointed. I had some mouse lag and sync problems, and I felt the 
 pace was slow. In the release title, the pace begins slow, but quickens. The more I played the 
 full game last night, the more I wanted to continue playing. That is a sure sign of a good game, 
 folks. I can't wait to play tonight. For a character builder like Titan Quest, perhaps the demo 
 should've started at mid-level, so the game's content could be truly appreciated. I believe the 
 demo was a misstep, and the release title is poorly represented by it.
  
  Multiplayer and Cheating
  
  The multiplayer browser is a Gamespy browser much like you'd expect 
 to see on a FPS. I think it may be difficult to join good coop games unless you find some like-minded/skilled 
 gamers on a good forum. The servers are open, so there will be cheaters. Player vs. Player is not 
 part of the game, and one hopes cheating will be less prevalent because of it. I expect many will 
 cheat, download "trainers" that suck the fun right out of the game, and spoil the fun of others. 
 I strongly advise against doing this, because much of the fun is found in finding great items (not 
 to mention executing untrusted applications is a great way to support Trojans) . That said, even 
 games with strong anti-cheating measures face farmers and people willing to pay real-world dollars 
 to enhance their character. It's madness that we can't even enjoy our fun without a race to the 
 finish.
  
  Summary
  
  Titan Quest is a fine game. I am recommending this game to all I know who enjoy gratuitous monster 
 slaying. While some can't get over that it isn't Diablo 3, I submit it is an excellent title all 
 its own, and worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game tries to do several things correctly, but again a game is only as good as its online 
 community. Unfortunately, TitanQuest does not have server side character storage or controls on 
 rampant cheating in multiplayer, as such characters are emergin with level 20 weapons already and 
 gaining 5-7 levels by following higher level people around.
  
  Add to this the fact that you can start your own LAN game and cheat even further give this game 
 limited community value and doom it before it has a chance to get off the ground.
  
  While the game tries to do the things that Diablo II did, the unprepared developers are about to 
 get hit with a mass of hacks and players using "pets" to dominate the game with unbalanced class 
 specs. That leaves us with a single player game that grows dull fast thanks to slow pacing. Not 
 to mention the randomness is no where on the level of Diablo Ii or Sacred Plus and you are stuck 
 with a game that will need a LOT of patching to win more fans over.
  
  Be wary of what you are getting into. Also be wary of the multiplayer as 1-2 hours of it will find 
 you maxed out and spoiling all secrets of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shpritz3
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  I started to play this game today, and i recommend this game for those who are waiting for Diablo 
 3 or something like that...
  Until there will be Diab 3, play this game, and i'll promise u all that it's worth it!
  It's 
 been a while since i played a game like this, but steel, there is something missing in this game 
 that doesnt make it perfect!
  poor Graphics, maybe thats the reason!! (sorry, for some 1 who has 1900XT i excpect that the graphics 
 will be at least good...)
  
  the missions are not so hard to finish, and there are many monsters to fight with, so it's not 
 getting boring during the gamplay =] ... and also the skills that U can achive are various, but still, 
 very samelier to those in the same janer.
  
  Have fun!
  MBM@N 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zethcarn22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  I felt this game captilized on the good points of Diablo 2 and made them better. The class system 
 is well done and interesting and you don't feel like you are forced to take one route. For example 
 as a Pyromancer you can choose to be a pure caster or a warrior with offensive casting support. 
 Only downfall to me is it's slightly sluggish on my average system but it's still very fun and 
 addictive. 
  
  Unlike Sacred, the killing doesn't feel tedious and overwhelming but there's just enough monsters 
 to utilize all of your area of effect abilities constantly. I found it humorous to lob a fireball 
 into 8 skeletal archers and killing them all in one shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scruto
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest takes place in ancient times, giving players the opportunity to explore some of the 
 wonders of the world: The Gardens of Babylon, pyramids etc... with a total gameplay of 30-40 hours 
 in three difficult level modes: Normal, Epic and Legendary.
  The graphics is completely 3D and the game offers a new approach style. Unlike other RPGs, here 
 there are no predefined classes (rogue, warrior, wizard) and the player will be able to define 
 his character as he wishes using the experience gained along the game, and he will choose what 
 types of attacks are more interesting and improve those.
  This system will allow the player to build his character as he sees fit and this will make the 
 multiplayer much more interesting since there wont be two characters with similar skills.
  Enjoy ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaporthug
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Since I am happy its so much like Diablo, and it runs so great on my Mac, Im giving it a strong 
 9.
  I played the demo for weeks without a problem, so I am happy to be the first to get it at my local 
 Best Buy ( it was still in the back) . They gave me a cool scroll for my wall too ( Oh JOY LOL) . 
 I know it is a little early to review, and I am tilting the review up a little for the people that 
 scored it low based on performance, reliability, and the fact they dont like it reminding them 
 of Diablo 2, becuase it is running fast and reliably for me, and as I mentioned, I love (d) Diablo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htorne
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is near a perfect clone of Diablo 2, I do wish that the developers will expand this great 
 game with something like Blizzards Battle Net system, where players can chat and form games, if 
 this happens the game will become a "evergreen". The skill system is unparelled to anything in 
 this genere. 
  
  The Grapics are close to perfect, yet I recomend that you have a high end computer for a maximum 
 game experience. I do belive this game to be around for at least 2 more years, and if Ironlore 
 puts out an expansion this will futher increase the value of this game. 
  
  The bottom line. This game is great value for your money. Say goodbye to familiy and loved ones, 
 sell your pet, quit your job cause you have a world to save. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the simplicity and adventures of action RPGs (when well done) are such a good way to blow off 
 some steam especially for those who may not be trigger happy FPS jockies. This is a genre that 
 even though its been done before is hardly over populated. The last few action RPGs in the last 
 two years that have been worth their salt have been Sacred and arguably Dungeon Siege 2. Compared 
 to the over abundance of FPS and RTS games out their the Action RPG shelf is practically bare.
 
  
  First, I am really pleased that Greek and Roman mythology is getting some attention again with 
 games like this and Gods and Heroes. Granted, it probably is because God of War on the PS2 did 
 so well but lets not get picky. 
  
  You start off by picking if your avatar is either male or female and what color their tunic should 
 be. Okay, character creation is not so deep but for those who cannot ever make up their minds its 
 custom built for you. You start off the game with a surprisingly similar look and feel to the original 
 beginning of Dungeon Siege. There really is not much town folk to get in your way of the fighting 
 by talking your ear off. You pretty much get right in there and start mixing it up. Right away 
 you will notice that their are a lot of loot drops (some l33t and some not so much) . Soon after 
 you realize though you dont have much room to carry all your bounty. This is a big problem that 
 better get patched soon because if you are like me and want to take items to sell them for some 
 extra bling you will find yourself making lots of trips back and forth to the merchant. However, 
 it does compensate by giving you some decent gold drops and other loot that if you don't become 
 a traveling merchant you won't be starving.
  
  Graphics are very very pretty and a welcome change for those tired of looking at the pixelated 
 bodies in Diablo. The terrain is well detailed and grass sways. Enemies are nice and varied. I 
 noticed that even on my more than decent rig (AMD FX51, 1gb RAM, ATI x800XT, SB Audigy 2) there 
 is some stuttering both in graphics and sound but its brief and hopefully will be fixed in a patch 
 soon as well. Voice acting is decent enough to not make you laugh.
  
  The Multiplayer is got a decent amount of players and is very well implemented but I have not dived 
 into it too deep yet.
  
  Overall, if you like hack and slash games there should not be any reason this should turn you off. 
 Its not an evolution of the genre but what it does it does well. Make sure though you try the demo 
 though to give it a spin to make sure you like it drives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me say that when people in these player reviews say things like "Is it a Diablo 
 II killer, it possibly could be." Please remember that Diablo II doesn't need to be killed. It's 
 already died of old age. t
  
  I do not think that this is a bad game. Any fair review cannot claim that is the case, or give 
 this game a terrible score. It is a decent hack and slash in the Diablo mold set in an interesting 
 time, with a satisfactory initial premise. However, I find that with maturity, comes an understanding 
 of the mechnics of a game found beneath the gloss; Titan quest is found repetitive and wanting 
 by this gamer. Some games demand imitation to one degree or another, and often this is a good thing. 
 One game of a truly good genre is RARELY enough to satisfy all the viable permutations of a theme 
 which a gamer desires, and frankly most people like to play the same mechanic from many angles. 
 
  
  So when is enough ENOUGH? When does a gamer mature to the point where they realize that a game 
 is 1 hour of flash followed by hours of hitting the same 3 or 4 buttons? I don't claim to know, 
 but I believe that Titan Quest DOES fall into that hole. I just look at this game and wish that 
 it was from a tighter 3rd person perspective, with combos and... oh wait, I wish it were God of 
 War. As for the top down hack 'n slash: it has been done to DEATH. Truly to the point where no 
 title in this genre can attract me without fundamental and lengthy revolutions in the FUNDAMENTAL 
 GAME MECHANICS. I don't care if it's a longbow, a crossbow, a pistol, a laser, or a fireball as 
 long as it's the same game underneath and I still hit the same keys the same way. 
  
  Yes, I loved Diablo I and II, and I wanted more after. Yes, I loved warcraft and Doom, and other 
 games which fostered genres. I wanted their sequels and imitators!! I wept with rage and sorrow 
 when Daikatna failed, and I gobbled up Dragon Quest VIII... so I don't demand a revolution every 
 time a game is made. However, a game needs to either fill and EMPTY or wanting niche, be amazing 
 in some way (Who wouldn't love a Diablo II, fully voiced, souped up graphics, 4x the items, spells, 
 weapons etc, and a COMPELLING STORY?) or otherwise raising the bar. Titan quest is just a reskinned 
 Diablo, or Baldurs Gate. Period. It changes nothing which is not superficial and it does not draw 
 you in PAST it's simple gameplay. It fails in that it is trying to fill a niche which has been 
 gorged like few others. I will say this to developers: enough. Move on guys. If you do not have 
 the vision or skill to make a God of War, Prey, Far Cry, Xenosaga (not new gameplay, but a story 
 for anime fans, it can be that simple!) , Onimusha, Civilization (or even pirates for god's sake) ... 
 then move on to some other genre. How about more FPS RPGS of Oblivion's quality? Or a Hexen that 
 ACTUALLY WORKS and has real rpg elements, and dozens more weapons and spells? With a modern engine? 
 
  
  The bottom line is a fine thing to watch, and THQ and Iron Lore do this admirably with Titan Quest, 
 but they fail to look ahead and realize that this bottom feedling Least Common Denominator approach 
 to develpment is VERY destructive to the industry. Please people, give us something more. Turn 
 your talented developers (and I believe the talent is there) towards longer, more ambitious projects. 
 Make something new, or just make REAL improvements on somethin old! Or... stop making games. Maybe 
 this isn't what you should be doing with your life.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnsaldana
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game ferom the simplicity of the beggining .. i am tired of game you have to spend 
 2 hours learning, just to realize that the GUI is not what you expected. 
  
  I found out about the game from a friend of mine about a week ago. 
  
  Upon trying it I'm hooked. 
 The game play is great, the graphics are beautiful, the skill system will be very interesting. 
 
  
  I love the rag doll physics, how items explode from chests/get dropped and how monsters get hurled 
 back when you pwn them. I especialy like how creatures only drop items that are relavent to what 
 they are eg, feathers from birds & staffs from mages. I love just how many items they drop, true 
 most of them are crap, but thats how it should be after a battle the field littered with corpses 
 and armour. 
  
  I like the interface as a whole, it reminds me of wow somewhat and I only have two annoyances so 
 far. 
  
  * the character screen obscures your character & prevents you from doing anything, same with the 
 inventory. 
  * you can't move, navigate, kill things or navigate on the map while it is up. 
  
  Is it a 
 Diablo II killer, it possibly could be. Either way I'm willing to to buy it to find out. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Remmonsters just to get those 3 Prime evils? Well I do and aberrantly so do the People at Ironforge 
 This game  how should I put it I know DIABLO 2. Same combat stile, same buttons, even the two 
 weapon sets that can be equipped. But it does have a lot of other interesting things For example 
 its skill development system. Here we begin with a normal Human and we can chose his future: warrior, 
 mage, ranger, rogue etc At least that is the beginning Next I find out that every 8 levels you 
 get to chose a new classSo you can Mix things up to truly create an unique character . I havent 
 played multiplayer yet, but being able to play in multiplayer with your single player character 
 is a great plus and will definitely make PVP great battles.
  The story not so original but very captivating Zeus got cocky and Titans escaped World under 
 Siege go you!! Not so special is it? But visiting the legendary Oracle of Delphi, visiting Athens 
 in old Greece, killing Medusa (and hopefully other titans the game takes a lot of time) makes 
 it very addictive. The Diablo hack and slash game-play is exactly the same HACK AND SLASH kill 
 everything that moves
  Quests when it comes to quests Sacred remains the only hack-&-slash with a decent number of quests. 
 Diablo had 6 quests per act Well this game has one mane quest and a number of side quests pretty 
 satisfying until now (its no Sacred) , and I might have missed a few.
  My advice: play the game Its a great game yes it stole a lot of ideas from Diablo, but its 
 the only decent game to come out in recent years. So play it I liked it a lot! Hope you will to.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natael
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  There's no denying that hack/slash games are addictive. That's probably what made MMORPG's successful 
 these days; running around in all directions, hitting some monsters, and watch your statistics 
 grow as your only reward for all that work...
  
  But enough is enough, already. We get it. 
  
  You developpers create a Diablo, one after the 
 other, thinking it'll sell big because it's very addictive for the average teenage gamer. Think 
 again, because some of us aren't so easily lured into the trap. This game's systematic, robotic 
 gameplay is just a lifeless husk. Plus, it already has been done and mastered by a single title: 
 Diablo 2, the game that started my love for Action RPG's and ended it. Nobody can prove me otherwise: 
 Titan Quest hasn't surpassed it when it comes to gameplay features. I don't even have to mention 
 that this was already done *years* ago. 
  
  Titan Quest is just another one of those soon-to-be forgotten hack/slash games, brought to life 
 only by the mysterious addiction gamers (the majority of them... the uncritical ones) have for 
 this tired genre and denying that addiction is, in fact, an irrational thing that has no place 
 in the gaming market, since it relies on the principle that the weak must go in other to make place 
 for the strong...
  
  And if a game is too weak that it has to ultimately incorporate something *addictive* to entice 
 the unfortunate gamer to keep playing, then it has NO PLACE to be called a "great game". Its only 
 competitors, I think, should only be the ones that are in the same boat as it is (i. e: Diablo) . 
 
  
  With that said, I say Titan Quest is far from be able to be classified to being a "good game". 
 Oh, and it hasn't surpassed Diablo 2, either... which I consider the flagship of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshJ13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  wrong rating from gamespot, should be at least a 8.5!
  
  ok it is familiar in terms of gameplay, let's think of Diablo, but why change something that works? 
 plus it's not ENTIRELY familiar, the game's content is amazing.. playing in ancient worlds is so 
 cool and all is so well put up by the developers, a rating of 7.6 is way too cruel just for resemblance..
 
  
  anyways, I'd recommend TQ to any PC gamer out there.. the game's fun with so many weapons and skills 
 and mythical creatures to fight against, plus it is a lengthy effort and should not be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slacker4life77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  This game may be like others, but its been 3-4 years since a game like this has been this good. 
 The last game i can rememeber being this good was the original dungeon siege. This game is very 
 run, has few bugs, will last many hours, and looks great, even on my laptop. The way the game is 
 meant to be played is very good id say almsot unique, it can be 3rd person or almost birds eye 
 veiw but it melds together very nicely. This game may have familiar playing methods, but it has 
 enough freshness to make it wonderful. Since we have seen games somewhat like this it should easy 
 to jump right in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylethebold88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that Titan Quest has been a game I have been looking forward to for a long 
 time. My hopes were set very highly for this game, and I was all but disappointed.
  
  The point of the game is to defeat the Titans, who have broke free after being imprisoned by the 
 Greek gods. They are causing havoc throughout the lands and must be stopped. However, there are 
 many sidequests you may do to help various people out and get rewarded. I thought that the story 
 was great. NPCs teach you about many things like mythology and the quests you may be on. Players 
 who may not be familiar with the history of mythology are aided by this feature.
  
  The game is rich with ancient Greek, Egyptian, and Chinese mythology and starts you off immediately 
 after a brief character creation period. You are not able to choose a mastery right when you enter 
 the game, instead you have time to get familiar with the game and learn the ropes. After you level, 
 you may choose your first mastery. You may choose from Nature, Earth, Storm, Warfare, Spirit, Hunter, 
 and Rogue. A little bit later in the game you may choose a second mastery. This allows the player 
 to create unique builds. Whether you enjoy melee, casting, leeching, summoning, using pets, draining 
 and poisoning, tanking, or ranged warfare, there is a combination of masteries perfect for you. 
 Also, with each mastery there are 20 skills which you unlock and level up. With each level you 
 gain 3 skill points to do so, and with a level cap of 65, you can greatly improve your character's 
 efficiency.
  
  One of the best aspects of Titan Quest is the item system. There are thousands of different items 
 ranging from common, to rare, to epic, and finally legendary. Relics can be found and applied to 
 other items such as armor or weaponry. A relic can aid your item by adding things such as increased 
 damage, increased attack speed, a chance to retaliate to enemies' attacks, and much much more. 
 In addition, once a relic is completed you get a bonus which improves the item you applied the 
 relic to even more.
  
  Combat in this game is fantastic, some battles are easy and you can one hit kill many of the enemies. 
 The real excitement comes from the epic battles which can take very long amounts of time. These 
 battles will have you struggling to survive as you use your skills and potions to survive and deal 
 damage. A unique feature is the portal system. A portal can be created with the press of a button 
 which allows the player to travel to portals in other towns or to other players' portals. This 
 allows you to teleport to a town, buy or sell some items to aid in your battles, and then simply 
 teleport back to the location where you created the portal. Although there is no gore in this game, 
 the rag doll physics more than make up for it. It is extremely satisfying to see your enemy's dead 
 body fly into the air and crash into the ground after you nail him with your most powerful attack. 
 Sometimes it is even humorous to see the carnage you caused. Combat is a huge plus in this game.
 
  
  The part of the game I enjoyed most was the multiplayer. My friend and I played together all day 
 and had a blast. Your character is the same for both single and multiplayer. This way, you can 
 play singleplayer for a bit, join your friend (s) in some MP, then go back to singleplayer. Your 
 quests, items, experience and basically everything else cross back and forth between SP and MP. 
 The difficulty level is adjusted as you add more people to the game so it doesn't become too easy 
 with more people. Having your bud there to play with and create a team that works well together 
 is huge for me, and this game delivers on that front. However, the servers online are open servers 
 and the client data isn't stored on servers but on the players' computers. I can envision the rise 
 many hackers and cheaters on public servers. This isn't the developers fault though, it is the 
 fault of the individuals who engage in these activities. You are able to create passworded servers 
 to play with people you meet online or your friends who have the game.
  
  Graphically, this game is beautiful. Everything looks great and the shadows are very realistic, 
 the items are detailed, and the character models are fantastic. The game also sounds awesome. I 
 crank the volume and it really adds to the immersiveness of the game. The ambience and the sounds 
 that spells make allow the player to feel as if he/she were really there. 
  
  All and all Titan Quest is one of the best games I have played all year (and that's a lot, check 
 my Xfire profile) . It is truly a masterpiece and I feel like I have barely scratched it's surface 
 in this review. It's story, gameplay, and immersiveness all provide an experience more than worthy 
 of any gamer's time, and with three difficulty levels, there is a ton of time to spend playing. 
 I encourage all of you to buy this game and support Iron Lore so they can keep making games like 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  First of all the graphics are super the only thing that i don't like in the graphics are the shadows 
 of the trees but you can get over it. I love top down RPG there are many many items to chose from 
 and armours and shields and the fact that is made in ancient Greece and Egypt is amazing. The game 
 can get hard sometimes i fought against a big cyclops and i had to go to a town with a town portal 
 to get some potions or else i would be crushed. But the game is great and overall the game is cool 
 to the end and i think that any RPG fans or not could play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the best RPG games to come out lately, the graphics are great and the 
 gameplay is even better. There are just so many things that you can modify about the character 
 plus there's a whole lot to explore on the map, the voice overs are done quite nice too. The whole 
 mastery concept reminds me of guild wars and that worked quite well, you can really make a ton 
 of different combinations with classes and skills. And if you have trouble finding the nice equipment 
 between all of the dropped items you can always press the Z key and all the dropped items are shown 
 and with the color rank so that you easily see which items are worth it to be picked up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  this game satisfies most of people who are desperately waiting for diablo III , I give you that............ but 
 about gamestop review I am very sorry they must reconsider their opinions..... diablo and diablo 
 II and the expantion pack were greatest rpg game in history after they stupidly discontinued the 
 series ( because the development team was departed ) many prople were looking for a game to replace 
 . I can say this is the best replacement for the game. what I can add is the ideas of the aincent 
 creatures quests is great so the gameplay is very good , and last but not the least I have heard 
 some very good news about diablo III on the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anubhav92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  i think this game is really good. it is clearly not a game that should get a 7.6
  the game is really fun and very good graphiced for a RPG. u get to go to alot of places n there 
 r alot of monsters in the game. its online too so if i was a RPG fan out there i would get this 
 game right now. if u dont have a computer, get GOD OF WAR NOW!!!, the best PS2 game out there. 
 but make sure u r older 17 cause. just make sure. then when u done playin that (which u never will 
 be) get ready to buy GOD OF WAR 2 in early 2007.
  so everyone listen to my review n buy TITAN QUEST... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fratinside
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The controls in Titan Quest are quite easy to learn they're a bit like the controls in Diablo. 
 For a game in it's class it has great graphics and pretty good audio but some of the characters 
 voices can be annoying to listen too. The gameplay is great you can talk to other characters, buy 
 objects, kill stuff, and kill some more stuff. You can play it over and over again and you most 
 likely won't get tried of it unless you're not a fan of the genre. All in all I give Titan Quest 
 a well earned 9.3 This is my first review so sorry if it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I've always wanted a game like this and now here it is and I absolutely love it. Almost everything 
 about this game is great.
  
  For starters the landscapes are quite beautiful especially coastal regions and character models 
 are pretty detailed and the only thing I can criticize about the graphics is that even on all high 
 settings the shadows of some things come in a little funky.
  
  The biggest hint of what the story is about will be in the cinematic so don't worry if you don't 
 get the story in your first few hours of play. Once you do start playing, even if you don't know 
 the story, you are hooked from the very first creature you kill.
  
  There is some sound issues but nothing that takes away from the game.
  
  The initial character 
 creation is rather generic and may feel half baked at first but as you play on you'll see how the 
 game wasn't focused on having a pre-determined class for your character. The skill system for each 
 "class" is rather deep too.
  
  Overall Titan Quest is a great game that is definitely worth picking up whether you're a hardened 
 D2 veteran or new to the sub-genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigaxel123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  In the wake of Diablo, Iron Lore has really taken the essence of what made games like Diablo 1 
 and 2 so fun to play and combined it with a really unique premise that was almost born to be interwoven 
 into this style of game.
  
  Iron Lore is made up of some really veteran game developers which shows as the game performs really 
 well on any type of PC. While PC's tailored too gaming will be able to turn on all the graphics, 
 less powerful PC's will be able to run the game as well. It really scales well depending on the 
 system.
  
  There are some really interesting designs from both the character development and loot table that 
 really make for an interesting game. I like the concept that I can get a really great weapon early 
 in the game because quite frankly; Who wants to wait till the end of the game to have some good 
 loot?
  
  Because the game is so well-rounded in every aspect I won't go into any major details other than 
 that on the whole, it's fast, fun and really a breath of fresh air. To anyone who enjoyed Diablo 
 1 and 2, Sacred, or any other Action/RPG this game really lives up. Quite frankly, with 40 hours 
 of gameplay in the single player campaign, and the amount of customization possible, this game 
 is fantastic. Multiplayer is really well put together as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wh87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  this game is a very good diablo-like game, it combines stuff from diablo 1, 2 and add new stuff 
 too, it's graphic style is different from diablo, but the game play is as good if not better, and 
 the game seems to be somewhat more of a challenge than diablo.. the storyline seems to be well 
 made of what i have seen until now, and the game will surely be as addictive as diablo was and 
 maybe still is.
  Grahpics are very nice and need a good graphic card to play without lag, but for those who can 
 play it perfectly, you will notice how nice the graphics are, i have played the game for about 
 4 hours straight, and i already like the game too much. I would recommend it to any diablo fans 
 out there, you will see what i mean when you try it, the only huge difference is the graphic style
 
  (and ofcourse new skills system) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  I saw a clip of this for e3 `05 and it looked pretty interesting. Titan Quest is a Diablo/Dungeon 
 Siege style rpg but with a lot more action. Ive only played for a few hours and im liking the game 
 more and more. Game play is pretty simple, action is always numorous, wide veriety of items, always 
 quests to be found, and a decent story line. There isnt specific character classes you choose from 
 the start, its how you play the game that defines your class. Only down fall ive come across so 
 far is the small inventory. If you're a fan of the genre I definatly suggest you pick this game 
 up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
