-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Titanic: Adventure out of Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/titanicadventureoutoftime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.0, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 322 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GTE Entertainment
Developer: Cyberflix/GTE Ent.
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Is Titanic a good game? Yes and no. 

 On April 15, 1912, the H. M. S Titanic sank in the frigid waters of the North Atlantic, taking 1,503 
 passengers with her and leaving behind a legend. There have been worse nautical disasters, yet 
 none holds the same fascination. Maybe it's because at the time the Titanic disaster was seen as 
 one of the failures of technology and industry in a world still coming to terms with the industrial 
 revolution. Many viewed it as divine retribution, since Captain E. G. Smith had claimed, "God himself 
 could not sink this ship." Many are still puzzled about why she sank so fast, why there weren't 
 enough lifeboats, and how the ship failed to see the fatal iceberg. What people remember most of 
 all, though, are the individual stories of heroism and human tragedy: Captain Smith returning to 
 the bridge of his sinking ship after seeing the women and children to safety, the band continuing 
 the play, men saying goodbye to their wives and children and returning to the grand salon to die 
 with dignity.  

 CyberFlix has managed to capture a small piece of this dramatic and oft-told tale in Titanic: Adventure 
 out of Time. They haven't wholly succeeded, but they have created a title that is certainly interesting 
 and often well-crafted. You can buy Titanic either as an adventure game or as a virtual recreation 
 of the ship itself. In the former, CyberFlix sometimes falls flat, but in the latter they have 
 accomplished something quite remarkable.  

 Titanic the adventure game begins with you in a small apartment in England at the beginning of the 
 Blitz. You walk around for a few minutes, reading your mail and filling in the pieces of your character's 
 past as an agent dismissed from the British Secret Service for his failure in a mission on the 
 Titanic. Sent aboard the ship to trail a possible German agent in the years before World War I, 
 your character, it's implied, may have been responsible not only for that war, but for the one 
 that England, and the rest of the world, is set to enter in 1939.  

 As you contemplate the postcards and notes that tell this story, a German bomb explodes outside 
 your window. Somehow, you are propelled back in time, waking in your cabin on the Titanic just 
 as she sets sail. You have been given a chance to go back in time and successfully complete your 
 mission once again.  

 Navigation through the game is fairly simple: the keys are your feet, and the mouse your hands. 
 The view is a high-res SVGA window on the Titanic itself, and you can walk almost anywhere in the 
 ship, talk to people, and interact with objects by clicking on them. This is a fully realized, 
 fairly dynamic environment, though more of it should have been implemented (for instance, I saw 
 the same guy walking the same hallway over and over again) . Still, what has been done helps really 
 bring the ship to life: You can inspect the china, walk the deck, and see people come and go. without 
 even playing the game portion, and many Titanic buffs may want to pick it up for that purpose alone. 

 But that's not the real purpose: the adventure game is. And it's here that CyberFlix runs into problems 
 from their past titles, most notably Dust. Their Dream Factory tool set allows the developers to 
 create environments and populate them with "people" that are in effect digital sock puppets. Using 
 a sequence of still photos of actors, they overlay expressions and mouth movements Clutch Cargo-like. 
 (What game reviewers would do without the venerable Clutch as an insult I shudder to think.) The 
 effect is... ineffective. Characters' heads twitch and grimace and talk at you like demented animatrons 
 from the Hall of Presidents at Disney. The system allows writers to create and refine character 
 dialog better than if they just shot and digitized video, which makes for more interactive exchanges. 
 But visually it just doesn't work.  

 This is a pretty big problem, since a lot of game time and play is based around lengthy (veeeeery 
 lengthy) dialogs with characters. There are a couple dozen characters to talk to, and they will 
 give you clues, help with your mission, and send you spinning into all sorts of subplots, from 
 the Irish maid and her illegitimate baby to the bad steel that may be in the Titanic. Social climbers, 
 bon vivants, third class characters, aristocracy, businessmen, and other spies abound, and there 
 is plenty to learn. I enjoyed exploring despite the twitching, talking heads, but after a time 
 the protracted dialog sequences became tiresome. As interesting as some of these quirky characters 
 can be, I simply got sick of hearing them yatter on.  

 Aside from talking to people, there are also objects to pick up and use to help solve puzzles and 
 advance the story. For the traditional adventure gamer, there is not nearly enough of this, however, 
 and the inventory management system makes what there is somewhat cumbersome. You'll find yourself 
 running around the ship on a long list of errands and subplots, but most involve dialog sequences, 
 not real puzzle solving. (Thankfully, you can hop from place to place using a map.)  

 Once you get through all these plots, you come to the actual point where the ship hits the iceberg. 
 From then to the end of the game, you are racing against the clock to perform a number of tasks 
 before the ship sinks, or your mission will fail. This part of the game can be a bit frustrating. 
 I normally don't care for time limits in adventure games (they're just an artificial attempt to 
 lengthen play time while you go through the sequence time and again) , but it works okay here and 
 fits nicely with the story. After all, if the ship were sinking, you'd have to hie your ass pretty 
 damn fast to get things done.  

 Is Titanic a good game? Yes and no. Yes, there is an interesting story, a visually sumptuous and 
 often thrilling re-creation of the ship, and much to do and see. But a disproportionate amount 
 of time is taken up watching twitchy talking heads natter endlessly. How much you enjoy it will 
 depend on how much you like interactive dialog. I was willing to go along with CyberFlix on this 
 journey because they had a worthwhile tale to tell, but it certainly tried my patience at times. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Katie_wolf_89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This HAS and still is my most favorite PC game. Sure the graphics and gameplay are out dated (for 
 our time) . I still find this game the best. I wish Cyberflix never gone out of business.
  
  Trust me, this game has a quite a lot of reply value. There are over 4 endings.
  The characters, 
 story, exploring the ship, and gameplay is just amazing.
  
  I urge you to try and play this game. Look on Ebay... It could be there. For a very low price.
 
  
  Trust me you will not be disappointed.
  Also the music and bit of jumps this game can be very creepy. :) !
  
  ::SPOILERS::
  
  You 
 are a low life retried secret agent, who is now in WWII stuck in his apartment ashamed of himself 
 for failing his mission by on the Titanic. But a German bomb gives him a second chance. It's up 
 to YOU! to see if his mission fails miserably again or turns out the best thing that has ever happened 
 to him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanov
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Indeed a classic game. I picked it up about 3 years ago for around USD 5.- (yes: five dollars!) , 
 but never played the game until this weekend. And I was simply amazed: the game was released in 
 1996 (11 years ago that is) , and yet the graphics look really very solid and detailed in 2007! 
 The designers recreated the complete Titanic, and sometimes you will forget to focus on your next 
 puzzle, simply because you want to try 'just one more door, or just one more deck'. An absolute 
 terrific job Cyberflix (guess they went out of business because their website is gone) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: physicalos
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Most simply put, this is one of the greatest games I have ever played. It was back when I was 11 
 or 12 when I first started It. Now, it takes a lot for a story in a game to impress me, but this 
 one works, and even better, it really feels like you, the player, are affecting it.
  
  Think of the gameplay from Myst, but with a much better writer creating the world for you, and 
 a much better feeling of interactivity with the story.
  
  The game is addictive but short, It takes only about 10 hours to play through, but you might just 
 want to play it again to explore other possible choices.
  
  Thank you CYPERFLIX (the company that made this game) ! I wish you were still making games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmedalia
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  In Titanic Adventure Out of Time you play a british secret service agent who screws up his life 
 and now lives in a small apartment in London during WWII. Well your house gets bombed by the germans, 
 and you fly on board the Titanic to complete the mission you failed. Cyberflix has acuratly recreated 
 the entire ship, room for room, and you can travel almost anywhere. The conversations you have 
 with people are often extremly interting and entertaining, you meat all kinds of folk. the puzzles 
 are interkit and somtimes challenging. Depending on how you play the game effects the outcome of 
 history. You can prevent WWI and II as well as the Russian Revolution, or you make it so Hitler 
 gets the bomb, or the Russians take over the world. The game is amazing, and very underrated. Titanic 
 is seconded only to Ocarina of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjb428
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Titanic is a pretty good game despite the fact its old. It was a instant classic because of the 
 fact in almost completly remade the entire titanic. Even though its a good game its definetly the 
 HARDEST GAME IVE EVER PLAYED!!!!!!!! Titanic is a must buy ( if you can still find it) if your 
 1 of those people who will sit down and spend 3 houres a day for 7 days trying to beat it. Now 
 i will fill up the rest of this review with a bunch of nothing. LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA 
 LA ok i think its 100 words now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Pack some clean clothes, a good book or two, motion sickness pills if you need them, and oh, let's 
 see... a few hundred lifeboats might help.
  
  You are a passenger on the luxury liner Titanic as it sets off on its one and only voyage. You 
 get a room in the economy class section and have time to meet your shipmates. They include a very 
 surly concierge, any number of highly strange denizens of the 'upper' classes and at least one 
 no-good criminal.
  
  It's your job to comb over every inch of the cruise ship and figure out the secrets that may contribute 
 to the ship's doom. The graphics are beautiful and the workings of the case just a treat for adventure 
 fans -- you'll do more talking and figuring things out here than you would this side of the police 
 academy. The ship is also laden with intricate rooms, hidden puzzles and secrets aplenty. Just 
 when you think you've worked something out, you need to do something else. There's no lack of challenge 
 or playing time. 
  
  'Titanic' came out a few years ago, but I still haven't seen many games that come close to this 
 kind of quality.
  
  Bon voyage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reuce
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Titanic: Adventure out of Time is a game in a genre fading away from the world. Few games have 
 ever been made like it so it's hard to describe it. You play as a Ex-British Secret Agent, who 
 is sent back in time to correct his mission that went wrong on the Titanic. The game spans 4 and 
 a half hours, from 9:30 PM, to 2:00 AM, the time the Titanic hit the iceberg. Your mission is to 
 stop the illegal transaction of the Rubaiyat, a highly expensive book that is being traded for 
 a illegal painting with plans of the German Government on the back of it! You have to race against 
 the wit of your enemies and time itself to get both the painting and the book back to England in 
 one peice, all before the ship hits the ice burg and sinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funnybone525
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I have been obsessed with the Titanic as long as i can remember. I have read just about every book 
 on the Titanic, and i can say with full confidence... that for anyone who loves the Titanic story 
 this game is a MUST HAVE.
  
  The game starts in your shabby apartment in 1939. there's really nothing to do other than wander 
 around the room, reading letter saying how you were kicked out of the British Secret Service and 
 how you pretty much caused WWI and WWII. Then the Blitz starts. A German bomb explodes outside 
 your window, and somehow you are flung back in time to the R. M. S. Titanic to attempt to complete 
 your mission, and repair the damage you caused. Which brings us to the ship itself.
  
  The graphics in this game are incredible. I know it's been said, but its almost like you HAVE indeed 
 gone back in time. The ship is beautifully rendered. Every detail has been given attention. The 
 paneling on the walls, the individual threads on the carpeting, everything is taken into consideration. 
 The characters are a slight let down: characters that have no part in the story have no faces and 
 walk with determination to some unknown location (i have multiple times seen the same person walking 
 down a corridor in C deck over and over again. The main characters of the plot are slightly better. 
 From a distance, they actually have facial expressions so you can distinguish them from the others. 
 During VERY long conversations, the characters smile, laugh, and chatter incessantly, giving you 
 advice and little side missions, slowly bringing you to your goal. Mildly interesting at first, 
 they get more and more irritating as it goes on, and i usually just skip the conversations and 
 wing it (of course, i DID die when the ship sank...)
  
  Which brings us to the sinking itself. It occurs while you are standing on the top of the fourth 
 smokestack (just for show) with a German spy (creative, eh?) . You stun him with a very Bond-style 
 gadget and sneak down the funnel, where you are clonked on the head by a wrench-wielding Russian.
 
  You wake up a while later to find that the ship is sinking and you have about an hour to rewrite 
 history. This is without a doubt the hardest part of the game because, at least to me, it seems 
 like a lose-lose situation. you have to get a painting, a notebook, an antidote to save a poisoned 
 friend, etc., but to get the antidote you must give the bad guy the painting, and to get the notebook, 
 you have to let a very dangerous guy escape. In addition to being the hardest part, it is also 
 the most exciting part, and the SFX help a lot.
  
  Which finally brings us to the sound. The characters voices are interesting, but unemotional. There's 
 really nothing special about them, so we won't waste time on them. The best sounds are the natural 
 sounds. The wind whistling through the air, the creaking of the ship, the crashes and screams of 
 a ship sinking. It brings to life the majesty and the tragedy that is Titanic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  
  Graphics: This game looks great. The pictures and photos look real and so due little details like 
 their clothes. You can actually walk around the titanic and habve a good time just exploring and 
 viewing the sites.
  
  Sound: Really their are only doors, occasional steps, and the noises of ruffles in your bag.
 
  
  Voices: The voice work is excellent, but if you miss what they say you have to listen to the entire 
 dialouge again.
  
  Music: Just melodies and it's kinda repetitive.
  
  Gameplay: Good and bad. The game starts with you as a survivor of the titanic and the time is WW 
 II. You get bombed and get sent back to the titanic. Then you talk and walk. Thats it. Oh and there 
 is also an exploration mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuna7780
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Titanic: Adventure out of Time is probably my all time favorite game in the whole world. in this 
 Titanic game, you go back in time from around the time WWII was around from getting knocked out 
 by a small explosion. You are playing as a character trying to find out the mysteries and you learn 
 more about this beautiful ship in a fun game enviroment. This game is probably one of the most 
 accurate games comparing to this real life ship.
  
  Throughout this game, you bump into different passangers -good and bad-
  Some people you have 
 to complete easy tasks for them to earn a nice reward and you may get tricked into doing you really 
 SHOULDN'T have done. From a game made back in 96, the graphics are surprisingly well, but can make 
 your eyes sore after a bit. The lip animation of the speakers were done pretty well and the characters 
 have great eye movements in certain situations (such as being nervous, anxious, sad, cautious, 
 ect) .
  
  The game play is very simple. There is NO shooting from you and you simply move by using the arrow 
 keys. There are colored arrows on the screen which helps you know if you can move to a certain 
 area. Your hands is your mouse.
  
  One part of this game that i thought got me (and my father) a bit frustraited. You can sneak into 
 a persons' cabin sometimes, but.... sometimes sucks for you. You can go only ONCE inside of certain 
 people's cabins and NEVER EVER get back in once you go out. Usually this would mean to you:
  
  "OMG! I MISSED SOMETHING SO IMPORTANT WHICH COULD'VE HELPED ME SOOOO MUCH! *death stab*"
 
  
  The music in this game is VERY relaxing. You start to get that feeling that you are actually on 
 that great ship and you seem glued to the game. The sound effects, such as the wind, get a bit 
 annoying and can hurt your ears after a while, if you listen too long. Something that kinda bothers 
 me, is that the music sometimes gives you that feeling that you have to RUSH RUSH RUSH. You can 
 get the chills down your back sometimes from the great atmosphere and the music.
  
  The mini adventures can be a sharp pain in your arm at times, and the lengths of dialouge can be 
 plain annoying or boring. The many characters you meet in this game, can be funny, to evil, the 
 biggest SOB, snobby, friendly, backstabbing, or plain silly.
  
  Near the end of the game, when you hit the infamous iceberge, you have a certain time limit to 
 finish a few missions and acheive your goals. My Father and I have never been able to beat this 
 game, but we have discovered and learned many things for future gameplay.
  
  "Titanic: Adventure Out of Time" is byfar my favorite game in the whole world because this brings 
 back memories as being my "Daddy's Little Girl" watching him play game. My proudest moment , when 
 i played this when i was just a munchkin, was finding the Captain's binoculars, but he kind of 
 gets mad and you lose of his trust.
  This was our favorite game to play on a normal basis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodingGenius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I have been interested in the story of the Titanic since before it was rediscovered on the bottom 
 of the Atlantic, which is years before the James Cameron movie of the same name. This game was 
 something that I saw in a bargain bin a few years after its release and I just couldn't pass it 
 up.
  
  You can either wander the ship in an educational context, or you can play the heart pounding game, 
 trying to change the (fictional) events that caused the boat to sink. Either way, you will be treated 
 to detailed recreations of some of the most famous locations on the ship. I was surprised at the 
 clarity of the graphics and the crispness of the sound.
  
  The "game" is a point and click adventure reminiscent of early Sierra games (like Police Quest 
 or King's Quest) , so the pace is a little slower than traditional 3D games where you are interacting 
 in a 3D environment.
  
  If you like the Titanic, you really cannot put off picking up this game much longer. The experience 
 is unique. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
