-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Titan Quest: Immortal Throne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/titanquestexpansion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Improved inventory system helps pick up the pace.
 Solid, streamlined hack-and-slash gameplay.
 Makes original Titan Quest a better game along the way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Voice acting gets annoying quickly.
 Inconsistent performance on PC that exceeds recommended specs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.1, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,659 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Iron Lore
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 5, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Immortal Throne offers some really good high-level content for established Titan Quest fans, while 
 retroactively adding meaningful improvements to the original game. 

  THQ and Iron Lore embraced the violent side of Greek mythology with last year's Titan Quest, a 
 hack-and-slash role-playing game that charged you, as an anonymous Greek hero, with the task of 
 combating the treacherous elder gods who had escaped their Olympian prison. While it was rife with 
 mythological creatures and locales, it took more than a few cues from Diablo, the mother of all 
 hack-and-slash RPGs. There are far worse games you could choose to crib from, but despite the game's 
 sharp presentation, there were certain aspects of Titan Quest that felt unnecessarily antiquated. 
 Titan Quest: Immortal Throne is an expansion pack that features an all-new high-level campaign 
 with plenty of fresh gear, and it's a no-brainer for fans of the original. It also addresses some 
 of the more cumbersome aspects of the original Titan Quest, simultaneously making that game more 
 appealing to newcomers.  

          Greece is going to Hades in a handbasket in Immortal Throne.     

  Immortal Throne 
 doesn't skip a beat following your defeat of Typhon at the end of Titan Quest. As you descend from 
 Olympus, you find that the world is still in chaos and infested by monsters. So, you continue on 
 your quest to figure out just what in the hell is going on. Turns out, hell is exactly what's going 
 on, as much of Immortal Throne has you hacking and slashing your way through the surprisingly diverse 
 underworld of Hades. You might assume that spending 10 to 15 hours fighting your way through Hades 
 would mean a nonstop barrage of dank, dark dungeons. There's definitely plenty of foreboding areas 
 in Immortal Throne, but there's also a good variety to the environments you'll fight your way through, 
 from the sterling white marble of Rhodes to the flowing golden fields of Elysium. The game isn't 
 shy about appropriating bits and pieces of Greek mythology as it sees fit, pitting you against 
 the three Stygian witches who share a single eye and the three-headed Cerberus that guards the 
 banks of the river Styx, while also having you interact with the sorceress Medea, as well as Greek 
 heroes like Agamemnon, Odysseus, and Achilles.  

  The experience hasn't changed much from the original Titan Quest. You'll take on a linear series 
 of quests, clicking your way through hordes of bizarre monsters and pillaging their corpses for 
 gold and gear. One of the biggest areas that plagued the pacing of Titan Quest was the way it handled 
 item inventory. Enemies would drop trinkets, weapons, potions, and pieces of armor at an almost 
 alarming rate, and it seemed as though you would only take a few steps before your inventory was 
 full, forcing you to constantly teleport back to a town where you could sell off the unneeded gear 
 to a vendor. If there was any gear you wanted to hold on to, but perhaps couldn't yet use, it just 
 sat as dead weight in your inventory, forcing you to teleport back to a vendor even more often. 
 Immortal Throne makes manifold efforts to alleviate these problems. First off, there's now an autosort 
 option for your bags, making it easier and faster to squeeze the last bit of space out of your 
 inventory. There's also a caravan system where you can offload any gear you want to hang onto but 
 have no immediate need for, freeing up your personal inventory for all that loot. You'll still 
 find yourself making ample use of the portal system, but these changes unquestionably speed up 
 the action.  

  There's loads of new gear to deck your hero out with in Immortal Throne, as well as some new types 
 of items. You'll find one-use scrolls that can unleash devastating attacks and are especially handy 
 against some of the boss characters you'll encounter. You'll also find recipes that you can take, 
 along with the necessary ingredients, to new non-player characters called enchanters to create 
 powerful artifacts. Immortal Throne introduces a new skill set as well, called the Dream mastery, 
 which can infer some dark and menacing abilities that suit the generally shadowy tone of Immortal 
 Throne, allowing you to bend time and space to your advantage and generate psychic attacks to damage 
 your enemies.  

          Some small but thoughtful changes improve the overall Titan Quest experience.     

 
  The game's presentation doesn't appear any more technically advanced than the original Titan Quest, 
 but it would seem that Iron Lore has gotten better at what it does, as Immortal Throne is a subtly 
 better-looking game. The way the world is constructed seems more natural, there's less inconsistency 
 with the textures, and the new spell effects for the Dream mastery look sinister. The musical score 
 suits the game's mythological tone nicely, and though the battle sounds are good, their inherent 
 repetition can still wear on you. Also, there's no shortage of voice acting in Immortal Throne. 
 Quest givers and random NPCs will spout lengthy soliloquies about their plights if you let them, 
 though you'll be subjecting yourself to some overwrought melodramatics when you really just want 
 to go fight more demons.  

  You'll have to have played all the way through the original Titan Quest to get the most out of 
 Immortal Throne. Smartly, though, Iron Lore has integrated many of the changes introduced here 
 into the original, which makes Titan Quest itself an easier game to recommend. This is still a 
 pretty straightforward hack-and-slash RPG, but it's also a really good one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: orclv
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  The ups.
  
  The monsters the character and surrounding, skils look fabulous, The whole game does. The graphics 
 will press your high-spec machine, with swaying grass, beautiful water effects and incredible light 
 effects, such as shadows which move as your light source passes by them.
  You have big choice of masterys (Dream, Earth, Hunting, Nature, Rogue, Spirit, Storm ,Warfare, 
 Defense) and a lot more skills.
  Easy to control.
  The downs.
  
  If you have played smash and bash games, this will be to easy.
  Dual weild skils and its gg, 
 you can just run through the game
  Lack of moves, not even when you finish acts, (they forgot to steal steal that from diablo 2 ) and 
 the story who catch your attention, it will get boring in a while.
  
  You have only two choices of character appearance, a gril and a guy - this made me cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValeViper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  I did enjoy this game, although it does seem overly long and drawn out. The expansion brings a 
 few new elements but repetitive theme is always present..... but then again, all hack and slash 
 RPGs share this.
  
  Like Diablo, isometric play is smooth. Provided you have the correct hardware. I could not play 
 this game on a SLI nVidia machine. Graphics would not initialize, but any higher end Radeon or 
 single card nVidia it works fine. There are a few spots in the game that will tax your graphics 
 adapter. Multi monster battles can slow down graphics response or hang your system. Running in 
 windowed mode does seem to help. 
  
  All in all one of the better RPGs in the last few years. The mythology aspect is quite fun. There 
 are many variations to weapons and armor to try, along with skill sets to customize your character.
 
  
  Save points are frequent enough to not loose too much ground if overcome in a big battle or locked 
 with a graphics glitch. Be sure to clear areas, leveling up is needed as the game play gets tougher 
 as you progress.
  
  If you are tired of waiting for Diablo 3, this is a fun way to pass your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enok6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  Titan quest is a fun game for hack & slash fans but so many things were broken. Titan quest immortal 
 throne takes everything about the first game and makes it better and adds a new place for your 
 hero to advance . the story takes place right after you victory on mound Olympus and you notice 
 that there are still monsters on the loose so you now go to Hades underground world and continue 
 you epic tale from there. Not only can you raise your epic Greek hero to a higher level but you 
 get a lot of new items and quests and it fixes a lot of thing that were broken in the original.
 
  The game is also good for newcomers because of the fixes of the inventory and other things. the 
 online multilayer has goten an remake to. it is now much easier to jon/host and multilayer map.
 
  Everyone who is a fan of the hack & slash genre should feel right at home with titan quest and 
 immortal throne 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkprince2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest Immortal Throne is one of my all-time favorite rpgs. With an abundance of cool characters 
 and tons of unique skills, there seems to be something for everyone that can enjoy a hack and slash 
 game. I don't know why this game is constantly referred to as a diablo clone. Diablo is a game 
 of the past that has been improved upon over and over again. Diablo 1 was so limited that once 
 you beat it (if you lacked Hellfire) , you were done. Diablo 2 and even the expansion were very 
 good games, but I enjoyed Titan Quest alot more. The stash was a very handy addition. The fact 
 that you can filter the drops to hide the 'garbage' and the fact that you can turn off the annoying 
 and extremely lame voice acting is a huge plus too.
  
  I also thought Diablo 2 was quite shallow when it came to rewarding you for your quests. Go rescue 
 Deckard Cain so we can give your warrior a +1 mana ring. Yay! Not.
  
  I have logged a plethora of hours and will probably log thousands more. If this game gets boring 
 and repetitive for you, then play something else. True hardcore fans will not get bored of doing 
 what they love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathschyte2007
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  .. some say that this game is just a clone of diablo 2.. but the're totaly wrong.. because ... for 
 example (an obvious one) is the character build system.
  in diablo 2 (end game) the first skills you use becomes obsolete.. thus you must put points in other 
 higher level ones and there is no way to regain those points spent in lesser skills without editors. Titan 
 quest offers a great and steady character development because skill synergies. In titan quest (end 
 game) clearly you can see that first level skills becomes powerfull when enhanced by skill points 
 further increasing their usefulness (unlike diablo 2 in which they become obsolete) . The graphics 
 .. outstanding... very interesting story ... very beatiful rendered monsters and equipment .. useful 
 skills and very fun to play with!
  I have been playing diablo 2 for 3 years and titan quest for 1 year. Diablo is a great game but 
 titan quest is amazing :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilyry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I wish I would have found Titan Quest 2 years ago when it came out. It's been way too 
 long since we've had a passable Diablo clone, and in many ways Titan Quest does it better. The 
 gfx are amazing on medium to high end computers. The spells and animations blow D2 out of the water. 
 Ragdoll physics on mobs, swaying grass and trees, etc. I know a lot of people put this game down 
 because they said it was just a clone of D2. But, what's really wrong with that when a good clone 
 is just what we need? At least to tide yourself over waiting for D3. Do yourself a favor and pick 
 up the Gold Edition of the game for twenty bucks. It's got both the original and the expansion, 
 and it'll have you playing for hours and hours. I just happened upon it by chance, looked at the 
 box, and figured why not? I'm so glad I did too, because even after over two years of being released, 
 it's a lot more fun that any recent titles in the same genre. You won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiko_lazevski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok i have a lot to say about this game. Let me start. There are some questions that need to be 
 answered (maybe they are, but i want my way of looking at the game to be explained) . Why i thing 
 this game is Masterpiece? Hm, nice question, well... 
  
  First of all i think and im sure that this game has a lot of unique boss, hero, and normal monsters 
 that need to be killed by you. 
  
  Second, this game has over thousand random items all good-designed. What makes the items on this 
 game so impressive? Well this game has a lot of different items starting from the Poor (Grey color) , 
 than Normal (White color) , Improved-Normal, Normal whit special powers (Yellow color) , Rare (Green 
 color) , Epic (Blue color) , Legendary (Purple color) , there are some special items such as Artifacts 
 and Arcane Formulas ( Light-Blue color) and the charms and other item-improvements that improve 
 your Grey, Normal, Improved-Normal and Rare items (Brown color) , when you place a charm (or other 
 item-improvement on item, the item changes the color to orange) . What is here so good-designed? 
 The most impressing thing here is that the items monsters drop, they wear it before you kill them, 
 so you can recognize a epic or legendary, even a rare item before you kill the monster, that is 
 so unique style of item system. Lets continue.
  
  Third, the graphics are very good for those times, and four the game play of course, no comment. 
 That is all.
  
  - - - -   k i k o _ l a z e v s k i,
  S k o p j e,
  M a c e d o n i a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hock3y
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I've been playing a lot of Titan Quest recently, and just purchased the expansion pack too. The 
 purchase was definitley worth it, and if you don't have either I would recommend getting the gold 
 edition as that is both games in one. It's an awesome game and its very addicting if you are into 
 this genre of games. If you like action rpg's or Diablo style games, Titan Quest and Titan Quest 
 Immortal Throne are must buys. Immortal Throne adds in a new Dream mastery along with more inventory 
 space and auto-sorting. It also adds in the new relics, which are a great boost to add onto existing 
 gears. The game also has a very large fanbase and modding community, which add to replayability 
 of it. So far I have gone through the game with a few different class combinations and none of 
 them have made me bored yet. You can also play a LAN game with friends or play an online game with 
 total strangers, depending on what you enjoy. I have played many hours of LAN with my friends. 
 I would rate this game a 10/10 just because it is such a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hactorx
Rating: 2
Date: May 21, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Game is good, better in some ways then diable, that now is really old. not a single patch has been 
 released, leaving end users with endless bugs of which some make it impossible to play this game 
 making it imposible to accomplish a quest. oh well, thats thq, they pump out games with great ideas, 
 but dont support them in amy way. no more thq for me, this has been the same story with every game 
 of theirs. good companies support their software, trying to make it better and more and more stable 
 instead of jumping on new projects leaving users with a worthless peace of software. Every software 
 complaints about piracy, well this is one of the reasons it happens, end users are forced to shell 
 out 50 bucks for a peace of worthless plastic!!! If you want to fight piracy support the end user, 
 release patches, making people's gamign experience something to be enjoyed, but with games like 
 this its nothing but a waist of hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest is a straight-forward hack and slash RPG and in this aspect it executes its genre rule 
 pretty well. There are plenty of mobs in the games and the skill system of the characters are ok. 
 You can also create, enchanted your items to make them more useful. Moreover, the storyline is 
 interesting. But that's all I can praise about the game. 
  
  To finish the official campaign you must spend about 50 to 70 hours but your interest will fade 
 out after about 20 hours playing. There are plenty reason for that but one of the most obvious 
 is the quest structure of the game. It's all linear. When you come to new region you continue main 
 quest and receive some optional side quests. If u choose not to do side quests right in this part 
 you can come back later but these quests are hardly related to each other and to the main storyline. 
 The reward for them are also quite predictable: some gold, experience or few magic items. One more 
 thing to say is bosses fight in the game. It's mostly a hit point exchange when you can use lots 
 of portions and the ability to teleport back to town while your opponents normally cant heal themselves. 
 I must say it's not very interesting. But since Titan Quest is mere hack and slash so it can be 
 tolerated. In fact there is no puzzle factor in this game. Besides your character development somehow 
 lacks flexibility. You can't really create your own tactics in each situations like in Diablo. 
 That is because though you gain a lot of skills, most of them are not designed well enough to adept 
 to each type of monster or interactions with other NPCs. 
  
  Enough to say about the flaws of this game. For a RPG fan (like me) it's still worth trying and 
 brings about some fun thanks to it's Diablo-like styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew254
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  In short, this expansion pack makes the game what it should have been from launch. Oh well. Thankfully, 
 they are put together on a nice little DVD for the Titan Quest Gold Edition. It's pretty cheap 
 on half. com so do yourself a favor, pick it up.
  
  Here's the skinny. It is a Diablo killer. Period. That is what makes it great. It has superior 
 visuals, great SFX, music, gameplay - all that made Diablo II so great is made better here. That 
 also may be a fault - there is little originality here, but seriously, its not all that bad of 
 of a thing.
  
  The Immortal Throne should be played IN PLACE of the original game (not like it Warcraft III where 
 the expansion pack is a separate entity) install both at the same time, patch Immortal Throne and 
 get ready for the best Diablo-like experience yet.
  
  A few noteworthy things - online play is rampant with cheating but it is ridiculously easy to play. 
 Switching from Single Player to Multiplayer is seamless and does NOT require an addition character. 
 The inventory system is intuitive, and the skill leveling system is incredibly customizable.
  
  Basically, if you wasted hours on Diablo I and II years ago and still have nostalgia, play 
 this game - it will win you over,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwruger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest crosses Diablo II with a world mythology course. While it starts in Greece, it roams 
 the ancient world, mixing Egypt, Babylon, and China. You get to fight a lot of creatures from all 
 the various mythos. True, some of the mythology is off. Many of these cultures were not contemporaries 
 as depicted but who cares?
  
  I liked Diablo II, but I loved Titan Quest. Better inventory system, no body recovery, respecting, 
 etc. The gameplay is very similar to Diablo II but the Spheres of mastery allow you to create a 
 multitude of different character classes.
  
  It does have a few flaws. It is possible to collect millions of gold that there isn't really anything 
 to buy aside from potions and respecting. You can almost always find better gear in the world than 
 at a vendor (although I did find a divine amulet that raises all skills by 1) . Also the boundaries 
 of the game world push believability. Here's a guy that can kill just about anything but can't 
 climb over a few rocks. 
  
  I can't comment on the online play as I don't play anything on line because of all the griefers 
 and jerks who make up a large percentage of the online gaming community.
  
  Great game with solid game play and huge amounts of replayability.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelteel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game along the lines of Diablo that has ever come out and is just as much fun 
 to play. While I like D2/LOD a bit more this game is awesome!! I highly recommend this addictive 
 game to all gamers as there are not many games as enjoyable and as playable by - 'all gamers'.
 
  
  While the games Titan Quest and it's expansion Immortal Throne work just like Diablo 2 and Lord 
 of Destruction they offer the player their own challenges but they also offer a lot of new ideas 
 especially the larger storage and a Caravan for more storage. The caravan can be used to hold more 
 items and also to transfer items between your different characters.
  
  Go to your favorite place or site and purchase both Titan Quest and Immortal Throne. Install both 
 and enjoy the challenge and the fun. I would also recommend you visit ' www. titanquest. net' and 
 join the forums as they are one of the better forums I have been a member of with mods and more 
 plus a great group of members (though some have bad days_lol) .
  
  New players I recommend you get TQVault and TQDefiler just use either as a search term on the forums 
 mentioned above. I just wish that both had been around for my later stages of playing the Diablo 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  [Note: This review is of both Titan Quest and its expansion, Immortal Throne, together.]
  
  Titan Quest distills everything that is addicting and innately fun about World of Warcraft and 
 Diablo II into pure kill-loot-kill joy. It can get a little repetitive over time, but there's no 
 question TQ delivers the goods so enjoy it until your brain can't take anymore.
  
  First and foremost, TQ gets the classes right. Branching skill trees, varied play mechanics and 
 dual-class combinations are a min/max-er's geek dream come true. TQ fansite boards are jammed with 
 players debating which are the most powerful class combinations and skill tree selections, so the 
 element of character building is extremely strong and fun and highly replayable. The game favors 
 magic-users, but I was able to hold my ground fine with a melee/caster hybrid using the Defense 
 and Dream Master masteries.
  
  Secondly, TQ gets the loot right. Randomization of monsters and randomization of loot with rarity 
 values directly taps into the sheer joy of opening chests and looting dead bad guys and wondering 
 what splendors await to be picked up. TQ is awfully generous about it, too -- for players accustomed 
 to gearing up at a snail's pace in World of Warcraft, you'll be pleasantly surprised by how fast 
 and furious the gear comes. Optional trader NPCs in-game allow you to save great drops better suited 
 for other characters by plopping said items into the trader's shareable slots.
  
  And the last bright spot is how gorgeous this game looks. Environments are meticulously laid out 
 with varying elevations, realistic details and impressive spell effects and monster detail. Titan 
 Quest is a game all about making you feel good -- tons of loot, drop-dead gorgeous visuals, and 
 simple mechanics that let you destroy waves upon waves of enemies with glee.
  
  The downside, of course, is that Titan Quest gets incredibly repetitive mainly because:
  
  
 1. The game mechanics are pretty simple. Each class seems to only have a few key attack moves.
 
  
  2. Enemies may look different, but on a Normal playthrough, there's not a lot of variation in how 
 you go about fighting them all. Some subtle tactical differences come up -- and supposedly gets 
 more pronounced on the harder Epic playthrough levels
  
  Both of which combine to feel like you're just endlessly slogging through things after a while. 
 And obviously because the game is a single-player action-RPG, you lose some of the personality 
 and diversions that online-based games like WoW and Diablo II otherwise keep you mixed up with.
 
  
  All in all, Titan Quest is an excellent game to enjoy for a limited time. I'm sure hardcore Diablo 
 II fans will get a bit more out of it than I did, as well as players who love the core gameplay 
 and don't get easily tired of it over time. There's really no memorable story to speak of, so your 
 only motivation here is loot and kiling things over and over. For me, that's fun for a few nights 
 ... but eventually it's time to move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I havent played a game like this since I was into Diablo 2, so it was a real joy for me to 
 find this (Well I found both this and it's original on Steam) .
  
  Graphics: First off, the graphics are really good and I am so glad that I can finally play a Diablo-esque 
 (please excuse this term- Action- RPG if you prefer but I dont like that one. Theres action in 
 all RPGs so I dont get the point of that) game that actually at least plays on the same level of 
 excitement. Not everyone loved the Diablo Franchise, but it broke ground in its day mostly because 
 it added non turn based gameplay (which I love both types but really jaded me as a player and now 
 I can no longer play turn basing for long periods of time... How I miss thee Fallout) also called 
 real time action, as well as adding the multiplayer content with LAN then eventually WAN playability. 
 Anyway, the graphics in this arent sprited like Diablo but I cant help but question something here. 
 While you can zoom in, why can you not rotate the camera? This is a 3D game right? Oh well I'm 
 nit-picking I know but it seems like it was left out (or else Im being silly again and I missed 
 it.. in which case oops) . Big problem with the graphics in this game is the rubberbanding. For 
 no apparent reason this game loves to lag and while it doesnt bother me one bit (its not all the 
 time nor is it rediculous but it really doesnt make sense) it makes it feel like your playing online 
 sometimes even though your not.
  
  Sound: Really fun, immense, intense, action packed music. Has an epic feel like your living a saga 
 (or Myth or Legend or whatever you wanna put there) and really makes you feel like your an important 
 figure in someones Mythos. The sounds are pretty impressive too. Although, harpies are really annoying 
 (hah, they're supposed to be... im kidding i swear. Wow tough crowd)
  
  Controls: Its fairly basic, like all Diablo-Clones. Point and click or hold the button and you 
 move. Assign spells to keys etc etc Its an easy system a monkey could use and keeps my head from 
 exploding.
  
  Spell/Skill system: While not innovative in and of itself (it's the same concept as it was in Diablo2 
 as well as whats being used in most if not all MMOs these days) its always fun to mention for me 
 as its a concept I really like. I wish someone would do something innovative with this idea, flesh 
 it out more, or change it all together. Unfortunately this game didnt and the plus side to that 
 is you wont be confused by it. I like the class system in this and this expansion added one more 
 (im very sorry but I forgot how many classes there are. I think its 8) . The great thing, to me 
 anyway, is you pick these classes in game through leveling up. Eventually you choose your main 
 class then after a short time you get to pick a secondary class. Neither of these has an advantage 
 per say other then the fact that you will have one before the other, but how good one is over the 
 other is really entirely up to you. I really liked it because not only does it give you a huge 
 canvas to work with on creating whatever kind of character you want (the skill trees are fairly 
 big) but you can make some very decent combos that seem completely uncorralated (theres only like 
 2 or 3 combos that are generally considered extremely unplayable because they just dont go together. 
 But if you want you can play these it will just make the game that much harder for you) .
  
  Combat: The combat is simplistic- I cannot deny it. You are by default assigned attack on your 
 left mouse button which you just hold down the button on a monster and you will attack until its 
 dead (with other combinations you can just stand there and slash at everything, all very much like 
 Diablo 2) . You can assign one spell to your right mouse button and you can assign 24 to your number 
 keys (there's now two rows instead of just one making it 1 through = twice if you understand) . 
 Anyway so that gives you room for all the types of spells you may have at any given time. In my 
 opinoin, though, I wish they added support for 5+ button mouses. I mean I can do like 4 spells 
 on my mouse and I dont understand why I am limited here. Small peaches, though, and I dont want 
 to nitpick. It doesnt detract from anything but does offer a small annoyance for me.
  
  Over "Gamplay"/Fun Factor: I find this game quite enjoyable, but unfortunately, like the Diablo 
 Franchise it expects you to be hooked to it like crack so you have to play it more then once to 
 truly appreciate it. It does however reward you (with more then just loot although the loot is 
 insane as well) for playing it more then once. While some people may be turned off by the idea, 
 it really is just a time sink, the skill system as well as the combat keeps me hooked enough to 
 want to play whenever I feel like busting heads in a mythological sense.
  
  This is definitely one worth trying if you like real time RPGs. Like Diablo, its not for everyone, 
 but its a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puffinmuffin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Due to its age, the Diablo series cannot be compared to a game like Titan Quest Immortal Throne 
 anymore. Blizzard initiated the action-rpg genre, but since then the genre has been taken to new 
 heights. Give credit where it's due, but please, let's put things to bed and move on, shall we? 
 I tire of action-rpgs being endlessly compared to Blizzard's groundbreaking game. 
  
  Diablo's "randomly generated levels" were just mathematical combinations of the same environments, 
 not the finely crafted world of Titan Quest (Diablo II's Act III comes to mind, with its repetitive 
 jungle environment, those little dart-blowers running around for what seemed like forever) . Who 
 needs supposed randomly generated levels when Titan Quest offers such a lengthy and diverse campaign 
 (it took me 72 hours to complete, playing somewhat efficiently-that's with all the quests, exploration, 
 and periods spent fussing with loot and vendors) . By the time you complete Titan Quest and start 
 on the next difficulty level, the whole sprawling world seems fresh again, no random generation 
 needed.
  
  In Titan Quest the rivers and waterfalls flow, the grasses and trees sway, and the villages and 
 towns teem with jugglers and birds and tail-wagging dogs, while the sun rises and sets with the 
 most realistic lighting I've seen in a game. The stirring music pulls you into the environments, 
 which change seemlessly like in Dungeon Siege (another great game) . Some of the set-pieces in Titan 
 Quest are so well done (like the war zone in Act IV) , that it feels like you're in a high-budget 
 movie.
  
  Of course, none of that means a thing unless the gameplay is good, and believe me, there is nothing 
 to be disappointed about. It's utterly engrossing, and the combinations the myriad character options 
 and equipment offer insure a very high level of replayability. The menus, inventory, and skill 
 trees are smooth and unhindered, with too many streamlined and convenient details to mention. Oh, 
 and in Diablo II, I only died once in the starting difficulty phase (facing Diablo himself) , whereas 
 in Titan Quest you really have to stay on your toes at the default difficulty, never knowing when 
 something challenging might surprise you (like that first cyclops-yikes!) .
  
  If you're into action rpgs, you're in for a treat: Titan Quest is inspired, and unsurpassed in 
 the genre. So much has been achieved in the genre over the years that Diablo III would be hard-pressed 
 to add anything new. But it wouldn't have to add anything new; all it would have to do is offer 
 a meticulously crafted experience like Titan Quest Immortal Throne has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkclub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Diablo 2 still sits atop the action RPG throne, a full eight years after its initial release. Titan 
 Quest and its expansion, Immortal Throne, join a long line of would-be usurpers that favor iteration 
 over innovation, building on Blizzards solid foundation rather than forging their own mold. Titan 
 Quests host of clever interface improvements, deep character customization, and unmatched itemization 
 single it out as the frontrunner among Diablo derivatives. While some technical issues and unusual 
 design decisions may dampen the games lasting appeal, Titan Quest is, well, a titan among mortals, 
 deserving of a place at Diablos side and of all comparisons drawn between it and Blizzards benchmark 
 franchise.
  
  From the onset, Titan Quest unabashedly rips off its inspiration. Again you find yourself in control 
 of a nameless hero on the trail of an ancient, powerful evil attempting to free a more ancient, 
 more powerful evil. The Titans, rather upset at that whole Greek Gods banishing them from the world 
 they once ruled thing, have freed themselves from their Olympian bonds and sworn vengeance against 
 their former captors. Three lesser Titans, called Telkines, have unleashed an army of Greek monsters 
 upon the world  minotaurs, gorgons, satyrs  and are now trying to free Typhon, a powerful Titan 
 that wants nothing more than to see Zues head on a pike.
  
  Caught up in the Gods affairs, and with the mortal world in danger, youll travel between ancient 
 Greece, Egypt, and China in a quest to prevent these Telkine from loosing their Titan master. Like 
 Diablo 2, the game is divided into large acts, three in this case, each of which takes place in 
 a different section of the globe. Each locale is vibrantly brought to life through the games powerful 
 3D engine, which retains Diablos 3/4 overhead perspective. Character models and environments are 
 surprisingly detailed, perhaps too much so, in fact, as even at its lowest settings the games 
 lush visuals are demanding and the framerate frequently drops in larger, populated areas. Each 
 location is clearly defined by historic and mythological landmarks; before the game is through 
 youll visit an Athens in peril, fight mummies beneath the pyramids of Giza, and travel along the 
 Great Wall of China.
  
  Throughout it all, of course, youll be confronting the Titans armies. Combat is fast and unrelenting; 
 youll continually battle small groups of interesting enemy types that interact and play off one 
 anothers strengths and weaknesses to form generally engaging encounters. The games robust physics 
 system sends defeated enemies satisfyingly ragdolling off cliffs and tumbling over level geometry. 
 Its not all about flinging fallen corpses, however, as Titan Quests enemies excel at killing 
 your character if youre not careful. Thankfully, the game frequently saves your progress with 
 Portals and Rebirth Fountains, ensuring youre never too far from your corpse and serving as stand-ins 
 for Diablo 2s Waypoints. Guzzling potions is the only way to ensure youll be alive long enough 
 to sell any valuable items you come across in your travels and earn the riches you so obviously 
 deserve.
  
  Titan Quest features the sort of tiered, prefix/suffix-modified item system youd expect from an 
 action RPG. The games itemization is really its greatest strength, surpassing even Diablo 2s. 
 Enemies will only drop items theyre carrying, meaning wild boars wont yield suits of armor and 
 a single skeleton wont drop five polearms. Additionally, every item that hits the ground is potentially 
 useful for someone, even if its just vendor-fodder for you. Every item and item modifier is powerful 
 enough to find a home in some wanting characters inventory. There is no garbage loot here; truly, 
 this is loot porn at its most beautiful. On top of the standalone weapons, armor, and accessories, 
 Titan Quests baddies also drop relics and charms you can combine to form powerful items used to 
 augment the strength of other items. Plus, the game features an auto-sorting feature that automatically 
 rearranges items in your inventory, allowing you to keep your full focus on more pressing matters 
  like slaughtering an army of harpies.
  
  Besides individualizing your character through your item loadout, the games skill system grants 
 a wealth of customization options. As you play the game, you can choose from up to two of nine 
 different masteries, one at level two and one at level eight. Masteries function similarly to Diablo 
 2s skill trees, with skills positioned in one of six tiers. Each time your character gains a level, 
 he or she also gains three skill points. These points are used to purchase new skills, as long 
 as you have purchased all subsequently required skills, or to improve upon skills youve already 
 acquired. In order to unlock each new tier, however, you must invest in a general mastery pool 
 that doesnt benefit the skills youve learned in any way, but instead boosts your characters 
 attributes. This system allows you to spend your points in a rush for the top tier skills without 
 too much of a penalty, as your character still becomes stronger with each level even if his or 
 her skills dont actually improve. You can progress through the masteries at your own pace, slowly 
 maxing out lower tier abilities before accessing newer skills or heavily investing in the mastery 
 itself in order to obtain top tier skills as quickly as possible. The game encourages and rewards 
 specialization. Additionally, you can visit a mystic at any time to untrain spent skill points, 
 for a price, ensuring mistakes made early in the game dont have ramifications later on.
  
  Titan Quest also features a multiplayer mode, but its archaic even by Diablo 2s eight-year-old 
 standards. Characters are all stored client-side, meaning theres nothing stopping enterprising 
 players from hacking their character files to make themselves impossibly powerful. This effectively 
 ruins any legitimate character interaction or item trading from the onset. To make matters worse, 
 games only support up to seven players and suffer from massive lag spikes whenever a player joins 
 or leaves. Helpful tools like the ability to kick or ban players from your games or to force all 
 players to join the same party automatically are welcome, but the multiplayer component is so lazily 
 implemented you wont spend much time online anyway. Aside from playing with your friends, playing 
 online is rendered moot by rampant cheating and the games overall poor replayability.
  
  There are many reasons to replay Titan Quest, even if multiplayer fun isnt one of them. The mastery 
 system allows for a wide range of possible character types and the itemization is so excellent, 
 from the types of items dropped to the rate at which amazing items appear, that its hard to resist 
 the siren call of character building. Unfortunately, two large problems cut Titan Quests time 
 in your DVD-rom drive short and keep the title from becoming anything more than a very good single 
 player, single playthrough game.
  
  First, and most shockingly, Titan Quests levels arent randomly generated. Theyre certainly very 
 well designed, offering multiple paths to a single destination and rewarding exploration, but theyre 
 also set in stone. While this has no ramifications on your first playthrough, in the long run, 
 this lack of randomness makes a very repetitive experience. Quest objectives are always in the 
 same locations and areas entry and exit points never change. Replaying the game to test out new 
 character builds or to farm loot, staples of the genre, becomes very boring very quickly. Theres 
 little incentive to play through the exact same level layout a second time on a harder difficulty 
 setting, let alone with a new character.
  
  To make matters worse, Titan Quest is unusually long. With Immortal Throne, the game clocks in 
 at 25-30 hours per difficulty level. With Epic and Legendary difficulties waiting beyond the first, 
 youll be playing each of your characters for 100 hours before hitting the level cap and exhausting 
 the games content. Action RPGs are generally shorter games that encourage replaying their content, 
 and Titan Quests decision to fly in the face of convention by building a lengthy, unrandomized 
 world unfortunately cripples the games longevity. The game is a great deal of fun, and does a 
 lot of things right, but youll be hard pressed to find the motivation to replay the game, online 
 or off.
  
  Still, as a single player action RPG Titan Quest is an excellent offering, even if you only play 
 through it once. Immortal Throne, its expansion, adds a fourth act set in Hades to the game in 
 addition to a ninth mastery that focuses on buffing and crowd control. Most importantly, it adds 
 a new vendor called a caravan, which provides additional storage space as well as a universal storage 
 area that any of your characters can access. This greatly alleviates any of the inventory pains 
 of vanilla Titan Quest and alone makes the original unplayable when compared against the expansion. 
 Immortal Throne also introduces a robust crafting system, allowing you to combine the relics and 
 charms used to augment items into powerful artifacts. At this point, theres no reason to play 
 Titan Quest without Immortal Throne, and anyone doing so will be sorely missing out on some of 
 the games best features.
  
  Sadly, THQ hasnt released a single patch for Titan Quest since Immortal Thrones release in March 
 2007. Many balancing issues as well as superficial graphic and quest bugs remain. Though honestly, 
 the balance issues arent much of a problem given the games poor multiplayer component. It may 
 lean heavily on Diablo 2s shoulders, but in many ways, Titan Quest surpasses its inspiration. 
 In the eight years since Diablo 2s release, it has faced many imitators but Titan Quest is its 
 first competitor. Its gorgeous graphics, subtle physics, and brilliant itemization balance out 
 graphical problems and the absence of random levels. While it may not be your next life-consuming 
 addiction, Titan Quest is still an excellent entry in the genre and a welcome appetizer in the 
 wait for Diablo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haristheo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Titan Quest &amp; the Expansion for me is the Best Game i played after the old and superb Diablo 
 v1, 2, &amp; 2.5.. i want more games like this, its super FUN :)
  Titan Quest / Diablo Style games are my favorites!! i want to suggest something to THQ, Iron Lore.. 
 If you want succes, then make better graphics.. more quality graphics always gives the difference.. 
 you dont need to run 4 a release.. Bethesda soft makes (lets say morrowind every 3 years) witch 
 means they maximize everything!! (graphics, hundrents of unis good sound, many many Items.. big 
 and nice maps and more...) so.. -&gt; PATIENT IS SUCCES !!
  one more time-&gt; Great Game &amp; the Expansion is Great ALSO :)
  10' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, finished the original and the expension. The game is great in graphic, control and style. 
 If you like the original game and the gene of Diablo, it is difinitely worth to play and get the 
 expension. The original game do miss some standard elements like extra inventory deposit, but this 
 problem was fix in the expension. The Good:
  Nice plot, beautiful grahic. NPC has site-specifc English accent (without implying teasing to bad 
 english speaking~only to imply the sensation of the site.) The flexability of leveling, point distribution, 
 and career selection that allow one to correct and edit the career in any fashion. The monsters 
 incorate rag-doll machenic that fly away or fall from cliff when receiving a heavy attack. Random 
 mini-boss/ hero monster in games that give you a hard time. The mythic item and artifact is very 
 interesting and very powerful in tuning the character with extra abilities. I guess it runs ok 
 on low my low end notebook computer with few sacrafice of detail texture and a slightly lag in 
 monster-crowded situation:
  processor 1.5GHZ, 512MB Ram, Mobility Radeon 9000 62mb graphic card. Win xp.
  
  The Bad: ( 
 It is a great game, but I am just being a hard-azz)
  
  It only have one set of environment for both offline and online gaming experience. Soon after you 
 finish the game and replay the game, you really hope the game employ the use of random map (like 
 diablo) that allow you walk journey different map each time. To make things worse, the camera is 
 set on a fix view and can not be rotated; this really makes the game bores fast when each time 
 you play you walk through the same maze over and over agin (oh God not again) . In addition, there 
 is the absence of blood or disassemble bodies when slaughtering the monster (I guess this game 
 is made for Teen rated not for matured rated audiences) . The games also hurt by lacking of monster 
 variety. There are alot of famous monster in Greek, Egyptian, Chinese mytholgy that did not incorporate 
 in the game. And some of the places do not have the cultural-specific monster (i guess they didn't 
 do alot of studies) . Except the into movie, the game contains no in game movie, chapter movie or 
 ending movie. In conclusion, Titan Quest is a game in attempt to extend what is good about Diablo 
 with the attempt to refining Diablo's weakness (in the aspect of leveling, career, and death panility, 
 graphic) . However, the lack of consideration on the the map designing and monster designing, the 
 game fall short as a classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  The expansion pack to the highly enjoyable Titan Quest really adds a lot to the game, both in giving 
 a lengthy addition to the story as well as adding new features that can be used throughout the 
 initial campaign.
  
  In terms of the story, The Immortal Throne begins straight after the events of the initial game, 
 offering dire warnings that what your hero did initially has had a potentially disastrous effect 
 in the Underworld. The forthcoming journey takes you back into the realm of Greek mythology and 
 sees you journey into Hades to once again fight to save mankind from hoards of monsters. The storyline 
 and new environments are really interesting, again creating an entertaining adventure with educational 
 content.
  
  The game offers several new retro-active features that enhance the gameplay, meaning that it is 
 worth installing this expansion pack before playing through the initial campaign. Most notably 
 of these new features is a powerful new skill set entitled Dream . This offers a variety of new 
 powers that your character can use, balancing combat ability with magic. The effects of these powers 
 are very nice visually and can really enhance the potency of your character.
  
  Also new is the addition of caravan drivers, who act as a form of portable stash allowing you to 
 keep more items and access them from most towns. The stash is still not large enough in my opinion, 
 but this is down to my habit of hoarding items and runes more than anything! A neat addition is 
 the introduction of a stash transfer area, that will allow you to trade items between different 
 characters in different adventures. So if your warrior character finds a powerful magical item, 
 you can transfer it to the magic user that you are playing in a separate adventure. The expansion 
 pack also introduces Arcane formulas , which allow you to combine several runes and scrolls to 
 create powerful trinkets that grant varied bonuses to your character.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound, the Immortal Throne offers good performance, with more detailed 
 and attractive environments and further solid voice talent.
  
  I experienced no bugs in the game, and while the gameplay did experience a couple of small lags 
 when the screen was full of stuff going on, these weren't massively noticeable or detrimental to 
 the gaming experience.
  
  In all, I definitely think this expansion pack is worth getting if you are a fan of, or are planning 
 on buying Titan Quest. It offers a lengthy and entertaining adventure as well as providing retroactive 
 improvements to the initial adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mors_x70
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  This game is another clickathon fest with the mouse. You kill enemies-&gt; loot them-&gt; level up=repeat 
 till satisfied. It is basically your typical Diablo hack-n-slash game with no cinematics. . .
 
  
  Titan Quest: Immortal Throne is a well polished version of Titan Quest with a host of new additions.
 
  
  What I like:
  1.) I liked the addition of the dream mastery and I too felt it was a bit overpowered.
  2.) I also 
 liked being able to share items between characters which makes completing set items less harder.
 
  
  What I didn't like:
  1.) Night Time = makes the game slower
  2.) No cinematics
  3.) No NPC partners besides your pets
  4.) No Dialog options
  5.) Camera view (no camera control)
 
  6.) No player customization besides player's starting tunic color 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryGringo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  In terms of content and additions this expansion hits the mark adding many things improving the 
 game. It makes the game longer, ads additional levels to achieve, new gear and lots of little tweaks. 
 However, somewhere in the programming of this expansion things went wrong. A lot of people experienced 
 performance drops and choppy gameplay called rubberbanding after installing the expansion, even 
 people with top of the line rigs. Its adviced to check the forums and decide if you can live with 
 these problems before installing. I ended up uninstalling the expansion, thus deleting my high 
 level characters. However since then I have had a lot of fun playing the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I won't say too much about this expansion; I've already written a review of the main game itself. 
 And basically it's more of the same, which is a great thing to say!
  
  But it's not just the same; it's actually improved. The expansion has, in my opinion, nicer and 
 more detailed environments, much more weapons, the inclusion of spells to buy, and a pretty good 
 storyline. The money system is for the most part fixed. With the inclusion of spells, some of them 
 quite powerful, now you have something worth spending your money on.
  
  
  The expansion also acts as a major patch or even 1.1 version for the original game. It updates 
 the graphics, adding some cool stuff in the background and generally making it a more attractive 
 game.
  
  There are still some odd framerate issues in this game, which seems unexcusable, especially since 
 I'm running 640mb 8800gts, 2 gigs of RAM, which is way beyond the recommended specs.
  
  Basically, if you have the original main game, and you like it, then absolutely buy this. It's 
 well worth it. It basically does everything the original did right, then added some stuff and fixed 
 up things like money and inventory management.
  
  Complaints? Beside the odd framerate issue, the end boss is really easy. Perhaps that's just because 
 my character was powerful, but he seems just too easy.
  
  Worth buying? Yes, no question. If you're a fan of diablo, or Titan Quest, this expansion is well 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  The follow up to the great game Titan Quest adds so much to the original that it is just annoying 
 once you realise that playing the original without the cool little extras doesnt only make the 
 experience of completeing the original campaign harder but also greatly hinders your playing in 
 the new campaign.
  
  First off the additions such as the caravan and spells are great however the spells are annoying 
 to those who completed the game orginally. Because the spells require relics and charms which you 
 find randomnly throughout the game. However this is not helpful for those who went through the 
 game and thought of the relics as either a quick source of cash or a cheap upgrade to items, so 
 those who played the original before getting the expansion will find they lack most of the relics 
 and charms required and will either have to go back and search through the massive areas which 
 takes hrs! or they can give up on getting spells. -which is hard because once you begin to play 
 the expansion campaign you'll find that most the weapons and armour are fairly crap! so you need 
 those magical extras otherwise you face a hard fight!
  
  The world of Hades is a dark one which is cool and the monsters are not only a lot stronger but 
 also more scary in a way - as you'd expect for the Underworld. I enjoyed the new area especially 
 once you reace the field of Elysiem (sp?) which to those who have played will know its where dead 
 heroes go, its so fun because fighting hordes of monsters is A LOT more fun when fighting alongside 
 allies. My favourite bit is the frontlines of the demon territory where they have like a dark aura 
 surrounding them and you fight through a military encampment with towers and connecting bridge 
 things. Although i couldn't help thing the combat could have been improved by being on consoles 
 allowing for more strategic depth than 'click to kill' basics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Game Summary :
  
  Immortal Throne is an expansion pack for Titan Quest. It adds a whole new Act, monsters, loot, 
 a new equipement field, formulae which gives you the ability to create special items, a caravan 
 system, ability to share loot between your characters, a whole new mastery (Dream) and a lot more. 
 What's cool is that all this new stuff is accessible to the main Titan Quest campaign.. which makes 
 the original game a lot better than it was.
  
  The Good :
  
  The excellent graphic engine looks even better, loads of new stuff to acquire and kill, the new 
 act is fairly long and entertaining. The new Dream mastery owns! Lots of people playing it online. 
 Gives you a good challenge.
  
  The Bad :
  
  You must complete the main game before having access to the new Act. The voice overs are well done 
 but the dialogue drags on. The game gets framerate hiccups even if your PC is a beast. Highly addictive.
 
  
  Verdict :
  
  Get this game if you enjoyed TQ. If you haven't played TQ... get it with the expansion pack, makes 
 the main game a whole better (minus the framerate thing.. it seems to affect some people more than 
 others tho) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aama
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  I like almost everything about this game.
  
  Tons of loot. Armor and weapons look outstanding. Skills are balanced and well thought of. Repeatability 
 is so/so. While you can play a bunch of different characters and not get bored, the same quests 
 over and over will get tiresome.
  
  The expansion pack adds more quests skills weapons and monsters.
  Dream mastery was a great addition. 
 I didn't care to much for the nightmares artwork. The new monsters you find are well designed. 
 If you liked TQ then this expansion is a must.
  
  Most important is that this game is FUN to play. More hack and slash games need to be like this. 
 Can't wait for TQ2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Normally I don't review old (ish) games due to the difficulty in rating it compared to games of 
 the same age, but I will try this time :P (Also I got TQ Gold so I got both at once - consider 
 this a review of both the original and the expansion)
  
  First things first, Titan quest is well done both graphically and aurally, with decent texturing, 
 nice SFX and even grass swaying when you move through it. The music is suitable to the game and 
 the ambient sounds are enjoyable without being intrusive. Some people complain about the voice 
 acting but believe me, there is much worse out there (the alien voices in Nexus: The Jupiter Incident 
 spring to mind)
  
  Another nice touch is the physics - when a creature dies or an object falls, it bounces and flops 
 around in a relatively realistic manner (although you do get quirks such as bodies getting stuck 
 on the ends of trees) , and it can be extremely fun to use an explosive spell on a group of enemies 
 and watch them fly.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much what you'd expect and excellent in it's execution, with the monsters, 
 items and stats balancing out well for each section of the game. Also, like in Diablo 2, you get 
 boss and hero monsters which are extra tough or difficult but provide added experience points or 
 loot when slain.
  
  Now for the bad.
  
  Although my system admittedly isn't the most powerful, it should be able to run the game with little 
 difficulty on medium settings. Unfortunately, the frame-rate is choppy most of the time and although 
 it can be ignored, it does detract from the enjoyability of the game. I have talked about quirks 
 in the physics model, but I actually consider those to be amusing and believe they add rather than 
 detract from the game. The game is rather buggy - or was, should I say - since when I played the 
 (un-updated) demo there were texturing and gameplay bugs horrible enough to make you smash your 
 keyboard. Fortunately, once you have the full version and update it the problems seem to disappear.
 
  
  Overall I'd suggest this game for anyone who is a fan of the Hack 'n Slash genre, it may not have 
 the role-playing of games like Baldur's Gate, but it makes up for that lack in sheer mindless entertainment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabbikaat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I mean, sure every game in this class will always be compared to Diablo 2..... Diablo was the first 
 and the best. This game has lots of different monsters, magical beasts, magic users, and boulder 
 hurling giant Yeti like creatures.... to mention a few. Hundreds of different items and gold to 
 find.... and if you're lucky you can find a lovely matched set of stat enhancing (with element resistance 
 hopefully) weapons and armor! The locations are fabulous, haunting and even eerie as you travel 
 on foot..... hacking and slashing your way through snow covered rocky mountain paths, deep forests, 
 grasslands...... farm fields....... jungles and fetid looking swamp water.... oh and did I mention 
 the beaches? Really awe inspiring graphics, transparent water, footprints in the sand.... tide pools 
 with starfish.
  The ancient ruins and crypts are my favorites though..... I love to kill skeletons.... they make 
 a satisfying bone clicking noise when they die..... The music is great and changes depending on 
 the area you're traveling though.... I have to keep the sound turned down though as the sounds of 
 dying wails and screams seems to disturbs others....... I could tell you more but I must get back 
 to the game... I'm on my third character..... there are so many different skills to learn and excel 
 in and you can even take a pet with you to help with the fighting.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruqus21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I like to make this short and sweet for people looking to get this game (including the core game) . 
 If you like diablo 2 or know and like greek mythology... GET THIS GAME. Its excellent! Lots of 
 similarities to D2 as well a tad bit better character customization in terms of building your masteries 
 and placing attribute points and so forth. Making a character is kinda slim, but so was D2. Other 
 little nuances make this game great and slightly improved on the d2 formula. As well as one of 
 the best looking hack and slash games I've seen in a while. GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumace
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Technically Im reviewing Both Titan quest and Immortal thorne as I loaded them both together and 
 played them all the way through as one game.
  
  This game in alot of way is like Diablo and thats a good thing! It is very easy to jump in and 
 start destroying mobs within moments of hitting the play button for the first time. The game play 
 as you can tell is simple hack and slash, but that to me never loses its appeal as there are some 
 cool special moves and a variety of baddies to kill. Graphically this game looks pretty darn good!
 
  
  All that being said I ran into a few issues with the game play. Some of the bosses and even some 
 lower level Mobs in the later part of the game had one hit death powers and the health potions 
 did not recycle fast enough to compensate. So many times it was run in do as much damage as I can 
 Die and then rinse and repeat till mob was dead. Now Understandably this should be the case on 
 a Boss/ End boss Mob, however as I have mentioned later in the game especially getting closer to 
 hades palace low level mobs could also do this. As far as Technical Issues the game played Smooth 
 for the most part on My Windows Vista Machine with a PNY geforce 8800 GTS. However there was one 
 annoying glich that happen occasionally when I had the Map open the game would suddenly with out 
 any warning just shut down. That wouldnt be so bad if it wasnt for the fact that like diablo you 
 can't save your progression to where you were at. You get sent back to a rebirth fountain and ALL 
 the mobs regenerate. Overall however I enjoyed the game quite a abit and Im hoping they either 
 come out with another expansion or perhaps a Titan quest 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  It's all George Lucas fault. Ever since the release of Empire Strikes Back it seems that additional 
 material in any franchise now has to take a darker, more sinister approach in order to be taken 
 seriously. You only have to look at Prince of Persia: Warrior Within to see how this mentality 
 can unfortunately bring a blossoming series to its knees, leaving fans wondering why the directional 
 change was necessary in the first place. Luckily for Titan Quest fans, developer IronLore has woven 
 a highly logical and well thought-out reason for getting dark and nasty with us into the add-on 
 pack Immortal Throne.
  
  Continuing from the defeat of the Titan Typhos at the end of the original game, Immortal Throne 
 sees the player picking up arms once again. The storyline follows on directly from the original, 
 with a handy portal opening up for the hero to travel to the Greek city of Rhodes. Following some 
 brief story exposition and a few hours of traditional questing in the surrounding wilderness, players 
 will be asked to journey into the fabled underworld of Hades, the land of the dead. The overall 
 goal is to put an end to the dark army currently amassing with the intent of causing havoc amongst 
 the living. Your hero will have to cross legendary locations such as the River Styx (complete with 
 the boatman Charon in attendance, mythology fans) , through to the Elysian Fields and beyond. Being 
 that the series storyline is steeped in Greek legend and character, for once this dark new direction 
 doesnt seem out of place, and feels like a natural extension to the original storyline.
  
  Graphically the new underworld location really allows the Titan Quest engine to shine. Not much 
 has changed technically since the original instalment aside from a few new advanced post-processing 
 effects (it is less than a year old after all) , but the level of artistry seems to have taken a 
 definite step forward. It may seem a strange decision at first to present Hades in a series of 
 murky blue/grey/green colour schemes rather then the traditional fiery depiction, but in doing 
 so it allows the new content to take on a more diverse and ghostly appearance. This fits particularly 
 well given the amount of spirits or shades wandering around the environment looking for a way 
 to gain passage to Elysium or just to cross the River with the hope of being judged. The lighting 
 effects in particular are superbly atmospheric, with a genuine sense of menace coming from some 
 of the building architecture and the angular, piercing shadows cast as a result. Texturing throughout 
 is excellent and the new monster design (some 20 in total) is good, with some genuinely interesting 
 additions to the cast of foes.
  
  Audio is largely untouched, with similarly stirring music accompanying your journey throughout 
 (if a little too sparsely on default settings) , and some good environmental effects to boot. The 
 underworld segment again shines here, with some good echo effects and swirling wind. This accentuates 
 the atmosphere particularly in some of the more briefly visited locations such as the passage of 
 souls. Voice acting has unfortunately not been given any attention, with the same cast of seemingly 
 one female and one male voice actor from the original title. Work needed here for sure.
  
  The length of the additional campaign content is approximately the same as one of the chapters 
 from the original, so anywhere from 10-20 hours depending on how thorough you want to be with side-quests 
 and collecting loot. Dont expect any gameplay revelations, the play mechanics remain unaltered 
 and aside from a slew of additional side-quest opportunities you wont be seeing any progression 
 from the point and click combat already in place. Thats not necessarily a bad thing given the 
 original game was already well-defined within the genre. The boss battles have definitely been 
 given some attention and now entail some lengthy and tactical encounters even with high level characters. 
 The greater amount of challenge is definitely welcome for those with powerful heroes created from 
 the first game, as even the strongest new foes during the normal campaign can be defeated fairly 
 easily.
  
  Its worth noting at this stage that you will need to have a character thats progressed through 
 the entire storyline from the original title before you can even access any of the Immortal Throne 
 content. If youve formatted your hard drive in the meantime and lost your save game, youll need 
 to start right at the beginning again, something that could have been avoided easily by having 
 a pre-rolled character included to jump straight in to the new area, but for reasons unknown this 
 isnt the case.
  
  It wont be such a chore to start over however when you look at the raft of other improvements 
 and tweaks IronLore have included. Chief amongst these is a brand new Dream Mastery for players 
 to experiment with. This plays out without any specific offensive abilities, but largely as a series 
 of buffs to accentuate the power of your primary skillset, and as such is a welcome tactical addition 
 to the fold. This creates a total of 8 new combined classes, enough to keep any hardened player 
 busy. Scrolls are another new buff-based addition, and work as one-time durational enhancements 
 that come in a variety of offensive and defensive flavours. These can be expensive but can also 
 be supremely useful against the higher-level areas later on to tip the balance of an encounter 
 in your favour.
  
  The new Enchanters are the Titan Quest equivalent of crafting and allow you to create brand new 
 items from some of the rare materials that drop throughout the world. In order to use an enchanter 
 you must have a recipe, usually obtained from a monster drop or chest, and its corresponding resources. 
 These are then placed on an altar and your new artifact is forged. In practice, this works out 
 exactly like item creation in other RPGs and will be a handy resource for high-level players looking 
 to get the most out of the game. Get prepared for a search though. Throughout the entire time I 
 spent with the Immortal Throne I only encountered the resources to make one solitary item. Enchanting 
 is a nice addition but there is a definite case that such a staple feature should have been included 
 from the start.
  
  The last major addition is the Caravan. This works out as an item storage locker that shows up 
 in various locations throughout your travels and even in Hades (no specific explanation on offer 
 for that one) . It is useful to finally have somewhere to put items you may otherwise have to sacrifice 
 due to lack of space. Items in the caravan can even be accessed from other characters on the same 
 PC, so if you come across a nice sword for your alternative warrior character, place it in the 
 caravan and grab it later. Speaking of cluttered inventories, Immortal Throne now also includes 
 an auto-sort button for the various bags of mess youll be carrying around. Sometimes the best 
 additional features are the little ones.
  
  Overall Immortal Throne doesnt include a whole lot in the way of brand-new content but still offers 
 good value for money and is a classic example of how to produce an add-on pack to complement an 
 already well-received game. The core gameplay of the original is untouched and the storyline enhanced 
 by a well-crafted and unique additional chapter. There is definitely a case that some of the structural 
 improvements and additions should have found inclusion in the original title, but all of them are 
 well thought-out and implemented, adding longevity and replay value to an already deep title.
 
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published on strategyinformer. com
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  There's not much to say other than its a good game. Titan Quest fills all the needs for those of 
 us waiting for Diablo 3 and the expansion adds more to the original game.
  
  The graphics are good and the terrain is especially good. It doesn't improve on the original games 
 graphics but the new setting and environments are well thought out and do not get boring fast.
 
  
  The sound is excellent with a really epic feeling. It's really good.
  
  The gameplay is solid. Fun Hack &amp; Slash and the new mastery is very interesting. Other than 
 that its really standard.
  
  Get the expansion if you have the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest is a Action-RPG title that does many things right, but doesn't know how to extinquish 
 itself, its smooth gameplay, awesome graphics and psychics engine makes this game a worthwile play 
 for any fan of the genre.
  
  Gameplay/AI:
  Smooth, like any other Action-RPG's, you'll mostly do all the work with the mouse, and to cast 
 spells you mostly have to use the keyboard, if you play the demo of the game you'll feel that that 
 the game plays like Diablo, and that isn't a bad thing because it also adds new features or exucates 
 them in other ways to stand out from Diablo.
  
  The game holds a impressive amount of items, the downfall of this is the inventory, you can only 
 hold about a handfull of items and bagrats will find themself taking a few seconds dropping items 
 they already have or don't need.
  
  The games camera isn't bothersome, if you walk into ruins or buildings, the camera make the object 
 transparent to invisible to let you keep walking to you're objective.
  
  The game is also pretty long, it took me about 40 hours to complete the single player campaign.
 
  
  Enemies aren't tough, yet some like orcs do huge splash damage, the game will force you not to 
 run into him and try to do as much damage as possible, instead of that you need to dodge and attack 
 by running around the orc, this can be innovative but also repetive.
  
  Theres also a multiplayer, but it won't count in you're own leveled up and armoured warrior, you'll 
 start out with a basic custimized character thats just as strong as everybody else, with weapons 
 and leather armour laying around here and then.
  
  Graphics:
  This game is probably the first game that introduces ragdoll psychics to a Action-RPG, some attacks 
 look great, like a hammer combo that smashes on the ground and see enemies that surround you fly 
 in the air, collapsing against buildings or hang in tree's, its remarkable.
  
  While fighting bigger enemies like demon-like creatures who wear somekind of brassard, if you kill 
 them they'll drop all weapons and armour they have, not that you can pick them up or anything, 
 its just a good feature to see.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, from up close and far away, water looks amazingly scripted and so 
 do the enemies and buildings.
  
  The only con in the graphics area is the lack of custimization, its you're standard one character 
 with one piece of clothing piece.
  
  Story:
  Greek gods get attacked by mighty people of a evil empire, mostly introduces new evil gods and 
 such, you are somekind of spartan thats taking a horde of enemies, its you're average by-the-book 
 action-rpg.
  
  Is it a good Action-RPG:
  Solid title, not so good as Diablo games tho, you might want to check the demo out because this 
 game needs a decent computer to run it smoothyl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Coming off the solid success of its prequel, Titan Quest Immortal Throne adds a whole other chapter 
 to the already great mythological storyline. Coming out on March 5th of 2007, almost nine months 
 after its prequel, fans were wishing for a lot more of the same Diablo-style gameplay. Did the 
 developers deliver? Along with the new campaign, Immortal Throne adds a new profession and a host 
 of skills, plus fixes a few of the bugs that were left straggling after the patches for the first 
 game. Can Immortal Throne bring the same fun gameplay as its prequel?
  
  The story starts out right where the prequel left off. Youve just taken down the Titan Typhon, 
 and youre known throughout the land as Titans Bane. Nifty title eh, but all is not well in the 
 world. When Zeus and all of the other Olympians left the world of man to let man live on their 
 own, one god stayed behind. Seeing his chance to rule without any hindrances, Hades begins to wreck 
 havoc upon the world of man and its up to you to stop him. But youll have help along the way 
 of course, in the form of some great loot. Like the original game, Immortal Throne has an endless 
 surplus of weapons, armors, relics, etc. to find and grab, use, and sell along your way through 
 the Underworld. Youll come across quite a few pieces of Greek Mythology like you did with your 
 travels with the original game. People like Achilles, Agamemnon, and Odysseus, and places like 
 the River Styx, Elysium, and the throne room of Hades himself. Although the game isnt going to 
 teach you too terribly much about Greek Mythology, its a nice background to a linear gameplay 
 experience that keeps the game interesting for the 10-15 hours youll be spending with it your 
 first time through.
  
  New to the game is the caravan, which is a man who travels from check point to check point who 
 you can speak to, to hold onto different equipment for you and share the equipment between your 
 characters more easily. This is quite a convenience because of the fact that your different characters 
 will definitely come across different equipment throughout their travels and collecting sets of 
 equipment is a little bit easier. Also new to Immortal Throne is the Dream profession which you 
 can choose from in the beginning to wage war against your enemies. If I had to compare the Dream 
 profession to anything, I would say its a mix between a Psion and a Sage, being loads of fun and 
 also very interesting to intersperse with the other professions. With a host of new skills to choose 
 from, Immortal Throne has quite a lot of replay value to it adding yet another batch of different 
 classes you can become from the mix of the different professions. Iron Lore also added an auto-sort 
 feature to your inventory which is indeed helpful because of all the loot youll come across in 
 the long hours of playing this great campaign.
  
  Although youll be spending much of your time in the Underworld, you wont be seeing endless caves 
 and underground caverns that look similar hour after hour, youll instead be treated to some good 
 graphical entertainment. The engine used in the original Titan Quest really shines in Immortal 
 Throne and you can see the developers, Iron Lore, really took their time painting the environments 
 making them more atmospheric in the sense that if you could imagine the Underworld of old mythology, 
 this would definitely be a good comparison. All of the equipment that you put on looks unique and 
 original from each other and the enemies and characters that you come across throughout the games 
 single player campaign look superb, even close up. I know many Blizzard fans, after playing Titan 
 Quest, are hoping that Blizzard might take the graphical design a little towards Titan Quests with 
 its great spell effects and uniquely styled equipment, weapons, and relics. Even though the game 
 looks all bright and shiny, there are a couple problems with the actual engine. Sometimes when 
 playing, the game seems to stutter, but then speeds up for a few seconds to counteract the slowness. 
 This problem really wasnt present with the original Titan Quest and is even consistent with systems 
 well above the recommended requirements. Iron Lore has acknowledged that there is a problem and 
 have said that they do indeed have a fix for this problem, called rubberbanding, but really arent 
 in any position to release a patch until THQ, the publisher, gives them the okay, or rather a check 
 to pay them for it. Its not a terrible problem and it doesnt happen all the time, so youll either 
 get used to it or flail your fists in the air, its your choice. Much like the first game, Immortal 
 Throne has the same great physics engine where enemies and equipment fall to the ground almost 
 lifelike. This can provide some entertainment when battling hordes of enemies and watching them 
 drop one by one.
  
  The sound in the game is as good as its prequel. Different sounds of your enemies, whether theyre 
 coming at you full force, or dying upon your sword/spear and falling to the ground, sound great 
 and realistic. Voice acting is also pretty decent, and maybe people have complained of it in the 
 past, but I feel that it just adds a lot to the actual story and gameplay, and I really didnt 
 get annoyed by it like others. The musical score played throughout the background of the game while 
 youre traversing the Underworld is superb and really adds to whole epic feeling that the storyline 
 flows upon.
  
  The multiplayer within Immortal Throne is basically the same as its prequel, having the ability 
 to link up with other players to enjoy yourselves through the lengthy campaign. Either through 
 lan or over the internet, youll have hours of added gameplay with others being able to trade different 
 pieces of equipment with to complete your quests. Its not really anything different than the original 
 besides the fact that it does seem a little easier to join a game than it has in the past and this 
 is helpful.
  
  Overall, this is a great sequel to a great hack n slash game. Immortal Throne adds a lot to its 
 prequel in every way including a new profession, new skills, a new campaign, and a lot more music 
 and voice acting. Anyone who has had the chance to run through Titan Quest should pick this up; 
 adding 10-15 more hours of gameplay just on one difficulty alone could boost your hours of gameplay 
 to new heights. With some great graphics, great sound, and an entertaining storyline, Titan Quest: 
 Immortal Quest is really a game everyone should pick up to have fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoverboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  You cant properly talk about Titan Quest without also talking about Diablo II. However, when talking 
 about them together one must also acknowledge each games place: Diablo II is the bar, and all others, 
 including Titan Quest, are trying to meet or exceed that bar by entering the genre. As a fan of 
 the action-RPG genre Ive tried out quite a few Diablo II clones with mixed reactions, but never 
 has one met the bar set so many years ago. When Titan quest first launched it looked like it was 
 going to be that game, but fell short in a few areas (mainly loot management and cash overflow) . 
 However, with the inclusion of Immortal Throne, Titan Quest is finally a true Diablo II contender.
 
  
  The expansion changes the entire game, not just end-game for those who have already completed the 
 main quest line. The biggest, yet most simplistic change is the addition of a caravan in several 
 of the towns and villages that you will use as home base from time to time. While this may seem 
 like a small change, the overall impact on the game is that it actually keeps you out questing 
 for longer stretches of time, and lets you store up relic pieces and multiple armor sets without 
 constantly tinkering with your inventory. The end result is that overall, there now feels like 
 theres more to the game due to this one simple addition.
  
  Then theres the relic system (think of it like crafting epic items in WoW and youd not be too 
 far off Very rewarding) , the graphic updates to the entire game, the new class, and the new content. 
 Pursuing the new quest line alone is about 10  15 hours of extra play, not too shabby on its own, 
 however taken in as a total package, Titan Quest plus the Immortal Throne expansion finally lives 
 up to the first games potential: a contender for the Diablo II throne.
  
  If youre an action RPG fan, this is not a combo to be missed. Do yourself a favor and go get them 
 now. Hours of mouse-clicking await! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitusAndronicus
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 18, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  It's hard not to compare Titan Quest to its most direct influence Diablo 2. After all, Diablo 2 
 still stands today as the nearly undisputed champion of action-RPG's, and the similarities between 
 the two far outweigh the innovations that Titan Quest brings to the table. However, that doesn't 
 stop Titan Quest from being a blast to play.
  
  Titan Quest is essentially the story of a faceless hero tracking down three beasts of mythology 
 before they can unleash the sole remaining Titan upon the world. This nameless hero has the chance 
 to visit many places, including Greece, Egypt, and in the expansion pack, Hades itself. The player 
 character has the choice of becoming one of several classes, ranging from a melee-based warrior 
 to a spell-slinging wizard. These classes are called masteries, and through the course of the game, 
 the user can combine any two of these.
  
  The mastery system is designed well for the most part. Individual skills can be picked from various 
 branches of the masteries, meaning that you can have a Nature mastery with a concentration on summoning 
 wild beasts, or a Defense mastery that turns you into a colossus. Many of the skill branches are 
 appealing, meaning that the user has lots of choices. Don't be overwhelmed by the choices though, 
 as you always have the option to visit a mystic and shift points around.
  
  Certain classes will have a much easier time with certain aspects of the game. Bosses can be extremely 
 problematic for some, while others will blow through the high-end mobs without difficulty. Some 
 more tweaking on this would have been appreciated.
  
  For those that love loot-hunting, this is the game for you. There are tons of weapons, pieces of 
 armor, and trinkets to collect. The expansion adds lots more items as well as artifacts, and this 
 alone makes the game immensely replayable. Like Diablo 2, there are various sets that you can collect 
 for added bonuses.
  
  Graphically, the game is nothing to sneeze at. The graphics are crisp, effects like spells are 
 decent, and there's a great amount of variety in the creatures and people that you will encounter. 
 One added bonus is nearly non-existent loading times for those with mid-to-high range graphics. 
 This is a game that should hold up well throughout the next few years graphically.
  
  The sound is impressive, highlighted by some fantastic music scattered throughout the game. It 
 adds a real flavor to the game, and adds just that little extra oomph to its settings and locales. 
 The sound effects are decent, with the usual clanks and thuds of weapons hitting armor or bone. 
 You'll quickly learn to distinguish the individual sounds of dropped items, as each class (potions, 
 broken equipment, regular equipment, jewelry, etc.) makes a different sound when it drops. The 
 voice acting is okay, but certain voice actors just don't seem as enthused as others and it tends 
 to clash a bit.
  
  If you've played Diablo or any similar game, the control scheme will seem comfortably familiar. 
 For all others, there might be a few minutes of adjustment, but there's nothing overly complex. 
 The ability to distinguish between drops is a welcome change.
  
  With all these positives, it's hard not to recommend Titan Quest or its expansion. The developers 
 took a if it's not broke, don't fix it approach to the classic Diablo 2 gameplay, and while they 
 don't win any points for originaltiy, the game is undeniably fun and appealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Practacly this expansion is similar with Lord of Destruction because it brings a new realm &amp; 
 a new class ... basicly after you defeat Typhoon you will continue your quest to defeat HADES because 
 after zeus mentionioned that he will not interfere with humans again ... Hades took advantege &amp; 
 started to attack the human race. If you have your old save game with your old char ... its good 
 in away because the game lets you continue from there in to the new realm but the onlu problem 
 is that because of the new monsters &amp; items &amp; other stuff you will se that you can not 
 ressist the new powerfull monster so i recoment you start the game from the biggining with all 
 the new stuff integrated . The graphics are the same but better &amp; with some improved effects 
 but the same artistic look ... the gameplay is still chalenging especially because of the new mosnters 
 &amp; the sounds are great ! If you have enjoyed the first game you will sure need this 1one two 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazegrenade
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Awsome game. loved it, great enjoyment when playing throught the intense lvls of the game. i found 
 the wide range of characters and chracter builds very intertaining be quite difficult to get a 
 hang of selecting the right masteries that match for a good out come. over all the game is a big 
 win in my book as THQ and IRONLORE come together to make a very impressive game. found that the 
 hours of gameplay wernt wasted and i wouldnt have choosen any other game to play instead of this 
 unless its from the street fighter series but thats just me. very addictive, i found myself playing 
 for about 5-8 hours a day, while trying to fit other things in but still tried to play as much 
 as possible because i just couldnt get enough of the game. The graphics impressed me alot, with 
 teh option to play close up or from more of a birds eye view. the land scapes seem very detailed 
 and where very fun to play in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 2, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Anyways the story arc picks up exactly after the death of Typhus in the ruined circle 
 of Gods on Olympus and the story goes on from there. You will find the doorways to Hades open to 
 you to explore. There are several new quite large areas. Each of which is full of interesting quests 
 and scarey monsters. Well there is a quite bunch of new weapons and things to do and collect but 
 one of the coolest new thing that is added is the new Dream mastery skill set. This is a very versatile 
 set of skills that allow you to dish out lots of damage to groups of your enemies. The Dream Master 
 also gains access to a flying eye pet called the Nightmare. It can also be used in comat. Also 
 the inventory management has also been improved in the game so it's easier for you to manage your 
 idems. There are also artifacs to collect to make your character more powerful. So pretty much 
 you journey from Olympus through the River Styx, the tower of judgment, the wars in Elysium, and 
 finally on to Hades' palace, Along the way, you will have 26 side-quests to complete, as well as 
 the multiple-inter-twined main plot. Graphics: The graphics are pretty good. The whole killing 
 and effects look pretty good and spells going off looks good. Also Some intering new designs but 
 not improved in terms of quality from the first game.
  
  Sound: Like the first game, the sound is quite good. The sound effects sound the way they should 
 sound, the voice acting is also very well done and some of the new soundtrack is quite nice and 
 it suits the gameplay and the envroment.
  
  Value: All in all this is quite a fun game. But you better hope you have a powerful machine to 
 smoothly run all of these new effects. Titan Quest (and Immortal Throne along with it) dose not 
 let you off the hook when it comes to CPU and graphics card usage. So I give this game 8.0 out 
 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  I have played more 150 games so far but I can say this game is best in the whole RGP hack-and-slash 
 category,
  
  Good :
  
  1. this expansion is much more sable than the original game
  2. sable frame rate
  3. hundreds of different items which makes the game more satisfying and attractive 
 than ever.
  3. the game is more challenging than the original one and more exciting foes 4. restoring items (relics 
 , weapons ) is one of its best features which I am sure many wished to have it during the game 
 play.
  5. you do not have to spend too much money to upgrade you pc.
  
  Bad :
  
  1. NO ADDITIONAL QUEST IN ORIGIAL SECTION?????????? WHY?????
  2. Nothing happened to character 
 design!?!?!?! same simple chars ???
  
  Have fun, I am sure you won't waste your money if you buy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest Immortal Throne is a awesome expansion of a already superb awesome original Titan Quest 
 . Immortal Thrones story starts from where Titan Quest story ended . In the expansion will find 
 new merchant types, new equipment types, an entire new mastery, and entirely new main adventure, 
 composed of entirely new levels and monsters including side quests. Another good thing is if you 
 have saved games from original Titan Quest , Immortal Throne directly imports ur previous character 
 ,skills , levels ,progress from the original to the expansion, so u don't've to start a new character 
 .But Immortal throne has less gameplay hours than original Titan Quest as its a expansion. But it'll 
 give u more gameplay joy than previous Titan Quest. The games Graphics / Visuals , AI , soundquality 
 remains the same beautiful as of the original Titan Quest . Multiplayer is included too . This 
 game is a must buy for Titan Quest lovers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koustav
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  IRON LORE develops the the TITAN QUEST as the diablo III. So if u hv enjoyed playing diablo the 
 go 4 this game blindly. Though the game misses the complexity of neverwinter nights series, it 
 evolves successfully with the old genre of hack n slash gameplay. With gr8 graphics this game provides 
 some interesting gameplay with quite good (not great) storyline. This game can b more interesting 
 if 1. there are some more figures depending upon the base class. 2. there are some more magical 
 potions. 3. there are enough ability to spend the money. Because its just piled up. 4. the frame 
 rate is more stable during night hours in high settings.
  but whatever, the game is gr8 to play and its just fun to smash the numerous no. of monsters with 
 ur arm (not with ur brains) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellScream1359
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Well ... First of all ... I have to say the immortal throne the rare one expansion ... Because 
 of great change to the original game this expansion is the best ... but i have one question ... 
 why original game do not have all of this expansion ... if so the original game going to gold forever 
 like Diablo ... Real brand new equipment , expandable stash , artifact making , charm separating 
 and the great one best balance to the game make it easy to play with some boring classes like defense 
 and so on ... new class , Dream is the good and powerful class that make me think the developers 
 reach the users opinion about all of the game ... good expansion nothing more ... IronLore Going 
 To Be Perfect ... MoonWalker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Last year's titan quest was a great Action RPG game following in the wake of other games such as 
 the DIablo series and Sacred. Now likewise its expansion seams to follow suit. I'm not going to 
 go into all the things that Iron Lore did right with the expansion because if you have played Titan 
 Quest than you know what its like. It just offers more hack/slash goodness.
  
  My first complaint is a rather minor and for some people irrelevant. When you start up Immortal 
 Throne the first time it will import all your TQ Characters into IT format. If you have a Dedicated 
 Typhon farmer that means that the character will spawn in the NEW area instead of at the rebirth 
 shrine before Typhon. This isnt so bad that is unforgivable, its just a minor annoyance that needs 
 be dealt with.
  
  Another thing is I would have liked to see are new skills for the existing professions alongside 
 the new Dream mastery. Most of the new content is towards the end of the game so mostly people 
 are going to continue their previous characters before jumping into a new one. New 'Elite' skills 
 that can only be used at lvl 65+ (or after completing Legendary Difficulty) would have been a welcome 
 addition for those older characters.
  
  Now I know the problems publishers face with testing PC games. with so many different set ups its 
 impossible to guarantee a game will work for everyone. That being said when a game DOES work than 
 so should everything in it. Instead I found a bug which has since prevented me from completing 
 a quest. Instead of going up and fighting a Crab Boss whenever the creature is within draw distance 
 the game will crash to the desktop. This has occurred on 2 systems with different setups.
  
  Finally the new content is just too short. For $30 I would have expected a larger area than 
 was provided with perhaps a random dungeon generator thrown in for extra replay value. Instead 
 its another linear progression with very little off the beaten path action. Overall if you were 
 a fan of SINGLE PLAYER Titan Quest and want more of the same, this is an alright investment of 
 time and money. If you skipped Titan Quest last year because it just wasnt your thing than neither 
 is the expansion. Those seeking a new universe to play in after coming off Diablo, Sacred, and 
 Fate will find a nice layover in TQ and IT, but dont expect it to change your opinion on the genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhezekim
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Titan Quest Immortal Throne is a great addition to an already great game, Titan Quest. TQIT added 
 a lot of things that I wish Diablo had done. The game developers took their time and got it right 
 with this expansion, good job developers, I give you an A+. I highly recommend this game if you 
 enjoy a good hack and slash Diablo engine that has been far improved on and surpassed by Ironlore 
 and THQ. You are able to transfer items from one of your single player characters to another by 
 using the caravan, you can also store stuff there. I like the idea of transferring items because 
 when I am on a quest and find an item that my character can't use I would always wish I could transfer 
 it to one of my other characters, well with this game you can do that. Plus they have added scrolls 
 you can buy and cast and you can make artifacts to add to your character but you have to build 
 artifacts by combining three items, for example, a completed relic like Essence of Anubus Wrath, 
 a completed item like 5 carapices give you Vile Icore, and then buy a scroll, then you go to the 
 alter and combine them and before you know it, you have created an artifact. This expansion has 
 so many different and exciting upgrades it is hard to write about them all, just buy this game, 
 you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game for about 4 months now, I loved the normal game because it totally reminded me 
 of Diablo 1, and Diablo 2. I loved that game for a long period of time. Now this makes me fell 
 like a Diablo 3 game. I never found a game that was just as good as diablo 2.
  
  If you study enough you willl find out that almost every RPG game made after the year 2000 was 
 a cheap copy of Diablo 2, because no game used the same stuff that Blizzard used to creat Diablo 
 2, even tho this game felt like Diablo 2, which is another copy of Diablo 2, it was just good enough 
 fell like it was made by the same creators of Diablo 2. Diablo 2 created a revolution in the rpg 
 world, Diablo 2 is so far the best selling game to date, with 15 million copys sold. Titan quest 
 with about 2 million it is pretty decent of a game. I loved this game and i am working on completing 
 it. Now that there is a Expantion, this game is even more fun, and i can play it for even longer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thneng
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Before i play this game, my friends told me, it wasn't as rock as Diablo II : lord of destruction. 
 because i never play the original game - titan quest. After i saw the game play movie that i download 
 from gamespot website. i felt that it can fulfill my need, all i want is a exciting action Role-playing 
 game. So i just try this game, ignore my friends opinion... i found that this game really awesome, 
 the creature, weapons, especially the skill that needed is suitable for all character, it is all 
 in one class, the different it better than D2 is it can learn all the skill ni matter who you playing 
 as...
  now i spend almost 8 hours in this game, i just start playing after came back from work...
  i 
 have try many character and i think all of them are good... no, it wasn't good, it is best... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to this expansion coming out for awhile since I had first heard about 
 it and it definately did not disappoint me. I played with one of my original characters a A Nature 
 Hunter character through the hades chapter and it was alot of fun. Some of the new monsters are 
 quite difficult and one optional boss the white spider I was unable to kill. The monsters all look 
 really great and are very well designed like the ones from the original. The enviroments in the 
 hades chapter are varied and very cool. Through most of the first half its mostly outdoors areas 
 before you enter hades. The hades areas most are dark as you would expect except for elisium which 
 is bright green gardens. The new stuff like dream mastery I have not had a chance to use yet but 
 my next playthrough I will make a dream character. There are also caravans now for storing important 
 items you dont have use for at the moment and a great addition is the ability to transfer items 
 between characters in the caravan. I found some dream mastery items that will be of use when i 
 start again. There are also scrolls you can buy which are very powerful mostly for a one time effect.. 
 They take alot of time to charge after one use so its pretty much one use per battle for a scroll. 
 Overall I really liked the original game and the expansion just makes the game even better.. its 
 still a repetitive game but its becoming one of my favorites.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cythwydd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  A lot of little things added to th game experience, but some of them, like the caravan, -should- 
 have been in the original version, not added on in the expansion. Also, the caravan doesn't follow 
 you around to every town, just some, so you find yourself teleporting back to a caravan spot just 
 to drop off a particularly nice piece of gear.
  
  The transfer box is an excellent idea, but you can easily use it to twink your younger characters 
 as even in the china area, some of the items you find can be used by level 12 characters.
  
  Overall, it adds a good amount of content for not too big a price tag.
  
  It's a solid 
 expansion for a solid enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  I'll probably get flamed for this but what the hell, you only live once. Besides, I'm not the idiot 
 giving 1.0 or 10.0 score reviews. I'll be brief, because most of the meat still belongs to the 
 original Titan Quest - read reviews of that first, before trying to decide about Immortal Throne. 
 You don't buy bucket seats if you own a bicycle, not a car, do you? Same applies here. You need 
 Titan Quest to be able to play Immortal Throne.
  
  This early in the patch cycle, there's not too much to comment on. Yes, installing Immortal Throne 
 patches Titan Quest (to v1.30) , yes, you can still create and play non-expansion characters, yes 
 there is one new mastery (Dream) , yes, there is a new act, and yes, you have to beat the last act 
 of the original game to enter it.
  
  Gameplay mechanics are not modified much. Aside from a few new item types (e. g. scrolls) , most 
 of the changes appear to be cosmetic. Playing the same class combinations as in the original Titan 
 Quest gives you the exact same experience in Immortal Throne. Safe to say, it's a decent expansion 
 which builds up on the base instead of rocking the boat.
  
  However, the nagging issues which dogged the original Titan Quest are still present in Immortal 
 Throne. I dislike harping on technical non-gameplay issues, since to me gameplay is paramount. 
 However, Immortal Throne does particularly poorly in this regard. To put it short, many players 
 experience a rubber banding effect, whereby the game will 'lag' for several seconds, and then rush 
 through high speed the next few seconds to compensate. Needless to say this can be a game-breaking 
 experience. The jury is still out on this one as to the cause, though, so head on over to the official 
 titanquest. net forums if you want to follow developments. Personally, I didn't get this problem, 
 although I admit my computers are fairly hefty, and I do run the game on medium-low settings.
 
  
  Holding down shift still moves you if you happen to click over friendlies, so if you're a bow or 
 staff user, sorry, you'll still have to live with occasionally running into the melee when you 
 meant to fire. I don't know understand how hard it is to make shift mean  
 I'm only an amateur hack when it comes to coding, but I think it'd be easier to simply not move 
 the character whenever shift is pressed. Why you would still move is mystifying.
  
  Items can still drop off the world, although with the vertical check removed you can actually still 
 get them IF you can move over to the item name when you hold down Z or Alt. Items which roll away, 
 e. g. into a river, will still be lost forever. This fix also introduced some players to a bug in 
 which they could not move while highlighting items, forcing them to hunt and peck. Wince.
  
  Killing speed (hp balance) is still not fixed. Partying a magic-user with a melee character 
 will STILL cause poor mr. melee to lag behind his mage friend with a seemingly 1:10 kill ratio. 
 By the time you finish chopping down the first three enemies who swarmed your face, your mage friend 
 would have levelled the entire monster camp. With the Dream mastery pet's pet-buffing abilities, 
 now even summoners can out-kill melee characters. I tried a Dream/Nature hybrid, and maxed the 
 pets - no skillpoints in ANY spell, not even healing, and I used a sword/shield combo instead of 
 a staff. Result: my pets still wasted anything that moved, and my Warfare/Dream teammate was reduced 
 to picking up loot.
  
  I said I'd be brief, so there it is. If you're expecting zomfg teh awesome r0x0rz! improvements, 
 no - Immortal Throne is essentially still Titan Quest, with a few minor adjustments; a facelift, 
 as it were. If you enjoyed Titan Quest, you'll most likely enjoy Immortal Throne - unless you happen 
 to fall victim to the various performance issues, that is (stay tuned on the titanquest. net forums!) . 
 If you didn't like Titan Quest, Immortal Throne will not change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fastex
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  you start with nothing and grow up to the best gladiator male or female of the world or you can 
 be too a magier you can chose wat ever you want but i propose to be first a gladiator because its 
 easyer and you have more time too learn the game .But you can also be a bow master or spear master 
 .And you can chose very much skills fire master light master ice master defense master and much 
 more and you have very good quests too complete and you become a reward for every quest that you 
 complet .First oyu become not soo much but enough but later you become very much between 10.000 
 - 100.000 gold coins and very special items so play and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boctober
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Well, I bought the first Titan Quest when it came out. I only got to Level 9 with my character 
 due to the time it takes to level up, the time it takes to use certain weapons based on ability 
 and skill points, and the game does stutter at times while playing. The stuttering or delay is 
 not bad enough where you can't play, it is just plain annoying. The only thing my machine lacked 
 was a 3GHZ processor, but I am running the minimum system requirement at 2GHZ. I have now read 
 where other players are having the same problem for unknown reasons. But, I buy the expansion hoping 
 to play the new areas, I had to think again quick. You have to play through the first Titan Quest 
 completely. Your character has to be a level 30 or better to start in the new areas for Immortal 
 Throne. The game actually begins at the end of the first one. Now, it does allow you to play as 
 if you are in the original, but you cannot pick up items when they are dropped and forget going 
 multiplayer. Your character will actually transfer to the expansion with all stats, weapons, etc. 
 Now, I know once I can get through the original game, the expansion will be worth the buy totally. 
 But, for now, there is not much I can do with it except work hard through the orginal first to 
 get to the expansion.
  
  It just floors me that THQ would do this. When playing Diablo 2, Starcraft, or the Warcraft games, 
 the expansions always allowed you to play them whether you went through the first game or not. 
 I just felt I was mislead with the word expansion. This game should have been a sequel to run on 
 it's own just as the first did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damoncecil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  My hours of gameplay with TQ just got longer! This is a perfect game for Diablo players. Even though 
 the basics were stripped straight from DB, I am ok with that. Graphics are great and the additions 
 in immortal throne make the game that much more interesting. I played the game with my lvl 53 player 
 from TQ, but as soon as I was done, I couldn't help starting a new game with a fresh lvl 1 character 
 just to enjoy all of the new stuff! Great time, great game. Cant wait til Blizzard gets off their 
 rumps and makes a Diablo 3, but this is a great fix until then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  This is one of the prettiest games I have ever played. Be wary however this beauty comes at a price 
 and you will need pretty heafty hardware to play it as its meant to be seen. There are also some 
 problems since release in regard to rubber banding and stuttering, but these will hopefully be 
 fixed in a patch. I did not have any performance problems with the orginal game. I would have given 
 it a 10 here, but lack of gore and performance problems wieghed it down.
  
  Sound. Not bad, decent voice acting just nothing to write home about.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  Click, 
 click , click reminisent of the diablo series, but insanely addictive. Dont fix what isnt broken. 
 Definately the best diablo clone ever, and better than Diablo itself in my honest opinion. The 
 class system has recieved some critisism but I think its great and gives you a wide variety of 
 options.
  
  Value
  
  4 acts, 3 difficulty levels and 45+ classes. There is plenty to do, great value.
  
  I would 
 have scored it even higher if they had fixed the stuttering by release 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  It definitely improves on Titan Quest, but Titan Quest is still a pretty mediocre albeit probably 
 the best hack and slash well until silverfall comes out. Its no diablo 2 thats for sure, the skills 
 are bland and unimpressive and not fun to use, they have gay cool down times so u cant just lay 
 waste to yer enemies by onslaughting them with skills, its..... lackluster, no blood, which is a 
 HUGE let down, HUGE, its just not as fun to kill monsters when it doesnt look like yer killing 
 them. The graphics are nice, nicely detailed world, it just coulda been so much better, sad. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
