-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Title Bout Championship Boxing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/titleboutchampionshipboxing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 5.3, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 40 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Out Of The Park Developments
Genre: Boxing
Date:     Dec 8, 2003

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Title Bout Championship Boxing is an admirable, intricate simulation that you could call lovingly 
 crafted... if the sport in question wasn't all about punching people in the face. 

  Matching greats from different eras has long been one of the biggest fantasies of boxing fans. 
 They still argue about how Joe Louis would have stacked up against modern competition and whether 
 or not Mike Tyson, in his prime, could have gone toe-to-toe with that guy who "floated like a butterfly 
 and stung like a bee." And now some of these questions can be answered, at least theoretically, 
 courtesy of Title Bout Championship Boxing. This text-based sports management simulation from boxing 
 experts Jim and Tom Trunzo and Out of the Park Developments is an ode to the sweet science, and 
 it's one of the most intricate and accurate sims of the sport ever released.  

          Joe Louis may have been the greatest heavyweight in the first half of the 20th century, 
 but he's in for a tough bout when it comes to facing off against a successor like Muhammad Ali. 
     

  Essentially, Title Bout is centered around asking, "What if?" Gameplay modes see you setting up 
 single bouts, fight cards, single- or double-elimination tournaments that feature as many as 16 
 boxers, and lengthy bout schedules. There are no career or role-playing options as seen in most 
 sports management sims, although you can input your name, and you can track wagering on bouts. 
 This can make fight cards a little more interesting, because you begin with a mere $10,000 stake 
 and dreams of Jimmy the Greek grandeur. However, there are no in-game incentives to earning cash 
 at the betting table.  

  Instead, your incentive for playing is provided by an incredibly comprehensive boxing encyclopedia. 
 You choose opponents from a list that encompasses a century of boxing history and includes nearly 
 3,700 fighters. All eras and all weight classes are represented (and there are even some top women, 
 like Laila Ali and Christy Martin) , so you can stage bouts pitting today's stars against the greats 
 of yesteryear. Anyone who's anyone is in the game, including all-time legends like Muhammad Ali, 
 Joe Louis, Sugar Ray Robinson, and Jake LaMotta, in addition to contemporary fighters like Mike 
 Tyson, Lennox Lewis, and Roy Jones Jr. You can also throw fighters into the ring at different stages 
 of their careers, from beginning to postprime. So if you've ever wondered how a young Cassius Clay 
 would have fared against the older and wiser Muhammad Ali, this is your chance to find out.  

 
  Each boxer is rated in more than 30 categories (all of which can be edited) that run the gamut 
 from hitting power and chin versus knockdown to killer instinct and conditioning. Training before 
 fights can enhance categories like power, hand speed, and tactical skills. The game even tracks 
 the percentage of punch types thrown, letting you know if your guy favors jabs, hooks, crosses, 
 uppercuts, or combinations. These stats make a huge difference during bouts. Get in tough with 
 Rocky Marciano or Roberto Duran and their high killer instinct ratings might kick in. You need 
 to cover up quickly or risk hitting the canvas in short order. Take a postprime Mike Tyson into 
 the late rounds and you've got a good chance of putting him down because of his low endurance score. 
 All in all, fighters perform just like you expect them to.  

  And Title Bout doesn't stop at just the combatants. It also includes 94 cornermen, 298 judges, 
 78 referees, and 13 announcers that are all drawn from boxing's past and present. Want top trainer 
 Lou Duva and legendary cutman Johnny Tocco in your corner? Up for the controversial calls of referee 
 Luis Guzman? Interested in having Michael Buffer call the action? You can have it all here. Each 
 is rated according to real-life performance as well, which means that Duva is one of the best motivators 
 in the business, while Guzman tends to be very strict and will seemingly stop a fight as soon as 
 someone gets cut. Judges even have adjustable bias settings that determine if they favor the higher-rated 
 fighter, the hometown favorite, the champion, or a particular style of boxing.  

          Now here's a boxing card actually worth those exorbitant pay-per-view fees.     

  Bouts 
 themselves show that the developers at Comp-U-Sports and Out of the Park Developments really understand 
 the complexity of boxing. Take over a corner during a fight and you get to run the trainer and 
 the cutman between rounds. Each has 60 seconds of time to allocate to reducing swelling, fixing 
 cuts, imparting strategy, and giving pep talks. Your fighter's condition is illustrated via a graphic 
 of his face that illuminates trouble areas. Whenever a cut opens up or the area around an eye begins 
 to swell, the graphic changes. Bars indicate how bad the swelling is around each eye, and additional 
 sections detail other information, such as fatigue, whether the fighter is still carrying his hands 
 high, and nose and lip conditions.     

  There usually isn't much to do during rounds -- you can't shout instructions into the ring or throw 
 in the towel -- but occasionally something will happen that calls for direct action. If your man 
 gets into trouble after a knockdown, for instance, a window might pop up asking if you want him 
 to cover up to try to weather the storm. Varied, textual play-by-play keeps you informed about 
 when your input is required, although at times the commentator is a little scattered. What you 
 read isn't always reflected in points or on scorecards, so you can think you're winning a fight 
 when you're actually falling behind instead.  

          Detailed play-by-play and audio effects bring bouts to life. The crowd even picks a favorite 
 to support.     

  Decisions made between rounds, however, are crucial. If cuts or swelling are getting bad, you have 
 to devote a lot of your trainer and cutman's time to patching up these trouble spots. If your fighter 
 seems to be dragging, additional motivation may be necessary. And choosing the right strategy is 
 vital, too. Have a tough round and you may need to send your fighter out covering up or fighting 
 outside defensively. Have a good round and you might want to send him out by having him go for 
 it all in hopes of delivering a knockout with an opening flurry of punches.  

  All in all, this feels like boxing. Staying on top of the action in the ring, managing tricky cuts 
 above the eyes, and keeping an eye on the points awarded and the scorecards all combine to form 
 a deeply satisfying re-creation of the real sport. The depth presented by this strategic system 
 is tremendous, allowing you to get right in to the corner for every bout. About the only complaint 
 about the game is its absence of career-based modes of play. This makes Title Bout seem somewhat 
 restricted. Staging fantastic bouts, enjoying incredible cards that feature a dozen or more legends, 
 and participating in tournaments that will allow you to see who really is the greatest is fascinating, 
 but it's not as fascinating as it would be to slip on the gloves of a young boxer to try to carve 
 out a niche for yourself in boxing's pantheon of greats. It's hard to guide Joe Louis through a 
 bout -- no matter how impressively realized -- without thinking about how much more amazing it would 
 be to take over the entire career of "The Brown Bomber."  

  Visuals are also lacking. The game is plain in appearance, with unadorned names and numbers turning 
 most screens into vaguely confusing jumbles. At least the interface, as a whole, is easy to navigate. 
 Boxer information screens do feature pictures, but a single picture of an out-of-focus pugilist 
 is used to represent everybody. This design philosophy works better when simming bouts, because 
 the blurry graphics present the illusion of motion when the boxers are fighting in the ring, and 
 the overall effect is something akin to a moving LeRoy Neiman painting.  

  Sound is a fair bit better than the average sports management sim. Crowd noise livens up every 
 fight, and the audience even reacts to what's taking place in the ring with cheers and boos. Expect 
 to hear it when you tell your fighter to both stick to defense and clinch whenever possible. The 
 slap of glove against flesh is also convincingly brought to life, as is the referee's count whenever 
 a fighter is knocked down. Furthermore, the announcer's call when the decision is read after the 
 bout is also realistically handled.  

          Sometimes you need to get involved during rounds. Better give      

  Overall, Title 
 Bout Championship Boxing is an admirable, intricate simulation that you could call lovingly crafted... if 
 the sport in question wasn't all about punching people in the face. Anyone who appreciates boxing 
 will be enthralled by the pure way that it re-creates ring life, and those who don't know Jersey 
 Joe Walcott from Joe Frazier may gain a greater appreciation for what takes place inside the squared 
 circle.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
