-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TMNT
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tmntthemovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Platform-heavy gameplay that's interestingly designed.
 Attractive art style.
 Solid voice work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera and controls conspire to make some sequences overly obnoxious.
 Combat is dumb as a stump.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 5.4, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 367 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Mar 20, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
TMNT has some legitimately neat platforming sequences, but it's more frustrating than a kid-oriented 
 game ought to be, and the combat is completely brain-dead. 

  Think of Ubisoft's first attempt at a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles game as Prince of Persia for 
 the kiddie set. Based on the upcoming CG Turtles movie, TMNT earns this descriptor because it plays 
 a whole bunch like developer Ubisoft Montreal's most recent Prince of Persia games, relying heavily 
 on platforming over fighting. In this case, Montreal has lessened the difficulty of the various 
 jump puzzles that Price of Persia is so well known for (seemingly to make it playable for the younger 
 audience that's likely to latch onto the film) , yet the game is still far more frustrating than 
 it ought to be, due to a faulty camera system and sometimes unreasonable controls. Toss in that 
 the combat is only slightly more complex than the legal-aged TMNT arcade beat-'em-up Konami and 
 Ubi recently rereleased on the Xbox Live Arcade, and what you've got is a game that doesn't properly 
 suit any individual audience.  

          The platforming sections take up the bulk of the game, and they'd be pretty cool if it 
 weren't for that pesky camera.     

  Since the  TMNT  movie isn't out yet, it's impossible to gauge exactly how much the game has in 
 common with it. Suffice it to say, it features all the principal characters (though seemingly none 
 of the film's celebrity voice talent) and touches on some of the same basic themes as the film. 
 The whole game is told through a disjointed form of flashback narration, with the titular Turtles 
 each chiming in at random intervals to explain some chunk of the story in the past tense (usually 
 skipping over details that might actually make the whole thing make sense) . The dialogue and voice 
 acting is fine for what it is, but as far as providing a satisfying Turtles tale, you're out of 
 luck here.  

  If you're more accustomed to Konami's last few attempts at the Turtles license, you're in for an 
 awakening with TMNT. In some ways, it's a good awakening, in the sense that this game isn't altogether 
 terrible and actually has its fun moments. Those fun moments come from the hop-happy platforming 
 sequences that make up roughly two-thirds of the gameplay. Each stage is laid out in such a fashion 
 as to force you to jump, double jump, wall jump, wall run, flip, and monkey bar your way through. 
 Some of the stages are quite elaborate, relying on a lot of quickly timed movements and jumps that 
 are reminiscent of what the recent Prince of Persia games have been all about. Some areas are built 
 for specific Turtles to navigate, like walls that Raphael can climb using his sai and longer jumps 
 that require Michelangelo to use his nunchakus like helicopter blades to float over. All told, 
 there's a surprising amount of intricacy to the level designs in TMNT. Of course, the relative 
 difficulty of these levels has been scaled back significantly, and none of the stages take more 
 than 10 or 15 minutes to blow through.  

  It was good of the developers to scale the difficulty back, as this is clearly a game aimed at 
 a younger audience. The problem is that they didn't quite scale it back enough. The main frustrations 
 with the platforming sequences stem from the fixed camera the game uses. Because of the way it 
 angles shots, it sometimes makes it impossible to properly judge the distance of a jump, leaving 
 you to guesstimate and trial-and-error your way through certain sections. There are also times 
 where the controls can get away from you. You're jumping around so quickly and so often that you 
 may find yourself instinctively pressing the jump button too many times, ultimately overshooting 
 your goal. Frustrations like this are palpable enough to the standard gaming audience, let alone 
 younger players.  

  On the flip side, the combat mechanics have been scaled back to the point of making them incredibly 
 dull. You really only have one main attack button, as well as a jump-kick button that operates 
 independently of the primary combo system. Each Turtle only has one combo to speak of. It's typically 
 a lengthy combo, but it's the same combo again and again. There are special tag-team moves that 
 come into play from time to time, where by holding down a button, you can call in a fellow Turtle 
 to pull off some flip-happy, electrifying attack that takes out a bunch of bad guys at once. This 
 is basically the game's way of making up for the fact that there are no computer-controlled Turtles 
 onscreen with you while you play, and it's not an altogether bad methodology. The problem with 
 it mostly stems from the enemies you fight being so utterly inept. Throughout the game, you fight 
 wave after wave of pacifist thugs and ninjas who seem content to just swipe in your general direction 
 from time to time. All you've got to do is mash endlessly on the attack buttons and pull together 
 the occasional tag-team move, and you're pretty much never going to die.  

  TMNT has a slick look to it that translates better on some platforms than others. The graphics 
 aren't so much cel-shaded as they are modeled after the CG look of the Turtles in the movie. All 
 the characters animate nicely as they leap and fight through the various levels, and even the levels 
 themselves are relatively pleasing to look at as you play. The frame rate has a tendency to dip 
 in all versions of the game (the 360 version is the most erratic of the bunch) , and the aforementioned 
 camera issues are a real bummer, but otherwise, TMNT is a pretty solid-looking game.  

  As tends to be the case with movie-licensed games, TMNT is out on a lot of home gaming platforms, 
 including the PlayStation 2, GameCube, Wii, Xbox 360, and PC. The core game is identical between 
 all of them, though there are some subtle differences. The Wii version is probably the most drastically 
 different, simply because it includes motion controls. Unfortunately, these controls feel hopelessly 
 tacked on. All you do is wiggle the Wii Remote back and forth when you want to do a primary attack 
 and jerk the Nunchuk in one direction or another to kick. These mechanics get extremely tiresome 
 very quickly, and on top of that, there's a weird sensor issue with the Nunchuk. If you're just 
 playing the game and happen to tilt the Nunchuk too far in one direction or the other, your character 
 will crouch like he's readying an attack, and then stay like that until you hold the Nunchuk straight 
 again. Of course, there's nothing in the game to signify that this is what's causing the issue, 
 and you may find yourself initially confused as to what's causing this.  

          Conversely, there's nothing cool about TMNT's combat. It's just boring.     

  The Wii 
 version also happens to look identical to the GameCube version, blurriness and all. Despite support 
 for 480p and widescreen viewing, there don't seem to be any visual enhancements at all between 
 them, which is more than a touch disappointing, because the Wii should be capable of more. The 
 Xbox 360 version predictably looks the best of the bunch, though not to the degree that you might 
 be hoping. The 360 version is brighter, a bit crisper, and features more in the way of environmental 
 detail, such as added grass textures and foliage. The 360 version also supports more enemies onscreen 
 at once, though somehow the combat doesn't seem any more challenging with more enemies to dispatch. 
 There are also achievements to consider, but they also happen to be incredibly easy to acquire, 
 with many of them relegated to points for beating levels and pulling off individual special abilities. 
 Even still, the better graphics and achievements ultimately make the 360 version the best by default. 
 But if you'd rather not spend the extra $10, the PS2 version looks quite nice. The PC version is 
 solid, too, though you really need a dual-analog gamepad to play this game properly.  

  Between the overly simplistic combat and sometimes-obnoxious platforming sequences, TMNT is like 
 a man without a country. Younger audiences are likely to balk at some of the more frustrating elements 
 of the platforming, and older players are going to be bored to tears by the effortless fighting 
 mechanics. The moments when you actually do find yourself having fun with TMNT are just frequent 
 enough to prevent the game from being wholly unadvisable to fans of the film desperate to take 
 part in some interactive Turtle adventures, but for everyone else, TMNT is one you can safely pass 
 on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The very popular TMNT, in the beginning a series and recently a movie, where the game is based, 
 continue on the PC. But it is a pity that this game starring the turtles does not satisfy as it 
 should.
  
  Taken from the movie, you control partially the four heroes of the game in order to triumph over 
 evil samurai, Shredder and his minions. The game offers a really good gameplay, with well-designed 
 environments to play in. The movements you make bear great resemblance to ubisoft's previous success, 
 Prince of Persia.
  
  But while climbing walls and jumping from roofstep to roofstep is still fun, the battle mode is 
 somewhat broken. The combat system seems to be not enough, as it is too poor. And while the game 
 should be an action game, it seems to be more of a 3D platform one.
  
  Another concerning issue is the technical one: the developers did their best to prevent the players 
 from feeling the glory of winning a single battle, and furthermore, you may try hard to pass some 
 levels based on platformic style. That's because the controls are awful, while it will take about 
 one hour before you are familiarized with them. And to make matters worse, the cameras of the game 
 are a bit broken offering a decent view of the action, confusing and frustrating through the game.
 
  
  Luckily, the graphics of the game still remain a pleasure. While the concept art is amazing, it 
 is perfectly moved into the monitors with a great visual system. There is high detail in the game, 
 demanding a PC whose performance is not smooth, but something below average, at least. And the 
 sounds of the game, especially the voice talents are in satisfying levels.
  
  The TMNT game based on the movie is broken, but hardcore fans will find the real pleasure of being 
 a ninja turtle in our days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raisdh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of TMNT comics I like the game as I like the movie. I wish Ubisoft would paid more attention 
 to it. But nevertheless its a game worth playing.
  
  The gameplay of this game is really good. It has the four ninja boys as well as the old rat. And 
 the average graphics of is rather good. You can give some combos as well as multi combos. Which 
 is combo with two characters like a super combo.
  
  This Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles game has four playable character. Leonardo, Donatello, Raphael, 
 Michelangelo and NightFox. Which was a real fun with all those guys. And sound quality was good.
 
  
  Most disappointing fact of this game is difficulty. Most novice gamers can finish the game in four 
 days. Which makes it a sort and easy game. But it is also a nice game.
  
  If you like the movie then you will obviously get something from the game. So I will tell you to 
 just give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  This Game Is Fun For A While, But I Think Not Enough Thought or Effort Was Being Put Into The Game, Its 
 Graphics Are Quite Great Perfect Great Looking On A Ps2, Its Got Major Problems Though.....
  
  Although It Is Fun, Its Camera Angle Is Zoomed Out And Is Never Moved In The Way You Would 
 Prefer, Making It Annoying To Move Around And Really Can Get Quite Frustrating. 
  
  The Combat System Is Extremely Bad!, Its Simple Bad looking Cloned Characters That Are Incredibly 
 Slow And Dumb. Also You Are Trained Ninjas Doing Repetitive Moves, Also Have Short Combo's And 
 2 Simple Charge Attacks, But There Is A Good Combat Thing!, Known As Team Attacks Each Turtle Has 
 Their Own Unique Team Attack Were 2 Turtles Team Up A Do A Big Attack Which May Take Out Multiple 
 Enemies.
  
  Its Audio Is Quite, Nice With The Turtles Coming In And Talking SayGreat JobEtc.. And Splinter 
 Informing You On The Mission.
  
  Its Cutscenes Are Quite Cool, There In A Comic Book Form And Can Be Cool At Times, But A Real Cutscene 
 Would Be Preferred.
  
  The Extras In This Game Are Goodies And Artwork And Video. Artwork and Video Is Just Clips And 
 Pictures of The Tmnt Film And The Goodies Are Little Funnies Of The Game, Like Haloween Costumes 
 For The Baddies or Making The Ninja Turtles Have Giant Heads Etc. Also It Has Challenge Maps Which 
 You Unlock By Scoring An ( A ) On Each Level, The Level Design After Each Level Is Complete You 
 Get Given A Rating judged On The Time You Took, Coins You Collected And On Your Combat.
  
  Now The Greatness Of The Game, This Games Prince Of Persia Movement Is One To Be Rememberd Its 
 Great Fun And Can Look Really Cool At Times, It Shows Of The Real Ninja Side Of The Turtles Running 
 Along Walls, Jumping Side To Side, Running Up Walls, Swinging Around Poles, Doing Flips Etc..
  
  This Game Is Extremely Cheap To Buy From $10 - $35 With Ease. 
  A Good Buy For Anyone With 
 A Load Of Cash And All Ninja Turtles Fans,
  I Picked Up This Game For The Pc When i Bought The Dvd/Game Bundle For A Measly 25$. But This Game 
 Is More Worth A Rent To Finish The One Time Over, As I Dont See Anyone Wanting To Play This Game 
 Over Too Much... Its Best version Is Probably On The Wii Because Of Its Controls.
  
  Real Score 7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 120383
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is the best game of the ninja turtles that i have played. The stages are the difficult 
 of the game, they are not so hard but not so easy too. They are so big that sometimes you can get 
 get confused by where to go. However, you can follow alternate paths to win more time.
  
  The enemies are easy to defeat but it is cool to have a lot of them because the specials, the combos 
 that looks like shinobi and the team up combos are really cool to see. 
  
  The Artworks are the only one of the extras that worth to unlock, I am still thinking why did they 
 make those extras, why those gases and the Halloween costumes, it simply does not match the characters. 
 Play with alternate characters that appears at the movie would be better. 
  
  The graphics, sounds and voices are really good. For me the best point of the game is the way that 
 the movie story is told in the game. The comic book style and they laking during it and the stages 
 are really fun. 
  
  For fans this game is a "must have" and for players "worth to play". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithium_Rayne
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I think the best thing about this game is the graphics. No, they're not top notch compared to some 
 of the recent Xbox360 releases, but the TMNT look is crisp, bright and easy to work through.
  
  That said, the worst thing about his game is probably the camera. The camera is fixed, leaving 
 you to jump from platforms based on blind faith. It's quite frustrating to redo jumps simply because 
 you can't see where you're supposed to be jumping *to*. Also, sometimes the controls get away from 
 you, causing you to unintentionally walk off a building or repeatedly fall from platforms because 
 you hit the A button one too many times. The fight sequences are basically nothing more than mashing 
 the one attack button until all your enemies are down. It's not particularly challenging, nor interesting. 
 But for the younger gamers, it would do just fine.
  
  The cut scenes are nicely done with good voices and comic style artwork.
  
  Overall, I was 
 a little disappointed with this game. It's definitely a beat 'em up style game, which can work 
 nicely for the younger kids who just like to button mash. If you're looking for challenging, interesting 
 gameplay, look elsewhere. But if you're looking for some quick and easy achievements and points, 
 pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT) gives players the chance to relive their nostalgia for the 
 series. Going in, the game holds a lot of promise as it is developed by Ubisoft Montreal most notablely 
 known for their Prince of Persia series. The prospect of a POP-esque game in a TMNT world is very 
 tantalizing. Unfortunately the game does not live up to expectations. TMNT is a third person action 
 game that, like POP, gives players the ability of run along walls, do acrobatics, dodge traps and 
 adds new abilities like call in your turtle brothers to pull team combos. Despite these features 
 TMNT is no where close to the caliber POP Sands of time was. The blame can solely be put on a fact 
 that it feels dumbed down to appeal to a very young crowd to coincide with the demographic targeted 
 by the tie-in movie. What made POP great was (1) superb story (2) excellent game play elements 
 (3) topnotch pacing. All these are missing from TMNT. The story is tied to the animated film and 
 not explained as the game expects you to have seen the movie. Even if you have seen the movie it 
 is not compelling. Despite borrowing elements from POP, the game feels too easy. There is no satisfaction 
 from either completing environment puzzles or from the dumbed down repetitive combat that forces 
 to you fight bland generic enemies. How can you have a TMNT game and not have hoards of boss to 
 fight? Graphically and audibly the feels like a budget title. One can clearly tell the game was 
 developed for the PS2 and then ported to other platforms. Even worse, the graphics and sound are 
 that of an average PS2 game. Not a problem if you play it on your PS2 but it looks dated on a pc 
 In the end, TMNT is a budget title that should keep younger audiences mildly interested.
  
  5.5/10
  
  Visit My gaming forum:
  www. gamingdump. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster1995
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  This is not really good as they boasted. it reminds me of Spiderman 1 where u can only stay on 
 the roof and the camera views are awful. I would keep away form this game. that goes out to all 
 the TMNT fans. the game is real dissapointing. The combat is SUCKY. I could fight like that. the 
 way they walk is waaay creepy. The good thing about it is at least they got the voices  
 that. if u do want this game, get it for PS2. its also annoying when you have to stop and listen 
 to Master Splinter. it wastes time. I dont see how Ubisoft can live with themselvs after this game. 
 Again i say if u r a die hard TMNT fan, KEEP AWAY FROM THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_lorenzo
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is soooo annoying. You run around doing some jumps and wall runs then you fight a bunch 
 of thugs. Oooh scary all they do is walk around and swing a bat occasionally. Wow. The game could 
 be fun if it wasn't for this stupid camera and controls. you try to wall run and you might wall 
 hop and fall to your death. Speaking about death that is really the only time you can die in the 
 game. During combat when a turtle falls no matter what he can stand back up and continue the fight. 
 That takes out half of the challenge. Please never buy this game cause if you do your eyes will 
 bleed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 21, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft Montreal has yet released another release that doesnt stand up to its name and reputation 
 (Both Ubi and TMNTs) . Ubisoft used to be creative and stuff, but nowadays we only get clich&eacute; s 
 from them! Prince of Persia was a great clich&eacute; made by Ubisoft. Yes! Exactly! Im off to 
 the point to say that they made a clich&eacute; to follow it themselves but they failed to do so! 
 They overdid it! 3 POP games, King Kong (the scenes with the Kong were so similar to POP gameplay) , 
 and now TMNT. TMNT has nothing new in the concept of gameplay except for some group activities 
 if you ask me. In one summarized sentence: This game IS NOT CREATIVE! Come on Ubisoft, you can 
 do better. Forget the old days! People want something new!
  OKlets start the review after thisehComplaint to Ubi? ... Whatever!
  Gameplay: Fast paced 
 POP gameplay! With lame fighting system, lame bosses, boring and sometimes too long levels! Sometimes 
 becomes an adrenaline rusher!
  Graphics: Absolute 2nd Generation! The fact that you cant change between graphic levels implies 
 the matter that this game is an absolute console port translation!
  Sound: Not Bad. Not Good Either. It didnt have any positive or negative effect on my gameplay!
 
  Summary: The last resort on anyones buying list!
  This is 105 SM, signing off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlymohsen
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 2, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  this game design by ubisoft montreal. and i think ubi montreal love to create games like prince 
 of persia with special moves.
  this game looks like a prince with a high speed moves. moves on the wall and jump and get the edges 
 and move on them.
  and fights is repetitious and boring after play and you can't see any new move. you can finish 
 this game after6-7 hours.
  i think konami tmnt was better beacause it had a good story but this game has a bad story.
  the 
 graphic was not bad but in camparison the new games is very weak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  If you like jumping puzzles, brain-dead combat and repetitive gameplay, TMNT is the game for you. 
 if you're seeking a bit more then an average gaming experience - move on.
  
  The game looks decent and sounds decent. The voice acting is pretty awesome, the comics transitions 
 are cool and the world around you is convincing.
  If it werent for the frustrating gameplay, which forces you to do the same jumping/fighting sequence 
 over and over again, the game itself would have been pretty decent.
  Unfortunately, most of the game (short) levels suffer from this exact problem. Again and again 
 your are forced to jump, jump, run against the wall, jump, fight, jump, run on the wall, jump and 
 then some...
  
  The game's storyline can easily be finished in two days or so, leaving you with some race against 
 time mini maps and the option to play the game's levels over again, but this time try and collect 
 some more coins, improve your original time or just get through the whole level with perfect health.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, TMNT is funny, addictive and enjoyable, and if you can look beyond its obvious 
 flaws you can probably find a fair game for a boring weekend or between one FPS to the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  I think I only got this game to see what changes were made from the original 4 person Arcade game.
 
  
  This version of the game actually follows the storyline of the TMNT TV series, which is quite intriguing. 
 The graphics of are a terrific upgrade to the original game. The in game movies takes me back to 
 the old days of decent cartoons on television.
  
  This game isn't for Flash , or Glitz . This game is only a remake of a sub par arcade game of the 
 80's-90's. If you are a true collector of games, you must have this version of TMNT in your library. 
 Simply to demonstrate the advances over the years in game development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veliki
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  I played Konami's games and I don't like them. I realy expect from UbiSoft good game but I am disappoint. Game 
 is better than other TMNT game but still isn't good. Graphics are bad (When I remember the graphics 
 from Rayman 2 and 3...) but animations are OK. Game is short and easy. Some parts look like Prince 
 of Persia. There are some ok things. Fights are booring and easy. Boss are stupid. Story mode isn't 
 bad but Chalenge map mode is grose. Sound is good. Voices of turtles are very good. Finaly: I can play 
 this game but I expect more. I hope that next Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles games are going to bee 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exigo89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  They could do better, they really could. At first I expected something better, I thought that Ubisoft 
 Montreal, the studio that created Prince Of Persia, could come up with something better but they 
 didn't create something magical as POP. The first thing you will notice when you start playing 
 the game is that the camera is so bad. Sometimes it makes you go crazy, it's so awkward. The fighting 
 part is very simple indeed, unlike POP here aren't much combos you can perform, basically you have 
 to just tap Z and voila you eliminate the threat. The graphics.
  You cannot change any display option ex. Anti Aliasing etc.., the only thing you can change here 
 is the screen resolution.
  The Sound.
  As it matters to the sounds they are acceptable.
  The Gameplay.
  The gameplay is the attribute that needs the most work, the first four missions 
 are so predictable, they are almost the same. The game has no emotions involved, the stages have 
 so many gaps and walls to cross than any game I played (even Super Mario didn't have this much 
 gaps) . Unlike Prince Of Persia, TMNT doesn't require the player to use the logic that much cause 
 there aren't any puzzly situation in TMNT.
  
  Well enough bad critics, there something I liked. The dialogs ingame are fun to listen, it might 
 even make you laugh sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  TNMT is a nice game at most. It has colourfull graphics and nice sounds. The speach is cool as 
 the turtles always have something more or less fun to say.
  THe actiuon is good. THe gameplay is great actually in fighting scenes. You have unique abilities 
 and strengths for each of the m and fighting is very fun. The bad part is that if you are not fighting 
 you probably are cursing the makers or ttrying to find something else to do besides playing a very 
 anoying game. The camera is actually made to p**s you off. I mean it moves just when you jump so 
 if you where holding down left now you are going in the front so you fall and die and start all 
 over.
  Besides that the game is good, to bad it the camera is that evil ( :) ) ) . It also tries to copy 
 Prince of Persia with wall walking and wall jumps which are dynamic and fun when the camera is 
 not badly positioned. It has a nice story and great bos fights . And one more thing i hate the 
 part where ytou have to hurry and the door closes in fron of you every time !!!!!!!
  E game that could have been better. Plays great with gamepad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will feel in this game... is the same feeling that PoP offered with its amazing 
 platforming , in this game its even more hard core &amp; more fast but the only thing that makes 
 you miss some jumps is the camere wich is used in a cinematic way very fine in most of the parts 
 but in some it will be vere frustrating ... the combat is fine the animations are good but the 
 only thing that makes it boring is that you have only 2 attack buttons slash &amp; kick ... there 
 is somekind of a rage metter that sometimes makes it more fun ... the voices in the game are pretty 
 fun they allways say goody stuff ... &amp; comparing the game to other movie based products ... TMNT 
 is still above , thing that proves that Ubi is putting not only muscle but olso brains in this 
 small side projects ... ough &amp; i forgot about the graphics they are quite cool still the same 
 PoP engine but it is starting to show its age ... some of the locations beeing well made some bad 
 overall good ! Enjoy the game i recomand a gamepad when you play it ! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girlgam3r
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game because my 5 and 6 year old sons are TMNT fanatics. My 5yr old is an expert 
 PC gamer and his problem solving technics are totally off the charts for a 5yr old, so when we 
 got this game, it was without reservation that he was the first to pick up on it. My husband and 
 I enjoy watching each of my children, including my 4yr old daughter, laugh and cheer when they 
 solve an issue in the game, it brings great family fun for all of us, but there are some areas 
 that are a little disappointing.
  
  At the start of the game you are brought to the jungle area as Leonardo, where you get a feel for 
 the many different moves of the character. This leads to the three other tracks singling out the 
 other three turtles; MichaelAngelo, Donotello, and Rapheal, so you get a feel for their special 
 talents as well. As the tracks progresses for each character, they tend to get harder and you have 
 to find various different moves for each one: ie. jump + flip etc. This teaches the player that 
 s/he must learn how to use multiple moves for different issues.
  
  As you clear the single turtle tracks, you are then able to start using all four of them for the 
 rest of the game. This teamwork increases your power and your multiple uses as you switch characters 
 for situations and even using their powers all together for stronger battles. You will find yourself 
 climbing, jumping, tossing, flipping, chopping, kicking, and flying almost non-stop throughout 
 the game. Critical thinking is a very important part of this game, as you must find which characters 
 to use for when and which ones to bond together to use in conjunction with certain situations. 
 The learning curve is definitely not that hard, as my 5yr old grasped it almost instantaneously, 
 and the graphics are very impressive. The humor is also a great addition to the game and adds laughter 
 for all ages. However, the storyline lacks luster and the objectives seem repeatative. It will 
 also frustrate the younger ages as trying different tactics may fail and if they are not at a checkpoint, 
 they will have to start over from the previous checkpoint, of course this can easily frustrate 
 any age.
  
  All in all I would have to say it was worth it for me as a parent to see my children working together 
 on problem solving techniques and getting very proud of their accomplishments once a certain situation 
 was completed. I think the game teaches critical thinking, teamwork, failure, and achievements. 
 I would definately recommend TMNT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-MASTER
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  The game is really bad. If you thought that you've seen the worst game ever, than I got some news 
 for you...
  
  Let's start with the worst element of the game... Gameplay:
  The game feels like the Prince Of Persia trilogy.
  You need to jump, walk on walls ect' , but 
 the bugs in the game (and there's a lot of them) make you die because
  you didn't jump in time in it's completely frustrating.
  There are very few fight scenes in the 
 game and they are really annoying.
  And the cooperative fights with all the 4 turtles are fewer.
  less then half of the game you'll 
 play with all the 4 turtles.
  
  Graphics:
  The in-game graphics are nice &amp; the cut-scenes are great.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is pretty 
 cool the only part of the game which was made really good.
  
  Value:
  I've finished the game in 7 hours (and i'm sure that some player finished it in less time) ...
 
  Since there's nothing interesting else after completing the game, I had to un-installed the game.
 
  
  Summery:
  I played and finished the game just because like the turtles since I was a kid.
  To all you turtles 
 fans play the old TMNT konami's games.
  Even the TMNT game which released in 2003 is better than this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
