-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TOCA Race Driver 2: The Ultimate Racing Simulator
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/racedriver2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 539 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Driving
Date:     Apr 15, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may not be quite up to the level of quality of its Xbox counterpart, but TOCA 2 is still a very 
 good choice for PC owners on the hunt for a new racer. 

  When TOCA Race Driver 2: The Ultimate Racing Simulator, Codemasters' follow-up to its unique 2002 
 racer, Pro Race Driver, first debuted on the Xbox earlier this month, it proved to be an excellent 
 addition to the system's racing lineup. It's not quite the ultimate racing simulator that it claims 
 to be, but it's absolutely a game worth playing for any serious racing fan. Now TOCA 2 is available 
 for the PC as well, and much like its Xbox counterpart, it provides an excellent variety of race 
 types, backed up with some solid driving mechanics and a deep and engaging career mode. Unfortunately, 
 the PC version also suffers from a few graphical polish issues as well as some extremely irritating 
 sound bugs, which ultimately mar the game's otherwise solid performance.  

           Codemasters' follow-up to Pro Race Driver features more types of racing than any other 
 racing title in a long time.     

  TOCA Race Driver 2 is all about variety. Rarely has there been a game that brings as many types 
 of races to the table as this one does. You can choose from a bevy of different race types and 
 concordant cars, including stock cars, rallies, Super Trucks, street racing, Mustangs, Land Rovers, 
 open-wheel racers, and so on. There are 15 different varieties of races in all, each of which is 
 actually represented quite well, both visually and in gameplay. TOCA Race Driver 2 also features 
 a huge roster of more than 50 different worldwide racetracks, ranging from the Texas Motor Speedway 
 to Pikes Peak to Brands Hatch, and more. Every track is extremely well constructed, and serious 
 race fans should find each track immediately recognizable.  

  The racing mechanics in TOCA Race Driver 2 are primarily geared toward the more realistic ilk of 
 racers. Each type of car handles uniquely and quite accurately. Slideouts usually happen when they 
 should, and wrecking your car adversely affects your ability to race in several different ways. 
 Blowing a tire will obviously kill your ability to steer properly, and thrashing your gearbox affects 
 your acceleration and speed quite a bit. Interestingly enough, TOCA 2 on the PC actually seems 
 easier than the Xbox version, though only when using a gamepad. Controlling slideouts seems much 
 easier to control, and concordantly, braking and using your emergency brake to slide around corners 
 seems almost a bit too effective for some reason. The PC version of the game also features a driving 
 mode that is even more simulation-based than the normal mode, and it is also significantly harder. 
 This mode is especially geared toward players with driving wheel controllers, and for that expressed 
 purpose, it works great, adding more challenge than you would get otherwise.  

  The only serious complaint about TOCA 2's gameplay stems from the game's physics model, which is 
 a little unreliable in certain situations. Though wrecking into other cars is generally not advised, 
 it's too easy to simply use other cars as padding when sliding around corners. Bumping into the 
 side of an opposing car at the right angle simply prevents you from sliding out, and it usually 
 lets you gain a number of spots in a race pretty cheaply. Furthermore, crashes don't always seem 
 to look or feel as they ought to. This is mainly an issue with bigger crashes, specifically in 
 situations where you should be rolling your car or otherwise sustaining or inflicting a huge amount 
 of damage -- and sometimes it doesn't actually happen that way. These physics issues aren't a huge 
 problem by any means, but they're definitely an annoyance. For the most part, the game's racing 
 artificial intelligence is quite well done, and drivers are usually smart enough to avoid wrecks 
 whenever possible. Occasionally you'll encounter a random dolt driver who makes a boneheaded mistake 
 on the track.  

  Anyone who played Pro Race Driver will remember its unique career mode, which focused on a young, 
 passionate driver named Ryan McKane. The game's method of storytelling gave you a much more unique 
 and prominent look at the behind-the-scenes elements of racing. Though the story was a little on 
 the ham-fisted side in certain spots, overall it did an excellent job of keeping you captivated. 
 In TOCA Race Driver 2, the same method of career mode has been implemented, though with a completely 
 different type of story. In the game, you play as a nameless rookie driver, who, quite literally, 
 begins in a trial by fire. Upon starting the career mode, you begin midlap during a race with your 
 mechanic, Scotty, who is feeding you instructions on your controls. Once the race is over, you 
 are presented with the first of many first-person-perspective cutscenes. As the story progresses, 
 you are approached by an attractive female agent who promises to help bring you to the top of the 
 racing circuit, and much to Scotty's chagrin, you agree to let her help you. The story itself, 
 like its predecessor, can be a bit cheesy at times, but for the most part the cutscenes are so 
 well directed and well written that the few goofy moments become instantly forgivable.  

          TOCA Race Driver 2's career mode puts you on the path of a rookie driver who's looking 
 to come up in the ranks.     

  To advance in the career mode you'll have to compete in championships and complete objectives. 
 Objectives vary from championship to championship; some require you only to place at a certain 
 level, and others require you to earn certain amounts of cash prizes. These objectives are usually 
 not too difficult, though often you will find yourself getting frustrated simply because you'll 
 be racing on a new track that you've never experienced before. And, of course, there is no option 
 to take practice laps before a race, so it will require a fair amount of trial and error to learn 
 racetracks, especially when experiencing new car types for the first time. Oddly enough, though, 
 you  can  participate in qualifying laps outside of the career mode -- just not within it. Often, 
 you'll be presented with multiple options for championship types, though there are no options for 
 what racing team you might want to race for and there is no way to determine your own position 
 on the starting line since both are arbitrarily picked for you seemingly at random. On the plus 
 side, the career mode is quite long and should take you a solid eight hours or more to complete 
 the first time around.     

  Outside of the career mode, you can also take part in free races and time trials offline. You can 
 also play multiplayer in a two-player, single PC mode or go network via online or LAN modes. Each 
 of these modes lets you choose from any of the game's available championships. However, you can't 
 simply pick a car and track and then race. Championship selection effectively takes care of this 
 for you since only certain cars are permitted to race on specific tracks. It's a bit of a confusing 
 interface if you're used to the industry-standard method of just picking a car and track, but overall, 
 it isn't that big of a deal. One major bonus to the noncareer modes is that you can make adjustments 
 to your car. Options such as gears, downforce, suspension, ride height, and tires and brake bias 
 can be adjusted to your personal content, which is nice considering not every track features the 
 same types of terrain.  

          Up to 12 players can race against one another via TOCA 2's online and LAN support.     
 

  From a multiplayer standpoint, TOCA Race Driver 2's network component heavily outshines its offline 
 counterpart because it's the difference between only two players offline and up to 12 players online. 
 TOCA Race Driver 2 employs an interesting rating system when playing online -- you earn rating points 
 based on your standing in a race. You start at 1500 and gain or lose ranking points depending on 
 how you perform. This rating, in turn, translates into your standing on the leaderboards. Like 
 the Xbox version of TOCA 2, the game's online performance is a bit spotty, and some lag was definitely 
 apparent on almost any connection type we tried; opposing cars would jump and skip around and do 
 some funny things during races. However, this lag never affected our ability to race, nor did it 
 ever become detrimental to our standings.  

  Graphically, TOCA Race Driver 2 on the PC looks slightly better than the Xbox version, but not 
 quite as much as you might hope when comparing the two versions. The car models are a big step 
 up from Pro Race Driver and look very good overall. Each car features quite a bit of shine off 
 its reflective surfaces, though the models don't seem quite as polished as in the Xbox version 
 of the game where jags and imperfections seem a bit more prevalent. Cranking up the resolution 
 on a high-end PC did help a bit, but not enough to make a supreme difference. Damage modeling is 
 also fairly well done, and there are plenty of ways to bust up your car, if you're so inclined. 
 The one issue we had with the damage modeling is that the modeling itself doesn't always quite 
 match up to the cause of the damage. So, for instance, getting rear-ended on the right side will 
 sometimes cause weird dents on the left side of the bumper that shouldn't be there, and windows 
 and windshields break with almost reckless abandon.  

  As mentioned before, each of the game's tracks is nicely representative of its real-life counterpart. 
 The tracks and terrain look great, and little touches, like realistic tire skids and pieces of 
 damaged cars that remain on the tracks, add to the realism. Unfortunately, the background environments 
 and crowds don't look nearly as good and are actually visually unpleasant up close. Granted, these 
 aren't details you'll be paying a lot of attention to while in the throes of a race, but they do 
 stick out at times. TOCA Race Driver 2's cutscenes are also very well produced. Though the models 
 for the characters don't always look especially great, each and every character animates superbly. 

          A few graphical annoyances and some seriously obnoxious audio bugs greatly hinder much 
 of TOCA 2's presentational appeal.     

  The voice acting during the cutscenes is equally top notch, and nowhere will you find a poorly 
 delivered line or a badly acted character. Sadly, where the Xbox version of TOCA 2 featured some 
 great engine sound effects, the PC version falters quite a bit. The engine noises in this version 
 are buggy and often become washed out in a staticky mess. This did not appear to be an issue with 
 a sound card, as the same bad engine sounds were produced on multiple PCs. Infrequent issues also 
 came up with certain other effects, like tire screeching or the sound of cars rolling over gravel 
 surfaces, but these weren't anywhere near as pervasive as the engine sound bugs. It's really unfortunate 
 that these sound issues exist, because the sound effects that do work, along with the decent background 
 soundtrack and excellent voice acting, would otherwise make for a great audio experience.  

  Were it not for the slight graphical problems and irritating sound bugs, TOCA 2 could have proved 
 to be an even better choice for PC racing fans than it was for the Xbox racing fans. Problems aside, 
 however, TOCA 2 is still a deep and enjoyable racing title with more racing variety than you're 
 likely to find anywhere else on the market today -- and at a meager price tag to boot. It may not 
 be quite up to the quality level of its Xbox counterpart, but TOCA 2 is still a very good choice 
 for PC owners on the hunt for a new racer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: attila1975
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 16, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  A few months ago I wrote a very favourable review about this game here. Since then I upgraded my 
 hardware and installed the game again, excited about playing the game with full detail with perfect 
 framerates.
  
  Well there`s nothing wrong with the framerates now, even with the highest in-game settings, but 
 there is one single thing that prevents me from enjoying this game at all: No bloody antialiasing!!!!!!!
 
  
  It`s like playing some 10 year old Nintendo game because of that single reason.
  
  The reason I upgraded from a 7600gt to an x1900xt was because I didn`t want to sacrifice image 
 quality for framerates. But this game has zero image quality. Almost every supposedly straight 
 line in the game looks like a long staircase. Lampposts, advertising boards, everything. For me 
 this one reason makes the game totally unplayable, because with my x1900xt I know what a difference 
 antialiasing makes. In fact the lines in this game are so jagged that I think even antialiasing 
 wouldn`t be able to help. I played the game at 1400x1050 on a 22 LCD, and the jagged lines pierce 
 my eyes even at that high resolution.
  
  So yeah, I just can`t overlook this issue, it ruins all aspects of the game, I`ve uninstalled it 
 and will get rid of it if I find any takers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballzilla
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Right now, I am frustrated at two things. 1. The game 2. My Broken Controller
  
  The game starts off well. You begin with slow cars. The handling isn't perfectly real but provides 
 plenty realism for the average gamer. Graphics as mentioned by Gamespot isn't the best with weird 
 looking dents but it doesnt look as bad as they claim either.
  
  Around 20% of the game, you get to drive DTM cars which is probably the most fun I've had. The 
 cars have plenty of grip and the speed is astonishing. Nearing 50% of the game comes the frustrating 
 phase where if you are using a gamepad or keyboard, you will be struggling to win or podium.
  
  This simulator expects you to finish a race from 14th to the top two spots in 2 laps. RIGHT. 
 Has that ever happened in real life in any form of racing? NO. However, they WANT you to win or 
 try to get podium. Otherwise you might fail to continue your career mode. You might have noticed 
 in the beginning how cars seem to ignore you and keep to their racing lines. This happened in TOCA 
 1 and I was just plain pissed. TOCA 2 brings some sort of improvement but you will still occasionally 
 get knocked in the side or from behind.
  
  The AI is the real tricky bastard. On some tracks they are so fast you are lucky to even get 6th 
 place. On other tracks they drive so slow you can get to 1st in 1 lap. Seriously, how can they 
 even claim to be a driving simulator. I am at the end of the fourth season and I'm plain frustrated. 
 I've attempted the races so many times and still fall short of proceding to the 5th season. At 
 one point in time, I plain threw my gamepad to the floor and now it is broken. SOB. IF you have 
 a short attention span and only play the first two seasons, by all means it is a good game.. but 
 after that it all goes downhill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Toca has come a long way since it began, starting with just touring cars then opening up to other 
 racing types in the Toca: Race Driver series. If you want to have a good racing game with great 
 game physics and superb graphics then look no further! This game has hours of fun to be had. This 
 game is brilliant, number 3 looks to be even better too.
  
  This game goes from Rally to GT back to Touring Cars then to Formula 1, its great. There is however 
 2 minor downsides to this game, firstly its high system requirements may put some people off, plus 
 the online play isn't very good.
  
  Overall if you want a good racing game then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 9, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  TOCA RACE DRIVER 2 (2004) 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 5/7
  Fun Element: 6/7
  Camera: 7/7
  Traditionality: 7/7
 
  Atmosphere: 5/7
  MPAA Rating: 6/7
  Plot: 5/7
  Music: 4/7
  Originality: 6/7
  Likeability: 6/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  Genre: Licensed Multi Series Driving 
 Arcade Simulator
  Classic: YES
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every three years
  
  + : licensed product containing a huge variety 
 of racing series all over the world, some licensed and also some bonus tracks, multiplayer support 
 for up to 2 players on one screen, not too difficult, good mixture of arcade and simulation gameplay
 
  
  - : starforce protection, too many racing series, only a few tracks for each series, no licensed 
 drivers, keyboard problems in split screen mode, useless cheat codes system
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is my all time favourite racing game, and each person who I introduced this game to, 
 got equally as hooked!
  
  The graphics are phenomenal, just like a simulation engine, hands down beats the arcade hits like 
 Gran Turismo. Some very minor glitches can be found at times, but its ok, cuz nothing is perfect 
 in life. The amount of tracks, championships, vehicles is amazing, its just all over the spectrum, 
 this is one of my favourite parts. I can race a big rig, an old Mustang, a convertible, DTM, stock 
 car, Indy or rally, the choice is overwhelming.
  
  The gameplay is outstanding. Very realistic, as a simulation should be, with the learning curve 
 being quite tough and longer than one would expect for a racing game, but with practice not too 
 too hard to grasp. You have to keep on remembering that this is NOT an arcade, so for example, 
 when your vehicle is on grass or gravel, pressing gas, like in the real world, is a big no no, 
 and simply tapping the gas is the way to go. Weather plays a big part too in the gamplay, as does 
 the damage of your vehicle, these are all factors to be considered when playing this game, which 
 really is a simulation.
  
  The online multiplayer feature is my favourite. It is so simple yet so very effective and well 
 engineered. The points system is great, and the play remains a challenge no matter whether one 
 is racing with rookies (who tend to be unfair at times) to pros (who drive like perfect robots) .
 
  
  So overall, I would give this game a 9/10, mainly due to the fact that the actual game story line, 
 could be better / longer with more options, especially given the amount of choice in the tracks 
 and cars one would expect a longer and more interesting story line. Other than that, this game 
 is perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droges
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Above pretty well covers it all. Pretty good physics, although not as exact as my favorite, Richard 
 burns Rally, it is still very good.
  
  Graphics are okay and sound is nice. Each vehicle is very unique.
  
  Nice tracks and a huge 
 selection of vehicles to choose from.
  
  I like the story mode touch. It is very fun and pushes you to continue through it to see what happens.
 
  
  Damage is mediocre in my opinion. Flatout (Another Fav of mine) is the benchmark for damage so far.
 
  
  cons:
  -rumble on the thrustmaster sucks... dx 9 issue?
  -you can take shortcuts across the grass. - plus no rumble or sound indicates you are actually 
 on the grass. 
  -no rubber marks in 2player split screen.
  -Rally and cross rally, is poor in my opinion.. all well they can't specialize in everything.
 
  -Views are limited. The big trucks almost block your whole view. (luckily there are mods for it. 
 Not near as nice as RBR though)
  -The major con, which hurt the review is. YOU CAN'T choose any vehicle on any track? poor, poor, 
 POOR!
  
  pros:
  -again the most important key to this game is the sheer variety.
  -physics are good and very different for each vehicle.
  -Rubber mark memory is quite large, 3 
 laps and most are still there. I love that.
  
  Conclusion: Good game. If you want a race game but not sure of what kind, then this would be a 
 great choice due to it having everything. Although nascar and rally are not its strong points, 
 still fun though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgoth22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  This truly is a great game with a wide scope to engage fans and newcomers to the series alike. 
 The graphics and damage modelling are fantastic - what we have come to expect from the TOCA series 
 over the years, and the feel of the cars are noticeably different, and as close to reality as you 
 can get. So, is this the greatest of the TOCA installments yet? Read on to find out more...
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  When I first got this game, I was very impressed with the graphics, particularly 
 the track and it's surroundings, but was little disappointed with the amount of "jagginess" present 
 on the cars. Therefore I would recommend the 1.2 patch, as this allows FSAA (anti-aliasing) to 
 be forced which gets rid of "jagginess" smoothing out the line of the cars. I used to run this 
 on my computer..
  
  2.5Ghz
  512mb RAM
  Radeon 9800pro
  
  .. at 1280*1024 at top detail (barring high-res bonnet reflections that interferes with the AA) 
 and 4*AA and AF turned on also, and it runs like a dream with no slowdown at all. With the options 
 maxed out the cars also look fantastic showing good reflection quality and dents on contact with 
 the wall (or more likely) the opposition, which brings me to the most important aspect of any game...
 
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  
  Generally, as I have eluded to already, the feel of the game is spot on and as you progress through 
 the single player mode, the game forces you to adapt to varied racing styles from one championship 
 to the next, whilst still retaining a choice of two different championships at many stages throughout 
 the single player campaign. You can go from the relatively slow and easy to use feel of the vintage 
 classics such as the Jaguar E Type through to the DTM touring car and Aston Martin DB9 over just 
 a couple of seasons.
  
  Each championship will set you a different goal, some more easy than others as you progress from 
 a rookie to the top. Sometimes this will involve money, other times pure track position or beating 
 another driver in the race to show your skills. This keeps your interest, and adds more to the 
 game than just having to win everything. For example, you may finish 5th in a race, but because 
 your rival finished 6th, you still move on. In the single player mode, cut scenes tell the story. 
 The cut scenes are polished (if a little cheesy) and add more to the game than those in TOCA race 
 driver.
  
  However, everything isn't perfect, as you may find yourself having to replay many of the levels 
 repeatedly as you struggle to move between styles of the truck racing and DTM touring cars after 
 one race! The rallying aspects of the game are also fairly poor, which is a surprise considering 
 the realistic feel of the colin mcrae series, but I suppose this is to be expected when trying 
 to fit in all of the racing styles into one game. In each race in single player, you will also 
 expect to be placed randomly on the grid, which can often prove frustrating when you start in 15th 
 and have to finish 1st. However, scything through the pack is as fun as it ever was, and it certainly 
 adds to the challenging nature of the gameplay.
  
  I certainly hope they will fix these issues in the third installment.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
 
  The sound is top notch, with the engine noise being spot on for every vehicle and clunky gear 
 changes and such are present when the vehicle gets damaged. This is all through my integrated sound 
 as well, so I can imagine it would be even more involving with a decent soundcard and set of speakers. 
 The voiceovers of your Scottish adviser can become annoying at times, but you can't stop him and 
 he is only a very small part of the game anyway.
  Screeching of tyres and smashing glass are also very well done leading to a polished sound set 
 of sound effects. Some people may be disappointed at the lack of a good in-game soundtrack, but 
 in my opinion this would ruin the realism and make it feel more arcade-like.
  
  Replayability - 9/10
  For any racing fan, there is plenty here to keep you amused - there is 
 even a large temptation to replay the entire single player campaign choosing the championships 
 that you didn't choose the first time. Simulator mode (free race, time trial etc.) oozes variety 
 and it is hard to get bored when everything is also customisable. Online play also greatly adds 
 to the replayability, and anyone with a broadband connection should be able to enjoy racing with 
 some mates.
  
  Conclusion
  Despite the small flaws, this is well worth the purchase, especially at the cut prices you find 
 around at the moment. Some say they have tried too hard and as a result haven't got everything 
 as polished as it should be, but I don't agree. This is a must but for any racing fan or, for that 
 matter, anyone who wants an introduction to the genre.
  
  Overall Score : 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I have all ways been a big fan of the TOCA game in the past right from the first one, which was 
 one of the best racers ever. But now days these a lot more compete with such Gotham Racing. As 
 for good racing games on the PC well theres not much in its way of a fight. The game has solid 
 graphics good game play talking of game play there is a different variety in the cars or should 
 I say stock cars, rallies, Super Trucks, street racing, Mustangs, Land Rovers There are 15 different 
 varieties of races in all that sounds good to me. I think I am 75 % of my way through this, I can 
 not recall what car it is but its hard Very hard. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelpont27
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i would have a wide variety of car types and models to race. So i thought 
 all the racing type games are in this game. But i was sicerely dissapointed. The graphics are alright 
 but not the best in the world. For eg i look in the crowd and they look like cardboard people standing 
 still with flags 4 times there size with no holder. When you play the carrer mode it feel like 
 youre racing around a track every time but with a different car. The campaign is ablsoulte boring 
 all you are doing is driving around a graphic poor track trying to come first, you do this a lot 
 of time. There is no excitment when racing eitheir. The cars do not look like the real cars eg 
 Aston Martin. The stroyline is poor aswell. i waited for this game to come out for a very long 
 time and when i got it, it was dreadful. May i suggest those people who wish to buy TOCA 2 not 
 to. Go and buy somehting else like Midnight Club or the famous Need for Speed Games.
  
  Michael Pont QLD Australia ponty_91@hotmail. com
  if you read this plese send me an email so i 
 can hear about what you think of this dissapointing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radek1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game is my all time favourite racing game, and each person who I introduced this game to, 
 got equally as hooked!
  
  The graphics are phenomenal, just like a simulation engine, hands down beats the arcade hits like 
 Gran Turismo. Some very minor glitches can be found at times, but its ok, cuz nothing is perfect 
 in life. The amount of tracks, championships, vehicles is amazing, its just all over the spectrum, 
 this is one of my favourite parts. I can race a big rig, an old Mustang, a convertible, DTM, stock 
 car, Indy or rally, the choice is overwhelming.
  
  The gameplay is outstanding. Very realistic, as a simulation should be, with the learning curve 
 being quite tough and longer than one would expect for a racing game, but with practice not too 
 too hard to grasp. You have to keep on remembering that this is NOT an arcade, so for example, 
 when your vehicle is on grass or gravel, pressing gas, like in the real world, is a big no no, 
 and simply tapping the gas is the way to go. Weather plays a big part too in the gamplay, as does 
 the damage of your vehicle, these are all factors to be considered when playing this game, which 
 really is a simulation.
  
  The online multiplayer feature is my favourite. It is so simple yet so very effective and well 
 engineered. The points system is great, and the play remains a challenge no matter whether one 
 is racing with rookies (who tend to be unfair at times) to pros (who drive like perfect robots) . 
 
  
  So overall, I would give this game a 9/10, mainly due to the fact that the actual game story line, 
 could be better / longer with more options, especially given the amount of choice in the tracks 
 and cars one would expect a longer and more interesting story line. Other than that, this game 
 is perfect! Can't wait for Race Driver 3 in February 2006!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwarmingham
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  Toca 2 is an exceptional game in many ways. It is a hard, gripping and intense experience. It isn't 
 as realistic as some of the racers available for the consoles, but racing games have always had 
 more limitations when it comes to racing games. A major one is the input device. The consoles have 
 a lovely contoured joypad whereas unless you've spent double the amount on buying a steering wheel 
 and the game, you'll be stuck with an annoyingly rectagular keyboard - not the best for 'getting 
 into the zone'. However, Toca 2 plays brilliantly no matter what you use! The gameplay is smooth 
 and with a good graphics card the shadows and reflections on the car and fantastic, I could even 
 brush my hair in it!
  
  As I mentioned earlier, the realism isn't up there with GT4 but it beats it hands down for competitve 
 racing. The racing is tight and fast, especially as you move up the championships. Also, each car 
 handles completely differently and reacts differently to the surface your on. The driver AI's are 
 also very clever, missing other cars, diving down the inside, crashing off and they even get annoyed 
 with you if you hit them. You will crash and spin off, anyone who thinks they won'y obviously hasn't 
 driven a real car. If Michael Schumacher can crash at 60mph we can all crash at 150mph! However, 
 instead of walking away after your 20th attempt you will carry on and on and on.
  
  The amount of tracks is awesome, as is the attention to detail on the actual track layout and the 
 cutscenes make the career mode even more enjoyable as you meet and (hopefully) beat your companions.
 
  
  However, it does contain flaws. The obvious one is the sound, a little buggy in places. Also, the 
 damage on the cars at high speed is a bit unbelievable, I don't think you just bounce of the wall 
 scratching your bumper at 160mph somehow... The worst offender here though is the lack of qualifying 
 or practice before the races in career mode!!! You can in practice mode but not when you need it 
 most, epsecially when your in a new car and on a new track. Also, the grid positions seem to be 
 appointed at random which is highly frustrating.
  
  This aside though, Toca 2 is the best racer I've played on the PC to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacasgamespot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:37 am PT
Review:  Race Driver 2 to dobra grafika niezy dwik i przede wszystkim wietnie odwzorowana 
 symulacja zachowania aut na trasie. Mnie osobicie dostarczya wiele godzin "palenia 
 gumy". Tylko tak naprawd troche gierka jest przekombinowana. Po pierwsze ten tryb kariery 
 z fabu w tle - takie infantylne opowiastki miao mona byo sobie 
 darowa. Jednak fabuka tak bardzo nie razi jak "na si" moim zdaniem dooone 
 tryby wycigw ciarwami, pickupami czy F1. Nie da si zrobi symulatora 
 wietnego w kadym z tych rnych wycigw. O ile wietnie wypada jazda 
 Mustangiem, GT3000, Lancerem, DB9 i (moim ulubionym w TRD2) Leonem, to jest kilka wycigw 
 ktre mnie osobicie zraaj do siebie. Jednak na koniec chce doda e 
 Race Driver 2 naprawde ma kilka wielkich momentw, gdzie jazda jest na absolutnie mistrzowskim 
 poziomie.
  
  (+) wietna symulacja jazdy
  (+) dwik silnikw
  (+) odwzorowanie pojazdw
  (+) dobrze zrobione zniszczenia pojazdw
  (+) dobrze odwzorowane 
 trasy
  
  (-) maa rnorodno pojazdw na trasie
  (-) w trybie kariery trzeba przej kilka niezbyt udany wycigw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer1185
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 3, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Although this game has an almost complete palate of different racing styles, most are almost impossible 
 to play. You can drive the big rigs, but they are almost impossible to control. This is also the 
 case for the Formula Ford races. It is hard to keep your car from spinning out and is nearly impossible 
 to stop once you start spinning. This has cost me several races, as you have to drive like a maniac 
 just to keep up with the computer racers and give you a slim chance of winning.
  The unique first-person cut scenes can be summed up like this: a series of arguments over your 
 future in racing between your pit boss and your team manager.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrypsk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2004 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Prior to this game, I was not a huge race fan. I had the opportunity to purchase a Logitech MOMO 
 forcefeedback wheel for a steal. After getting said wheel, I purchased TOCA 2 and fell in love. 
 
  
  First, the Cons:
  1. Sound is buggy - staticy and jumpy at times. The game is patched as well as my sound drivers. 
 Seems to happen in a random fashion
  2. No way to practice - you can't take practice laps or qualify in career mode. You have to go 
 to free race and can only practice the levels / cars you've unlocked.
  3. Can't play at work - through no fault of the game, I can't seem to convice anyone that a racing 
 wheel is a necassary part of my computer setup
  
  Now, the Pros:
  1. Variety - holy crap, 140 mph Land Rover's? Awesome. Diesel rigs, classic Jaguars, Ford GT, Nascar 
 trukcs.... that's just what I've discovered so far. Love the variety
  2. Graphics: it's totally beautiful on my system: Radeon 9800 Pro, AMD Athlon 2800
  3. Story: 
 the career story line is great and nicely rendered
  4. Very addictive... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 23, 2004 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The first Pro Race Driver (Xbox) was a good but not great game. But it wasn't even good enough 
 for me to play it all the way through. I bought TOCA for the PC and was enjoying it thorougly when 
 the PS2 version was announced. I stopped playing the PC game and preordered the PS2 version, which 
 should be available in about a week or so.
  
  Whereas the original game was only good, this one is quite a bit better than that. The graphics 
 are fantastic, the controls are spot on, and the varied racing really hits the spot. You're racing 
 trucks one minute and Forumla Fords the next, and that's really what makes the game so compelling.
 
  
  I'm looking forward to the PS2 game and will post a review of it once I put in sufficient time.
 
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fantazyz
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2004 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of race titles and i must say that TOCA series are as beautiful and enjoying 
 as a good race simulator should be. 
  As in the previous Toca title u take on the roll as a young and promosing driver looking for sponsors 
 who are giving u the chance to prove worthy their sponsorship.
  
  Positive:
  + Toca race driver 2 is like toca1 on steroids, better graphics, better handeling of the cars and 
 the multiplayer function is a great improvment.
  with a raiting system that starts at 1500 and then depending on how u perform u get more if u finish 
 better and less if u loose, fair and square.
  
  + As mentioned the graphics got a facelift, cars are modeled with more polygons, textures are clearer, 
 and the tracks has more detail. Everything looks really nice. One thing doh, is that there where 
 no mirrors in the retail version but that has been implented with a patch recently.
  
  + The developers really listen to their fans via their support board where u as the player can 
 wish for features in the upcoming patch.
  
  Negative:
  - You are not able to mess with setting for your car like dampers, spring strength and so on in 
 the career mode. might sound silly but it actually not lets u tweak the car so it fits your driving 
 style. This on the other hand is possible in the "simulation" section of the game.
  
  - You are not able to use the "pro-simulation" driving style in career, it is harder but makes the 
 driving more accurate if experienced with a wheel.
  
  Value:
  To call it "The ultimate raceing simulator" is not a good thing to do when u are limited to a default 
 car setting in the career mode but the great multiplayer function, simulator mode and beautiful 
 graphics make this race title an enjoying and great race game that i am going to have fun with 
 many times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7james
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2004 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Yeah this one has excellant replay value and good graphics for me. The sound wasn't an issue with 
 me. My problem was in the physics during the hairpins. Slowing down to a crawl (yuck) or you'll 
 be spinning circles in the grass. Also at the start of the race why does the car slid left? Too 
 much gas ? I played with most options and enjoyed normal mode best and found hard mode impossible 
 to finish above 6th. I believe a qualifing setting is available but, I took random positions and 
 enjoyed just racing. The trick really is to avoid running in the grass and the other cars because 
 it seems that something major happens after the second minor/major hit. When braking the physics 
 get silly; you can make corners slowing down moderately and make quick taps on the handbrake or 
 taking the outside lane of the curve. What I miss are big steep banks and several S turns. But 
 these cars implode at the sight of a tailight so manuver quickly to the front of the pack. Then 
 play it again adding more laps. The pit stop was dull looking and somewhat confusing to read quickly. 
 Driving the vintage cars seemed ho hum. But driving the demo cars was great.. I wish there were 
 upgrades to compete in the hard mode. Overall a couple of flaws but still fun .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucianoJ
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 29, 2004 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The demo for TOCA 2 impressed me. I didn't get the first Race Driver because I did not like the 
 hokey cutscenes. I want to drive great cars on interesting tracks, not be a character. I bought 
 the cheat codes after a few days because I was frustrated by trading paint with the AI drivers. 
 I want to be able to try all the cars on all the tracks. While the race-by-race format helps you 
 to build your skills I WANT IT ALL. The biggest reasons for TOCA 2 for me are the DTM and V8 Supercars, 
 which have the most tracks to race. The variety of cars, tracks and races are good overall, but 
 its not intended to be a NASCAR, F1 or Rally game. My eyes are always open for good games to use 
 my Logitech MOMO wheel and this is worth having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepcold
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 20, 2004 4:10 pm PT
Review:  One word come to my head... unpolish... This game should have been a winner if it has been finish 
 in everyway. Yes, the graphics are top nutch but, the sound is awfull. The ASCAR cars sounds like 
 a Bridge&Stratton lawnmower engine, every other vehicules engine sounds the same to me. The ****pit 
 view feel like as if you were wearing a ski mask, no dash and gauges. So far, i didn't saw any 
 qualification before the race. The "look left-look right" is not activated but, a CodeMasters dev 
 as said that it will be soon in a patch. One good point is, i never saw that much vehicules in a 
 game since Grand Turismo on Playsation 1 & 2. The story line is solid, it really immerse myself 
 in it. The control are adjustable and, there's still a lot of goodies to unlock so, that give TRD2 
 a good replay value. It's a bit early to talk about the multiplayer side because there's not much 
 peoples on it but, if i look at the mp demo, it's gonna be a good part of the game. To finalize, 
 the first Pro Race Driver has impress me more than TRD2. Maybe after a patch or 2, i will have 
 the same feeling that i had with Pro Race Driver. I guess patience will be a good key factor concerning 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezbrown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 20, 2004 7:09 am PT
Review:  Very well done racer. Outstanding graphics and feel at a very fair price. Works well with the Logitech 
 MOMO wheel with a nice FF touch. View options are nice, tracks are extememly varied, more so than 
 in the vast majority of race sims. Car types also vary widely; it puts NFS Underground to shame 
 in that regard. Extraordinary damage model; the car sounds very different when damaged, handling 
 is altered significantly and car view change is very realistic. Careful driving a must and that 
 adds realism, no banging around in this one if you want to do well. A must buy for any race sim 
 fan. Unqualified success for Codemasters. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
