-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TOCA Race Driver 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/tocaracedriver3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 70 licensed cars, 80 licensed tracks, and more than 35 disciplines of racing.
 Two distinct career modes that should keep you busy for a while.
 Great graphics and sound.
 Online play is nicely customizable, and a lot of fun.
 The amount of realism in the damage modeling, physics, and opposing AI is delightful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Amount of precision required in some races can get frustrating.
 Online game browser could have used a little more work.
 Some of the ancillary visual components aren't so great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,370 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Driving
Date:     Feb 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
TOCA 3 boasts an awesome variety of racing disciplines, and it backs that boast up with some really 
 excellent driving mechanics. 

  Codemasters' TOCA Race Driver series has always been about two things: solid, simulation-based 
 driving, and an insane amount of racing variety. Unlike most other racers out there, TOCA skips 
 the usual methodology of sticking to one main type of racing and overloading the package with a 
 ton of licensed cars. Certainly TOCA does have quite a few licensed vehicles, but they're spread 
 across such a wide assortment of racing disciplines that at times it seems like no two races are 
 ever alike. TOCA Race Driver 3 is the latest game in the series, and it's every bit as good as 
 its predecessors, if not markedly better. The variety of race types has grown significantly, the 
 driving remains a great deal of fun, and the game still presents itself extremely well.  

          Racers rarely come more jam-packed with variety than TOCA Race Driver 3.     

  TOCA 
 3 boasts more than 35 different types of racing, including open wheel, Indy cars, stock cars, GT, 
 historic, off-road, rally, supertrucks, sprint cars, touring cars, monster trucks, and go-karts, 
 among others. While this everything-to-everyone approach might seem like it would lead to a profoundly 
 scattershot experience, it doesn't, because TOCA 3 knows exactly how to handle its business. No 
 one discipline feels neglected in any way, whether it's handling, artificial intelligence, or visuals. 
 But we'll get to all that stuff in a bit. You'll find quite a bit of car variety, with around 70 
 licensed vehicles in the game. Some races require one specific car type, meaning you won't get 
 your choice in vehicles, but others offer multiple available cars. You can't go crazy and race 
 a Formula Palmer Audi against a monster truck or anything like that, but really, you shouldn't 
 be able to. TOCA 3 is first and foremost a simulation racer, so it maintains some strict guidelines 
 for conduct.  

  From the moment you boot up the game, you're thrown directly into the action. Once you've created 
 your profile, you actually launch directly into the middle of a race, where you'll start out behind 
 and need to catch up. On the radio, a Scottish gentleman feeds you directions on how best to control 
 your vehicle. Once you've finished the race, you're treated to a cutscene where your Scottish mechanic 
 introduces himself and tells you how things work around there. Mainly, he talks about how true 
 racers exude patience and control at all times. That's good advice, given the way TOCA 3 plays. 
 Sticking to your racing lines and careful driving are rewarded practices, while frequent bumping 
 and cutting corners are often penalized, both with specifically flagged race penalties, and also 
 with what happens to your car when you drive on the infield too much or bump around like a crazy 
 person.  

  TOCA 3 has some really excellent damage effects, specifically in regards to what damage does to 
 your car, like when you go crashing into a wall at high speeds. For example, your transmission 
 might get jacked up, causing you to shift gears at a slower, more erratic rate; your wheel alignment 
 might go all higgledy-piggledy, forcing you to veer off to one direction or another if you don't 
 hold the steering wheel tight; and your engine might just cut out altogether. Even simply driving 
 onto the infield shows noticeable problems, as your tires start to cool down and collect all kinds 
 of gunk. The visual representations of this damage vary in quality. Open-wheel racers tend to show 
 the physical damage to the car better than most other cars, but if you wreck hard enough, you'll 
 see some nice-looking damage to just about any vehicle.  

          The world tour mode lets you try just about every racing discipline the game offers -- and 
 it comes complete with a cheeky Scottish racing manager, to boot.     

  The actual handling of the cars varies wildly between classes, though one thing remains constant: 
 The faster the car, the more careful you'll need to be. There are 80 different worldwide tracks 
 featured in TOCA 3, and the one thing they all have in common (save for the pure oval racing courses) 
 is that they tend to feature a lot of tight turns that require precise driving to navigate. Even 
 the dirt tracks and similarly offbeat courses need a bit of precision, lest you start sliding all 
 over the place and bust up your car. Watching for turns is key; though, you'll likely experience 
 a fair bit of trial and error with each track as you start to get used to its various curves. The 
 aggressive opponent AI will often take advantage of your mistakes. On normal difficulty, it's not 
 so hard to get back to a decent finishing position if you slide out or wreck, but on hard, it's 
 damn near an impossibility. Fortunately, you can restart any race at any time, and while restarting 
 races over and over again might be somewhat frustrating after awhile, it's a fair bit better than 
 having to complete a race you know you can't win.  

  Above all else, racing in TOCA 3 just feels authentic. Sometimes cars might feel a bit floatier 
 than they would seem like they ought to in a realistic scenario, and there are times where your 
 car will magically survive wicked looking crashes with little more than cosmetic damage, but generally 
 the feel of the car jibes with the terrain it's driving on, the speed you're traveling at, and 
 most other mitigating factors. The opponent AI also works extremely realistically. They'll stick 
 to their racing lines as steadfastly as they can, but if a wreck occurs right in front of them, 
 they'll do their best to veer out of the way and get back ontrack. You'll see opponents overtake 
 one another, occasionally wreck themselves, and generally behave as a real racer should. On normal 
 difficulty, they do tend to take turns a bit too conservatively, which makes it much easier for 
 you to roll up and overtake a bunch of racers at once. But on hard difficulty, that behavior pretty 
 much goes away entirely.     

   

  Apart from being able to do all these types of races in a typical free race mode, TOCA 3 actually 
 offers two distinct career modes. The world tour is similar to the career mode found in TOCA 2, 
 in that it's a story-based affair where you play as an up-and-coming driver new to the scene, and 
 the aforementioned Scottish fellow works as your primary manager, mechanic, and confidant. The 
 story here is mostly incidental. You simply go through the mode's 32 racing tiers bit by bit, placing 
 in certain spots to advance. Cutcenes will often play between races, but there isn't much of a 
 real plot going on in this game like there was in the last one. You'll see a bit of rivalry going 
 on between you and another racer, but that's about it. This isn't a bad Sylvester Stallone racing 
 movie, though, and there doesn't need to be a bunch of manufactured drama. Being able to race through 
 32 tiers of racing events, and between a wide variety of races, is more than enough. The other 
 mode is the pro career mode. Here, you simply pick a specific racing discipline, like classics 
 or open-wheel racing, and progress through every track and championship that discipline has to 
 offer. It's a nice progression, as you'll start with the easiest cars and move up to the most fearsome 
 racing machines.  

          Staying within the set racing lines and off the infield at all costs is very much to your 
 benefit.     

  There's also standard split-screen multiplayer, system link play, and online on all versions of 
 the game. The PS2 version only supports eight players online, but the PC and Xbox versions support 
 12. When you're hosting a game online, you can pick from any of your available championships, disciplines, 
 and cars, and you can play through a full series or just go race by race. Like TOCA 2, the game 
 uses a unique ranking system that adds or detracts points to your overall ranking score depending 
 on how you perform. You can also designate exactly how much you want the races to be focused on 
 the rules, so you can severely penalize people for bumping, cutting corners, or just generally 
 racing like jerks. Or you can just let them be jerks -- it's entirely your prerogative. The one thing 
 missing from the server browser is a designation of when a hosted game has already begun. As a 
 result, you may find yourself wandering into a few too many games that have already started, and 
 then you'll be forced to go looking again or just wait around until they've finished. The performance 
 between the different versions mostly held up well during our testing. We ran into next to no lag 
 on the PS2 or Xbox versions, and only intermittent lag on the PC version, which mainly occurred 
 in matches against racers from across the pond.  

  TOCA 3 also features an excellent presentation across the board. The car models in this game look 
 absolutely wonderful, and again, the ways in which they deform are quite amusing, especially with 
 the open-wheel vehicles. The physics are largely realistic, and watching a race replay (provided 
 you didn't drive around like an alcoholic) really is a lot like watching the real thing unfold 
 in front of you. The race tracks are very much representative of the real-life courses, though 
 you'll see decidedly more effort in the actual tracks themselves than the stuff in the periphery. 
 Road textures, like the infield and things of that nature, are all great, but the stands and distant 
 background set pieces tend not to look quite as hot when you see them up close. Granted, the only 
 way you should be getting a look at that stuff is if you've gone headfirst into a wall and can't 
 move, so it's not such a big deal. Even the game's menus are slickly produced. They look clean 
 and are quite easy to navigate. All three versions of the game look comparable, too. With the resolution 
 turned up, the PC version definitely looks the best. However, the Xbox version comes quite close, 
 and the PS2 version suffers only from less impressive textures and drabber color schemes.  

          Up close, the car models look great.     

  The audio is made up of the typical sorts 
 of things you'd expect, with some great engine sounds, tires squealing around the track, loud cracks 
 as cars bang into one another, and the like. The voice acting during the cutscenes is surprisingly 
 sharp, even if it is mostly just one guy talking all the time. He's funny, charming, and informative -- the 
 trifecta of what you'd hope for. Even the in-game music is pleasant to listen to, as most of it 
 is groovy, David Holmes-sounding background fodder, and it's all really listenable.  

  Above all else, TOCA 3 is the kind of racing game that just about any driving game fan could get 
 into. Simulation enthusiasts will love the variety, the challenging higher difficulty level, and 
 all the various tuning options that can be tweaked prior to a race. Those who just want to jump 
 into a race and go can do just that as well, without having to worry about the sorts of minutiae 
 that most pure sim racers tend to require before beginning. TOCA 3 is a racer with a deep, lasting 
 impact, and regardless of what kind of gearhead you profess yourself to be, you're certain to find 
 something to like about it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (59 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rickoflancaster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Where to star?
  It just is a great racing experience and nothing beats the thrill of over taking another car. It 
 has loads of different modes so you're sure to find a personal favourite.
  The only problems are:
  You can't race certain cars on certain tracks
  Corner cut rule will 
 give you a penalty for accidentally taking a corner too fast and clipping th grass
  Williams F1 Cars are very hard to control.
  
  But some of the nice features:
  Good Graphics
 
  Several modes of difficulty
  A lot of race tracks and their variations
  Fairly long campaign (World tour mode)
  Pro career mode
  The handling is just right I feel
 
  
  In the pro career mode you start at the base of one of the classes and have to win the championship 
 ton reach the next level. (This can take a while!!)
  
  This a must buy and by far better than racedriver grid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirakak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  When i went to shop i wanted to buy Driver Parallel Lines but i didnt find it so i did buy TOCA 
 Race Driver 3. First time my friend did play it he could not understand anything but from the first 
 look i think i didnt look so cool but when i played it it looked cooler than ever. The game is 
 easy in the beginning but in the middle its very hard because you have to ride with monster trucks 
 and they are drifting all the time. i dont want to tell all the story of the game so im not talking 
 about the cars and things like that. Graphics are normal for game like that. It is hard for strategy 
 gamers like most of my friends but easy for race gamers like me. The bad part of the game is the 
 story where the fat guy is talking to you and when you ride on high speed and blow your car into 
 pieces the enemy car gets the minimum damage. For the end of the review i want to say that the 
 game is made for race gamers not for strategy gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Storyline: N/A - Straight Racing Game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8 - Great detailed graphics during the races, the menu some how seems like anti-alias 
 or vertical sync isn't on, saw quite a lot of blurry words and breakage in the menu. 
  
  Sound: 8 - Very realistic sound, its great that no matter what country you pick, you always seem 
 to have the British pit crew instructor.
  
  Environment/Maps: 8 - Maps a top picked, they range from very simple to very hard. Very solid difficulty 
 on tracks.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7.5 - Can't complain with the engine other than the handling on some cars 
 was rather ridiculous. Very well made game, great multiplayer.
  
  Interface: 6 - It seemed that most cars or types of races were very simple but others were way 
 overly hard to win or just to control the car. Could have used some better balancing.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Solid Racing Experience! Nothing 
 like overtaking cars left and right on a race track. Some cars seemed almost impossible to control, 
 game at times can take some serious time to get used to the controls being every cars handling 
 is different. Over all a very fun racing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  TOCA Race Driver is really an average game. It has nothing really standing out like a sore thumb, 
 which is good, also there is nothing that really stands out as being excellent. Well I don't really 
 like track racing game but this one I liked to a certain extent. The sound is ok and graphics wise 
 it is good. You can't really even compare it to the new games like Need For Speed Prostreet which 
 is a better track racing game even though it was aiming to be a "cool" street racing game! The 
 real big bonus with this game is that you can drive in a lot of cars at a lot of tracks. The realism 
 of the crashes is nice. They got frustrating after while because like if you virtually just touch 
 the AI's car the car goes into a spin then the wheel comes off! All in all this is a solid racing 
 game and if you like track racing games this is for you, but you can do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS VERY VERY REALISTIC. I THINK THIS IS THE BEST GAME EVER ON PC OR CONSOLS.
  THE GRAPHICS ARE FENOMENAL AND THE CARS ARE VERY HIGH DETAILED JUST LIKE IN REALITY.
  THE SOUND 
 IS EXELENT ESPECIALY THE ENGINE SOUND. IF YOU CHANGE CAMERA [FROM OUTSIDE TO COCKPIT] THE SOUND 
 OF THE ENGINE WILL CHANGE.
  THE GAMEPLAY IS VERY COOL. THE WORL TOUR MODE LETS YOU RACE DIFERENT RACE TIPES IN 32 TIERS. THE 
 MOST AMAZING THING IN THIS GAME ARE THE CUTSCENES. THEIR GRAPHICS AND THE VOICES ARE AMAZING. SOMETIMES 
 YOU HAVE THE INSTINCT THAT THEY ARE REAL. THE PRO CAREER MODE LETS YOU TRY SIX RACING DISCIPLINES 
 FROM: TOURING CARS TO OFF ROAD AND OPEN WHEEL.
  FROM EACH DISCIPLINE YOU GET 6-10 CHAMPIONSHIPS FROM: INDY CAR, DTM, RA RALLYCROSS CHAMPIONSHIP, 
 4X4 MONSTER SERIES, SUPERTRUCK INTERNATIONAL SERIES AND FORMULA PALMER AUDI.
  THE SIMULATION MODE LETS YOU RACE IN FREE RACE, TIME TRIAL, AND MULTIPLAYER. FREE RACE LETS YOU 
 RACE THE CHAMPIONSHIPS THAT YOU HAVED WON AND SOME BONUSES WICH YOU CAN UNLOCK BY HAVING A NUMBER 
 OF CUPS. IN TIME TRIAL YOU WILL TRY TO BEAT A CIRCUIT RECORD. IN MULTIPLAYER YOU CAN RACE THE CHAMPIONSHIPS 
 WON AND BONUSES WITH YOUR FRIENDS WITH THE COMPUTER SCREEN SPLIT IN HALF [DONT WORRY THERE IS AN 
 LAN AND INTERNET OPTION!!]
  IN THE GAME THERE ARE OVER 70 LICENSED RACE CARS AND OVER 80 INTERNATIONAL CIRCUITS FROM ALL OVER 
 THE WORLD.
  THE DAMAGE IS VERY REALISTIC. A HEAD ON CRASH WILL KNOCK OUT YOUR FRONT WHEELS AND THE FRONT PANEL. 
 JUST TOUCH A BARIER AND YOU CAN BEND A PANEL OF THE CAR!
  THE BEST BIT IS THAT YOU DO NOT HAVE THE PROBLEM OF THE CASH AND IN CAREER MODE YOU CAN HAVE ANY 
 CAR YOU WANT WITHOUT PAING CASH!
  IN THE END I HAVE TO SAY THAT THIS IS THE GRATEST GAME EVER AND ANY FAN OF MOTORSPORT SHOULD HAVE 
 THIS GAME.
  ENJOY PLAYING!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espresso80977
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I have played many hours in this game. I have actually played lots of the game. I am tired of people 
 calling this crappy because they can't play it. The game is one of the to 10 racing Sims for the 
 PC. Most of the complainers and haters of this game say in their review they can't play it, they 
 just suck. If you know how a real car handles this is the game for you. And don't complain about 
 not selecting cars each race, real racers race in strict classes, the real world is not Need For 
 Speed. (I am a bit of a rally enthusiast myself in reality. I can get a damn Taurus to drift 500+ 
 ft, handles much like the Renault Clio Cup cars in this game at 100% realism.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice_radon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  It has taken Codemasters 3 games and around 3 years to come close to perfecting this racing series. 
 I am not saying that this is hands down the best racing game ever, but man, its one of the better 
 racing games to grace the PC in sometime now, and have refined many of the mechanics to make this 
 a worthy racer overall. And for a mere $20 dollars, this game cannot be passed up if you are a 
 hardcore racing/driving game fan!
  
  From the moment you start into your career mode/world tour, you are jolted right into a race, which 
 is somewhat jarring. It was somewhat cool how they just kind of throw you in there like a rookie 
 and see what you can do, but when you do not have your controller configured and you are using 
 automatic, also with not having played this game before, its hard to know what to expect which 
 makes the initial race somewhat annoying, but I really dont think that it counts for anything, 
 so that was cool with me. The next thing that really stood out to me is that this game is not about 
 racing modified Japanese crap like every other racing game out there, or only racing F1 series, 
 or only racing stock cars; this game literally has you driving anything with 4 wheels on, and some 
 things with more. When I first started playing the TOCA series, I was floored that I was supposed 
 to race semi tractors. Sure, they were not like racing F1 cars or American V8 muscle, but they 
 sure were fun and different, and different this game does and does well. This game may not have 
 every car on every manufacturers rooster, but it has the cars that count, and that you will really 
 want to drive unlike GT4 where half of the cars in the game are crappy Asian 34 bhp cars which 
 are not fun to drive, yet they have been in the Gran Turismo series since GT2, and are still present 
 in GT4 for some odd reason. Cars like the Ford SHO Taurus and Ford Focus are worthy additions to 
 a racing series, since you can actually use them for racing. Sure, I would love to see more cars 
 in this game, but there is enough here to get the job done at the end of the day.
  
  Next is its simulation aspect. On one hand its super deep and with you going in there knowing what 
 you are doing, you can blow by the competition with just some gear swaps, toe and camber changes 
 and a few other small tweaks. This game is really easy to get into for beginners and they can easily 
 race for a good long while without touching any of the settings, but in order to mater this game, 
 you are going to need to at least change a few of the settings once you start getting into the 
 more advanced races.
  
  And finally, I feel that dirt track racing deserves some mention. In TOCA where you have rally 
 or sprint car races, this is probably one of the best rally games out there. This might have something 
 to do in that Codemasters, the creators of TOCA 3 also make the genre defining Colin McRaes Rallisport 
 Challenge year after year and keep doing a superb job in adding to the series each and every installment. 
 If you have played Gran Turismo 4s special condition races (snow and dirt) , you know that it feels 
 like you are sliding on glass the entire time, no matter the type of terrain you are on. In this 
 game, you can actually feel you car bite the dirt at times and it also will take a few seconds 
 after getting off the dirt onto the Tarmac to get dirt worn off the tires and get some traction. 
 This really adds an enormous amount of realism to the game, not seen in many other games.
  
  Oh, and a little side note, if you are getting the PC version, make sure you pick up a controller. 
 I have been using the extra controller that I bought for my 360, and its quite possible one of 
 the best controllers I have ever used on the PC, and just works perfecting for this game. Sure, 
 its $39.99 where as some cheaper logitechs are 19.99, but it is most defiantly worth the purchase.
 
  
  Sound is great, every car sounds different, crashes feel for the most part real and like they would 
 in real life. Not really anything that stands out as genre defining, but there are really no criticisms 
 either. Crashes sound very realistic, and engine noises sound dead on. On thing that was the one 
 major hiccup was voice over radio from your manager. Sometimes he will say things that would apply 
 during the race, but he will say them on your last lap after crossing the finish line. One example 
 is; Now make it happen from here on in when you cross the finish line on your final lap to end 
 the race which is kind of random, and they really should have just put an if statement in there 
 to fix that up. Its not a major problem, just something that detracts from the gameplay a little 
 bit.
  
  The graphics are on par, they are not on the 360 level with Project Gotham Racing 3 which came 
 out a year ago, and I really dont understand why. On my nVidia 7800GTX, I have every setting pushed 
 to the max, and AA and AF turned on, yet it still is not as refined as a year old game on a console 
 with a graphics card that is somewhat inferior to mine in my PC. I really do not understand that. 
 I am not saying they look terrible, but they will now blow you away if you have gotten your hands 
 on a 360 since launch last year. The high point of the graphics for me is the detail used in the 
 cars. On some cars where the engine is exposed, you can see the crankshaft just barely turning 
 when at an idle, but when you start winding the thing up. Sure, its a little thing, but it makes 
 the game 10x cooler.
  
  Online on the other hand leaves a bit to be desired, sure, its here, but getting into a race is 
 kind of tough at times, the menu is a little difficult at first, and finding someone can be a challenge, 
 but when I have gotten online, there really has not been any lag that has really hampered the game 
 too much.
  
  My final thoughts on this game are; if you are a racing fan or know anyone who is one, go out to 
 the store now and pick up the game, its only $19.99 and will keep you coming back for months, even 
 if you wont be playing it online.
  
  8.3- Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosss4
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  TOCA Race Driver III has not got what it takes to become an instant classic, however it has got 
 some great racing. The graphics are excellent, fast and smooth. Sound effects are on apar with 
 most racing games a little repetitive! The tweaks are endless from tyre choice, suspension ride 
 height!! Too much to list. Levels of difficulty range from winning while your watching T. V. to 
 near impossible. The game on a whole is not as bad as many of the over the top reviews I've read. 
 Its good strong fast eye catching racing and you should not pass up the opportunity to try it if 
 you can. As I always say if you can pick it up in a sale at a good price you'll regret not trying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plinky
Rating: 2.1
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Once again, another PS2 game ported to PC. Made for use with PS2 gamepad and not a wheel, and no 
 first person in car view. Save your money and get Live for Speed or GTR1 or 2 or GT Legends. I 
 wish software companies would quit tricking us with their garbage and start making some real games. 
 And if you're going to port a PS2 game to PC, why not take the time to change the controls and 
 physics for PC. I'm sorry. Even with a DFP on this game the cars handle very poorly. I guess you 
 actually need a gamepad to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3boy2001
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Toca race driver 3 has many bad points and some good points.
  First, the physics are NOTHING compared to any game like GTR, and thats a shame because i really 
 like DTM but can't play it like in real life, like GTR.
  I hate to be one of those people that only point out the bad stuff, but i really was dissapointed. 
 The graphics are surprisingly good compared to the other features in the game. the sounds are idiotic. 
 the player sounds are great but the AI sounds are different, which i really hate!!! if only they 
 focused on their original ToCA idea (touring cars) and have used GPS and telemetry data somehow 
 to create a game with accurate physics, then maybe this game would've sold incredibly well, so 
 lets hope they fix SOMETHING in toca racedriver 4. OK? so now the good points. the graphics like 
 i said, was incredible. the shining etc are very well done. the road reflections are pretty realistic 
 too. (but there is no weather : (: (: (!!!!!!!) the damage is very very well done! i really like the 
 damage and have no complaints. the fact is in conclusion, that you cant accelerate to , what, 200 
 km/h in just 4 seconds!!!!!!!!!!!!! and you cant make 180 corners at 100 km/h!
  please fix the physics! i will buy multiple copies when you do codemasters :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deranged_pyro
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Game play
  For any person that has played a racing game that requires you to drive a proper racing line and 
 enjoyed it, or for people that race something in real life where you need to drive properly, this 
 game will possibly be a turn off. For most of the game you can win by margins of 30 seconds or 
 more by simply not breaking until your half way through a corner and drifting the rest. If youre 
 someone who just loves driving games and arent incredibly good at picking a racing line then this 
 game is for you, for any given track there are countless ways of lapping fast, stupidly fast, sometimes 
 10 seconds or more quicker than the real lap record of any given track. There is no realism in 
 lapping ten seconds quicker then seasoned professionals. The fact that all the cars drive pretty 
 much the same is also a major downside, the only difference between a Go-Kart and an Indy Car are 
 the rate at which they accelerate and there top speeds. The good part about this game is its so 
 easy to get the hang of and so easy to play, even on hard (apart from the stupid AI which will 
 hit you for no reason) .
  
  The fact that this game incorporates rules is a good thing, but the fact that they seem to only 
 apply to you, are incredibly strict and at sometimes flawed is a bad thing. At times have been 
 driving down an enclosed straight (with cement walls either side) and I have received a Black Flag 
 for Going of track to gain an advantage and at other times I have been hit off track into a sand 
 trap and Ive received the same warning Going of track to gain an advantage 
  
  The damage system is also a bit touchy, for example an Australian V8 Supercar can take one hell 
 of a beating before it looks like it's been hit by a truck, but in the game if you so much as bump 
 another car at 60kmh your lucky if your front bumper stays on, let alone your engine stays fully 
 functional.
  
  Variety The amount of cars and track in the game is great, especially since there are tracks from 
 all corners of the world and nearly all of the major racing series. The downside to all this content 
 is that it feels as if you have raced on one track in this game you have raced on all of them, 
 each of the cars feels the same on a track in USA as it does on a track in Germany. A game can 
 have 1000's of cars, but if they all handle the same what's the point? One thing the game lacks 
 in the track department is Rally tracks, if youre going to make a game with rally cars, make sure 
 you have enough tracks to make each of the Rally championships different. Also being forced to 
 drive a certain car is stupid; you should get to choose, because nobody wants to drive a care they 
 hate.
  
  Sound
  The one thing I love about this game is the sound, the engine sounds are great, and pretty funny 
 after you've gotten intimate with a few walls. Nothing beats the sound of a gearbox sounding like 
 it's about to fall apart as your flying down a straight. The mechanic gets annoying pretty fast, 
 he hinders more than he helps on occasions and hes really good at stating the obvious; If you 
 want to win your going to need to stay on the course really?. If youre trying to make a passing 
 move on the last corner and he comes over the radio to say something completely pointless, it can 
 wreck your concentration; admittedly you can turn him off, but maybe if there was an option to 
 change the voice, maybe to a girl or a different accent. Music while youre driving wouldnt be 
 too bad either.
  
  Graphic
  Graphics are reasonable good, but they dont really cut it on compared to some of the other games 
 in its genre. But on the other hand they are better compared to some other games. The damage often 
 looks the same after completely different impacts and some parts of the scenery look somewhat 2D, 
 but things such as buildings and overpasses do look pretty good.
  
  For a game with so much potential it feels a little rushed.
  
  
  (This is the first review 
 Ive posted on GS sorry if its not too good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krizan99
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  I like it,... a lot:)
  
  I downloaded it just for my brother, because he likes car - but when me and my friends tried the 
 multyplayer we were amazed :O
  It offers a lot of entertainment and the joy of compeating againts your friends is marvelous :)
 
  There are many different race types so you can never get sick of it and every tye has it's winner:)
 
  The grafical engine is great and the details are superb - it's an instant classic:)
  
  Enaugh talking - go and play the damm game
  
  see u
  see u
  see u
  see u
  see u
  
 
  /gawri||o.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebk78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Is there any racing game at all in which the AI cars don't smash into you and make your car uncontrollable 
 or send you way off the track? Unfortunately, TOCA3 belongs to this group of games. C'mon codemasters 
 , add more realism to this game because it has such a good potential otherwise. I mean, how often 
 do you see races in which cars bump into each other?!
  
  Besides that and some other flaws mentioned by other reviewers, this game is pretty nice and playable. 
 The authors should really rectify the errors in it though. Graphics are nice, although they don't 
 really fascinate, which is somehow disappointing. I got used to the fact that racing games are 
 equal with great graphics, so I always expect something more than the things I experienced in TOCA3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droges
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  After enjoying number 2 and gaving it a good rating of 7.7, I have moved on #3.
  Toca 3 is almost an expansion pack for number 2, so right away you would think it should be get 
 a rating of around 8. Unfortunately in my opinion this is not the case. #2 had a nice story mode 
 that brought you in, #3 is almost none existent. My complaints of #2 are still strong in #3; The 
 rally tracks are so crappy that I almost stopped playing the game. Invisible walls, lack luster 
 environments and no originality were evident. All cars in the race have the exact same graphics 
 except different colors. So very boring when watching replays. The monster trucks are nothing to 
 write home about and if they were, the tracks they are able to be used on will surely squash that 
 idea.
  
  Now getting those issues out of the way, the game is pretty solid. Lots of vehicles and lots of 
 tracks should keep you busy for some time if you are a racing fanatic like I am, that is if you 
 can get by the boring presentation. The car physics and damage to the most part are pretty respectable. 
 Sound is good but upgrades are useless. If you upgrade your exhaust I don't think it effects the 
 sound of the engine at all. So with that I will wrap up this review with a summary. #3 is identical 
 to 2 except missing the story mode that I really got a kick out of. Huge selection of vehicles 
 and tracks with custom difficulty and tuning will allow you to create a delicious race scenery. 
 This game allows split screen racing or you can take it online where you will probably get the 
 most value from. Single player will leave you bored and wanting more in a matter of a couple of 
 weeks.
  
  An okay game with a few steps back, to bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vega666
Rating: 3.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a game with HUGE potential. Just the detail with that old Scottish guy is great. The enormous 
 amount of different races is awesome. But then there are those things that just wreck the whole 
 experience, and it's not like they are actual bugs either. They are man-made -errors-.
  
  Like the fact that in most the races (bar one actually) that I've driven you can't change car. 
 What if I HATE the Honda NSX? (which incidentally I do) It's a bit demoralizing to be forced into 
 a car you just can't stand. This is a -massive- problem in my opinion. They make a game that is 
 obviously made for car enthusiasts, then they overlook the fact that it's a game made for car enthusiasts... 
 Anyone else see the faulty logic? Everyone who knows anything about anything knows that car enthusiasts 
 are VERY particular about the cars they like and don't like. The game might be made FOR enthusiasts, 
 but the makers themselves obviously aren't.
  
  Another example of developer errors is the actual physics for anything other than tarmac races. 
 Dirt races, wether it's rally or baja-buggies have totally horrible physics. I've driven most vehicles 
 that run off-road, and NONE of them has behaved the way the dirt vehicles in TOCA3 does. It's completely 
 unplayable.
  
  Thirdly, I want to point to the qualifying laps. If your car is even remotely off track you get 
 a message telling you "You have recieved a penalty for being off the track and gaining advantage" 
 or something similar. Even though the piece of the proverbial you are driving understeered you 
 right off a hairpin, made you spin pirouettes in the sandbox and LOSE 20 seconds you get this message. 
 Now, the message in itself isn't so bad, but the fact that your WHOLE lap is disqualified is STUPID. 
 I mean. Most of the time, taking your car for a stroll off the track is a DEFINITE DISADVANTAGE, 
 not an advantage. IT'S STUPID! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laba-laba
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  yap.. everthings perfect. but if u a real racer, u will find something wrong with breaking. It 
 almost perfect breaking with all situation on track. you will never spin with this game !! thats 
 so weak.!!
  
  All type cars like similar handling and situation. And if u see the replay you will find some thing 
 wrong. the fours tyres like have to control the car (turning right and left) . Just like other codemaster 
 games ( even Colin McRae series) .
  
  TOCA Race driver series just arcade racing Game. never changing...
  codemaster enginers should 
 learn to GTR enginers :)
  
  the AI playes is good. but to brutal if u switsh to HARD level. that annoyed.
  
  For me.. im 
 still wait for another Toca series coming up with new consept coder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warudor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The Toca series continues to impress me as an avid race fan. The sheer amount of series and licensed 
 tracks is simply staggering. But some of those series could use work. I mean, have you ever seen 
 monster trucks race on that type of circuit? If your going to add something such as monster trucks 
 at least portray that side of racing as it really is. I must say I am also very impressed by the 
 visuals, damage modeling, physics, and the tracking of things such as tire temperatures. 
  Yes, sometimes the detail and difficulty become frustrating but it justs adds to the realism for 
 me. Look at real life, if you take that indycar too fast into the first set of turns at Surfers 
 Paradise your race is done, so it is the same in the game. Overall the game is very impressive 
 I just wish some series like the sprint cars and monster trucks had recieved just a little bit 
 more detail 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THStrackrunner
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I was playing wayyyyyyyyyy too much NASCAR Simracing, and i thought this would be a cure to that, 
 but i was dissapointed. This game just seems to run real slow. It may have been just my computer. 
 I would definately have given this game a better rating if i hadnt gotten NASCAR Simracing 2 weeks 
 before this one. Its a good pick-up if you find it, only 20$. But if you're really looking for 
 a good racing game, pick up the 10$ NASCAR Simracing. This game will probably run better on your 
 computer anyway, i dont have the best computer in the world. Give it a try, you may like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattheweakspot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The toca series has been great so far and toca racedriver 3 is no letdown the graphics are the 
 best ive seen on a racing game for the ps2 and the introduction of different racing modes is an 
 exellent add on to an already great game. they even had enough space left on the game disc to fit 
 in crash damage which gives the game a great sense of realism. But when you crash into an ai car 
 the only car that gets damage is yours if that was not the case it would have been a 10/10 but 
 that has brought my rating down to a 9.5/10 to sum it up a great game well worth buying!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystall3d
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Toca racer driver 2 is an excellent simulation game, 
  with a decent steering wheel , provided with a real force feed back, stands out as "the most satisfying 
 , hard earned pleasure" that can achieved on any system
  
  And yes, this will be review of TRD3 but sadly to say that there's not much to say about rather 
 than whinning...
  
  TRD3 has all kinds of new features few of which are:
  
  Its physics are gone: the cars are like pivoted from the middle, sound jerky and weak , menu are 
 well but the story driven careeer mode is "plain" boring.
  
  Infact i did not bother to unlock them by progressing the career mode with hover-craftig 4 wheeled 
 balooons so i used a code to test other locked vehicles to see how they hover... It feels just arcedish, 
 somehow feel like somee else is also having a hand on the wheel and brakes , which occurs eventhough 
 the assists are off. After a few laps , you feel like no reason to go on as no attention to drive 
 line is required.
  
  Now there are four times of more content as you can now drive most kinds of vehicles ncluding 
 trukcs to go-carts but they dont feel good to drive occurs as none of them behaves like rational 
 4-wheels.
  
  Surely the new version will be playable for vast majority , but! racers that keep an eye for realism 
 might have left it to oblivion alredy and hoping the next one will stick to what was sccesfull
 
  
  I hope code masters keep crafting creating unique ,challenging content and quit making EA style 
 "any dumpster can play"type games
  
  My note is 6.9 which still looks overrated to me , the most score it got was fom the replay value 
 as those races take quite alot of time to finish, expecially with that phsysics!
  4 , will see...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoot2live
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 22, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  I originally got TOCA because it was not too expensive and I needed a good modern game to play 
 with my Logitech MOMO Force Feedback Racing Wheel which was getting dusty dispite that it's a great 
 peripheral. I didn't expect that it could be as good as the games that if I could play on my computer 
 I would never stop playing like Forza Motorsport or Grand Turismo. It turns out that this is actually 
 one of the best Racing games for the PC and one of the best racing games I have ever played.
  
  The key to this game's sucess is the sheer variety and depth. As other reviews might have said 
 if there is a form of motorsport it is probably in the game. And that is true. The game features 
 oval racing trucks, Formula 3, Honda Type-R's, Off Road dune buggies, DTM race cars, World GT, 
 exotic super cars, and even IRL indy cars. The amazing thing is that although there is such a wide 
 range of racing specialties, they all share the same supurb driving mechanics and damage simulation 
 and realistic handling. So no one branch of racing seems to have been given less consideration. 
 Another great advantage of all this is that you will learn new kinds of racing that you enjoy, 
 which will encourage you to try all of the different disiplines. For example, I got TOCA thinking 
 I would mostly stick to Open Wheel and GT generes, but while playing the world tour I found out 
 that I was really good at driving American Muscle Cars and had alot of fun with that. 
  
  The wonderful depth of the game brings about one draw back, although there is not a short supply 
 of cars by any measure (there are close to one hundred) but because these different cars are spread 
 between Historic, GT, Open Wheel, Touring Car and Rally and Offroad, there are times where each 
 individual series or class of racing might feel a little in need of more different models of cars 
 in it. For example if you consider high end Japanese Sports cars, TOCA has Nismo S-Tuned 350Z and 
 Honda NSX-R racing in that race. Where a game like Grand Turismo 4 would have Toyota Supras, Mitsubishi 
 3000GTs, Honda S2000s, Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VIIIs, Mazda RX-7s, Subaru WRX STIs, Mazda RX-8s 
 competing in a similar race. To it's credit though there are usually atleast 2 or 3 different models 
 of cars on average in each racing series.
  
  No game is without its flaws, the AI racers are very cunning, but unless you play them on the hardest 
 difficulty they are much too easy to defeat. The reason for this is that the key mechanism that 
 they use to make the opponents less difficult is by having them brake sooner for corners and take 
 them at slower speeds. This makes passing them remarkably easy just by braking harder and closer 
 towards the corner and taking the turns at a higher speed. So I advise everyone to play the game 
 on the hard difficulty if you are an expert at racing games or you will never see another competitor's 
 car your entire career in TOCA unless you are lapping them.
  
  However playing the game on hard bring's it's own set of difficulties. Sometimes hard is too hard 
 because on the hard setting one crash or spinout pretty much takes you out of most races. So on 
 the hard difficulty it can be frustrating when you are stuck with a car you aren't good with that 
 you need to race with and win and you have to keep restarting the race. Although restarting is 
 much better than finishing a race you know you can't win. And the game will allow you to move towards 
 in the game even if you dont get first in every race, or win the championship. Usually the top 
 3 spots at the end of a championship are enough to move you on to the next event. This can make 
 the game feel alot different than other Racing games where you need to win constantly, and the 
 difficulty is adjusted approprietly with rubber band AI, so you catch up when you aren't winning 
 and so the competition catches up when you are. TOCA doesn't do it this way, rather it just lets 
 you fight it out for every point you can get and at the end of a series or championship it doesn't 
 punish you for not getting first place in every race, although you certainly are rewarded for winning.
 
  
  As for the graphics and sound compared to PC in general they are good, but not great or excellent, 
 compared to just racing games, they are very good. The strong points with the graphics are how 
 detailed the cars are, you can see little details like the vents in the brake rotors and the glimmer 
 of light off the paint and crisp textures for all the sponser decals and mesh wire on the grill 
 of the car and that sort of thing. The tracks themselves are very good looking and look as if they 
 have real surface when the light hit it right you can see the grain and texture of the road, it 
 looks good. It is not as super graphics as Need for speed most wanted but this game achieves great 
 visuals without being overly hard on the PC and without using tons of high tech features.
  
  This game is easy to get into, but it also caters to experts of racing games like me. It can 
 go from easy arcade to brutal simulator just by changing a few settings. If you have a force feed 
 back wheel the effects on that are very nicely done and realistic. A nice touch is that you can 
 choose an in car perspective to race from, although the majority of cars have only a default looking 
 interior with a carbon fiber dashbord and A pillar, it still adds to immersion when you are in 
 the car, and can look to the left and to the right and see your car's side mirrors and if you enable 
 the setting actually see real time reflections of what is behind you. So as true purist you could 
 play from inside the car view, using your side and rear view mirrors on and in the car as your 
 only way to see behind you and turn off the other indicators, and use a multiturn racing wheel 
 with a manual gear box with a clutch pedal (it supports this) and a real shifter. Played this way 
 the game becomes a simulation and is very very realistic once you turn on the three Pro Sim settings: 
 Pro Simulation Handling, Pro Simulation Damage and Pro Simulation Sand Traps. I played about half 
 of the world tour this way, but had to ditch using a shifter for the paddles on my wheel and turn 
 off the pro simulation settings and drive from the bumper view instead of in car once I got to 
 the fastest vehicles that I needed maximum concentration and control of the car. Besides on the 
 fastest racing cars it is more realistic anyways to use paddle shifters instead of a shift knob 
 as these cars have sequential automated manual transmissions without a clutch.
  
  The Audio in the game is good as well. The only fault that I could find is that if you manage to 
 wear out your tires to shreads by going off road and burning rubber for like two minutes straight 
 and blow out all 4 of your tires and then stop on pavement rev the motor up and drop the clutch 
 there will be a tire chiping sound, which sounds very wrong when there are no tires on your car, 
 and there is just a shower of sparks coming from the wheels scraping on pavement. With 7.1 speakers 
 you can get really intense when you hear the other racer's engines behind you and crowds cheering 
 to the sides and your engine roaring in front of you. It is also helpful to be able to hear and 
 pinpoint exactly what tire is starting to squeal as you take corners and have to carefully manage 
 the limited traction that you have expecially on with pro sim handling on. Some of the cars have 
 really exotic and nice sounding engine notes and the sound is in general really detailed from grinding 
 when you shift when your transmission is damage to the gentle scraping of your suspension if a 
 severely lowered car rubs the ground as it corners to the sound of your windsheild wipers moving 
 if you are racing in the rain. One thing that blew me away was how in offroad races you can hear 
 each individual pebble that bounces off the body, undertray and wheel wheels of you cars. And you 
 can hear where they hit aswell, it is extremely immersive feeling and I liked that a lot.
  
  If you are looking for a clone of games like Grand Turismo 4 or Forza Motorsport for the PC, 
 TocA is not what you seek. However, when you give TOCA Race Driver 3 a chance you will find it 
 is even better than these console competitors. It turned out to be more of a game that I expected 
 and it will keep you busy for quite a while. It is acessable for beginners but doesn't skimp on 
 realism and accuracy for veterens. The multiplayer is solid, and although most games seem to not 
 be in the US, finding one that is with the nice server browser is easy. The multiplayer is as good 
 as the single player and further gives me another good reason to play this game. When everything 
 is considered this is the best racing game for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 9, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  TOCA RACE DRIVER 3 (2006) 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 5/7
  Fun Element: 6/7
  Camera: 7/7
  Traditionality: 7/7
 
  Atmosphere: 5/7
  MPAA Rating: 6/7
  Plot: 5/7
  Music: 4/7
  Originality: 6/7
  Likeability: 6/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 8.6/10
  
  Genre: Licensed Multi Series Driving 
 Arcade Simulator
  Classic: YES
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every two years
  
  + : licensed product containing a REALLY HUGE variety 
 of racing series all over the world, a lot of rare licensed tracks, also some bonus tracks, multiplayer 
 support for up to 2 players on one screen, vertical split screen, good mixture of arcade and simulation 
 gameplay, some rare old racing series
  
  - : starforce protection, too many racing series to really feel the atmosphere, only a few tracks 
 for each series, no licensed drivers, keyboard problems in split screen mode, useless cheat codes 
 system, feels incomplete despite covering so many various series, really hard
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BriT19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Finally, after years of waiting, it has finally arrived. TOCA 2 was a great race car game with 
 numerous amounts of cars and tracks to race on. But with this game, they've stepped it up even 
 more. Now they are even more tracks and cars to race with, every which series is fun to race with. 
 DTM, V8 Supercars, are some of the best, and they even added Formula 1 this year!!! Plus, new tracks 
 such as Bahrain, Brno, and Turkey make this game very exciting to play. It has some elements of 
 arcade games, but it is still fun to play. Def go out and buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidcommons
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  while I agree that there are some awesome elements to this game, just try any of the varied saloon 
 / GT cars that are awesomely done from physics to sound etc which hints at the games heritage, 
 there are some major flaws that ruin the experience for the realists among us. Just try racing 
 in the World tour 1960's GP lotus to see what I mean, AI that drives very aggressive to say the 
 least (often driving striaght through you with no apparent damage to their car while your fragile 
 ride disinigrates at the slightest touch. the Rally cars which were hyped to be much improved are 
 still far from realistic and often feel very much like rollerskates in glass, A major contributor 
 to the lack of "your rally there" feel is the very poor quality first person (driver) graphics, 
 while the tracks and environments are very well done the actual car is very nasty looking, just 
 drive an open wheel car are look at the front wheels and you will see what I mean. This game has 
 some of the best potential with some great tracks, championships, and damage systems I've seen 
 in a game, pity that it was let down on some very basic points. heres to TOCA 4 with even more 
 of the troubles put to rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asaprep
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has greatly excelled from the previous ones. There is so much to do and it will keep 
 you busy for quite some time. The graphics are amazing, with four different views to drive from. 
 21 cars racing at once with stunning physics that push every car to their limits. Toca Race Driver 
 3 has has everthing from truck, monster trucks, rally cars, to the most exotic race cars on the 
 planet. The damage engine is highly superior than any other game. The damage effects every aspect 
 of the car with the hits being portrayed in the most realistic manner. Me being a racing game enthusiat, 
 I am recommending this game for any race car fanatic!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingboard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  At first a lot of people are turned off by the nasty looking crowds or the horrible grass texture 
 but after play the game for a while they get the feel of each car and they immediately start to 
 like the game. I have a wireless gamepad and a force-feedback wheel in my living room and its all 
 hooked up to a PC that I run through my TV. I have an Audigy Platinum and a 5.1 system there and 
 the game sounds fantastic. The off-road races are the best because you can hear the gravel bouncing 
 around under your car. The force-feedback lets you actually feel the cars wheels on each track 
 and the rumble on my gamepad is ridiculous. I wish the game looked as good as GT but this is still 
 the best racing sim on PC. Get it, play it, drive the Atom Ariel. Its disgusting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qball145
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Great racing game, great graphics, great physics, yada yada  everything everybody else says. For 
 $29.95, TOCA Race Driver 3 was more than I hoped it would be. And I was very pleased to find that 
 the game supports widescreen formats so if you have a 16:9 monitor, the game can take advantage 
 of it. 
  
  Although its a simulation-style game as opposed to an arcade-style racer, TOCA Race Driver 3 is 
 friendlier than some dedicated hardcore simulators. Pit stops are made simple. You just drive into 
 the pits, a menu pops up, you make your choices and then go. And although there is a pretty good 
 damage model (damage is graphically well depicted and its reflected in how the car performs) , 
 it seems like cars can generally take more damage than they could in real life. Nonetheless, you 
 can still easily damage your car enough to where you cant continue, especially the delicate open-wheel 
 racers. 
  
  The default car configurations are usually (but not always) good enough for podium finishes so 
 you can just hop in and start racing. Or you can tune and tweak your cars to death if you like. 
 
  
  But beyond that, driving itself still requires a great deal of precision and feels very authentic. 
 And it fully takes advantage of and is best enjoyed with a high-end force-feedback wheel/pedal 
 setup. The game strikes a good balance between being authentic and being fun in my opinion. 
  
  But what really blows me away is the amazing variety of cars and racing disciplines. Go-carts 
 to dune-buggies to touring cars to monster trucks to rally cars to F1 style race cars to muscle 
 cars! And the different disciplines require completely different racing styles making for a very 
 challenging and entertaining experience. From the timing, care, and precision required for the 
 open-wheel racers to all the bouncing and thrashing you have to contend with when racing monster 
 trucks; its all great stuff. 
  
  AI is really solid too and their style is appropriate to the type of car racing. E. g. in open-wheel 
 competition, AI opponents will be more precise and will tend to avoid contact whereas in off-road 
 competitions the AI will be extremely aggressive and wont hesitate to muscle and thrash you around. 
 But the AI isnt perfect. In certain turns of some races the AI will predictably break too soon 
 and/or accelerate too late giving you a consistent advantage, and forcing you to be cautious not 
 to rear-end them. And in other races, it seems the AI is able to accelerate sooner than seemingly 
 possible out of a turn (or maybe I just wasnt taking the optimum line, or hadnt tuned the car 
 properly, who knows) . And in some races the AI seems to be a tad over aggressive in maintaining 
 a perfect line at all costs, even if it means bumping both you and them off the track. But nonetheless, 
 the AI is still a lot of fun to race against and placing well in difficult races is almost always 
 a matter of just getting more familiar with the nuances of the car and the track (which is as it 
 should be) and maybe doing some tuning. 
  
  How did CodeMasters pull this off?? Not just from a technical standpoint but from a licensing standpoint 
 also. There must be well over 50 different vehicles in the game! At any rate, Im not going to 
 be uninstalling this game for a long time. Id say if you dont like TOCA 3, you dont like racing 
 games. 
  
  BTW ... the game does use StarForce copy protection, and although I dont necessarily like StarForce, 
 it hasnt degraded system performance at all, caused any kind of instability, or done anything 
 else bad as some people claim it does. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippofoe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  ok. i'll start with the bad: 
  
  bought the game, brought it home, took FIVE hours to install and configure properly. there's lots 
 of little nuances to figure out, else expect lots of crash to desktops. in the end i leanred 800x600 
 is stable (with a steering wheel plugged in) , and to be able to hold lines and get a good feel 
 with my steering wheel i needed to setup my cars as stiff as possible.
  
  the menu system leaves a lot to be desired. i still cant figure out what i have unlocked and what 
 i have locked. i would have loved to see a big garage where i can own and admire the cars i've 
 unlocked, and see the empy stall of the cars i need to unlock. but the way it is now is convoluted 
 at best.
  
  the game is setup to be arcadey. the races default to just a couple of laps each and there isnt 
 much depth in car setup, lap times, etc. but i leanred this aint that bad -- you can beat the short 
 little races to test out new cars, and when you've passed these little tests and unlocked the car, 
 you can setup your own heavy-duty, full race if you like. but i'd rather have full access to all 
 of the cars right up front.
  
  i noticed all the hi-powered cars are not drivable. they're unable to hold a line and it is near 
 impossible to race in a pack. epsecially the the highest level GP car -- i mean, can anyone out 
 there honestly say they can race a single lap hitting the apex of all the corners in these things?
 
  
  the rally, offroad, and oval stuff is all crap, pure and simple. the rally cars are impossible 
 to drive, the rally courses are ridiculously designed with too many turns, and it is impossible 
 to beat the AI times to further your career in rally, and classic rally modes. 
  
  the dirt stuff i can safely classify as stupid. it makes a mockery of dirt track racing. and the 
 homemade dirt courses suffer the same insane logic of too many wild, flopping turns.
  
  the oval stuff is just cheasy. 
  
  the other nasty thing is that there is NO WAY TO SAVE your 
 game between races in carreer mode! which really sucks if you like to race full races -- meaning 
 you hafta have play sessions 11 hours long! BUT -- here's the trick to that: between each race 
 you hafta control+alt+delete your computer! the progress is saved, but -- sheesh! -- what a way 
 to hafta go about saving your game!
  
  now the good:
  
  where the game gets it right is with the lower powered tour car and GT series. the GT lights are 
 a blast. and the Clio, and the Clio V6 series are simply stunningly awesome. the rest of the good 
 is based on these three racing series:
  
  the game looks pretty darn good, even at 800x600. replays feel natural and look like TV. only downside 
 is you can only watch your own car, and only watch replays at the end of a race (cant see your 
 practice sessions and qualifying) . 
  
  gameplay is fluid with amply high framerates, even with 20 cars.
  
  i love the different camera 
 views of your car. all four or so are placed just right and presents a good visual feel of the 
 road.
  
  speed doesnt seem exagerated -- which is a biggy for me. another cute thing i noticed is that the 
 perception of speed differs from each car you drive/ for instance racing in a go-cart ar 80 MPH 
 sitting 2.5 feet above the ground heightens the sence of speed, but does not exagerate it. 
  
  i love the way most cars handle. with my steering wheel working good i can hold my line and 
 race in a pack. i wouldn't call this game a pure-bred simulation, say like Papyrus' NASCAR 2003 
 -- but i'd say this game, on full sim settings, is like 60% of NASCAR 2003, but in a good way.
 
  
  i love the feeling of the tires on the road. how it takes a couple of laps to warm them up, and 
 then how they slowly degrade over 20+ laps. the AI cars seem to have the same tire issues as you, 
 too. 
  
  the AI surprized me how good they are. i followed one around for a couple of laps basing my break 
 points after, and when the AI did a human-like error of missing a breakpoint long we both missed 
 the apex of the corner! also there appears to be no rubber-banding and the difference between first 
 and last seems natural, too. and fighting along in the pack is great fun.
  
  also i've noticed the AI is very humanlike. i find that trying to pass on the inside that the AI 
 will break just a little later for a turn to try and out-brake you. stuff like that is very impressive.
 
  
  the sound is really nice. grat to hear sound reflect off of a wall you roar close to. and good 
 to hear the AI roar up close rear, too.
  
  the game has a great HUD. i especially love the little red arrow that points to a car close behind 
 you. no need for mirrors.
  
  damage modeling and crashes are great fun, too. if a little bit on the forgiving side, but in a 
 good way. it is possible to strip your gearbox from downshifting too high in the revs, and bumping 
 along with others produces sublte dents on fenders, bumpers and doors. great to see how cosmetic 
 damage adds up over a 35 lap race. catastrophic crashes appear mildly catastrophic.
  
  i love the variety of the cars to drive. each series is very unique and a joy to learn. racing 
 go-carts is a blast. the Clio series is my personal favorite. the offroad stuff is cumbersome. 
 the rally portion is difficult but enjoyable. the higher powered open wheel cars require cat-like 
 reflexes. it was a joy racing rear wheel drive american muscle cars. 
  
  TONS of tracks. each one looks pretty darn good and the AI behaves very close to my lines -- with 
 the rare expection of a little more give on one part of a track to the other.
  
  pit stops are very arcade like, in fact, you don't even drive to your pit, the AI takes over as 
 soon as you enter the pits. but that's not a bad thing in my book.
  
  OVERALL: 
  
  i'm glad i didnt take this game back, and stuck with it. i found a wonderfully enjoyable experience 
 that i know i'll keep playing for a long time to come. for a few of the cars the driving is spot 
 on, the AI pretty darn good. lots of options -- if i want to play a full race with pit stops, i 
 can, and i can slide scale how fast the AI goes to keep myself in the mix.
  
  and even if just the Clio series is all i will play, then the game is still worth the money i paid 
 for it. i guess that's the trick about this game -- just find your fun, happy niche and enjoy. 
 and then play around with the other driving discliplines wih a grain of salt if you get bored. 
 
  
  just expect an awkward first few hours setting it up on your PC.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maslowo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  From the time that Pole Position came out for the Atari, Ive been hooked on race games. However, 
 Toca Race Driver 3 has to be one of the top race games ever created. This was the first game in 
 the series that I have played. & the first race game for the PC that I have been truly impressed 
 with. Ive played most of the Need for Speed series games for the PC, but none of them compared 
 with the Sim feel that Gran Turismo on the console gave. Since Im a big PC enthusiast, Ive been 
 waiting years for a game like this to come out for the PC. Let me tell you. I was not disappointed.
 
  
  This Game has everything a race fan could ask for and more. By more I mean Monster Trucks, but 
 I guess there are race fans that are in to that. On the other hand, Im a really big F1 racing 
 fan, & with a section devoted to Open Wheel Racing, Im as happy as clam. I think thats a good 
 thing. With all the different series such as Formula 1000, 3000, Ford, & Go-Cart, you can lose 
 quite a few hours. & thats just one section. 
  
  Theres also a Story based career based section, if youre into that kind of thing. I know I am. 
 So anyway, you can work your way up the ranks in different racing series, to be crowned champion 
 of the world I guess. Im not sure yet, Im only about 45% of the way thru. 
  
  There is also an online feature that is really fun. You can play people from all over the world. 
 I was a little worried at first; my connection is not the greatest. Battlefield 2 tends to lag 
 every now and then, but I havent really had any problems with TRD3 lagging. You can browse on-going 
 races, or create your own. The races a really intense, & there are a lot of good drivers out there. 
 It is a little frustrating that if someone crashes into, you will probably not come in first place. 
 No restart race feature here, but youll get over it, because when you start smokin people in races, 
 its all worth it.
  
  There are a few problems with the game menus. For example, when you start a series, in professional 
 mode, there is no save & exit feature. Your only option here is Ctrl_Alt_Del, no worries though. 
 If you completed a session such as practice, or qualifying, your progress will be saved. The last 
 problem is hardly worth mentioning, its the fact that when joining a session online, its probably 
 already underway. The only real problem with is, you have may have to wait for the racers to complete 
 there race. & you will have to fight to come out on top in the series points. Other then that, 
 all I can say is I am really addicted to this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicecityfan1117
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game has it all, good graphics, good gameplay, and excelent realism. This is a simulator, 
 so it aint for everyone, only for the ones who enjoy sittin in front of the screen for a long time, 
 shifting gears and passin people. One of the only bad things about it is that it uses starforce 
 as an antipiracy protection, and I have heard bad things about it, but other than that this game 
 is perfect. This game has it all, good graphics, good gameplay, and excelent realism. This is a 
 simulator, so it aint for everyone, only for the ones who enjoy sittin in front of the screen for 
 a long time, shifting gears and passin people. One of the only bad things about it is that it uses 
 starforce as an antipiracy protection, and I have heard bad things about it, but other than that 
 this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adnan959
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  ToCA race driver 3 is a realy great game and a good value for money. ToCA 3 offers a wide range 
 of classes of cars that can be driven, cars such as stock cars, super trucks, monster trucks, rally 
 cars, indy cars and more. The graphics are impressive but not upto the standard of GT4, for example 
 the crowd standing, they are 2D and don't even move at all unlike in GT4 where the crowd actually 
 moves and is 3D also in some tracks the scenery is not soo detailed but don't think the graphics 
 are crap or anything. The road reflections and textures are exreamly good may be better than GT4. 
 The damage modeling is completly mind blowing, the damage modeling is something that will encourage 
 you to drive carefully but you still don't have to be super careful, take a corner to wide and 
 you might end up smashing into a wall damaging your transmission, suspension, engine and sometimes 
 your tyres.
  
  The amount of precision needed is a lot and you might find the game boring and difficult if you 
 can't drive a class of car properly. If you have a staring wheel with force feedback you will find 
 it really easy to cut the corners and drive fast plus with alot of realism. If your using a keyboard 
 you might find it a bit difficult since the sensitivity of the controls will be a bit too much 
 that will make the car go in a drift alot.
  
  The game has alot of features, first off you will be starting with the world tour mode and simultaneosly 
 you can go trough the pro career mode too. In the world tour mode there will be 32 tiers, in each 
 tier there will be a bunch of races to go through but don't think you have to go through them all 
 like I did, you only need to go through one race in each tier. In the pro career mode you will 
 have some championships to complete and you can unlock more or them in the world tour mode. The 
 online mode is also quite good and supports upto to 12 players.
  
  The game sounds realy good too, it seems like each car has a sperate sound and is very realistic 
 just like the sound of the cars in NFSMW. 
  
  You don't need a realy high end PC to run this game on the highest queality, a geforce FX would 
 do just fine on medium or hight qulaity. The game suffers no slow down at all and you might not 
 notice the frame rate dropping at all if you have a good PC.
  
  Overall this game is realy good and is a must for any racing simulation fan and so far this is 
 the best game of the ToCA series yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: susan84
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a Good racing Simulator from ATARI. It has all the race modes from Off road to classic challenges 
 to formula 1 series. A must buy for racing Fans. Except the fact that it has in built Starforce protection. Overall 
 a very good addictive game that requires precision driving, concenteration. At the outset it might 
 look a bit difficult bot once you start getting used to it , it really ROCKS ! ! Graphics and Sound 
 are good. Gameplay and Controls are also good. The game is jamm packed with a huge colection of 
 tracks, vehicles and Races.
  So what r u guys waitinf for ? ? ?Go and get one ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rschroeder5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Toca 3 is a slight improvement over Toca 2. The controls are better for a controller. I do not 
 use a wheel. I'm waiting at this point for the PS3 before I make that investment. The graphics 
 are about the same. The browser setup for online was better in Toca 2 than in the new version. 
 Thats not to say that using the new version is any hardship. The AI in Toca 3 is able to recover 
 from off road excursions way faster than any human can. Also, the AI does not seem to be as hindered 
 by damage as much as the human counterparts.
  The main reason to buy Toca 3 is the online component. This aspect of the game is immensely fun 
 and satisfying. I enjoy pitting my skills against racers from all over the world. By buying the 
 Toca 3 you're assured of being able to play online against more racers for an extended time into 
 the future. Where Gran Turismo 4 was slightly better than Gran Turismo 3, Toca 3 is slightly better 
 than Toca 2. This also makes Toca 3 better than Gran Turismo 4. Gran Turismo 4 did the unforgivable 
 by deceiving its legion of loyal by saying it was going online and then did not deliver. At least 
 Toca 3 has online. Not to have online in this day and age is almost unforgivable.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dghillza
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  There one thing seriously mising from this game which other wise is a fantastic racing sim is in 
 some of the cut scenes there are some really sexy pit babes  There should have been lot more of 
 them. And maybe some scenes could have included the babes parading up and down the track before 
 the race. Other than that Id say this one gets top honors for a racing sim. I though games like 
 GTR were good but now they are just so so. GTR seem to emphases to much on realism rather than 
 just having some real good racing fun. Trying to master a game like GTR ends up been frustrating 
 rather than fun. TOCA Race Driver 3 with its an enormous amount of variety and its easy to start 
 racing  dont get me wrong the game is challenging but it gets you into racing and having fun 
 immediately I guess I wont be playing GTR again  Any one what to buy it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakaka
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  After playing the previous two games , i found myself shocked in front of the monitor when i first 
 loaded the game. The architecture and the depth is so unique that it gives the player the feeling 
 of "this is what i wanted". Playing is a real joy. The controls are sensetive and you can feel the 
 car perfectly. This keeps you thinking "i can do better in the next lap". Graphics engine is smooth 
 and damage modeling and the damage effect are just right.. Sounds and effects are raising the excitement. The 
 only minor criticism would be that the "crowd" is still dead at the stands. It's been 2 weeks since 
 i purchased the game.. Looks like i will never uninstall this one until TOCA 4 is out..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lafsdave
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  Best of the series, no doubt. What can i say i just don't know where to start, the game is just 
 incredible, in simulation u can really feel what it is to be 3 cars width at 180mp/h then braking 
 late to just get on the inside or outside, the AI IS REALLY PUTTING A NEW EDGE FOR THE NEXT RACING-SIM 
 GAMES. I am a test driver in Qc, Canada and i've tried about 100 RACING SIM in last few years... 
 after GTR, it deserved to be ahead of gran turismo just because of the AI. so my top 5 racing sim:
 
  
  LAFSDAVE TOP 5
  GTR --- EXPECTING GTR2 WILL BE FIRST IN MAY 2006
  TOCA RACE DRIVER 3 --- OVERALL BEST GAMEPLAY
  GRAN TURISMO --- COMPUTER AI MAKE IT THIRD
  NFS 
 PORSCHE UNLEASHED --- WHO CAN FORGET IT
  FORZA MOTORSPORT --- ...? I JUST KNOW IT DESERVE TO BE HERE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_ranron
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  ToCA Race Driver 3 is a game for race car enthusiast who does not want to comprise for a street 
 racing game with regular cars, but wants a full feel for actual racing.
  
  I find the game to be outstanding for several reasons. First off, the graphics when turned on maximum 
 is spectacular, so if anyone tells you the game's graphics is crappy, they need a better computer. 
 Also, if pays to have a little experience watching real life racing on TV as it gives you, the 
 gamer, a feel for the way the races are suppose to be driven. For example, in Formula 1 mode, I've 
 had friends try to run a hairpin at 150 MPH and wonder why they can't make it. Its simple, the 
 signs on the side of the track tell you when to start braking. From a distance, the scenery looks 
 good too, but when you get close, its not true to life, but you are not supposed to be that close. 
 You can get that close when you crash. The game is about racing, so if you keep looking for scenery 
 you won't win. So what you do look at such as the cars and the track are perfectly done.
  
  I also like damage control and I can demolish my vehicle if I brake at the wrong place or I drive 
 off road. Its not as if I can hit the wall 100 times and still have vehicle like new. That gives 
 it more reality.
  
  The sound part of game is definitely not a strong point. There is not "music" music, but there 
 a different sort: The sound of engines, tires, crashes, and blow horns.
  
  I have two problems with the game though. First off, the game uses StarForce protection forcing 
 me to insert my disk every time I play the game. I've tried Alcohol 120% and Daemon Tools, but 
 neither works for it. The other problem is the game is based on tiers. You must complete a lower 
 level in Pro mode before you can unlock advanced racing such as Formula 1. There is one way around 
 it that I don't particularly like as Code Master charges $5 for all the "bonus" or cheat codes 
 for your copy of the game as your copy has a bonus key and the codes only work for your key. With 
 the $5 you get several codes including unlocking all championships, bonus races, always on turbo 
 (useless) , invincibility (useless) , and several other specials.
  
  I love this game and it is definitely work your money as you can spend countless hours on the game 
 and never have the same experience in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuwlij
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The best things about this game is the impeccable balance between arcade and simulator. They wanted 
 you to feel (and hear) the realistic damage caused to suspensions and tires if you keep running 
 off into the infield, on a GT car or the damage to engine and gearbox if you shift to early on 
 braking. They also didn't want you having to restart a race everytime you totale your car after 
 braking late for a corner. in that aspect the game tends to be very forgiving if you brake late 
 before a corner. It feels as though the game does a little traction control automatically, so u 
 can usually brake hard as you run wide and save your car from running off track completely. while 
 that lessens the amount of realism you can heardly complain; it does help in keeping the pace up 
 especially when in multiplayer mode.
  
  What sets this game appart from other racing sims is the different feel each discipline brings. 
 The twitchy steering of the rally cars will instantly reming you of Colin McRae Rally. Oval events 
 might feel like Sierra's Nascar Racing. Open wheel racing lets you break at the very last moment 
 before a turn while in GT you have to anticipate corners way before, especially after long straits. 
 
  
  The world tour mode is a good all rounder to get a taste of the varied disciplines where for the 
 most part you can choose one from 3 disciplines to race in whenever you go up a tier. As in other 
 reviews the AI on normal level is a little slow and if stuck in traffic can damage your car pretty 
 badly cso their always breaking too early. Since there are only 2 pre defined difficulty (normal 
 and hard) I personally haven't tried the hard but from what i gather it allows for no slip ups. 
 in Multi-player you can adjust the difficulty as a percentage so you can tweak the AI drivers to 
 you and you're mate's skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a awesome Racing game this is the game for you.
  I didnt think it could be done for somebody to come out and get near to Papy Racing games but They 
 are Close!.
  
  Indy cars, dirt tracking, sports cars, THEY GOT EM ALL.
  
  And they all drive great to.
  
  Pretty good handling inside the cars takes about 30 - 60 minutes 
 to get used to handling on a Microsoft FF2 Steering wheel but it is a great game.
  
  So much fun A+ For Toca Race Driver 3 They have done something great just wait for toca race driver 
 4 its gonna be the best sim on the market this is So So Close to Papyrus once they get the handling 
 down just a little bit they are there.
  
  #1 game on my list so far TOCA RACE DRIVER 3 BUY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanPC101
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing in the variety and number of racing series, cars, and licensed tracks. 
 However more then actually racing, I find myself watching the AI cars to make sure that I don't 
 completely run them over (they brake too soon going into the turn and don't accelerate out of the 
 apex at all) which gets me a black flag and a 20 second time penalty. The AI also will run you 
 over just to keep their line going into the turn. If you have the inside line the computer will 
 come down and hit you in the turn before they get the message that you have that line. Sometimes 
 the computer will even run me over going into the turn. This is a great game in every aspect except 
 the computer AI. Watching the AI to see what they are going to do next is just a little less fun 
 then racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delpster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I am having a blast with this game and I have just scratched the surface. It's easily the best 
 30 bucks I've ever spent on a racer. 35 racing styles (GT, NGT, Ovals, Rally, Indycar, Classics.....) 
 Over 80 track variations. 70 cars total and 21 cars on the track at once. 
  
  Drives comfortably in the middle of technical racers like GT Legends and GTR FIA Racing and arcade 
 racers like NFS or Rally Trophy.
  
  Bottom line: Tons of Fun. 
  
  My advise is to go and get this very addicting game. You can even purchase the digital download 
 from gogamer. com (albeit for 40 bucks in lieu of shipping costs) .
  
  At the very least take the demos for a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagr3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Race Driver 3 has all the components of a truly great racer. 
  
  The driving and the physics are just right, not to realistic and not to simple. If you loose control, 
 begin to spin or slide, you can catch your car, but it is hard. You can go fast, but not full speed 
 all the time. You have to remember when to start breaking and the ideal driving line. All in all, 
 the driving itself is near perfect.
  
  The game offers a few different racing modes, the main one being the World Tour. Here you get to 
 try most racing cars known to man. You win one championship and move on. You get to drive everything, 
 from Renault Clio to formulas, to big foots, to buggies. Everything that comes to mind. Plus you 
 get some story in the form of videos with a smart ass Scottish manager.
  
  The other racing modes are just as good. Well polished racing in various modes of multiplayer or 
 singleplayer. So what's wrong? 
  
  It's the feel of the game. There are so many cars and tracks, that you don't really get to know 
 any of them. There is no sense of accomplishment when you win, no motivation to continue. You don't 
 get to own your car, just use it for a couple of races. TOCA series tries to be the Gran Turismo 
 of PCs, but misses the point. It's not in the quantity of the cars and tracks it's in what you 
 get to do with those cars. Just using a formula Palmer for two races is not nearly as interesting 
 as gradually upgrading you Clio to 600HP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay so this is not an arcade. But normal is actually normal and all the races are quite winable 
 in this level. I can win every race on Normal. And of course there is hard. Then there is damage 
 and realism settings. The way the drivers behave is awesome. Though this game still allows you 
 to bounce of the sides of other cars in the race like in the previous game. Other then that I have 
 no complaints at all. The new racing types are awesome. Monster trucks... WOW.
  And the Damage modeling. That is awesome too. I even had a guy come and yell at me for denting 
 the back of his car. Admittadly I did a pretty nasty number to it but hey don't slow down like 
 that on the inside of a corner... :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BulletProof007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me start this review with this preface : I have only played the demo out of the playstation 
 magazine. The first thing that you will notice is that the game looks great. The menus are easy 
 to navigate and the demo let me try out 4 of I think 35 different driving disiplines ! There is 
 a lot varitiy to choose from and I think most people will find many that they will like alot. The 
 Demos spaned everthing from Nascar oval to super V8 to open wheel off road races and the amazing 
 thing is that each felt like you would expect them to feel. (at least to me) What strikes me about 
 this game is that it is accessible to all drivers and yes it works well with the standered game 
 pad which is a plus in my mind. If you are a hardcore sim fan they got you covered with the hard 
 setting and alot car tuning options. If your not that great at driving games like me don't worry 
 the normal setting is the perfect place for us to start. The game makes you feel like your decent 
 which kept me coming back for just one more try to improve my standing and that my fellow gamers 
 is the mark of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phyton4u
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  the game is great lost of new stuff included . new cars lots of different races. 
  the graphics are good not excellent if you compare with a nfs most wanted .
  but on the other 
 hand the damage effect on the cars is stunningly good in this game .the only sad news is that the 
 developers haven't solved is the controller issue in their game witch is rater disappointing . 
 and can be a reason for some people not to buy the game. this problem can be solved easy by changing 
 the priority for the game to highest. by making or editing the shortcut. i hive this game a thumbs 
 up but only give it 8 points because of the many bugs still present 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  I bought this game about a week ago and i'm really excited!!
  
  It has an amazing variety of championships and different car types that make you fell dizzy!! This 
 game is a must for every car racer fan!
  
  The gameplay is also very very good! You can control your car with no bugs or problems that maybe 
 would make you angry! You must follow the right lines on the track to keep your car inside the race 
 and that's very realistic! The car physics are awesome! You can feell the suspensions pumping! Especially 
 if you have a gamepad with vibration you'll be like a king!
  
  The sound is also very good with no problems at all! Every car has it's own unique engine sound 
 which make it special! You can hear the spining of the tyres on the road and all that stuff!!
  
  The graphics are really something special!! The cars are so well created that you think they 
 are real! The crash physics are something unique! You can totally destroy your car with one big crash!!
 
  
  The difficulty level is something that can be abjusted by you, so you wont have any problems!!
 
  
  To sum up i think that Toca Race Driver 3 is a must for every fan of car racing and not only!! So 
 don't sit!!! Go to the nearest store and buy it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rafaelmgs
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I think there my be a bug on the force feedback setting, its impossible to go fast without crashing 
 on a straightaway. NFSU 2 had a bug also with wheel, where it was impossible to drift with one.... 
 i hope they fix it... because until now.... it sucks... i managed to play for 5 minutes, didnt 
 even got the will to unlock all the 1000 classes and championships... which is also crappy, when 
 you just wanna have fun, and still have to work and study, not being able to play for hours and 
 months just to test the cars... well this is a minor issue since a cheat code solves it... hope 
 theyre out soon....
  
  Why dont somebody make a game with gran turismo 4 gameplay and style? adding the possibility for 
 higher resolutions and better graphics/effects provided by computers? also somebody please produce 
 a high quality bike game like Road Rash, with great graphics and realism....
  
  By the way:
  A643000+
  1.5gb DDR 400mhz
  Radeon X850XTPE
  Logitech Momo Racing Wheel
 
  Sound Blaster Andigy 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axw3rm31
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I like arcade racing ala the NFS series. However there is just something to be said for good sim 
 racing. Actual races, a track full of cars, passing on the inside of a turn. Knowing that what 
 your driving handles like it's real world counterparts. There is a certain joy in that experience.
 
  
  However, alot of sim games can just be too hardcore, so much so that the gameplay is punishing. 
 Anything less than a perfect race, and don't bother showing up.
  
  For those of you, like myself, who find GTR a little too punishing, a little too inflexible, the 
 TOCA series is the perfect balance.
  
  Specifically, TOCA 3 looks great, runs well on a 3ghz, gf6600gt system (all settings maxed) , handles 
 good with a steering wheel, and most importantly, the racing is fun.
  
  Challenging but also exciting and fun. You feel like your in a real world race, yet you don't have 
 to be a professional driver to still have a good time and actually do well!
  
  It doesn't get any better than battling for positions in the middle of the pack.
  
  A definite 
 good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lau_chen87
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Yea ... A more racing selection type game you can found out here ... Taco Race Driver 3What 
 i can see from the review of this game is amazing ~ Lots of car including Formula 1 ! Muahahaha~~~ 
 I bet u can play All In 1 racing game ~ What makes me interested in this game is the Old School 
 Car ... I just loved old fasion car and those unique car !
  
  The game full of gamers needs cause those race track are famous race tracks ... What we can experience 
 famous racing tracks around the world ~ The graphic of this game is Amazing man! The car when bang 
 something is very closed to real car accident ! game play is more easy that other game ... for 
 me i can rate this game 90 / 100 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Worth its release cost, a must have for PCGaming racers.
  Its got slightly dissapointing graphics, however, this makes it run smooth even on older systems 
 when u set them down. The ppl could be better than 2D on a 21st Century game title i must admit!
 
  The sound is good, and pulls you in with lush clear sound!
  Has a superb game setup program, where u can customise ALL the graphics options and sound clarity. 
 It gives you a little sound demo, and lets you see how much processor its using, sweet!
  The cars are great! Everyone i shows this to instantly wants to see the Monster Truck races! They 
 are the best!!!
  Worth its RRP, a great classic racer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_spliff
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 25, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The average need for speed fan will probably have a lot of fun with this game, but people who are 
 used to Live for Speed, GT Legends or 
  Gran Turismo 4 will get bored quite quickly, despite the great variety. Theres just no feel of grip 
 in this game, i hoped they get it right this time. Forget weight-transfer and no matter if you drive 
 a buggy, truck or kart you wont see a big difference in handling...
  At least the sound is good and there are 20 cars at once on the track with pretty nice AI, but who 
 cares if the cars drive like hovercrafts...
  After a few hours and about 15% of the career-mode i got bored and was playing GT4 again, for a 
 little thrill at the ring ;) ......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAIDER4X-BOX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  what i wrote in the Review Deck is the same which found in the main review but i loved what is 
 found in it ........
  there is several things in this game that made me from the fan of this game ... one of them is 
 the cars ... the cars made me love this game 
  what ever i wrote ... what ever i told you you will no imaging this amazing game 
  the sound is 
 just right and the dif. is very easy to me and i found the game so beautiful 
  in onther word this car game is the best game in the history of car game ... (sure not better then 
 most wanted) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anyulled
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  rara vez, una compaia logra sacar tres series magnificas de un juego estuendo. tal es el caso 
 de Codemasters. Toca race driver 3 n un Magnifico juego, con graficos mejorados, la intelingencia 
 artificial de esta compaia siempre ha sido su fuerte. los mejores modelos, ahora con los de formula 
 1. las vistas son excpecionales, y los circuitos estan muy bien logrados, su compatibilidad es 
 excelente con el race wheel. 
  
  cuando juegas a toca race driver, en realidad sientes que ests sentado en el asiento del piloto, 
 el ambiente es muy realista, casi hasta oler los cauchos desgastados y los frenos, el motor al 
 romperse.....
  
  Tal como las versiones anteriores, este juego est llamado a ser uno de los mejores.
  
  Excelente 
 juego, una gran competencia para el mundo de los simuladores de carreras 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Simply put, i never even HEARD of Toca till i accidentaly rented Toca Racing 2... That day changed 
 the way i look at racing games. Instead of sitting around playing a video game with only 1 kind 
 of racing car (IE F1 and NASCAR games) i CHOOSE TOCA. 
  
  Instead of picking a slow paced racing game with only 6 ai opponents like NFS games or Grand Turismo... I 
 PICK TOCA
  
  Why? superior handling feeling and game play really just LEAVE the others in the dust, when purchasing 
 Toca race drivers 3, you're not ONLY buying a racing game... you are buying a RACING LIBRARY! and 
 its not like Grand Turismo 4 where you only race 6 other cars with terrible AI, you're racing an 
 average of 20 other cars that are trying JUST AS HARD as you to get to the front! damage physics, 
 skid marks, car licenses THEY ARE ALL HERE PEOPLE!
  
  The Graphics are what really take a chunk out of your other "simulator" games, where as their car 
 models are SLIGHTLY off of what the orignal models are supposed to look like... Toca takes a bat 
 to that idea and nails some of the greatest looking car models i've ever seen, from its Formula 
 1 cars, all the way to MONSTER trucks to off road trucks back to street racing!!
  
  This game is the BEST compilation of EVERY OTHER RACING GAME known to man kind!! 
  
  In all 
 honesty, THE FACTS ARE RIGHT THERE INFRONT OF YOU, TOCA RACE DRIVER IS A SUPERIOR RACING GAME to 
 anything alse you can shake at it!! ---awsome online play too ---
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsharad007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game is wat every racing sim shud strive to become. all others are blown off by the pure simplistic 
 genius behind this game. hats off to each and every team member (including the testing team - man 
 i feel jealous) . its has just the right mix of everything. right mix of sim and arcade (though 
 i personally prefer little more sim that this) right mix of vehicles right mix of tracks right 
 mix of game modes right mix of race modes right mix physics and ai, and just a bit more than a 
 right amount a graphics and sound.
  
  Gameplay : this is the most engrossing racing sim ever. i doubt if i will ever tire of it. this 
 is one of those games which always finds its way back to ur pc even after to removed it for the 
 zillionth time ( and i mean that in a strictly no virus sense ) i will never tire of it.
  
  Graphics : a bit more generous than needed to make this game the best racing game. but a bit more 
 is never a bad thing is it. i only hope i had the l8est and g8est hardware to experience it.
  
  Sound : same as above
  
  Replayibility : well this is one game i am never going to uninstall. 
 this is just the game to squeeze in just when u are almost late for something. more value than 
 a living great American bald eagle.
  
  Final Comments : Owners pride neighbours envy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_spoony
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  I have played a few racers in my 19 years but this is by far the best. They play up the physics 
 engine in all of their news releases and with good reason. The physics engine in Toca Race Driver 
 3 makes Forza's look like a cave painting. But its not all about pretty crashes its about the racing. 
 You'll find plenty of that in this game almost every racing disipline not owned by EA is in the 
 game... err I think in the game is copyrighted so Ill change that cause I don't want to get forced 
 choked by EA lawyers... is available in the game. Its not arcadey or a car simulator its a real 
 race game with more than six cars so if you wanna race get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggies11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  I like arcade racing ala the NFS series. However there is just something to be said for good sim 
 racing. Actual races, a track full of cars, passing on the inside of a turn. Knowing that what 
 your driving handles like it's real world counterparts. There is a certain joy in that experience.
 
  
  However, alot of sim games can just be too hardcore, so much so that the gameplay is punishing. 
 Anything less than a perfect race, and don't bother showing up.
  
  For those of you, like myself, who find GTR a little too punishing, a little too inflexible, the 
 TOCA series is the perfect balance.
  
  Specifically, TOCA 3 looks great, runs well on a 3ghz, gf6600gt system (all settings maxed) , handles 
 good with a steering wheel, and most importantly, the racing is fun.
  
  Challenging but also exciting and fun. You feel like your in a real world race, yet you don't have 
 to be a professional driver to still have a good time and actually do well!
  
  It doesn't get any better than battling for positions in the middle of the pack.
  
  A definite 
 good time.
  
  Aggies
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshayroyden
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Hats off to codemasters for such a wonderful racing simulation. You guys have really done a superb 
 job.
  
  ToCA Race Driver 3 is the latest edition of the long-running series that's famous for providing 
 the most exciting wheel-to-wheel racing action on console and PC.
  Featuring the British GT championship, series stalwarts the DTM and Aussie V8 Supercars, Sprint 
 Cars, Rallying, and open wheel racing all the way from karts to the BMW Williams Grand Prix Cars, 
 and much more ToCA Race Driver 3 has something for everyone.
  It has great online play, split screen multiplayer, and lan.
  I have played the F1 series online, 
 and it is quite stable.
  The story-driven "world tour" mode if you want to get straight to where the action is, or for the 
 people wanting the nuts and bolts, take the "Pro Career" mode and work you way up the ladder in 
 different disciplines of motorsport, aiming for the pinnacle of your chosen field.
  On the downside graphics are a bit choppy from the demo. The sound crashes sometimes... hope these 
 are eliminated with a patch.
  It has over 50 types of cars, buggys, trucks.
  A treat for all racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scricky
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  ToCA Race Driver 3 is the latest edition of the long-running series that's famous for providing 
 the most exciting wheel-to-wheel racing action on console and PC. 
  Featuring the British GT championship, series stalwarts the DTM and Aussie V8 Supercars, Sprint 
 Cars, Rallying, and open wheel racing all the way from karts to the BMW Williams Grand Prix Cars, 
 and much more ToCA Race Driver 3 has something for everyone.
  It has great online play, split screen multiplayer, and lan. 
  A multiplayer Demo has been also 
 released, try it out.
  I have played the F1 series online, and it is quite stable.
  The story-driven "world tour" mode if you want to get straight to where the action is, or for the 
 people wanting the nuts and bolts, take the "Pro Career" mode and work you way up the ladder in 
 different disciplines of motorsport, aiming for the pinnacle of your chosen field. 
  On the downside graphics are a bit choppy from the demo. The sound crashes sometimes... hope these 
 are eliminated with a patch.
  It has over 50 types of cars, buggys, trucks.
  A treat for all racing fans. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
