-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tombraiderthelastrevelation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.5, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 672 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Core Design Ltd.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Last Revelation is far and away the best of the sequels, mainly because Core has finally added 
 some coherence to all aspects of the game. 

 Who would have guessed when we met her that Lara Croft - assertive, independent, self-assured, and 
 a phenomenal shot - would prove to be such a tease? Having virtually defined a new genre of third-person 
 action-adventure in 1996, the Tomb Raider franchise lures us back each holiday season much like 
 an old relationship trying to rekindle itself with promises that "it has grown" and that "things 
 will be different and even better this time around." However, with the last two games, developer 
 Core and publisher Eidos have disappointed even some of Lara's most devoted fans. The series refuses 
 to evolve beyond the basic yet beguiling formula: leap around ancient tombs, shoot foes (animal, 
 human, and superhuman) , and unravel the elaborate puzzles and traps that guard these premodern 
 mysteries. Lara does have some new moves in Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation, but in the end, none 
 of them takes her far enough in any new direction.  

 Nevertheless, The Last Revelation is far and away the best of the sequels, mainly because Core has 
 finally added some coherence to all aspects of the game. There's actually a story this time: Lara 
 mistakenly unleashes the Egyptian god Set after eons of imprisonment. Before the evil spirit wreaks 
 destruction on the planet, Lara must put this gnarly genie back in the bottle. Frequent prerendered 
 and in-game cutscenes punctuate the action, as Lara's cliched German enemy Dr. Von Croy challenges 
 her at every turn. At least we do see Lara having actual conversations, especially with her mentor 
 Jean-Pierre, who adds to the plot by getting kidnapped later in the tale. And in the final leg, 
 The Last Revelation takes a Hitchcockian turn, thrusting Lara into some of the world's most familiar 
 landmarks, the Sphinx and Great Pyramid.  

 While its story is not as interesting as LucasArts' recent Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine, 
 the plot in The Last Revelation succeeds in keeping Lara in one part of the world, Middle East 
 ruins, rather than trying to ensure the game has the requisite variety by sending her trotting 
 across the globe. These levels now blend more seamlessly, and in many instances, Lara must move 
 back and forth among several different areas to gather the artifacts or throw the levers that advance 
 her onward. While it makes for a more cohesive game experience, shuffling back and forth as well 
 as enduring repeated loading times can be frustrating. In the Alexandria section midway through 
 the game, you start from a coastal ruins area and veer off into almost a dozen smaller side journeys 
 that lead back to the ruins in the end. As your inventory swells with the various pieces of several 
 unfinished puzzles, some of them well hidden, just keeping track of the immediate task at hand 
 becomes a major challenge. Nevertheless, the payoff is a greater sense of narrative structure. 
 From the opening Tomb of Set to the finale in the Great Pyramid and Temple of Horus, The Last Revelation 
 keeps an overall purpose in view, and this is something Lara always needed.  

 The more fluid story and coherent setting have positive effects on puzzle design as well. Make no 
 mistake, The Last Revelation is the most cerebral of the series. Very few manic boss villains, 
 or even timed sprinting challenges, force Lara to leap and shoot with split-second accuracy. Most 
 foes are dispatched easily, but only when you realize their weakness. This strategic aspect to 
 firefights is more in keeping with the game's adventure and puzzle theme. Generally, Core has returned 
 to the widget-hunting, block-pushing, lever-grabbing gameplay for which the original Tomb Raider 
 is known. While some of the puzzles are tough in The Last Revelation, they are more sensible and 
 well integrated with the story than in the previous sequels. In the Great Hypostyle Hall, for instance, 
 Lara must open up a new exit by making artful use of her guns and a teetering boulder. In another 
 hall, a celestial map is both a puzzle to be solved and an expressive artifact of Egyptian mythology. 
 Clearly, Core has taken greater care in the construction of Lara's obstacles. Of course, if you 
 take a step back, it seems preposterous that a spelunking heroine meets logic puzzles at every 
 turn. But within the suspended disbelief of the Tomb Raider fiction, these obstacles feel more 
 sensible and more naturally a part of Lara's adventure. There is action in The Last Revelation. 
 It's just not as hair-raising and daunting as in the second and third Tomb Raider games. One especially 
 good sequence is a very-well-done train chase, in which Lara fights off ninjas and pursues Von 
 Croy across boxcar after boxcar. Lara also gets an infrared laser sight that combines with her 
 revolver or bow for long-range or precise targeting, which is fortunate because a few of your otherworldly 
 foes require some very sharp shooting to take down. Binoculars also come in later in the game for 
 spotting far-off puzzle clues. Of course, Lara learned to drive years ago, so the jeep and motorcycle 
 (with sidecar) rides are nothing new, though they make for refreshing bits of action. Rope swinging 
 is new, though timing Lara's swings and leaps from rope to rope is probably more exasperating than 
 it's worth. And the retooled inventory system now lets you combine objects, though it is used too 
 little.  

 In fact, none of the new Tomb Raider features, from the stronger adventure motif to the slightly 
 upgraded graphics engine, is made especially overt. The game itself is very enjoyable - it's challenging 
 and absorbing, if no longer very surprising. Visually, the game gets somewhat better texture detail, 
 and Lara now has a one-piece wraparound skin, which lends her a more detailed, expressive face 
 and lifelike look. The PR department has made a lot out of letting us play a teenaged Lara early 
 in the game, which is nice but really amounts to just a cute way of integrating the tutorial into 
 the game. However, Core and Eidos continue to shy away from pressing any of these mild innovations 
 into what the Tomb Raider series has needed for so long, which is a substantial evolution of the 
 gameplay itself. Why not engage the adventure element more wholeheartedly and give us a Lara with 
 some depth and character and a plot really worth fighting for? Not all puzzles must involve pushing 
 blocks and pulling levers in the right sequence.  

 It's also worth noting that all of those halfhearted attempts to rationalize the alluring Lara as 
 a positive model of feminine power and mastery are getting harder to accept as her chest takes 
 on the dimensions of the Astrodome. Poor Lara now looks like she's shoplifting watermelons in Cairo. 

 However, despite how frustrated we are with her creators, Lara keeps sucking us in every year because, 
 like that old lover, she still has all the right moves. The basic engine is still unrivaled. Knockoffs 
 and competitors continue to miss the real magic of the Tomb Raider engine - artful exaggeration. 
 Lara still has her extremely graceful, almost superhuman movements that let us glide luxuriously 
 through these worlds. Her running leaps are as implausible as they are fluid, and that's why she 
 is uniquely captivating, even when the basic tasks at hand get old.  

 Ultimately, Tomb Raider IV would have made a brilliant Tomb Raider II. The changes are great, but 
 should have been made years ago. They are less impressive now that the basic play mechanics are 
 so familiar. Fans who want one more spelunking adventure will be pleased that this is far and away 
 the best of the sequels. Those of us who hoped our favorite gaming girlfriend would evolve into 
 something better will be disappointed again, only less so this year than in the past. Core has 
 breathed just enough new life into the old girl to make it worth one more go. But, we're warning 
 you, Lara: We're not going to fall for this little game of yours again. All of us need to move 
 on. This is it. Last time. We mean it this time. No kidding.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider 3 was a bit of a disappointment for a lot of fans; it strayed away from the classic 
 gameplay of the original. The series needed to be redeemed after the wayward sequel.
  
  The Last Revelation goes back to the roots in a lot of ways. The series needed to be reinvented 
 and this game does a very good job at it.
  
  Last Revelation explores the childhood of Lara Croft by providing an insight into her early life. 
 You get to play as the teenage version of Lara croft for the first time in the series. The game 
 starts with young Lara Croft, on an expedition with Warner Von Croy, in Cambodia, in search of 
 an artifact known as the Iris. Lara barely escapes with her life from the ordeal that ensues.
 
  
  Moving to the present day, Lara is in Egypt in search of the Amulet of Horus. She finds the artifact 
 in the burial chambers embedded on the sarcophagus. Upon removing it, she unknowingly releases 
 the curse of Seth upon the world. Now, it is up to you to set things right by imprisoning Seth 
 in the Temple of Horus.
  
  The emphasis in this game is on exploration unlike in Tomb Raider II & III. The puzzles are innovative, 
 and require some thinking to solve. I wasn't frustrated with this game, although the difficulty 
 can sometimes be quite high. I think that's one of the reasons I like this game so much. I love 
 the way puzzles have evolved.
  
  We see a whole new inventory system this time. No more use of the passport, and it works better 
 too. It allows players to combine objects and weapons, which is crucial in solving puzzles.
  
  You get your share of vehicles as well. The jeep which is available in the early part of the 
 game and the motorcycle which is available a little later handle well, and provide some exciting 
 moments.
  
  Apart from the first two levels, the locations are all set in Egypt. Lara will not be travelling 
 the world in search of objects. The gameplay is more focused on one location, which is not your 
 usual Tomb Raider material. I thought the developers did a fantastic job creating the Egyptian 
 environments.
  
  Contrary to the perception that all locations might look alike, they are surprisingly varied and 
 very beautiful, which leads us to graphics.
  
  The engine is not new, but it is heavily tweaked. The textures are much better and the Lara Croft 
 model looks more consistent because of single skin texturing; unlike in the previous games where 
 it looked as if the model was a combination of different body parts tailored together. I was pleased 
 with the result; I didn't care if the engine was not new. Besides it was 1999, graphics were not 
 what they are now.
  
  There are some technical faults to be mentioned though. The game contains some bugs in the later 
 parts of the game, so it's not technically polished. I believe patches are released to prevent 
 this bug, so applying those will save some trouble.
  
  The gameplay involves traveling back and forth between levels and sometimes that can be quite disorienting, 
 because you tend to lose sight of your goal at times. That was a minor gripe I had with the game.
 
  
  All in all, I am thoroughly pleased with Last Revelation. Given the thrilling ending, this is a 
 true sequel to the original Tomb Raider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  Every year around Christmas time we are greeted with a new version of the wildly successful Tomb 
 Raider. Each year, however, the games have become significantly worse and less entertaining than 
 the previous ones. It soon became clear that the series was starting to become washed out in the 
 eyes of its biggest fans. With what is considered to be the final installment of this generation, 
 Core Design set out to create the best Tomb Raider title since the original game. In Tomb Raider 
 II and III, our heroine Lara Croft was tossed into a variety of more wide opened environments, 
 rather than the smaller, tomb-like areas found in the first Tomb Raider. For The Last Revelation, 
 though, our star has been taken into the confinements of Egypt instead of the cold tundra of Antarctica. 
 This has allowed the designers to recapture the magic that existed before that captivated so many 
 fans, and also bring into play some new features that weren't there before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo666_eg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  hi
  i have a long history w/this game i played tomb raider from 1 till 5 ,and when Tomb Raider: The 
 Angel of Darkness came i was disapointed very much, i felt that i am playin another game i didnt 
 continue after that in tomb series, i didnt take a look a at Tomb Raider: Legend but i hope it would 
 be way better than Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness +alot of bugs in a game ,i remmeber that 
 this game dont need a patch actauly it needs a hole new game :)
  
  i didnt like tomb raider: chronicles much it was short ,but i like the mistery about lara croft 
 may be alive somehow after what hapend when she died inside the peramid .
  
  story line in Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness was not welldone, this was one of the reasons that 
 i stoped playin tomp .
  
  tomb raider 3 was good i enjoysd it much ,specialy the ending was nice
  
  overall tombraider 
 series is at the top of my games ,and i feel tomb fans say so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation has a different feel to it than the other games in the series. 
 Yes, the delightful Miss Croft may have the same moves, and may be yet again challenged on every 
 turn by levers and movable blocks, but in all the game feels different. It is as though Core have 
 reached a turning point in the series. Tomb Raiders 1, 2 and 3 are effectively one long game. The 
 storylines are effectively the same, the training is effectively the same, and the developers are 
 definitely following the ethos of "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". With The Last Revelation though 
 they come at the concept from a different angle.
  
  The game is effectively spent trying to undo the mistakes made by our heavy-chested heroine. Lara 
 is in Egypt hoping to discover the Amulet of Horus, which she does early on in the game. Sadly 
 for her, removing this amulet releases the power of the ancient Egyptian god Seth. Whoops. The 
 Last Revelation takes Lara through many famous Egyptian sites as she races against time to put 
 baby back in his pram before he can do anything naughty. Having recently returned from Egypt myself 
 I found Lara's trip through the lovely country particularly interesting, as the developers have 
 done a great job in creating realistic (if not entirely accurate) environments. It was a lot of 
 fun to aid in Lara's adventure through locations that I myself had stood in earlier this year. 
 But enough about my holidays, that's not what you're here for...
  
  The story is far more engaging than any of the other Tomb Raiders and thankfully doesn't delve 
 into the realms of lunacy with its endgame locations, a la Tomb Raiders 1, 2 and 3. The story almost 
 seems to be a precautionary tale to teach the player not to mess with things that they don't understand. 
 Curiosity killed the cat and so on. It is a valid tale, and definitely gives a new slant on the 
 character of Lara Croft. Now she has weaknesses, and makes mistakes, which makes her seem a lot 
 more believable, and adds more power to the games scorpion-tailed ending. Still though I feel the 
 plot isn't presented as well as it could be. Poor script writing seems to be an overarching weakness 
 of the series. Obviously it is a requirement that the game moves quickly, but that shouldn't be 
 at the expense of poor character development. The plot of TLR is full of characters that we don't 
 know enough about, and badly explained motivations behind characters actions. It is so frustrating, 
 as the plot itself is great, and the game is fantastic, so these little flaws really stand out.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is just a tidied up version of TR3. That is not to say that it is poor, it 
 is just that there is nothing revolutionary. The environments are attractive and believable, the 
 cut scenes are attractive without being spectacular, and it is generally very pleasing.
  
  The sound is good, and problem free. This is a welcome relief considering the sound issues I have 
 had in other instalments in the series. The voice acting is fairly good by computer game standards, 
 though as I mentioned before the script is pretty poor. It doesn't explain things well, has no 
 character development, and is downright bizarre at times. The early part of the game requires you 
 to play as 16 year old Lara - experiencing her first adventure as assistant to a famous archaeologist, 
 Werner Von Croy. I am quite sure that Von Croy is not supposed to come across in the unhealthy 
 way that he does. Maybe its comedy that I don't get, not a poor script? I don't know, make your 
 own judgement.
  
  The game seems to be bug free. There are minor glitches with the new inventory system (which in 
 my opinion is a step backwards from that used in the previous games) , but nothing of major concern. 
 
  
  So in all, TLR is a good addition to the Tomb Raider franchise, however it still suffers from the 
 same weaknesses that its predecessors do - most notably a poor script. This is such a shame as 
 the plot is the most interesting of any Tomb Raider game to this point, and the gameplay, while 
 being pretty much the same as the previous games, has lost none of its appeal. I would definitely 
 recommend this game, as it is a challenging and engaging entity. The concept is slightly different 
 from the early games, the environments are pleasing and in general it is a lot of fun. Any fan 
 of the series will be very happy with The Last Revelation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  tomb raider 4 holds value to the original formula of the others and it has many places to explore 
 and some good sequences of course some areas are a let down 
  
  some of the puzzles can be quite a pain and can ruin some otherwise fantastic action areas
  
 
  there are some good plot twists which make the game worthwhile
  
  some issues like ruining a good action seqeuence with some silly puzzle when u just want to have 
 plain fun and u could if there was no puzzle involved aeround a area
  
  a expample when ur on top of a train u cant just enjoy killing bad guys and making ur way around 
 but there s a few tricks to it which kinda become annoying
  
  some good music to the game overall but some real areas that just simply slow the game down and 
 annoy u 
  
  u really have to play it to know what i mean
  but if its for cheap i guess u could consider it worth picking up 
  
  not bad but no excelent 
 its ur call lol
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orasion_Seiz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  While most people think that the Tomb Raider games are always not good, well they probably havent 
 played The Last Revelation. Its not like a typical adventure game, more like a real to life experience. 
 As you play the game, you follow on the footsteps of a great historical site and also discover 
 the secret of ancient beliefs and rituals.
  
  You start the game in Ankhor, the legendary temple in Cambodia as a young Lara Croft. Basically 
 the first part is just basic tutorial and a flashback for those new in the game. But dont worry 
 players will get some real action soon. After you completed the test given to you, the story now 
 fast forward to the land of the Pyramids, Egypt in which you now control the mature Lara Croft. 
 A great task waits for you in the land of the pyramids, not only puzzles will test your brain but 
 also some set of enemies and obstacle you have to blast your way through.
  
  The inventory system had change since the previous Tomb Raider games which allows players to switch 
 weapons quickly or use a medi pack when needed. The graphics is probably the biggest change of 
 them all. Its really breathtaking and excellent. Many have said that Tomb Raider games have the 
 worst graphics, dont count The Last Revelation to those games. This Tomb Raider game has also the 
 best sound. Not only perfectly to fit the theme but it also gives that sensation to play it.
  
  Well Lara's legacy maybe almost over, but Tomb Raider The Last Revelation can win back some 
 of its lost legacy and with the coming of Tomb Raider: Legend, i can really say that Lara's legacy 
 is pretty much alive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total classic its not the best one in the series but i loved it and i thought this 
 game rocks and if you like any of the tomb raider games you will love this one. I like this one 
 a bit more than the other ones because it has more cheats. I also like this one because you are 
 a girl in the bigging of the game then you grow up and start to be the real lara croft. These are 
 the goods and bads of the game. The goods of the game are that there are a lot of cheats and that 
 the game really dousent get boring. The bads about this game are that the grafics are not that good 
 but they are accptable for the year this game came out so its not that bad. I can garanty you that 
 if you start to play this game and you like the game you probably will play this game for more 
 than 50 hours. Another this is that this game is easy and it is not hard to learn to play the game. Also 
 the sounds in this game are very good they do not glitch or anything like that when you shoot the 
 weapon it does the sound perfectly but thats what i think. I just think that the gameplay in this 
 game is very good because it doesnt get boring and it does not take for ever to load. The best thing 
 about this game that i think is that there are so many cheats for this game there is a cheat for 
 everything actully i think. I would recomend this game to any body who has evr played any of the 
 tomb raider games and wants one that is a bit easer to play also because it doesnt get boring. This 
 is basicly what i think about TOMB-RAIDER THE LAST REVELATION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrobito
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  The Last Revelation is different than previous parts in the way that all happens in one place, 
 Egypt, except for the introductiory level when Lara was young, which happens in Cambodia. But nevertheless, 
 Egypt offers nice places to visit, especially the pyramids. Game is fun, and can be compared to 
 Indiana Jones. Although the game is relatively weak in graphics compared to games that are now 
 available, it can still be recommended to players interested in exploring ancient Egyptian tombs. 
 There are many in game sequences revealing the story, especially interesting is the rising of the 
 god Seth, who wants to destroy earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  From the moment you step into the cave to the moment you step out, last revelation has you in wrapped 
 in it. Sure, you can't imagine yourself with massive guns, a huge chest and a backside the size 
 of America, but you can definately think 'wow, how i'd love to be there, doing that'. Unless of 
 course you don't like TR games.
  The graphics are amazong. Although the backgrounds are prerendered and sometimes you'll see the 
 same stretch of wall three tmes, that doesn't mean no effort has been made to make this game as 
 great as possible. Every person, or animal, or even statue has its own personality, and whether 
 they come to life or not, you dread walking past the more sinister ones.
  The sound is great, and although a bit below par sometimes, it still sounds good and portrays atmosphere. 
 Also conveys that snse of loneliness.
  The plot is ambitious, and, packed with thrilling gameplay that will take you on a rollercoaster 
 ride, this is a must have game for fans and non-fans everywhere. Whether you like it or not, it 
 should take pride of place with all the rest of your games.
  Excellent, excells expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worm666
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 14, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Out of the Tomb Raider series I have only played Tomb Raider 1 Last revelation and Angel of Darkness 
 but I think that this is the best one. In Tomb Raider 1 there was not very much story line, In 
 Tomb Raider Angel of darkness there was way too much. I Loved the way there was a story line but 
 it didn't interfere with the game play, most games either have no storyline or so much that you 
 dont make your own decisions. I also loved the way there were so many different locations such 
 as in a pyramid outside and on top of a train. There were also many different things to do such 
 and running swimming driving a jeep and riding a motorcycle. The graphics were the best they could 
 have been at the time. I think that the new Tomb Raider will have many of the good features of 
 this one and also better graphics, sound, and more locations. I only have a few complaints such 
 as the replay value, they could have made it so that you would want to play it more than 3 times 
 but once you played it twice you started to know what was coming. There could have also been more 
 interaction with people had like in Angel of Darkness but that may have detracted from it. I also 
 thought that there was a little too much action in the Last Revelation, I have heard that the other 
 Tomb Raider's were more about puzzle solving and I would like that. Even so I have never come across 
 a game I liked more. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
