-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Legend
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tombraidervii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lara has tons of great-looking moves and abilities.
 varied levels take you to exotic locations all over the world.
 excellent voice work and sound.
 great graphics and detailed environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game is short and not very challenging.
 the camera is occasionally frustrating.
 weak gunplay.
 unstable frame rate.
 rather insane system requirements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,559 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 11, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider: Legend is a brief but fun adventure that just about anyone can enjoy. 

  It's been almost 10 years since the first Tomb Raider was released, and while video games have 
 come a long way since then, the Tomb Raider series hasn't kept pace. Problems such as clunky controls 
 and a frustrating camera, which were excusable in the early games, have steadily degraded the quality 
 of the series releases over time. The latest installment, Tomb Raider: Legend, finally brings the 
 series into the 21st Century while staying true to the adventurous spirit of the early games.  
 

          Lara Croft is back to kick some ass and collect some artifacts in Tomb Raider: Legend. 
     

  Tomb Raider: Legend follows the exploits of Lara Croft as she tries to solve the mysteries of her 
 past. Specifically, she's investigating the death of her mother several years earlier. One thing 
 leads to another and somehow the legend of King Arthur becomes involved, along with a magical sword 
 that has been broken into fragments and scattered throughout the world. The story is barely coherent, 
 but it serves its purpose in that it gives Lara an excuse to travel from one exotic locale to the 
 next in search of these artifacts. The game takes you to places such as Ghana, Peru, Tokyo, England, 
 and Kazakhstan, and all of the locations look great. And while Lara sticks mostly to tombs and 
 ruins, she also spends time exploring a deserted research facility, hopping about atop skyscrapers, 
 and shooting up bad guys in a rustic village. The variety of levels is great, although you'll end 
 up seeing pretty much the same platforming and box-pushing puzzles wherever you go.  

  The puzzles in Tomb Raider: Legend can be a bit deceptive at first, but once you learn how the 
 game works, the puzzles become very simple. Most of the game is spent solving basic switch puzzles 
 as you work your way through each level in search of the next artifact. Aside from dragging around 
 boxes to weigh down switches or jam traps, there are a lot of fun platforming sections that let 
 you take full advantage of Lara's affinity for high-flying acrobatics. You can hang on ledges, 
 swing on ropes, swing between platforms (via a magnetic grapple) , and vault off conveniently placed 
 beams.  

  The PC version of the game uses the standard mouse-and-keyboard control scheme, which works fairly 
 well until you find yourself in a combat situation, at which point it becomes difficult to move, 
 adjust the camera, and use your weapons at the same time. You can use a USB game pad, though, which 
 offers as good of control as the console versions of the game. No matter which version you play, 
 the controls are a lot more fluid and responsive than they have been in previous Tomb Raider games, 
 making Lara's movements feel much more natural than before. And while the controls are precise, 
 they aren't punishingly so. You often only have to jump in the general direction of the next platform 
 and the game will compensate by automatically connecting Lara to the intended surface. Once you 
 get the hang of it you can effortlessly overcome even the most imposing obstacles without difficulty. 
 It's also always abundantly clear which ledges you can hang on or jump between, so the only challenge 
 is positioning the camera so you can see where you're trying to go, which can be frustrating. In 
 tight spots it can be difficult to get a good view of the ledge you need to jump to, and sometimes 
 it's easy to misjudge a jump if you don't have the camera aligned just right. The camera problems 
 are intermittent though, and most of the time you have a fairly good view of the surroundings. 
 And even though the platforming is fairly easy, it's still satisfying thanks to some great-looking 
 animations and level designs that convey an excellent sense of peril.  

  Of course, Lara is skilled with weapons and is more than willing to serve up some hot lead when 
 the situation calls for it. You'll have to shoot up plenty of generic enemy goons and a few leopards 
 here and there. You can lock on to an enemy by holding a button, and then you mash the fire button 
 until the enemy is dead. You can also throw grenades, as well as perform slide tackles or aerial 
 assaults. When you run up to an enemy, you can jump off his head and flip through the air in slow 
 motion while shooting him. It's a neat effect, but not especially useful or necessary, since it 
 takes more time to get in close to an enemy than it does to just blast him from afar. Sometimes 
 you can shoot at certain objects in the environment, which are clearly indicated with a large button 
 icon. You can shoot barrels to blow them up, shoot stone pillars and watch them fall on enemies, 
 and initiate all kinds of other scripted events. The gunplay is not that fun though, because it's 
 easy and because the guns don't feel powerful or distinct at all.  

  Aside from solving puzzles and indiscriminately killing enemies, there are a few other activities 
 you can partake in. There are two motorcycle levels where you have to hop on an improbably placed 
 Ducati and speed after other vehicles while shooting wave after wave of mobile enemies and catching 
 air off jumps. The motorcycle physics are very loose, and the riding sections in Legends feel more 
 akin to a rail shooter than a racing game. There are a handful of interactive cutscenes that require 
 you to press a certain button as an icon appears on screen, much like the cutscenes in Resident 
 Evil 4. And like Leon Kennedy, Lara can meet her demise in many different ways with some crazy 
 death sequences that you get to see if you fail to hit the right button at the right time.  

  On your first play through, you can easily beat the game in less than seven hours on the default 
 difficulty setting. You can then go back through and play again on a higher difficulty, but it 
 doesn't make much of a difference because the challenge in Legend comes from the puzzles, and those 
 never change. Once you've figured out how to solve each puzzle, the only challenge left is to find 
 all the hidden items in each level or to replay each level in time-trial mode. You can unlock new 
 outfits, movies, models, and so on, but even with all that, you can easily see all this game has 
 to offer in a single weekend.  

          Luckily, there are plenty of heavy objects lying around in ancient ruins just in case you 
 need to weigh down a switch or something.     

  Legend looks as great on the PC as it does on each of the consoles, with convincingly dark and 
 decrepit environments to explore. The PC version offers the same sharp detail, ambient lighting 
 effects, and abundance of shiny surfaces as the Xbox 360 version -- as long as you turn on the Next 
 Generation Content in the display settings. Unfortunately, doing so results in a nearly unplayable 
 frame rate, even on a system that far exceeds the recommended system requirements. To run the game 
 at the optimal settings listed on the box, you'll need a 3.0GHz Pentium 4 or Athlon XP/64 equivalent, 
 along with 1GB of RAM and a 512MB accelerated graphics card. So while it's certainly possible to 
 get the PC version looking and running like the Xbox 360 version, you'll need some high-end hardware 
 to pull it off. And regardless of specs and settings, you'll need 9.9GB of available disk space 
 to even install the game. The sound is excellent in the PC version of the game just as it is in 
 the console versions, with good music, plenty of ambient noise, and excellent voice work that really 
 lends a lot of personality to each character -- especially Lara.  

  Tomb Raider: Legend is a good return to the roots of the series. It doesn't do anything new or 
 different, but it has a great blend of action and adventure that will always keep you moving and 
 interested. The problem is that it moves a bit too fast, and it's all over way too soon. And if 
 you happen to be interested in playing it on the PC, make sure your system is up to snuff.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (237 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 60spaure
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Review of Tomb Raider Legend: A few months ago, I went to EB Games and saw this game. I've saw 
 movies of Tomb Raider, and they were REALLY, REALLY boring. But after seeing the back of the cover, 
 I decided to try it, after all.
  
  Unboxing: I had no problem unboxing this product. If you do, you're so immature.
  
  Installation 
 of the game: The game install pretty well. It requires about 8gb of free space, which is a lot 
 for a 2006 videogame.
  
  User Interface: The user interface, which can also be called the main menu of the game is pretty 
 well made. You won't be looking a long while before finding what you're searching for.
  
  Gameplay: This game's gameplay is really good. You go on edges, you jump to another one, it's really 
 not a game that you'll want to miss on this side. So well, the gameplay is really good.
  
  Graphics: Ok. The graphics are ok, the textures are well detailed. On this side, it's really not 
 bad. But they are really not a lot of graphical options to ajust, which is something I hate. I 
 like when you can decide of the texture quality and of the effects more.
  
  Storyline: The storyline is enoughly good, don't expect the best story of the world here. However, 
 it still is a great story and you'll feel like you're Lara. The animations are really well made. 
 Lara make some really nice moves around and the hands won't go through the wall when she jumps.
 
  
  Toughness: This game can be tough, but only in boss battles. It's hard because you need to know 
 how to defeat each boss which is working with a different concept. After you get that, it's easy 
 to beat them. The other parts of the game are quite easy. Never had a really big problem trying 
 to bypass this game.
  
  Well, in conclusion, this game really is good, on the gameplay side. Although the game is a little 
 bit short, you'll enjoy playing it and it IS worth the money. Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIackwoIf
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  I basically summed it up in my Review Deck. Loved the graphics, was happy to be playing with Miss 
 Croft again after her long absence, liked the introduction of the grapple hook feature, it adds 
 a whole new depth to the game play. However for a supposed agile Laura Croft, the movement was 
 too touchy (hated the skidding when you stop thing. It made her seem a bit clumsy) didn't like 
 the fact that she could no longer strafe walk side to side or do her infamous roll and reverse 
 aim maneuver , and the Battle system with the targeting procedure was just plain annoying (Especially 
 when attacked by multiple foes. I gave up pretty quick with this one. It's too bad, because it 
 was real nice to be back in the Tomb world again. Had the movements remained consistent with the 
 original Tomb Raider games, this would probably hit the mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerOfAgamotto
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:50 am PT
Review:  Believe it or not, Tomb Raider Legend was my first Tomb Raider game. I never played the originals, 
 I didn't own a Playstation (or any of Sony's consoles since) . Instead I grew to know Lara through 
 the excellent 20-first issues of the brilliant Top Cow Tomb Raider comic series. Still, I knew 
 what the gamers where all about and had an idea of what to expect.
  
  TR Legend is pretty much exactly what I expected from a Tomb Raider game. Nimble aerobatics, monsters, 
 ancient and powerful relics and a lot of running around in tombs. The navigation of the tombs and 
 various areas are by far the most enjoyable parts of the game. The battles are frustrating and 
 just get in the way of raiding tombs. The final boss battle had me screaming at the computer for 
 being unfair.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is an enjoyable game, it's just a shame it has rubbish battle mechanics and 
 some rather frustrating areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc1211
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is Crystal Dynamics first shot at creating a Tomb Raider game and one that 
 proves there is still life in the franchise yet.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend has a perfect mix of tomb raiding levels and urban combat. From the dark halls 
 of Incan ruins in Bolivia to the modern skyscrapers of Japan, from the the frozen underground laboratory 
 in Kazakhstan to the snowy peaks of Nepal. Each environment has it's each distinct feel.
  
  The graphics are smooth and display the large puzzles and other environments nicely, despite a 
 few shadow issues and blurry textures. The next generation content however causes huge slowdown 
 on even the most powerful machines, however, as long as you have all of the other graphics options 
 enabled it really doesn't make much of a difference graphically if it is on or not.
  
  The games music is great. It fits many of the games fast-paced action scenes perfectly giving the 
 game an epic feel at times.
  
  The game-play is also a strong point. You are able to complete amazing acrobatic feats with relative 
 ease, if the camera doesn't happen to snap out of place suddenly and cause you to fall to your 
 death, again.
  
  The puzzles in the game are just the right difficulty. They arn't too difficult to complete but 
 it still feels rewarding when you do. For those of you who have already played Tomb Raider: Anniversary, 
 you should have no problem.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend also has a great story. It finds a believable way for you to search the world 
 for pieces of an artifact in the ruins of different cultures and even some impressive urban environments 
 that are well implemented. The new characters of Alister and Zip also add some much needed humour 
 to the dark storyline, proving Lara with information as she battles her evil and mysterious enemies 
 and tries to discover the truth about her own past.
  
  This game also contains much more action than Anniversary. There are at-least 15 human enemies 
 per level for you to dispatch in gunfights, using both the environment and an array of acrobatic 
 moves to defeat your enemies.
  
  The game is also much shorter than Anniversary, with it being very possible to complete the game 
 to 100% in a few days.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is a fine game with many thrilling moments that, looking past it's few faults, 
 is a joy to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ky9
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I must say that there was quite a leap from the catastrophe that was Angel of Darkness to this. 
 Lara is finally taking a few pages from Prince of Persia's book and is, for the first time, actually 
 agile. It's a great deal of fun to move her around. And the combat here's not too shabby; not incredibly 
 special, but who doesn't like gunning down people while running right at them? This is something 
 of a flaw in that it's the easiest way to kill enemies, because they're otherwise too stupid, but 
 hey, it's still fun. 
  
  Locations are also pretty neat, providing an interesting mix between urban and rural, modern and 
 ancient -- likely Tomb Raider at its best, in this aspect. I especially enjoyed Croft Manor, which 
 is sort of a side-level where you can go to chill out and collect secret items without the danger 
 of being squashed by spikes. 
  
  One big weakness of this game - in my opinion anyways - is that the dialogue is totally laughable, 
 and not in a good way. The new characters Alister and Zip are sort of like long-distance sidekicks 
 without nearly as good punchlines; they really seem like an excuse for us to hear Lara's voice, 
 which itself just supplies some banal and often obvious statements. Things are often supposed to 
 pass as wit, but they're really just not clever. A new script writer for the next game would be 
 greatly appreciated. 
  
  This game represents a big leap for the Tomb Raider series for the better, but in comparison to 
 other games it's really nothing new. For instance, I played Prince of Persia: Sands of Time after 
 this one, and was pretty shocked to find that all the things Lara did here have already been covered 
 by the Prince some five years ago. However, this goes to show that Tomb Raider has finally caught 
 up with all the other games of our present time (goodbye, cement-truck Lara!) and while it doesn't 
 offer anything too special, it's still just some good old fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genesislalas
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  wonderful... wonderful...
  
  
  "there seems to be a fine line between conicidence and irony..."
  
  My favorite tag line in 
 TR: Legend....
  
  The moment I got the game... I played it overnight without any sleep till next day... that's how 
 I get too immersed with the gameplay and storyline...
  
  The plot is rather odd though, but, reading between lines... it has a great impulse to the whole 
 TR series...
  
  In this game, it explains some of the intriguing questions and solves the missing pieces throughout 
 gameplay... otherwise the game would be too boring and yet dissapointing... In my case I did enjoy 
 playing the game... especially with new NEXTGEN contents enabled... it shows us how technology can 
 evolve Lara physically and make Lara more believable... but the main challenge here is to regenerate 
 and revive the TR series from destruction... and we don't like that to happen... otherwise we'll 
 be stuck on to other games... to tell you the truth TR is one of the four different game titles 
 I play... that's how picky I am when it comes to games... and trust me... not a single game out there 
 deserves to be played by me... that's for me and my opinion... All in all the game has immersed player 
 into believing that they are really the one's in Lara's holsters... everything from Lara, the environment, 
 water, physics, and overgrowth has been over tuned to it's maximum....
  
  
  http://genesislalas. blogspot. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Yep, that's right, a very comfortable game to play. No such level is very difficult, the game play 
 is suitable for everyone and its enjoyable to play as well.
  The game starts off in Bolivia, when you, Lara Croft the archaeologist, are on a new hunt for a historical 
 artifact. It turns out to be that fate lures you into one such itself, the Sword which killed Lara's 
 mother when she discovered it herself. But the thing is, the Sword has been broken into pieces and 
 scattered everywhere in the world. So it becomes your responsibility to find all the pieces, join 
 them together to get back the Sword. The hunt sends you to some exotic locations in the world, including 
 Japan, Ghana, Tibet and even England.
  Lara is, you will notice, an excellent athlete and trained in gun play. But that is the weak point 
 in the game-the gun play. It's quite a task locking into your enemies and shooting them down. But 
 since Lara is such an athlete, you'll find another way to kill them off.
  A new feature in the game is the interactive cut-scene. Often in the game you'll see cut-scenes 
 with directions appearing in them. Just press the corresponding buttons and Lara will do the rest. If 
 you fail, then Lara will meet her doom somehow or the other.
  Overall this is a great game and just the weak gun play fails to keep it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft first hit the video game scene in Eidos and Core Design's Tomb Raider in 1996 on the 
 Sony PlayStation. The game had what one called "revolutionary graphics, gameplay and storyline," 
 that has now become a staple of most games today (if they delivered on all the hype that is) . Unfortunately, 
 six installments later, Lara Croft had went the way of the Batman movie franchise until April, 
 2006 where Eidos and new developer Crystal Dynamics rebooted the entire franchise with Tomb Raider 
 Legend, sorta like how Nolan rebooted the Batman movie franchise. Lara Croft, world famous spulunker 
 is back and hotter then ever, this time looking for Excalibur, the famous sword from the King Arthur 
 myth that may hold the key to uncovering the mystery of her mother's disappearance. Along the way, 
 she'll have to face an old friend who wants to take Excalibur for her own personal gain. It's actually 
 a pretty good story and some of the new characters introduced have a witty or dark sense of humor. 
 Tomb Raider has always been about exploring long forgotten ruins of ancient civilizations and solving 
 wide, sprawling puzzles and Crystal Dynamics has successfully brought Lara back to her roots; although 
 there is a large amount of gunplay for an platform/adventure game. You'll visit a variety of locales 
 such as Bolivia, Peru, Ghana, Nepal, Kazakhstan, and England. The graphics are simply amazing; 
 if you've got the hardware to turn on the "next-gen" option, you're in for a visual treat. Textures 
 are detailed, along with the character models and all the ruins have an epic sense of scope to 
 them. All the puzzles are intelligent, though you're mostly pushing objects around or grappling 
 around areas with large pits that cause instant death. They do take some doing and I did use a 
 walkthrough (Thank you, IGN!!!) for some of them. Yea, after reading the solution you feel a little 
 stupid. =D Sound is also great; voice acting is spot on (Mmmmmm, Lara's sexy British voice =P) 
 and the soundtrack invokes the worldwide grandeur of Lara's travels. There are a few gripes, mostly 
 stemming from the camera. Although you control it 90% of the time, sometimes it turns to show you 
 a door or a ledge that you gotta leap too and if you don't center it right, well... you'll make 
 a huge splatter on the floor. The controls work well enough, though some of the button placements 
 seem odd, like the Home key to heal or the Delete key to use your flashlight, so before playing, 
 I suggest remapping the keys so that you're confortable with them, although it's not a must. It'll 
 be over before you know it, I finished it in 2 days and it took me 7 hours and 55 minutes to complete 
 the game. If you're a Tomb Raider fan or just getting into the series, well pick this one up (and 
 Tomb Raider Anniversary too) and spelunk away!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenesis_87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Legend looks good, with stunning visuals, good animations and natural movement. However, it's so 
 easy it goes right past "Games for the casual player" and into "Games for your dog". 
  
  The entire game is an exercise in "When you see the yellow mark/blue circle, click the mouse/press 
 the spacebar". There is no challenge, no real puzzle solving and no independent thought in the 
 gameplay. Even combat is easy, with the hordes of identically-dressed generic mercenary bad guys 
 being such bad shots they manage to miss Lara completely while she perforates them with bullets.
 
  
  It's worth a look if you're a fan of the series, as an insight into the character of Lara Croft. 
 You also get to see and explore her Manor and see parts of her past. However, don't bother if hand-holding 
 annoys you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyriakos2004
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  It's been a long way for Tomb Raider fans. With around five Tomb Raider games released, year after 
 year, a bunch of expansions and one game that almost killed the entire series (Angel of Darkness, 
 anyone?) , hardly anyone imagined Lara Croft would still have a place as the ultimate video-game 
 vixen. Tomb Raider Legend attempts - and partially succeeds - to restore the status of Lara, as 
 well as the whole series of Tomb Raider.
  
  The story follows Lara Croft around the world as she gets embroiled in the hard task of locating 
 sword fragments of a powerful artifact. Somehow, this story is related to her past, and she soon 
 finds out it may be a way to understand her mother's death years ago. The story isn't that fleshed 
 out and seems a bit incoherent at times, but it serves its purpose well and has quite a few twists 
 that will keep players on their toes. The characters of Legend, on the other hand, seem a bit odd 
 at times. Their attitude, even that of the heroine, does not match their role that much, and you'll 
 soon find yourself wondering why they are acting like that. Additionally, their talking involves 
 a lot of catchy phrases and hardly any justified reasoning, so most of the times you'll be taking 
 what they say with a pinch of salt. 
  
  During her excursions in Tomb Raider: Legend, Lara will visit Bolivia, Peru, Japan, West Africa 
 and a couple of other locations, and she will find herself into a lot of different locales, such 
 as mountain ruins, lush temples, construction scaffolds and abandoned theme parks. The variety 
 of the levels is amazing and you definitely won't be disappointed by the areas the developers chose 
 to include in the game.
  
  Parting ways with the gameplay of previous Tomb Raiders, Legend renovates the way Lara roams around 
 the environments. The all-new control scheme gets rid of grid-based moves and gives a newly sense 
 of freedom to the player, allowing her to jump across chasms, roll under spiky wheels and grab 
 cliff edges much more easily than ever before. Lara's running, climbing and swimming are seamlessly 
 chained together, and hardly again will you find yourself trying to time a particular move. Lara's 
 acrobatics especially come in handy when she encounters traps, during some of which you'll be prompted 
 to press specific buttons that appear on screen to get Lara to safety.
  
  Aiding Lara in her acrobatics is a bunch of gadgets that she's been given this time around. She 
 now has a magnetic grappling hook that attaches to metallic, easy-to-spot surfaces and which she 
 often uses to pull objects towards her or swing across chasms full of spikes. Lara's new model 
 also sports a small PLS (Personal Light Source) attached on her outfit that illuminates dark pathways, 
 and a set of binoculars, which can render specific objects as "fragile" or "movable", thus helping 
 the player to solve a particular puzzle. 
  
  Another big change comes in the shape of combat, which has been completely overhauled for Lara's 
 recent outing. Lara naturally comes equipped with her dual pistols - which come with infinite ammo 
 - which she can use to quickly get rid of mercenaries and animals she will encounter in the duration 
 of the game. Lara's new combat abilities involve a slow-motion jump over her enemies - which is 
 the easiest way to get rid of them, and becomes fairly boring after a while -, a tackling kick 
 that will send them in the air, allowing you to blast them with series of bullets, and a melee 
 kick to push them away from you when they get dangerously close. If you want some variety, you 
 can even use the magnetic grapple to pull them towards the edge of a cliff. The animal AI seems 
 too weak and animals are easily disposed of, so the biggest challenge in combat comes from the 
 squads of mercenaries you will be facing. Human enemies will drop their weapons - be it shotguns, 
 rifles or grenade launchers- and Lara can pick up only one at any single time.
  
  Puzzles in Tomb Raider Legend are not what you would be expecting from a Tomb Raider game, both 
 in terms of difficulty and in terms of concept. Most of them involve Lara using her grappling hook 
 to lower platforms, pressing on pads, blowing up objects obviously placed there to open up a path, 
 or simply following the instructions on-screen and not having the foggiest of what you are doing. 
 Indeed, you will find yourself skipping through levels and solving puzzles without knowing it at 
 times, and that's mainly due to Legend's linearity. There's just one way to solve a puzzle, and 
 this path becomes way too obvious by Lara herself, who tends to look towards objects you have to 
 pull or areas you have to get to. Some of the puzzles are quite creative, but this creativity is 
 replaced by monotony as soon as you find out the simplistic and overly easy solution of each puzzle. 
 However, puzzles in Legend also have an entertaining instance, which is navigating through the 
 environment and trying to reach specific platforms and crevices to solve puzzles that span throughout 
 the whole level.
  In order to break up the pace of acrobatics, puzzles and combat through the levels, the developers 
 have included Lara's motorbike in specifically-created levels, during which you have to nonsensically 
 shoot down mercenaries who're hunting you down. You will get to play these levels two times in 
 the game, and in both instances you will find out it's more of a chore trying to shoot down the 
 squad that's chasing you down than a mini-game designed to offer a bit of variety to the title's 
 gameplay.
  
  The PC version of Legend comes packed with two different graphics modes. The default one offers 
 standard lightning effects and shaders that make the environments feel alive and cramming with 
 little details here and there. For example, you will notice Lara's clothes are soaking wet after 
 you emerge out of a body of water and slowly dry as soon as you find yourself in a sunny area. 
 Something similar happens with mud, which slowly gathers on Lara's body as she descends caves and 
 dirty environments, but instantly cleans off as soon as you drop Lara in water. It's those small 
 details that made the game look so impressive back when it was released in 2006. 
  
  Not to be mistaken, the game still looks fabulous, but if you happen to have a strong graphics 
 card and a dual-core processor, then you'll want to check out the "Next Generation Content" that 
 Legend comes equipped with. This mode actually consists of the visuals that were used for the 360 
 version of the game and, as soon as you enable it, you will have the game transformed into something 
 completely different. The Next-Gen Content offers much cooler visuals and breathtaking effects. 
 Lakes and fast-flowing rivers seem like their real-life counterparts, and you'll notice much more 
 detail on Lara's body and in the environments you find yourself into. However good this might sound, 
 the latter mode also comes with some glitches and frame-rate problems here and there, a fact which 
 sometimes renders your play through the title frustrating and will often cause you to switch back 
 to the default graphics mode.
  
  Unfortunately, the game does not offer that much of a replay value. If you are an experienced Tomb 
 Raider player, you will have finished the game in no time, just when you have started to like the 
 new controls and puzzle elements. That's because the main difficulty in Tomb Raiders comes from 
 the puzzles themselves, and these are not as hard to comprehend or as difficult to master as in 
 previous Tomb Raider titles. The game still offers a lot of secrets hidden throughout the levels 
 and collecting these will provide you with unlockables in the form of different outfits, cheat 
 codes and other goodies, but these are not as worthwhile getting as it may seem. 
  
  
  All in all, Tomb Raider: Legend is a good game on its own merit. It offers a lot of those things 
 that made Tomb Raider games entertaining and it offers some action and acrobatic elements that 
 certainly refresh the franchise. However, its short replay value and easy puzzles will make you 
 ask for more. It's a game worth renting for a weekend and something to whet your appetite until 
 its sequel is released.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  How many games are out there where u can play as a women, not many so if Tomb Raider 1 came out 
 it was a surprise because nobody had seen something like that before.
  
  Tomb Raider games were finished in Tomb Raider 4 but again started with Tomb Raider 5 what didn't 
 give anything new and then they killed it with Tomb Raider: Legend of Darkness, it was like... if 
 you managed to play it for 2h u got the main story and it was good but getting there, killing and 
 boring 
  
  Anyway this game didn't have lot of waiting gamers because the older games but suprise suprise 
 it came out one of the best Tomb Raider games
  
  So whats so good about this game or what does this have what the older didn't. From graphical side 
 Angel of Darkness was good but this is much better, a lot more details everywhere but again older 
 computers may have problems. Finally u saw what u were shooting thanks to the aiming system what 
 u didn't have before, u got a grapple hook what dosen't give anything new but i think it was a 
 needed thing. Again now a Tomb Raider makes sense and the difficulty of it aint so killing like 
 u don't have to be on 1 spot to get to the other one and there is a manual grab what u can turn 
 off but its much better to play on and because its easier then, in older games everything looked 
 the same. Laras house is back with a short maybe max 1h game play there and it's more interesting 
 than ever, i was disappointing that trying to play this game with a controller was at some points 
 almost impossible because the camera problems but luckily keyboard and mouse were perfect and all 
 the cool fighting combos were interesting to make.
  
  Replay value of this game is big because every level has it's time trial and hidden thing and collecting 
 all of them gave u extra content. First boss battles are interesting to.
  
  The story is a bit weird and i hoped there will be Legend 2 but u never know maybe Underworld will 
 finish it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2009 1:11 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is the kind of game where I can pick faults at every corner, and yet still 
 play through it many times before getting tired of it. As much as I find it arcadey, cheesy and 
 uninspired, I can't help that I have a lot of fun playing it.
  
  I got this game on the launch date. Two years have passed and I have finished it a total of 4 times, 
 each time leaving with a different opinion from when I last played it. I believe i've hit the maximum 
 replay value on this game now, and i'm pretty sure I wont pick it up again in this current generation 
 of gaming. So let me express to you my final and informed verdict on Tomb Raider: Legend.
  
  Judging by the fact that I had never played a Tomb Raider game properly before this one, except 
 the first Tomb Raider for half an hour before giving up, I didn't have a lot of experience or knowledge 
 on the Tomb Raider games when going into this. Fortunately you don't seem to need any, as I understood 
 everything very clearly - Information on Lara's family and past are slipped into the story which 
 is very accomadating to TR newbies such as myself.
  
  The gameplay has been dumbed down a lot from what I remember from the first Tomb Raider, and I 
 find that its very arcadey and easy. Strangely everything I disliked about Tomb Raider (high difficulty, 
 having to make precise jumps, really hard puzzles and terrible controls) have been completely fixed 
 in this new installment. But I still can't help feeling that maybe they fixed it TOO much. Everything 
 about the game screams "Dumbed down to appeal to everyone." There is no sense of danger or challenge 
 because the enemies pose no threat, the environments are small and easy to navigate, and the puzzles 
 have obvious solutions. But there are some obnoxiously repetitive boss fights where seemingly human 
 enemies wearing no armour take 100 or more shots to kill. Something painful to see in modern video 
 games that try to attempt realism.
  
  The two characters Alistair and Zip constantly banter into your headset while you play, sprouting 
 cheesy unfunny lines. They are also mostly unlikeable and just completely annoying. And you have 
 to put up with them throughout the whole game. There is a section somewhere in the middle where 
 it sounds like they have been attacked, and I basically thought: "Oh YES. PLEASE let them be dead." 
 But no such luck, unfortunately. Lara says her fair share of cheesy dialogue too, but mostly shes 
 quite likeable. Her accent probably makes up for a lot, though.
  
  The grapple is another niggle I had with the game, its an easy way out for the designers who obviously 
 can't be bothered to make some nice ledges to navigate, so instead just make a big hole in the 
 floor and ask you to grapple on some convieniently placed chandeliers in the ceiling and swing 
 to the other end. I wouldn't mind if it didn't happen all the time, but it does. And you also have 
 to use the grapple to pull things such as boxes and levers in the wall constantly. Why can't they 
 just make a way for lara to reach these things herself? Its much more Tomb Raider-like that way.
 
  
  The graphics in Legend are quite clean and nice, bright and colourful. Lara looks great, I especially 
 liked how she stays wet for a while once shes been in water, its a nice effect. But the only reason 
 that effect is there is so nerds can oggle at her dripping wet.
  
  This leads me seemlessly to my next point about the games camera, because instead of moving to 
 a good position to see where I have to jump next, it has an obsession with fixating on Lara's body. 
 This is very frustrating because a lot of the time you need to see which direction to jump and 
 the camera doesn't show you so you have to make a guess. Normally resulting in falling to your 
 death. Crystal Dynamics, I think I vouch for a lot of (mature) gamers when I say that I would rather 
 be playing the game and being able to see where i'm going instead of my view being blocked by Lara's 
 ass polygons.
  
  Although i've ranted a lot about whats wrong with the game, I totally contradict myself by thoroughly 
 enjoying it. Its a guilty pleasure. It has a LOT of faults if you compare it to what Tomb Raider 
 is supposed to be like, and what the previous games have been like. But on its own, if you just 
 think of it as a game by itself, its still flawed but very fun and action-packed. A little on the 
 short-side definately, but you will have a blast playing it.
  If you've never played a Tomb Raider game before, you'll enjoy it. If you played the others and 
 didn't like them, you'll probably enjoy this one. Younger gamers are more likely to enjoy it but 
 adults can too if they dont try to take it seriously, and long time fans of the series will probably 
 be disappointed by how different and easy it is compared to the other games, and I think they are 
 unfortunately the mostly likely candidates for hating this game.
  
  I'd also like to add that Tomb Raider Anniversary fixed a lot of things that were wrong with Legend 
 and was much better recieved. So if they are using Anniversary's blueprint as the guide to making 
 the next Tomb Raider game, (they certainly should be) then the next game and the games after that 
 SHOULD be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmallMafia
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  (This is my first review, so please cut me some slack if it isn't all up to scratch. Hope it helps 
 you!)
  
  After seeing just how much the Tomb Raider series slid downhill over the years; I was beginning 
 to lose hope for one of my favorite games. When Tomb Raider first blasted on the scene way back 
 in 1996 it was nothing short of revolutionary, but soon after, things started going a bit sloppy. 
 Core just never seemed to take any new and exciting steps in the later years. Lara's dodgy control 
 system, blocky graphics and nothing cool in terms of game play all led to this type of aging feel 
 to the series. Eidos seemed to have noticed that their star character was fading away slowly and 
 so sacked Core and brought in Crystal Dynamics. The result is a game that not only looks amazing 
 but is also amazing right down to its very heart.
  
  The first thing you need to know is that Legend looks great. The environments look so much more 
 in place. There are no more blocky environments. Instead you are presented with smooth edged cliffs, 
 little grooves in walls which Lara can shimmy across, water falls that look great and environments 
 that actually feels more realistic. You get presented with some really great eye-candy like high 
 textured maps, HDR effects, some really nice bump mapping and a new feature called Next Generation 
 Content. What this does is turbo charge the visuals, making them look so much better, everything 
 becomes so much more brilliant than it already is and this makes you feel that the money you spent 
 on this game was well worth it.
  
  The next thing you also need to know is that this is Tomb Raider and not a detective game. Gone 
 are all the problems that plagued Angel of Darkness and what you get instead is a very good story. 
 Unlike the previous games, Legend takes you back into Lara's past making it feel new and refreshing. 
 Yeah, you go raiding tombs, solving puzzles and defying death every step of the way still, but 
 this time it's just so nice. Lara has been given a total rework, she now moves faster, nimbler 
 and more easily than before. Unlike the previous games, she is so easy to control, she moves a 
 lot more fluidly, her animations are way better and she responds quicker now. She also has been 
 given loads of new moves, making moving around fun and at the same time a little hair rising. CD 
 has put in place a system that when Lara has made a short jump or a jump from an awkward angle, 
 an icon will appear prompting you to press a button to save her from falling, which gives it a 
 nice feel towards game play. Gun play however hasn't changed in the least. Like usual Lara is outfitted 
 with her ever trusted dual pistols and like usual combat is basically just a run and click affair. 
 CD did add in a new feature where Lara can jump off her opponent, slow down time and 'take care' 
 of the bugger easier.
  
  So the game looks great, it feels great, Lara moves brilliantly, she has some new and wicked moves 
 under her sleeve, the story is great and the game is built on a very stable engine. But what is 
 it lacking? After all, this seems too good to be true.
  
  Where Legend really is lacking is in play time. This is an extremely short game and its such a 
 shame because the game is so good, it's so much better than the older ones; that you just want 
 so much more and yet as soon as you start playing its basically over.
  
  It's so nice to finally see Lara coming back to the gaming scene stronger than ever, but because 
 it's so short it makes one feel disappointed. I now honestly cannot wait to see how Anniversary 
 performs. If you like Tomb Raider, or you've never played before, don't waste any more time. Legend 
 is a brilliant game, and will be well worth the purchase!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wanwo66
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  It is hard to overstate what new developer Crystal Dynamics did with Legend to revive the Tomb 
 Raider series. Beyond its new graphics engine, Legend is in every aspect the best Tomb Raider game 
 currently on the market, and in my opinion, probably the only one worth playing till this year's 
 new offering, Underworld. The latest Tomb Raider game, Anniversary, the remake of the original 
 game, is at heart little more than the fitting of the new graphics engine to a 10 year old game 
 design. It feels very hollow when compared to the new ideas brought to Legend. There's little point 
 in elaborating. Discover it for yourself. Legend is $20. If you're interested enough in Tomb Raider 
 to be reading reviews, chances are good you're going to like it.
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negator59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since I played a Tomb Raider game. This was a nice return to the series for me. 
 The controls are fairly good. Feels pretty natural but the hefty system requirements make for some 
 laggy sections, especially in water areas or using magic weapons.
  
  The game crashed on me in a couple spots, disabling the Next Gen content would get me through my 
 crash areas and I could save at the next checkpoint and turn the Next Gen back on.
  
  The jumping puzzles and variety in levels are all well done although a little easy most of the 
 time. But I didn't think ti took away from anything.
  
  Lara looks great and she's got some sweet moves. Combat is ok. I liked the special moves when I 
 actually pulled them off. I think it got a little laggy with lots of enemies around, but combat 
 was never very hard.
  
  All in all I'd say about 8.5/10. If you want something a little different from all the aliens and 
 run-n-gunning this might be a nice change for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-hiro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  First, I must admit something. I had a weak spot for the Tomb Raider series since, probably the 
 first game. When I was little I used to love seeing my older brother think about a puzzle with 
 a women in a jungle. I dreamed of someday having an adventure like that. I'm happy to say that, 
 thanks to Tomb raider: Legend, that dream has come true.
  
  Also, I have to say I played this game with my little sister, who loves Tomb Raider but isn't quite 
 old enough to really play the series. Because of this I played the game at a pretty short pace. 
 Still was too short though.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Legend are great. If you have a good computer then this game will look more than 
 good enough for me. The water effects are cool and details like light and Lara getting wet and 
 slowly drying up pleasantly surprised me. I played this with every option on the highest level 
 and it looked great. If you have to play it at lower settings, it probably won't end up really 
 ugly but I have to day I don't really know.
  
  Sound:
  Not much to say about the sound, really. The music is just right and the voices are nice. I found 
 myself grinning more then once about the comments of Lara's two helpers, they didn't get annoying 
 like the "hey, look!" of Navie in Zelda: Ocarina of Time. Lara's voice is nice and it fits her, 
 so nothing to complain here. The chirping of birds or the cracking of ice really immersed me in 
 the game which was real nice.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of Legend surprised me. There was more action/shooting and less thinking. I myself 
 (and so will many 'older' players) thought the puzzles were quite simple. Whenever I found myself 
 thinking about a puzzle it would never take longer then 10 minutes. Then, while playing the first 
 level, it became clear that Lara hasn't sit still since her last adventure: she has lots of new 
 moves.
  Personally, this is arguably the nicest addition to Legend. Moves range from swan dives to handstands 
 and flips. Easy to use and with nice animations these new moves brought Lara even more to life 
 (plus, I enjoyed watching Lara showing off her moves) .
  I personally also liked the levels (I have a weak for jungles and ice, both are present more than 
 once) except the Japan level. When it was said she would go to Japan I became excited, but it was 
 kinda a let-down. It was more about shooting Yakuza and showing off with a bike. Not the Japanese-nature-taming 
 I had in mind. Nonetheless it was a entertaining level. Personally, I really liked the fast-paced 
 action of the biker-levels but I can understand one wouldn't like them too much. 
  One last thing about the boss-fights. i found them too be boring and more then once I found myself 
 wishing that it would just be over so I could get on with adventuring.
  
  Recap:
  Tomb Raider: Legend isn't something you wanna miss, even if it's short. Whether you like adventure 
 game sin general or are a fan of Tom Raider, if you haven't played it yet this one is really worth 
 the 10 bucks or so it goes by these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  I have been a Tomb Raider fan from the very beginning; I've played all the games from the original 
 masterpiece Tomb Raider, to the rehashes in TR II and III, to the minor but significant improvements 
 of Last Revelation, to the sheer fun that was Chronicles, all the way to the flawed and critically 
 hated (though loved by me) Angel of Darkness. The series has had it's ups and downs, but my love 
 for it has never waned. Hell, I even played the gold editions of Tomb Raider I and II, as well 
 as the mini sequel to Tomb Raider III, Lost Artifact. Yep, that's how much I love this series. 
 So it goes without saying that I was eagerly looking forward to what Crystal Dynamics, the new 
 developer in charge of the series, was gonna come up with Tomb Raider Legend, a game that finally 
 seemed poised to take Lara into the 21st century. Having just finished playing it, I can safely 
 say that as much as I loved Core Design previous efforts, this game elevates the Tomb Raider series 
 to a whole new level, one that I never could've foreseen. In short, Tomb Raider Legend is the best 
 Tomb Raider game and quite frankly (and in my very humble opinion) is also one of the most inspired 
 games ever made, and has easily become of one of my favorite games of all time.
  
  So what exactly is so special about Legend? Essentially, everything. Crystal Dynamics has taken 
 all the good elements of the series (the memorable settings, the clever puzzles, the great storytelling, 
 the sense of exploration) and gotten rid of everything that was tedious about the older games. 
 Gone is the grid that controlled Lara's movement which means now she's free to move at her will, 
 and for the player it means no longer having to count the steps before taking a specific jump or 
 aligning Lara so that she'd grab the ledge in front of her. As meaningless as this may sound, the 
 removal of all the tedium related to Lara's movement that plagued the previous games practically 
 transforms Legend into a completely different type of game. Climbing a mountain will no longer 
 feel like a chore, but a thrill, the way it should be. This makes the game much more accessible 
 to a wider audience too, and that's certainly a good thing.
  
  There are also many new additions to the game, such as new gadgets for Lara, including a magnetic 
 grapple that can help her maneuver through the environments as well as mess around with them. She 
 also has a personal light source, which essentially substitutes the flairs from previous games. 
 She has a pair of binoculars that can not only help her scan the area but also gather information 
 about the nature of her surroundings (she'll learn whether a certain item can be moved, whether 
 it's unstable, or if it's a mechanism) . She also wears a headset through the whole game (like she 
 did in the last levels of Chronicles) with which she can communicate with her allies and gather 
 hints about what to do next or what dangers may lie ahead.
  
  Another change to the game is the streamlining of the inventory. Lara can only carry 3 health packs 
 (unlike the unlimited amount she could carry before) , carry 4 grenades, and one secondary weapon 
 (aside from her trademark pistols) . This is another change that eliminates the tedium of scanning 
 through the entire inventory as well bringing some much needed realism to the game. Lara also gets 
 to control several vehicles, which is nothing new to the series, but this time around the vehicle 
 sequences are much more thrilling and easy to control (although there is a slight issue with one 
 sequence that will be mentioned later) . Also, the secrets from previous games have been substituted 
 by the rewards, which are cla$$ified as bronze, silver, and gold rewards. Finding this rewards 
 allows you to unlock special content, such as new outfits for Lara, concept art, cinematics, etc.
 
  
  Another area that has received a major revamp is the graphics. I'm going to be honest here; Tomb 
 Raider Legend is the most visually stunning game I've ever played. Both from a technical and artistic 
 point of view, Legend is a visual rollercoaster. While the game isn't as photorealistic as some 
 newer games like Cryisis, it's still technically impressive thanks to the "next gen graphics" option. 
 This option brings a whole new depth of realism to Lara's appearance as well as her surroundings, 
 with amazing lighting and shadowing effects. A fairly fast PC is needed to access this option, 
 but it's very worth it to make the upgrade if necessary. But it's really the artistic design that 
 elevates this game above the rest. Every single level is a sight to behold, from the caves in Bolivia, 
 to the skyscrapers in Japan, to the waterfalls in Ghana, to the snowy Kazakhstan, to the museums 
 in England. It's impossible to not be impressed at how alive every level feels and the amount of 
 detail that went into creating such levels.
  
  One area where Tomb Raider had always been strong was in the sound department. Angel of Darkness 
 featured some terrific voice acting as well as excellent music, and the previous games also had 
 some memorable music. Legend simply blows them all away. The Legend soundtrack is one of the most 
 inspired game soundtracks I've ever had the pleasure to listen. From the moment you load up the 
 game and listen to the menu theme you realize that the sounds of Tomb Raider Legend will accompany 
 you long after you're done with the game. Be it the catchy tunes in Bolivia, the pumping themes 
 of the motorcycle sequences in Peru and Kazahkztan, the lovely music from Nepal, or the thrilling 
 theme from the final battle, it's all top notch stuff. And if that wasn't enough the voice acting 
 is superb. Lara has never been voiced better (her voice is handled by Keeley Hawes) , and her interactions 
 with Zip and Allister are always funny and memorable. The rest of the characters Amanda, Rutland, 
 Anaya, Winston, etc., also add a new dimension to the game.
  
  If up until now it feels like I've been gushing like a maniac about how great this game is, it's 
 because I've never been so in love with a game before. But my love isn't blind and I recognize 
 the game has some faults. First of all is the introduction of a checkpoint system. Previous Tomb 
 Raider games always allowed you to have an unlimited amount of saves, as well as saving at whatever 
 point you wanted. In Legend, checkpoints are the norm, and while you can save manually, when you 
 reload you'll always start at a previous checkpoint. I'll say this, as far as checkpoint systems 
 go, Legend probably features the best checkpoint system ever devised, since you'll rarely go too 
 long without triggering a checkpoint, which always seem to be located at fairly logical places. 
 But the fact remains, it's still a checkpoint system, which means you'll have to deal with the 
 frustration of repeating a certain section (such as a boss battle or a section of traps) over and 
 over again.
  
  Another slight flaw is the presence of several bugs in some levels. One bug presented itself in 
 the Kazakhstan level, where running the game with the next-gen content on caused the game to crash. 
 That bug was easily avoided by turning the next-gen content off, but another bug where the scenery 
 in the motorcycle sequence kept repeating itself was incredibly irritating. There a few other bugs 
 scattered through the game, some more annoying than others, but for the most part they're easily 
 avoidable. If you do stumble upon a bug, fortunately many fan sites offer save games where the 
 bug has already been avoided.
  
  It's also worth mentioning that the difficulty of certain Boss battles can be frustrating, though 
 for the most part this only happens if you play the game on the hardest difficulty (Tomb Raider) . 
 I'll admit that I haven't been able to beat the final boss on Hard difficulty, because at the hardest 
 setting it's simply an unfair battle (EDIT: I did it!) . Fortunately, you can change the difficulty 
 in between levels, so if you're getting too frustrated, don't hesitate to lower the difficulty 
 (on medium difficulty, it's a much easier fight) . Finally, the game is fairly short; depending 
 on how efficient you are, it can take you around 8 hours to finish the game, but it's a thrill 
 from start to finish without a single dull moment in between.
  
  But enough with the flaws, Tomb Raider Legend is quite simply one of the most amazing games I've 
 ever had the privilege to experience. Nothing says that you love a game more than wishing it didn't 
 end and I wanted Legend to go on forever. Developer Crystal Dynamics deserves all the praise in 
 the world for reinventing the Tomb Raider series in a way I never thought possible. Between it's 
 amazing visuals, eclectic soundtrack, memorable story and characters, stunning locales, and ultra 
 refined gameplay, Legend is not only the best Tomb Raider game, but one of the most awe inspiring 
 games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliasac
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  tomb raider he best game there has been maked i have played it since i was 9 and i still do it 
 the best with the game is yah to shoot other and lean new thing maybe not but the meaning with 
 tomb raider is go around see the world and look after treasures (to all hacxors) try to complete 
 the game without cheat if you can tomb raider is a good rated game and i will have you all to play 
 so long you can and feel the adventure and shoot all down with your m-16 or what it named (i don't 
 remember it) and watch out for the fire-thrower enougth with that now if you meet someone there 
 try to kill you in tr what will you do 1. use pistols 2. use granades 3. use m-16 you chose..... 
 back to the first i said tomb raider is the best game and it will it always be if there go 10 year 
 i will still love tomb raider 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I have played all of the Tomb Raider games ever made with the exception of the 
 one on the GBA because I simply don't own one of those. I love Tomb Raider and have enjoyed the 
 series thoroughly. This game does nothing short of bringing the Tomb Raider Series up to the next 
 level and beyond.
  
  First of all let's just say that if you have a medium video card you will be happy with the graphics 
 in this game. If you own a high end one you are in for a real treat. One of the things that they 
 did with this Tomb Raider is allowed the user to either run it normally or with what is known as 
 Next Gen Graphics. What are Next Gen Graphics... simply the most realistic looking graphics to 
 come out in along time! In normal graphics mode... Lara still has that cartoonish type of look 
 to her... but does look alot better than she did in the previous games. If you can engage the Next 
 Gen Graphics then it looks like she is just about to step out of the monitor and come into your 
 living room and have a cup of coffee with you! I recently put in a EVGA 8800 GT Super Overclocked 
 PCI - X 512 Meg Video Card and with it you can see the skin blemishes in her face she looks so 
 real! Texture and Lighting have an entirely new look to them. The water effects are just off the 
 hook as they look so real. You can literally see the dirt from the edges as she shimmy's across 
 them crumbling off! It is just simply amazing!
  
  If you have a Surround Sound System... then it just keeps getting better. The caverns have beautiful 
 ring sound to them and the jungles are just alive with all sorts of creature sounds. You literlally 
 will think you are there if you just close your eyes and let the sounds take you away! There is 
 not alot of music to the game but the parts that are there are not overbearing... just very well 
 orchestrated. Kind of like pace music when you are on the motorcycle or going thru certain trap 
 scenario's.
  
  They did very well with the camera angles in this version of Tomb Raider even though there are 
 times where it it can become confusing when you are pushing or pulling an item to use. Some outside 
 of the box thinking is required. The puzzles are not terribly difficult in this game. You pretty 
 much spend your time going from place to place... defending yourself against the enemy. When you 
 do come across a puzzle, it ususally is all in one room and the objective is pretty straight forward. 
 It just takes using common logic to figure out the solution.
  
  My only real complaint about this game is that it is very short. The average user can complete 
 it in an afternoon if they really put their mind to it! I would say on the average, each level 
 is only about 15 minutes worth of gameplay, but some of the later ones become longer... but not 
 by much! They can be longer if you spend the extra time looking for all the artifacts in each level... 
 and that has a great payoff as well. If you find some or all of them in each level... you will 
 unlock different things... and there is alot of different things to unlock in the game. Outfits, 
 other areas of the house to explore and a great many other things await in this game for you to 
 find! Lara's Mansion is in itself a great level as you will slowly unlock areas in it as you play 
 the game. You can play the house sometimes or play levels... or do different challenges... the 
 choice is up to you!
  
  In conclusion... this game is in itself a great addition to the Tomb Raider series. Great graphics, 
 storyline, new moves, and tons to play with... really make this one to add to your collection and 
 play time and time again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend, in my opinion, is the best of the series. I have been a Tomb Raider fan from 
 day one, and have played every game; at the time of this review, I anxiously await Tomb Raider 
 Underworld. One of the features that I really enjoyed with this game was the absence of the timed 
 runs during game play. After the game is completed you can do timed runs on the entire levelscool! 
 Being an old time gamer you sometimes find out your fingers aren't as nimble as they used to be 
 on timed sequences, and besides if you just race through the game, you miss all of the greatly 
 detailed graphics.
  
  Legend begins with Lara at age 9 when she experiences a plane crash in the Himalayan Mountains 
 and the eventual death of her mother. Lara then travels the world to discover the mysteries of 
 her past and find a legendary artifact of such great power that it can threaten the very existence 
 of all mankind. Her travels take her to Bolivia, Peru, Ghana, Japan, England, Kazakhstan, and of 
 course, Croft Manor. She explores tombs and ruins, a deserted research facility, climbs about skyscrapers, 
 and a poor Peruvian village. 
  
  The variety of levels is great, with lots of puzzles wherever you go.
  You hang on ledges, swing 
 from ropes, and become acquainted with a new tool, the magnetic grapple. There are two motorcycle 
 levels where you have a Ducati you can shoot enemies from while making jumps over trains and broken 
 bridges.
  
  Legend is a return to the classical roots of the series. It's a return to the action and adventure 
 of what Tomb Raider is really all about. I've played this game on the PC and the Xbox 360; make 
 sure that your PC can handle the requirements. I found the game to play flawlessly and as always, 
 with any of the Tomb Raider games, it has a beautiful musical score. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  
  After trying Tomb Raider Anniversary and enjoying it I decided to get into Legend. In terms of 
 controls it's much the same, although various strangely situated buttons may need to be reassigned 
 it won't be long before things are familiar. Now Legend does look nicer than Anniversary thanks 
 to the next gen content, this is basically better textures, bump maps and unified lighting/shadow 
 system. It's not the best running game and still has fairly low polygon environments but it looks 
 ok. The role of Lara is straightforward, you perform various platforming moves at various locales 
 including Japan, Bolivia and Africa. The story centres on one of Lara's old friends who was trapped 
 in a cave in, it unravels some of Lara's own past and leaves it open for the continuation in Tomb 
 Raider Underworld.
  
  There are familiar puzzles, many platforming events this time rely more on quick action rather 
 than a pre-thought process. Most of Legend is very straightforward, there aren't many open puzzles 
 like in Anniversary and you will usually know the direction of travel, you just need to perform 
 the jumps correctly and on time. Legend also features an excess of action, rather generic, extremely 
 dumb enemy grunts are placed ahead of you at various points in the game. These combat areas are 
 uninteresting and feel out of place in the game, the ability to throw grenades grants some interest. 
 There are also a few motorcycle rides, one in particular sees Lara chasing down a train, you travel 
 beside it and take out more generic, stupid grunts on motorbikes, its poorly implemented with only 
 passable vehicle physics. Most of the game is still linear platforming, with the occasional stunt 
 or puzzle to solve. The more difficult and non-linear aspects arrive in collecting the various 
 treasures throughout the levels, some take a bit more thought or a slight journey off the linear 
 path. The croft manor is also quite open and there are some nifty word puzzles that aren't too 
 hard along with the usual scavenger hunt.
  
  The story is quite intriguing in some respects, and the dialogue is both witty and consistent in 
 helping to keep you motivated for the next task. The absence of difficult open layout puzzles and 
 the short nature of the story punish this otherwise good game. The boss battles are not particularly 
 hard but feel unnecessary. The music is quite good, fitting with some of the locales well enough 
 to warrant a mention. Anniversary will give you a more challenging, lengthy and satisfying adventure. 
 Legend will give you more action and the continuation of the platforming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: royzentner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Being the first game in the series to be handled by Crystal Dynamics, I must say it's a really 
 good start. Back in 1996, when I played the first Tomb Raider, I was instantly addicted, following 
 the series closely up to Chronicles. Then, there were 3 years of silence but I didn't even hear 
 about Angel of Darkness till 2005. After trying to play the first level in AoE, I abandoned the 
 game with huge disappointment.
  I was very sceptic about Legend but now that GameTap gives it to you for free, I had to try it, 
 and boy was I surprised! Right from the very first minute as Lara, I knew this is going to be an 
 unusual experience. Apart from the most stunning views I've ever seen in a PC game, it also has 
 an interesting story that revolves around a known myth and connects several locations in the world 
 Lara must travel to. It is true that this game is a bit short. Two or Three more levels would have 
 made this title nearly perfect in terms of length, but it does have a Time Trial mode that tests 
 your skills leading Lara through the levels as fast as you can. This mode is usually overlooked 
 in longer games because you're too tired to start it all over, but in this case, I think it's a 
 good addition. It took me 8 and a half hours to complete the game on medium difficulty, so I will 
 try to play the time-trial because I haven't had enough of it yet...
  Lara wears a headset which allows her to communicate with Zip and Allister (The tech and history 
 guys, respectively) . They can see whatever Lara sees so there are a lot of interesting and funny 
 dialogues throughout the game. Sometimes, the dialogues give you helpful hints to solve a problematic 
 puzzle.
  Another nice feature is the interactive cut-scenes. For those of you who played the Prince of Persia 
 trilogy, this feature will be familiar. It basically makes a cut-scene somwhat open-ended, because 
 as it plays, it shows arrows on the screen that the player must press to make Lara avoid a certain 
 death trap or succeed in a hard jump. These cut-scenes certainly add to the adrenaline rush!
  The game also packs nice unlockables such as concept art, outfits and pistol upgrades.
  Disappointingly, 
 there aren't many fire fights in the game, and they are pretty easy (even on harder difficulties) . 
 The game is much easier than previous titles in the series, not only when encountering enemies 
 but also when trying to solve puzzles or when dealing with death traps. Fortunately, there's a Boss-fight 
 in most of the levels, so you do get to use your guns sometimes. Lara's limited to carry one more 
 weapon besides her trusty pistols - you can judge if it's a good or bad thing yourself.
  In conclusion, this game is more than what I've expected it to be. The graphics, sounds, voice 
 acting, puzzles, level design, story and gameplay are all amazing and I warmly recommend this game 
 to any fan of 3rd person shooters. Can't wait for the next installment to come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedihalo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  After Angel of Darkness (a game that suggested Eidos had no only lost an artefact but also the 
 plot) I didn't have high hopes for Tomb Raider: Legend, but maybe anything after AOD would have 
 been an improvement. 
  
  However I was pleasantly surprised with TR: Legend. New developer Crystal Dynamics seems to have 
 taken at least some control back in producing a game which isn't rushed. The graphics were a vast 
 improvement on the glitchy graphics of AOD. Lara herself looked more realistic than ever before 
 and the scenery is amazing, actually making you want to take it all in, lay down the guns for a 
 second and admire the landscape. 
  
  As with previous Tomb Raider games the first few levels take you through a more complex control 
 system than before, with the ability to adjust them to the players liking. The controls were smooth 
 and simple after practice with new moves such as the grapple hook and climbing and jumping from 
 wall to wall. These were the most frequently used and added a new dimension to the game play, allowing 
 Lara to do moves and reach places you would never have thought of before.
  
  New aspects to the gun-play have also been added, the ability to choose the more dangerous targets 
 out of a group, the use of grenades, and a fancy slow motion sequence if Lara uses a jump and shoot 
 move on an enemy, sometimes a little annoying when in the middle of a group of enemies. 
  
  Overall a great improvement on previous Tomb Raider outings, this game has a good variety of interactive 
 cinematic scenes, a range of puzzles (the amount depending on difficulty played at) and good action. 
 The mansion also makes a welcome return as a small side game, with its own puzzles and missions. 
 
  
  With all its extra incentives; secrets, puzzles and side games it creates a larger world for Lara 
 to move around in, making for great game-play. However, all these extras detract from the fact 
 the main game itself is quite short, the solution, take your time and enjoy the view.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhuntin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I mostly got this game for fun of Modern Action Adventure games on gametap. So I may get the game, 
 so i download, the game is so wonderful. the graphs is 9.8 on my computer. the speed is great, the 
 is Adventurous .it a game worth playing, it have extras like croth moner plus like have clothes 
 thats in the Adventure of the game like this one is cool to me but hot at the same time, the shirt 
 had new england flag on it .but I dont like how mostly they dont tell you to do, but it. some give 
 cluesthat can help somewhat of the game, after a while, you get the meaning of the game. but the end 
 the game, the game is a 8.2. HAVE FUN!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old school gamer and I've played all of the Tomb Raiders. None of them, in my opinion have 
 been as good as the original until now. Legends' game play was awesome. The story line sucked me 
 right in and kept me the whole time. Controls in this Lara edition have been improved greatly. 
 No more nick-picky, fall and die if you're not dead on target. For me, this really added to the 
 enjoyment of the game. The graphics and sounds were well done too. Lara's mansion was a nice touch 
 too. I spent many hours in the gym mastering my skills and uncovering all of the treasures in the 
 rest of the house too. I think the only complaint I have is it may have been a little too easy 
 and it was a little short. When it was over it left me wanting more I guess that's how they sell 
 their sequels - LOL. This was a good game and you won't be disappointed with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarCrazy709
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  It was late 2005 and the Tomb Raider hype had died down. Despite Angelina Jolie's perfect representation 
 of the popular video game heroine in the Tomb Raider movies, it seemed as if the long-running franchise 
 had gasped its last breath with Angel of Darkness. Overall a good game but nowhere near Tomb Raider 
 standards, decisions were to be made by Eidos. Although Core Design will live on in the memories 
 of many hardcore Tomb Raider fans and myself, they were replaced by a newcomer in Crystal Dynamics, 
 set to rebuild the franchise from the ground up and rekindle the flame of Lara Croft. The result 
 was Tomb Raider: Legend.
  
  And Legend delivered.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend thrusts players into deep, beautiful, and exotic locales with a brand-new, 
 ultra-realistic Lara Croft. Featuring all new animations, enemies, combat system, locations, and 
 storyline, Legend succeeded in creating a wonderful rendition of Lara Croft and stunned players 
 with its amazing next-generation graphics content on the PC. Gone are the days of linear platforming. 
 Although Legend is an excellent and strong addition that no doubt revived the franchise, the gameplay 
 unfortunately would not last you longer than 7 hours, unless you are a hardcore fan that replays 
 levels to find all the secrets and unlock wonderful bonus content. Legend also features interactive 
 cut-scenes which force the player to press buttons in sequence to get through some rather dangerous 
 situations. Press the right buttons and Lara will escape unharmed. Press the wrong buttons and... just 
 look away and try again. Although Legend doesn't quite capture the feeling of solitude and actual 
 tomb raiding as well as the previous games, it is worthy of being called the game that started 
 it all... again. But be ready to curse the two annoying bobbleheads that constantly bark nonsense 
 into Lara's headset from her Croft Manor. I'm surprised she didn't throw her headset down a gigantic 
 waterfall in Ghana when she had the chance. Unsurprisingly though, she does tell them to zip it 
 (no pun intended as one of the annoying chatters is named Zip) on a few occasions when she needs 
 full concentration trying to clear an ice-cold river in Nepal.
  
  In conclusion, Legend is a stunning game and quickly became a fan-favorite among the faithful Tomb 
 Raider community. The only things that stop this game from reaching a perfect 10 would be the disappointingly 
 short length of the adventure and the annoying chatter from Lara's tech team. All in all, you should 
 definitely look forward to being taken on an amazing ride with Legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is nice nad interesting like other TRs (Except TR6) , like always. But you know 
 you'll really miss those good old days with infinite save times. You didn't have to bust your @$$ 
 to get to the checkpoint. It's getting worst when you choose the Hard difficulty. The gamespot 
 boy said that it's got a short scenario but I don't think so. It's just right. I really liked Lara's 
 new movements and abilities. Especially the magnetic grapple, although it's sometimes kind of hard 
 to handle it correctly. I don't know if it's a bug or it's been designed to act that way.
  Another difficulty of the game is taking care of people by your gun, especially your pistols. They're 
 not much powerful and it gets worst when you choose hard difficulty and you will have a hard time 
 when you face your enemies in groups. You have to take them down as fast as you can and better 
 to use other methods (For example jumping onto their heads or kicking them) rather than relying 
 only on those pistols.
  I only experienced one type of crash and sometimes just screen goes blank and sound freezes. I 
 didn't face any other problem.
  Except that bug, sound and music are very good and you don't have to fight with your speaker. One 
 other interesting feature is that now you can change your outfit and some outfits are made so nice. 
 There're other things that you can unlock step by step like outfits. For example objects and characters 
 but I didn't understand the advantage of that.
  Another notable thing is Craft Manor which brings you a bunch of rewards but after a while you 
 may feel that repeating the same scenario is kind of ... you know ... Hmmmm ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btindall
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the previous TR games, so I don't have those games to compare it to. But 
 I saw this for cheap and gave it a try. I'm glad I did. The graphics are great (my PC is pretty 
 high end and runs this game beautifully) , the gameplay is fun most of the time, and things are 
 varied pretty well so it doesn't become tedious.
  
  This is an adventure game, but it's also a puzzle game, and something of an action game. For me 
 the difficulty was about right. I don't like games that are so hard they can only be enjoyed by 
 hardcore gamers, i. e. those who have nothing to do all day but play games. I didn't have much trouble 
 picking this up, though I was at times frustrated trying to figure out what to do next, especially 
 in the early going. Once I learned what to look for in various situations, I got better at it. 
 It has to do with looking at the environment and figuring out how to maneuver your way through 
 it, usually by jumping and swinging from place to place. Sometimes you have to shoot the bad guys, 
 which is usually not too hard. Sometimes you have to hit the right keys at the right time. And 
 sometimes you drive a motorcycle.
  
  The biggest drawback of the game is that it ends rather abruptly, so that you end up feeling it 
 was too short. Actually, it wasn't too short in overall length I don't think, but it just feels 
 that way, so you feel a bit cheated. The final level is really nothing more than a boss fight, 
 after which the story is left hanging. That's disappointing.
  
  Other problems: The camera was annoying at times, and didn't always work as it should. Also, some 
 of the boss battles had to be replayed a bunch of times until you figured them out and then practiced 
 the correct key presses often enough to get it right. They were a bit frustrating to learn to beat -- especially 
 the  ones.
  
  On the whole though, this game is enjoyable and worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da7iid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Normally this isnt the thing i would pick up in a shop .. but i nicked it from a friend just to 
 try it anyway lol.
  You are Lara Croft, the legendary english potragonist of the game. The story follows lara and her 
 attempts to dig up the past and find out what really happened to her mother, who died when lara 
 was a child due to the effect of touching a spooky looking sword. You are taken to all corners 
 of the earth and witness pretty amazing graphics of the surrounding environments, characters, weapons 
 etc.
  
  The gameplay is just as any Tomb raider game... slow and twitchy. The controls are hard to describe... 
 whatever way lara is facing, when you push forward thats where she goes, not the way the player's 
 camera is facing. Also the moves and actions she does seem to get a little repetative and boring. 
 Another thing is that the playable cinematics where the player has to press the correct buttons 
 quickly.. could have been a little longer and better (not that i wanted GOW standards, just put 
 a little more effort in)
  
  If the story, gameplay, and all else fails you in the game - the mansion is there. Lara's Mansion, 
 present in all tomb raider games, which isnt really a level (chosen from the main menu) is fun 
 to mess about in. There are secrects also... and even if that fails you... theres always lara to 
 keep you happy with her sexy outfits :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luna7fox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  I've been an avid player of the Tomb Raider series since its beginnings on the PS1. I've played 
 them all, and slowly watched them decline into rubbish with Angel of Darkness. Since then I was 
 hesitant to try again but after good reviews (and a bargain bin spotting) I took the plunge.
  
  Boy, was I happy too. Legend is fun! Graphically, the game is fairly good, I ran it with next 
 generation content on and it looks pretty good. Don't expect modern FPS but why would you, this 
 is Tomb Raider. I did have some strange graphical anomalies in places, but nothing game breaking. 
 It's a fun game, Lara has some new moves and she jumps, dips and clings better than ever. The level 
 design is also quite good, a bit samey with ledge variety but nearly always convincing. The controls 
 are easy to use and work well for a PC port of a console game. Great work. The challenge is spot 
 on, but the puzzles rarely (if ever) leave you stumped.
  
  Only a couple of issues, one is the camera which at times can be frustratingly placed, especially 
 in combat. The actual combat is dull and bland. I felt that there were too many human enemies, 
 plus each level seems to end with you leaving the level but with enemies to shoot at. The motorcycle 
 levels are very out of place, boring and pointless. The bike itself feels like it's driving on 
 ice rather than tarmac road. But, I'm an adventurer, so combat in Tomb Raider never really worked 
 too well for me.
  
  All in all, Legend is a very enjoyable romp through a rather intriguing and quite gripping story. 
 I thought it was the perfect length for an adventure game. It's a huge improvement from AOD and 
 hopefully a good indication of what Anniversary has in store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killroykills
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best in the series. I mean were to start this game is just addictive 
 fun. Sure its short i got through it in about 8 hours thanks to my prince or persia skills. But 
 honestly the combat gets lame and repetitive fast i found myself just using the tomb raider bullet 
 time so I could kill the guys instantly so I could start back on the puzzle. Like I said combat 
 gets boring but the acrobatics you perform are just fun. Occasionally the camera will screw you 
 over when your hanging 80 stories up and you'll jump the wrong in the wrong direction. And the 
 boss fights are meh, okay the last 2 get kinda hard, but every boss fight is centered around one 
 number.... 4. You always have to pull down 4 cages or stab that dude 4 times or pull 4 platforms 
 down. Very lame. So ends the gameplay portion. As for graphic, all I can say is okay graphics obviously 
 laura had her assets in full form. But graphics were okay but the environments were wow. The streets 
 of peru were just perfect, ( soccer ball in the goal = amazingness) and the england level everything 
 was decaying and breaking just awesome. Sound is overall simply mind blowing, the voice acting 
 in this game is PERFECT. I don't know what happened but certain times after I loaded the sound 
 would be filled with static but only till I loaded it up again. This game even had one of my favorite 
 voice actors.
  
  Value hmm for this I gave it a 10 why? Because I got more than I paid for. I cant imagine someone 
 paying 50 dollars for this or even 30. I got this game for free off of gametap thats right free 
 no hacking, no stealing. just legit form filling out. So thus explains the 10 in value also the 
 replay-ability is somewhat moderate with time trials and artifacts but I found it useless to find.
 
  
  I'll now end with a few more things the story, HOT DAMN DOES THIS THING HAVE STORY! It's like watching 
 a movie, its just awesome for a videogame and the ending has some of the best acting ive ever seen 
 ( well heard) . And the last thing is just the plain addictiveness of this game, there's always 
 that one artifact or outfit or time trial you have to find or beat making this game addictive. 
 Overall this game blends great gameplay, with amazing sound tossed in with a kick ass story and 
 all for free. This deffinetly is the best in the series.
  
  On a side note this is my first review please feel free to message me with either praise or criticism. 
 No just say dude this blows you suck. please help me write better reviews thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of a Tomb Raider fan but I do know that Legend (TRL) is the first game after Angel 
 of Darkness, which wasn't received too well. TRL marks a comeback so lets see what's under the 
 hood:
  
  1. Gameplay:
  TRL embraces a more cinematic approach, the game feels more like a movie then anything else. Depending 
 on your preferences, that can be good or bad. It uses many cutscenes to get the story moving forward, 
 and they are all done with style. The team at Crystal Dynamics also had an excellent idea regarding 
 these cutscenes: they made them interactive so you don't just stand-by and watch the story unfold, 
 you are required to press a key at a certain moment to make Lara jump or grab on to a ledge or 
 dodge an incoming attack. This mechanic works great and makes the player feel involved in every 
 facet of the game.
  
  Cutscenes aside, after playing Tomb Raider: Anniversary I was expecting a game with many puzzles 
 and less action but TRL has an equal amount of both. Taken alone, these gameplay elements are not 
 very good, but the developers were very creative in how they combined them. I don't like the fact 
 that most puzzles are simple. Anniversary had some great branching puzzles that required a bit 
 of thought, here everything feels easy, no need to stop for anything. Also, the action is hindered 
 by camera problems which sometimes is positioned in such a way that you can't see where you're 
 jumping or shooting. The game is paced very well though - you will not be doing the same thing 
 for too much time: there are gunfights, puzzles, bike pursuits and interactive cutscenes. The story 
 is pretty good too. It involves Lara's mother and other people from her past but don't be afraid, 
 it's pretty beginner friendly. I knew next to nothing about Lara (only what I picked up from Anniversary) 
 and had no problems in understanding what was going on. It's not spectacular but it gives the game 
 a bit more depth and can be quite intense at times.
  
  2. Graphics:
  This is one beautiful game! The environments are diverse, the level design is smart and detailed 
 and the character models look very good and are very well animated. There's not much to say, this 
 game is a visual treat.
  
  3. Sound:
  Same as with graphics, it's a treat. It has large amounts of excellent voice acting, excellent 
 ambient sounds and the music is just perfect, it works great with the game.
  
  4. Value:
  Here's the most painful aspect of the game: value. TRL is quite short and because of the linear 
 story it will not offer much replay value either.
  
  But overall, I'd say you should give it a shot. It's a good game to play when you need a break 
 from some of daily life's cares or from other more complex games that require a bit more thought. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  What I liked:
  - Amazing detailed locations and great looking graphics with superb ambient lighting - The game 
 lets you explore the beautiful locations at you own pace; very enjoying exploring and discover 
 secrets of lost worlds
  - Lara Croft is looking very good and moves very natural (sexy)
  - Very fun to play Lara's acrobatic actions
  - The fair difficulty of the game makes it perfectly 
 enjoyable and fun for playing
  
  What I didn't like:
  - The game is unbalanced on the graphical side: the next generation graphics feature although is 
 looking amazing it can't be used in-game even if you own the best gaming system available on the 
 market (I wonder on what systems this game was tested by developers?) . Moreover, Lara looks better 
 without next generation content - Some textures looks crappy when next generation graphics feature 
 is not used
  - Shooting system is hilarious;
  - Motorcycle riding looks and plays ridiculous - Lara Croft Manor feature is not used at his full 
 capacity; not challenging
  
  Conclusion: For me, worth the time invested in playing it. I have enjoyed playing it. If you are 
 fond of freely exploring and discover secrets without shooting everybody off (although you'll do 
 this in-game - thankfully, the shooting sequences are very easy and short) . I have very much enjoyed 
 the great looking locations of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: respektive
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  If you are in a decision making progress between Tomb Raider Anniversary and Tomb Raider Legend, 
 then stop thinking and buy this great game!
  
  What I like
  
  Lara. Her model is plain beautiful. Motion capturing make her moves appear very real.
  
  The 
 story - you learn to understand why Lara became who she is now - and the way it is presented - 
 cutscenes show key events and some funny dudes comment on your actions.
  
  The gameplay - you mostly see Lara from behind, so male players will recognize her... well... butt 
 (see above) . Steering with mouse and keyboard almost always works, only sometimes the camera angle 
 make some problems, when you don't exactly know which direction keys to press.
  In cinema-like sequences you have to press the right direction button at the right time, so lara 
 does cool moves like dodging an explosion or jumping over some deadly big blades.
  
  The sound and music - well I don't remember them either, but I am very sensitive to both of them, 
 so if they hadn't fit into the whole (great) experience, I'd remember - bottom line: Both good.
 
  
  What am I writing here. Go get it and have some fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFVIIROCKS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This Game flows wonderfully. The Action is alot better then the old PS I, II, and III. But the 
 biggest downfall of this game is its length. If you set aside about 8 hours you can beat it. Its 
 totally worth a play through. Im just really waiting for the Anniversary edition to come out in 
 on the 6th of June. Im gonna review that one.. and i know its gonna rock! But Legend was quite fun 
 and for 20 bucks... im not complaining. Graphics were good and the story was kinda different and 
 it made it pretty fun to play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikvduyn
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 19, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  i went past a friends house to borrow some games and i am glad i took this one. This is probably 
 the best TR game from the series. it gives good graphics, no wait: stunning graphics. yes, the 
 game is short, but in the shortness hides the greatness. the interactive movie sequences are not 
 amazing but fun (you can make Lara die all the time if you want to) and look good. The whole storyline 
 is nicely found, mostly because Lara's biography is radically altered. Zip and Alister provide 
 some fun AND useful information throughout the game and so does Lara. Still a major problem is 
 the camera though, but fortunately, it has slightly improved throughout the series. the things 
 i liked most about this game were the outfits and Croft Manor. The wide selection of outfits range 
 from the classic outfit to a suit, a special forces outfit and even a bikini! Croft Manor itself 
 is fun too. it's not that big but good enough for the beginning players. the riddle solving is 
 not too hard but does require some thinking. overall, the game gives short, quality fun that looks 
 and feels nice too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 18, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Most people had the thought that the Tomb Raider franchise was dead after the dismal Tomb Raider: 
 Angel of Darkness was released to tepid to disasterous reviews. But as we gamers have come to learn, 
 Lara has more lives than a cat, so it was obvious that she would be back. Eidos switched development 
 houses from Core to Crystal Dynamics and for the newest entry in the series, Tomb Raider: Legend. 
 The move was a successful one as Crystal has reinvented the franchise and made a solid game all 
 in one package.
  
  Lara, has a more personal mission in this game, because she is trying to track down fragments of 
 a sword that may explain the disappearance of her mother. The fragments have been spread all over 
 the world and you have to go find them. Unfortunate for Lara is that she is not the only one in 
 search of the fragments. Someone from her past has come back from what Lara thought was death, 
 to find the fragments to take over the world. While this sounds simple in nature, the deeper mythology 
 that goes into explaining the fragments fills out the story quite nicely and makes it fit into 
 historical context.
  
  In the past, Lara is remembered for her gunplay, but in this game, she exhibits more of a Prince 
 of Persia style of gameplay. Many of the games puzzles are physical in nature, asking of Lara to 
 jump, pull, run and crawl to get the puzzle solved. And the moves that she uses are quite impressive. 
 Things like swan diving off of cliffs, shimmying across a pole and performing handstand flips are 
 all new to Lara and they can be put to good use, because this is a more physical game. Another 
 change in the game is the addition of action sequences where you have to follow the directions 
 on the screen. These moments are very cinematic in nature and allow for more scripted sequences. 
 One of these moments involves jumping a motorcycle from one building to another. Hit all the sequences 
 right and you get to the other building unscathed. Miss a keystroke and you plummet to your doom.
 
  
  Graphically, the game looks really good whether rendering indoor or outdoor environments. The wide 
 vistas when looking off of a waterfall cliff to the claustrophobic tightness of a tomb passage, 
 the game has an immersive quality when it comes to the background graphics. Character models are 
 stunning to look at and have a realistic touch to their faces. The faces show a lot of emotion 
 that is normally lacking in a game of this nature. Lara has also been redone and the change is 
 striking. Whereas Lara was a woman of cartoonish proportions, she now looks a little more real. 
 She still seems a bit enhanced in the breast department, but overall, she has a more athletic build 
 with more subtle curves.
  
  Sound can make or break a game and here is is a mixed bag. Dialogue is well written and voiced 
 with a lot of passion. The main voice behind Lara is distinctively British, but not overly done, 
 just enough to sound authentic to the part. The rest of the supporting characters have the same 
 sense of professionalism. The only time that you ever really have any issues is the background 
 noises. They never seem to stand out. And there is no real ambient music to speak of in the background. 
 It just becomes a bit too quiet. Sound effects are large however. Explosions, gun blasts and the 
 occasional motorcycle sound loud and vibrant. It is a striking difference from the lack of ambient 
 sound.
  
  A big problem with this game is the beast of a rig that you need to run it. It will use every ounce 
 of computer power that you have and still want a tad more. With my 4800+ X2 rig with 2GB or RAM 
 and two 7800GT cards in SLI mode, the game still would slow down to a slideshow on some occasions. 
 Not often, but enough to be frustrating. A little more time optimizing the code might of helped 
 with the frame rate issue. Another porting issue is saved games. While a small detail, I like the 
 computers ability to save anywhere, anytime. But this game uses the checkpoint system and only 
 restores back to the last checkpoint when you load a saved game.
  
  Overall, Tomb Raider: Legend provides the gamer with a solid game that heralds the return of one 
 of the genres most recognizable characters. It is a fun game that will keep you entertained for 
 about 10-15 hours of play. It also gives you a great story that will give you a few things to think 
 about. Just make sure that you have the system to handle it and you will have a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 13, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  With Anniversary coming soon let me tell you a little about what i like and what i don't like about 
 Legend.
  
  First of all Tomb Raider 1 is my all time favorite adventure game so i'm really looking forward 
 to Anniversary.
  
  When checking the reviews of this game i didn't really what to expect but i knew it probably won't 
 give me the feeling Tomb Raider 1 did. Maybe it's because TR1 was my first PSX game back then and 
 i was 10 years younger.
  
  Anyways i bought Legend from a magazine website since i have the game magazine i could get it a 
 lot cheaper like 15 bucks. Legend starts off pretty nice in a jungle environment which is pretty 
 nice compared to Angel Of Darkness.
  
  The gameplay has been improved, lara knows a few more techniques and has a grappling hook. It's 
 obvious that you take something like that with you on your journey's but i didn't like the fact 
 that you always have to use that thing over and over again the whole game. It's something that 
 will be in Anniversary however i will manage to live with that (if u dont have to use it all the 
 time) . The enemies in Legend mostly contain humans which is good in other games but not in a Tomb 
 Raider game. It made me feel like i was playing Syphon Filter or something like that. You constantly 
 kill lots of NPC's with your M16 (which you almost gain immediately) and the NPC's dissapear all 
 the time.... this is by far the worst thing of Legend.
  
  The game also contains area's which i don't think they belong in a Tomb Raider game. I know it's 
 hard to find new places if you've done almost all sacred tombs and dungeons in your two first games 
 but it's something that takes away the feeling of the game together with the other points i just 
 mentioned. For example: in one mission you have to ride your motorcycle on a skyscraper roof in 
 Tokyo.....
  
  Like i said the feeling that was once in the first game is completely gone in this game. Also i 
 didn't like the mini-games like riding your motorcycle to catch a train and kill other motorcycles 
 on your way.
  
  Do i only have negative things to tell you about Legend? No there are some good things about it 
 too.
  
  The graphics were great i think and the audio was pretty neat too even though the music in Tomb 
 Raider one just rocks. Legend is a good game which will give you a good time but don't compare 
 it too Tomb Raider 1 but if you never played that game try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  When i'v first heard of a new Tomb Raider game i was truly surprised ...&amp; when i say that Crystal 
 Dynamics is going to work on it . is was very satisfied because everything that Crystal Dynamics 
 was pure genius &amp; every game that they put out was pure gold &amp; it is 1one of the most imporant 
 studios that EIDOS has ... ! The first thing that you will notice when you enter the game is that 
 it captures the same feeling that the first 3 games of the series did but with higly improved gameplay 
 &amp; story ... Crystal Dynamics allways had a thing for wondefull storylines ( remeber LoK) ... 
 the game olso features very good voice acting just like LoK :D &amp; very good graphics with an 
 engine that is next gen but can olso run on not so powerfull platforms what cab i say it looks 
 great on every platform but it looks just amazing on X360 &amp; a powerfull PC ... the gameplay 
 is similar to PoP but way more improved because in PoP there were no physics &amp; not to say the 
 gunfights are cool but the main thing of this game are the puzzles &amp; the platforming ...&amp; 
 there are those important &amp; enterteining ingame cutscenes where you have to push a button everytime 
 it shows to get past varios obstacles ... not to say the music really mixes nice with the enviroments 
 &amp; story creating an uniqe atmosphere of exploring the unknown :) ... the only complaint i have 
 for this game is taht is way to short .. lets say if you are very expirienced with this kind of 
 games it will take you maximum 4 hours to finish it . But do not feel discourged because the game 
 is great &amp; if leave it some time its a very great game to replay ofcourse at much harder dificulty 
 :D !!! ENJOY !!! ough &amp; gamespot had a little bit underrated :P !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac_ska
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  After playing a messy Angel of Darkness, this one's a real treat.... I think one of my best Tomb 
 Raider game after The Last Revelation.... Really Awesome graphics, with a great background score 
 and lots of unlockables. The boss battles are tough similar to Prince of Persia series. Camera 
 angles can be tricky and irritating at times.... believe me. The rewards are well hidden and worth 
 striving for. It plays very well on a low end graphics card like mine.... (nVidia GeForce 5200, 
 P4 2.4GHz, 512Mb DDR) which is one of the best features of this game. The magnetic grapple makes 
 the game more fun to play with access to secret areas and objects, previously not available in 
 any of the Tomb Raider series... The underwater experience is one of the best ever seen in any 
 of the games I've played so far..... Excellent. The puzzles to be solved in the games are very 
 well designed and thought through. This game will surely be worth playing for all those who have 
 never played a Tomb Raider game before... I know people who I've recommended this game, and after 
 playing this they've borrowed my other Tomb Raider games too... Hope you've enjoyed reading this 
 short review... Waiting in anticipation for the next Tomb Raider Series.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Yes, The Tomb Raider: Legend was my first TR game played. I have never tried to play any TR games 
 and the Legend was my first game from TR universe and this game did not disappointed me. Probably, 
 the best thing I liked in this game was levels. The level design is just beautiful.
  Levels are very different and just gorgeous. You will be able to feel snow storms, swim in the 
 lakes, climb huge hills and many many more.
  So, the levels impressed me most and everything else were normal.
  The worst thing for this game 
 I think was the length of it.
  The game is just too short.
  It would be really awesome to explore some more levels and enjoy them.
  Thus, this game is really 
 interesting with many beautiful levels and places to explore. Still, this game could be a little 
 bit longer and it could offer more levels. Even though this game is short, you definitely should 
 play it if you are a big fan of the Tomb Raider! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farcryby
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  GREAT GAME !!!!.... And Graphics ... Specially the Sound tracks where very Heart touching specially 
 the 2nd last stage where u r in the Icy stage.... Tomb raider serires r improving .. people where 
 fed up from the past series cause the game used to start in an awkward location and the user didnt 
 know exactly where to go i mean to say it was Very confusing .. but this time its Much better hope 
 they will keep up the good work.... I am hoping that the next Aniversay series would be be much 
 better than this ...
  NOW THERE IS NOTHING ELSE TO SAY SO.
  
  
  
  asdad
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnTooDeaMan
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  1) Graphics
  
  Great graphics! Everything is very detailed.
  I believe, that this game fits perfectly in relationship of modern-day graphics even without the 
 Next-Gen. graph. option turned on. If turned on prepare for some gasping! Just amazing! It's like 
 on movies! The only bad thing is that if you have a great graphics card, but not a great enough 
 for every feature in the Next-Gen option, then you won't be able to turn on the ones, which your 
 graphics card supports. It's everything or nothing.
  You can't miss the good animations either.
  
  2) Gameplay
  
  Well true gamers should be 
 able to beat the game in about 7-12 hours. I did it in about 14 hours, because this is my first 
 Tomb Raider game yet (if we scratch that i've played a bit in my early childhood. Note: i'm 13 
 )
  It's a bit easy, but not that easy. You should be able to beat every level's boss in about 0-7 attempts. The 
 environmental puzzles are not that hard to figure out, but they are good too. Some people say that 
 the game is over too soon. I say that it's just right (well maby just a bit soon, but it's ok)
 
  the combat mode is also very good. With many attacks available. Lara's acrobatic skills are at their 
 peak! I especially like the slow motin ones, with which you can hit the enemy and in slow motion 
 shoot him from the air (kinda like the Matrix)
  I also like the interactive cinematics on which you have to push an exact button in the exact moment. 
 If you get the button wrong, then prepare to watch Lara die in a bit-funny way.
  There are also 2 motor races. Well you can't say that it's exactly a race, but at least you get 
 to shoot bad guys on the way. Controlling the motor ain't that hard - it's even too easy!
  
  3) Sound
  
  Well the music is ok. You can't expect more from a game like Tomb Raider. It's a 
 bit... how can i say...-inspiring.
  The voices are fit just right!
  
  4) Story
  
  Now this is my favorite part! The story is very very very interesting! I can say that the my favorite 
 thing from the game is the story. The funny thing is that everything in the end comes to an answer, 
 but that answer raises many more, which i think will be solved in the following games from the 
 series.
  Some people say that the cinematics are too long and annoying. I say: If they are part of the story (... duh) , 
 then let them roll!
  
  5) Extra
  
  If you get some artifacts (bronze, silver, gold) on your way to beating the game, then you unlock 
 rewards. They are nothing more than object models, biographies, new outfits, pistol upgrades etc. There 
 are also time trials, which if you complete - guess what - more rewards!
  
  6) Conclusion
  If you are an action-themed games lover or you are just a fan of the series, then 
 Tomb Raider: Legend is a must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatWat06
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is a very short game with only 8 levels, but the levels are good, interesting, 
 long (well some levels are long) , and has a good story with it. The graphics are good with (Next 
 Generation) , the sound is good. The gameplay is really good with lara's sexy new moves a long with 
 her sexy outfits in the game whitch you have to unlock them by completing levels, trails, and finding 
 secrets.
  
  The Story When Lara Croft was just nine years old, the plane carrying her and her mother crashed 
 into the Himalayas leaving them as the only survivors. After taking shelter in the ruins of an 
 ancient temple, Lara discovers an ornate stone dais holding a sword. Unwittingly activating the 
 ancient artefact, Lara watches in horror as her mother vanishes in front of her eyes.
  
  Years later, Lara travels to the ancient civilization of Tiwanaku in Bolivia, searching for a similar 
 stone dais. However she is not alone as she soon runs into James Rutland and his mercenaries on 
 the edge of Lake Titikaka, where the dais is situated. Old memories are brought back to haunt Lara 
 as Rutland implies that her deceased friend Amanda Evert is still alive.
  
  Lara meets up with university friend Anaya Imanu outside the tomb in Paraso, where a tragedy befell 
 Lara and her friends many years ago, leaving her as the only survivor. She returns to the tomb 
 and a flashback reveals the events leading up to Amanda's "death". While as a student on an excavation 
 of tomb similar to the one in Bolivia a demon was released and killed most of the team. In their 
 dash to escape the cave fills with water and Amanda is left behind. Then in the Present Lara discovers 
 that her old friend had escaped and the legend of Tiwanaku's Queen who rose to power after meeting 
 a shaman and staff weapon (and was shortly brought to paradise by a woman in a lake) . The tomb 
 of the Queen of Tiwanaku is linked to Bolivia and also the incident in Nepal when she was a child 
 (as well as the Arthurian Legend) . To her surprise she realises that the artefact she is hunting 
 has already been discovered, and is in the 'care' of Yakuza boss Shogo Takamoto.
  
  Lara's journey takes her to Japan, where she meets with the murderous Takamoto and demands a stolen 
 sword fragment from him. He refuses and retreats to his penthouse, leaving Lara to deal with his 
 cronies. She wipes them out and follows Takamoto to the roof of his penthouse, where she witnesses 
 for herself its terrifying power. Nonetheless, she manages to overcome Takamoto and retrieve the 
 second artefact.
  
  She leaves for Ghana to chase Rutland. He too possesses a sword fragment and he tells her about 
 something called the Ghalali Key, believing Lara to own it. Lara has no idea what he is talking 
 about and this frustrates him and he saves her. She beats him and takes his sword fragment.
  
  Lara now chases Amanda, who attacked her manor whilst she was in Ghana. She traces her to a 
 Soviet lab in Kazakhstan that performed experiments on a sword fragment that led to their peril 
 fifty years ago. Lara catches up with Amanda, who is clearly still angry with Lara about being 
 left behind in Paraso. Amanda now controls, to Lara's horror, the demon which killed their friends 
 in Paraso. She fights it off and recovers the sword fragment from the machinery.
  
  Surprisingly, Lara's adventure brings her home to England, where she discovers the real King Arthur's 
 tomb in Cornwall hidden under a corny King Arthur tourist attraction, along with the fourth and 
 final sword fragment. She realises that Arthur and his knights brought the fragments of Excalibur 
 to locations across the world influencing the destinies of various civilizations .After battling 
 a sea creature hundreds of feet underground, Lara returns home to try and figure out how to put 
 the sword back together. Lara realises that the previously unknown Ghalali Key was in fact a pendant 
 that was given to her mother by her father and also the one that her mother took to the Himalayas 
 with her.
  
  Lara is thus forced to return to her past once again, as she tracks the plane wreck she was on 
 and recovers the key before the plane falls off the cliff. She then returns to the temple where 
 her mother lost her life and there she reassembles the sword, Excalibur, and uses its awesome power 
 to escape.
  
  Lara returns to the stone dais of Bolivia and within moments has cut through Rutland's remaining 
 mercenaries and Rutland himself. Furious, Amanda releases her demon once again and merges with 
 it. With the help of the sword, Lara defeats the creature once and for all. Then she approaches 
 the dais...
  
  At last, Lara understands how her mother died, as she looks into the mirror of light and sees her 
 mother. Lara realises that the mirror spans time and what she is seeing is her mother just moments 
 before she was killed by the artefact. Her mother tells Lara (apparently not recognising her) to 
 leave her daughter alone and that she "meant no harm". Amanda wakes up and tells Lara to pull out 
 the sword otherwise the dais she stands on will explode. Believing that Amanda's advice was meant 
 for her, Lara's mother pulls out the sword, the same as she did all those years ago and Lara runs 
 from the dais just before it blows up. Furious, Lara shoots her gun at Amanda, accusing her of 
 killing her mother, but Amanda tells Lara that she is not dead but has gone to Avalon. Lara knocks 
 Amanda out, saying that she will allow her to live, despite what she has done. Lara then makes 
 arrangements to make her finds known worldwide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent by far bringing the franchise back to life after the hell that was Angel 
 of Darkness. The graphics are phenominal.. along with the sound.. The gameplay is just excellent 
 even on a computer using the keyboard/mouse. It is a game easy to pick up for those new to Tomb 
 Raider as well as pretty satifying to those already Raider alumni. What would be kind of irritating 
 is the game length.. its pretty short much like another 2rd person game named Gun.. but it is very 
 enjoyable up to the very end!
  
  The Value of the game is based around replay.. and there is some replay to be had by trying to 
 unlock everything.. there really not much else.. aside from the difficulty.. I throughly enjoyed 
 the game and replay it sometimes.. It's just pretty addicting.. it will keep you occupied for the 
 better half of 2 days.. or 1 if you just play n play.. Worth the 50 bucks? No.. but definately 
 worth the budget price now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Finally someone managed to bring both Lara Croft and fun together into one game again. After some 
 disastrous installments this one is the first game in the series I enjoyed, since the first and 
 second part.
  
  Level design is perfect for most of the time, so are the next gen graphics. Lara looks awesome, 
 as do her surroundings and this is more important with Tomb Raider and the like than in other games, 
 because this game is also about exploring. The moments, when you reach the top of a hill and look 
 down a ledge on some ancient temple, are stunning. It also helps the story, because the better 
 the characters and the world look the more you are drawn into a game. Only if the story is well 
 told though, which is the case here.
  Gameplay is well-engineered, although the gunfights are not too challenging and feel a bit forced 
 in there, same with the bicycle sequences, but they're not annoying or anything.
  Voice acting and sound in general are right up there with the best of them, especially if you have 
 a 5.1 surround system set up. I particularly liked the remarks Lara's friends make during missions, 
 it immensely adds to the atmosphere.
  So, if you are a fan of the series or liked games like the first Prince of Persia take Lara for 
 a ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brscott
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing the game for the most part but I found that there were a few annoyances particularly 
 when fighting a boss. The biggest issue has to do with the delayed response of some of the controls 
 and conflicting button combinations. If you are trying to move, jump or roll around to avoid attack 
 and simultaneously fire upon the enemy, you must press each button at the right moment, in the 
 right sequence and be very quick at it, otherwise you will likely suffer the loss of health or 
 death. I also found it kind of annoying that your weapons must first be holstered before using 
 the grapple. In other words Lara does not automatically holster her weapon when the grapple button 
 is pressed. Finally I have noticed that the camera sometimes does not pan around in the direction 
 you are trying to face or swings further than expected because of an adjacent obstacle. This is 
 a critical issue when trying to maintain your view of an enemy target. But despite these few issues 
 the game still remained quite enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Black-Sun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This Game can be real fun. It is a bit on the short side but definitely worth a play. After you 
 complete the game once you get to go back and grab all the hidden treasures and beat the time trials 
 to get all sorts of cool outfits for Lara. You can also find some cool combo moves on-line so Lara 
 can do dazzling gymnastics. The AI isnt very smart the enemies arent to challenging except for 
 maybe the bosses For a fun game that doesnt take to much thought ( the most thinking you have 
 to do is for puzzles) defiantly get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonasfd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  I'm a Tomb Raider fan, but I do know when a game is good or not and this TR really rocks!
  
  The game play is good, but everything got changed from the last TR, so, TR lovers will have 
 to adapt their forms of playing. The best choice I found was use a 5/8 button mouse to play. If 
 you choose not to use the mouse, you may find difficult to attack your enemies in the start. I 
 really think that the aim system could be quite better. Sometimes Lara just doesnt grab some ropes 
 depending from where you jumped, or you got confused with the controls while de camera changes 
 in a sudden. By the way, in this game, Lara can make almost everything - shooting while riding 
 the motorcycle is quite a great part. The bullet time gives an extra effect but there is only few 
 ways to activate it... I wish there could be more.
  
  Say whatever but the graphics are really incredible! I don't think its fair to speak here about 
 rendering and polygons... The most important thing for me is the art concept and the game photography 
 and these are just fantastic at TR Legend. The Scenarios are very well done: the lights, the details 
 and the surprises (like the opening of the waterfall in Ghana) are very good. And even the other 
 graphics concepts are really great since you use a good video card.
  
  Accessing the extras of the game while completing it you can get fascinated with the art concepts 
 pictures available.
  
  The sound is just pretty good. The opening song is fantastic and exciting - it's play the adventurer 
 spirit. During the game, this song is played in many variations depending of the situation, but 
 the result is perfect. The explosions e shots and the stereo effects are very real (you can feel 
 a grenade exploding from your right or left... as same as the other sound... like the waterfalls) . 
 The songs are motivating and the voices have been chosen well.
  
  The game is real worth playing. But, for a TR fan, it has some problems: too easy and too little 
 - I was able to complete it just in one day. Of course that, if you decide to go more than 100% 
 in the game (as I did later) you will spend more time while collecting the secrets and completing 
 the time trails. Finishing the game over the 100% has many good points: you will have access to 
 all Lara's Outfit, all the cheat Codes (like Wield the powerful Excalibur) , art concepts, objects, 
 special characters and more. The storyboard is amazing and very well explained during the game. 
 I loved TR Legend and I'm really waiting anxious for the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JReefer1
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  This game is really great to look at and thats about it. I found the game to be a fun ride I dont 
 care to repeat. It's like that as if this is the first and only tomb raider game . What I mean 
 is this one is constantly helping you with pop up menus that you cant turn off nearly through the 
 hole game, this type of game is not new even more so with a character as popular as Croft. I think 
 that the developers were playing too heavily on the graphic abilities to sell the game. I would 
 have appreciated mush more a updated version of the first few tomb raiders. This game is similar 
 to Prince of Persia so if you you like that then this is right for you. Oh, and what is up with 
 the 15min + to install this game . During installation I was thinking the game would take longer 
 than it did to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Game series all have their ups and downs; series like Prince of Persia lost its footing slightly 
 around Warriors Within but bought it back with Two Thrones, for example. But Tomb Raider is making 
 a come back after the series twist, The Angel of Darkness, and is now offering a re-invention 
 of the series with Tomb Raider: Legend. The game promises to act more like the original, critically 
 acclaimed titles, which Crystal Dynamics has achieved  and in bucket loads. Read on to see how 
 Tomb Raider: Legend plays up on PC.
  
  Lara Croft is back in the adventuring business and this time the focus is adventure, fluid control 
 and a strong storyline. Fortunately, Crystal Dynamics has pulled off what they hoped to achieve 
 under these check boxes, but some other concepts of play are not quite on the money.
  
  The story of Tomb Raider: Legend is well written and put together; it reminds me of the masterful 
 adventure plot of the Broken Sword series, not only fighting against enemies in treasure filled 
 tombs, but being the first ever person to set foot in a tomb or uncovering an ancient myth as fact. 
 Its all very enthralling and keeps you playing right to the end. The game incorporates globe trotting 
 from a club in Tokyo to the ancient Tomb of Bolivia, for those complaining of Angel of Darkness 
 lack of actual tombs, Legend brings us straight back into the source of adventure in trap filled, 
 expertly textured and mechanism based caves, tombs and temples.
  
  Lara has a whole host of moves for trekking through the intricately designed areas. She can jump 
 over chasms, shimmy along ledges, slide down ropes and swing on poles, all with intuitive control 
 and ease of mixing the controls together. its never hard to jump across a pit, climb up a crumbling 
 wall and jump backwards into a small opening because she can do all the actions straight after 
 the first, and you dont need to rethink which direction to face and where to position Lara, as 
 it done for you most of the time, and gives you perfect control when you need to.
  Lara moves with the camera not just the way the direction keys are pushed, so while shimmying on 
 a ledge, to jump to another, spinning the mouse so you get a sideways view of the jump means you 
 can get the timing and button presses perfectly. There are plenty of cool additions through-out 
 to mix up the adventuring; for example if you dont time a jump well, Lara can grab onto a ledge 
 with one hand, and a symbol will flash for you to press the action button, if you dont she will 
 fall, so the game keeps you on your toes constantly.
  The games areas are built mostly so that you can spin the mouse around and view where your next 
 jump should be, but in some areas, if you are supposed to jump up and not away from the wall, you 
 cannot look at anything but the wall, so if you jump backwards you will fall to your death, you 
 get to learn that if you cant look, you have to jump up, which is quite off-putting.
  
  Lara has four main bits of equipment. First is her weapon, Ill cover combat later, but it can 
 be used to break ropes and smash through fragile walls. Her newest and coolest piece of gadgetry 
 is her magnetic grapple. Not only can Lara pull metal box or a switch from afar, she can also use 
 it to make a make-shift swinging rope. The best use by far is when the floor starts breaking around 
 you, you jump up and immediately press Q to swing to safety; if you get that first time, you feel 
 like an adventuring god.
  When you first start playing, you are advised and encouraged to use binoculars that have an inbuilt 
 system which can assess objects for you. Unfortunately the assessments are incredibly vague such 
 as thats a mechanism, and you know its a bloody mechanism; its a bunch of pulleys and chains 
 connected to a giant door. As you go through, youll realise the pointlessness of these gadgets, 
 which takes away a level of depth, but they are just not necessary. The same is with her PDA which 
 brings up a map and some options; Im not sure as I have never used it in the entire adventure, 
 its that useless.
  
  QTEs have become more and more prominent in games lately. Quick Timer Events mix cut scenes with 
 game play, Lara might be running along and a spike will fly out of the floor, an up arrow might 
 flash on the screen for a second, and if you dont press it, Lara gets killed. However, unlike 
 Shenmue, the QTEs are too short (only 3 button presses) so if you miss one, you know exactly what 
 to do the next time. Luckily, Crystal hasnt gone overboard and they only crop up about 4 times 
 in the entire game. They are also only used for places where an actual game play scene would be 
 difficult to pull off (I cant describe any without spoiling the game) .
  
  Like any other Tomb Raider game, you are forced to put your brain into gear every once in a while 
 as when a giant door needs to be opened, there sure as hell is a giant box to be put onto a giant 
 button, but as usual, the box is never right next to the button. The game uses some semi-advanced 
 physics; so while the engine is no Half-Life 2, you need to think about weight, moments and velocity. 
 The first puzzle does a good job to throw you into the physics mindset as you need to think real 
 life before you can achieve it.
  
  It seems that its time to tell you where the game is really let down, after all these positive 
 things about the puzzles and the grapple and the control, with only minor issues relating to the 
 camera. The Combat system in Tomb Raider: Legend is pretty damn horrible. Do you remember when 
 Grand Theft Auto came out on PC? The lock-on system from the PS2 was gone and replaced with a mouse 
 controlled cursor; PC gamers expect to be able to shoot anything, anywhere when it comes to aiming, 
 its why they play FPS on a PC. But Crystal Dynamics left the PC port with lock-on aiming, making 
 it one of the most lack-lustre fighting systems on the PC, you just hold shoot and the engine will 
 draw your gun, lock onto a guy and hell die. You can enter a free target mode, like an FPS, but 
 you cant move with it. And you have no reason to use this, bar shooting props, because even if 
 you sneak up on an enemy, draw your pistol, enter free target mode and aim at the guards head, 
 you wont be doing a one-hit kill  and how long have headshots been around? That sneaky, well 
 aimed bullet into a guys brain will kill him instantly, well not in Tomb Raider, which is a real 
 shame because it makes fighting very tedious.
  Luckily, there are some ways to mix up the melee, while in lock on, roll turns into a sliding kick, 
 jump and kick bowls an enemy backwards and as for the best manoeuvre, jumping at an enemy and pressing 
 jump when you touch them causes Lara to go into a slow motion somersault, blasting the enemy till 
 they drop  plus, if they drop before you land your jump, swing the mouse over to another enemy 
 and shoot them too. These interesting changes make the fighting bearable so you can get through 
 the combat modes quickly to more adventuring. However, if you are into your PC FPSs in a big way, 
 and the secret to any game for you is guns, guns and more guns, give Tomb Raider a miss, youll 
 just be infuriated by how simple and boring the battles are.
  
  Lara also has control of many weapons that she picks off guards such as her dual pistols (with 
 unlimited ammo, and always kept with her in case her secondary weapon runs out of ammunition) a 
 shotgun, assault rifle and grenade launcher. She can also hold up to four grenades for clearing 
 out a few enemies at once.
  The other types of enemies involved are the dangerous animals that roam the temples, and these 
 really shock you; Crystal has hidden the leopards and cheetahs around corners and they pounce on 
 you, leaving your heart racing. However, once again the combat is let down because all you can 
 do is lock-on and open fire, no cool way to defeat the animal and no slow motion somersault jump 
 either! The final type of enemy is the bosses  ranging from high powered humans to giant mythological 
 creatures. Each one has an attack pattern and although the creatures are fun to kill such as using 
 the arena to exploit their weaknesses, the humans are much less fun. They are powered by a magical 
 sword, and with no specific way to kill bar shooting the crap out of them, they get boring easily. 
 Unfortunately the first boss is a human, but dont be put off as there are some quite good fun 
 ones. However, if you love your bosses and like getting your heart racing, you probably wont find 
 that here as most are beyond obvious in how to kill, and most are quite easy, including the last 
 boss. To flesh out the short game play, Crystal has laced the game with Motorbike sections, which 
 although are quite fun, there is not enough to do; deciding to take a jump over going around the 
 ramp changes nothing and there are some repeated sections where you might jump over the train you 
 are following, which does nothing more than make it look cool. The mouse just doesnt work in these 
 sections, you cant look around as moving the mouse will only jar the camera in a direction, you 
 need to repeatedly brush the mouse to one side to look around. Also, there are enemies on bikes 
 that you just need to go up beside and hold down shoot till they die; no cool road rash style fighting, 
 no puncturing their tyres and no slamming your bike into the side of theirs to knock them off.
 
  
  For the budding adventurers out there, the tombs, factories, clubs, temples and Lara Crofts manor 
 are sprinkled with little bronze, silver and gold artefacts. On Xbox 360, collecting these gets 
 you an achievement, but on PC they also give you a reward, lots of cool artwork, bios, pistol upgrades 
 and object viewers which makes finding them worthwhile for both the Tomb Raider fans and the completists.
 
  
  Its no secret that Tomb Raider looks beautiful. The tombs are dark and eerie while the urban areas 
 are realistic and are visually diverse from the other areas (as well as different in play) . However, 
 some improvements that could have been made were making the areas more dank (they seemed very clean 
 for ancient tombs) and make the environments more interactive graphically such as dust being blown 
 up when she walks and debris falling off of areas when she slams against them in a badly timed 
 jump. The only let down on the graphic side is how the creature bosses are quite boring and are 
 not very imaginative in design or texture. Lara herself has been worked on immensely, not only 
 are her motions fluid, her hair moves with the action and she has many idle poses, just for fun 
 and realism. From a technical standpoint, the game runs fluidly on PC with plenty of options to 
 heighten or lower tech specs and a next-gen content option that my graphics card cant support, 
 but it still looks beautiful. Check out this hi-res screenshot to see how the game looks at 1600&times;1200:
 
  Close of Lara in highest quality. 800kb, 1600&times;1200px &raquo;
  
  Overall, if you came to this game looking for a fun adventure game or something on par with the 
 original Tomb Raider, youve found it. The game is let down by its combat, but it makes up for 
 it with its exciting storyline and more than makes up for it in the masses of fun you can have 
 while solving puzzles and exploring the tombs, clubs, etc. The game isnt very long. Most gamers 
 will clock up around 10 hours (I did it in 7) so if you are looking for a game that will last you 
 into the summer, it isnt here. For those of you who play through a game without stopping, you 
 could complete this in one day, plus there isnt a lot of reason to play again as the reward system 
 isnt all that fun. However, for only &pound;17.99 at Amazon, it really gives you bang for your 
 pound.
  But despite the shortness of the game, it was a fantastic 7 hours and I got really into the story 
 by the end of the game. Because of the lack-lustre combat and shortness, I will take quite a bit 
 off the score, but leave it with a nice, acceptable and very playable
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is available on Playstation 2, Xbox, Xbox 360 and PC with cut down versions 
 coming on PSP, DS, Gamecube and GBA. The PC version was used in this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdavenport
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a return of Tomb Raider to its roots and the game that the angle of darkness should have 
 been. The early levels remind me allot of the first game. With some of the later lvls reminding 
 me of number 2. The controls are solid and a world better then the older games. Puzzle design in 
 the game is a bit easy causing the game to run a little short but that is about my only grip with 
 the game. The graphics look great and the sound works its nothing great but not horrible either. 
 Overall the game does everything right, it just needed to be a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evchoate999
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  The new Tomb Raider game is good... that's right, this isn't a dirty trick or elaborate joke. After 
 years of increasing mediocrity, Crystal Dynamics has finally delivered on the promises that Core 
 Design had been making since the release of the original. They have crafted a beautiful, fast paced, 
 and entertaining modern action adventure of the same caliber as games like Prince of Persia.
  
  On a fundamental level, it is surprising how little has changed since the offensively bad Angel 
 of Darkness. Legend is still a game with exploration, platforming and puzzle solving at its core, 
 in that order, with the odd bit of shooting thrown in for good measure. What's different is that 
 in Legend it actually works. This is due largely to the vastly improved control scheme. In terms 
 of platforming, the control scheme in Legend borrows heavily from Prince of Persia. For whatever 
 reason, the platforming in Legend actually feels better than Prince of Persia, more precise and 
 a lot less frustrating. The levels are masterfully paced, and they never seem to drag or feel unaturally 
 short.
  
  Graphically, Legend is stunning. If your PC is powerful enough the game features all the bells 
 and whistles of the Xbox 360 version, and even if it isn't, the game is beautiful simply on the 
 basis of artistic merit. The art design of the levels and characters is outstanding. Every location 
 feels unique and absolutely oozes atmosphere. This is a beautiful game.
  
  In total, Legend is a beautiful game that plays great. Tomb Raider is back in a big way. If you 
 are a fan of the action adventure genre then there is no question, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  Behold the power of the Downloadable Demo! Ive heard of Tomb Raider, but what Ive been hearing 
 and reading about the last few games in the series has been less than flattering, and the TR film 
 I was dragged to a few years ago hardly helped matters. Still, I gave the PC demo a spin and was 
 so impressed by its high-performance visuals and fluid acrobatics that I went right out and bought 
 the game on release day. Tomb Raider: Legend is a story-driven adventure. The games plot is based 
 on Lara Croft, a young, athletic, and very rich orphaned British noble, trying to discover the 
 truth behind the plane crash that led to her mothers death and almost destroyed a very young Lara, 
 who somehow managed to hike her way to safety in hostile Nepalese mountain terrain. What follows 
 is a fairly personal tale about Laras mysterious background, with all the requisite archeological 
 and supernatural elements one would expect.
  While the story certainly figures into the game, this is a bona fide example of a by-the-numbers 
 video game storyline. Its competently written and exposed, and it completely lacks cringe-worthy 
 moments, but  in contrast with, say, the plotlines of Max Payne or Metal Gear Solid  it is really 
 just an excuse to send Lara into beautiful, exotic locations all over the world. A story like this 
 could never be the backbone of a film (a good one, at least) ; this isnt really so much a criticism 
 as it is a statement of fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iilliiieee
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Lara returns in this new game with the most action full great graphics and looks as she can get............. 
 In my opinion it is the best tomb raider game yet.....
  It was a little short though but the graphics story and game play saved it . In this story we go 
 back into Lara s past and we find what happened to her mother exactly how she died but acttualy 
 she didn't die she was teleported to Avalon We play with Lara trough Bolivia, Peru, Japan. West Africa, Nepal...... 
 to find the truth behind the myth it is one of the best game ........ but is too short and the 
 the end is an enigma.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  After finishing the game on my PS2 i said wooow, i must play this game on my PC also. After getting 
 the game, installing and patching it (patch v1.2 is a MUST) i've started playing. Looking at the 
 options and setting and enabling everything i've started playing it. I was simply amazed by the 
 graphics in this game, it had the feeling that I was playing the game on a next-gen console. The 
 AA and the next gen graphics makes this game an eye candy. The soundtrack is also astonishing, 
 if you played the game and got to Nepal the song that runs in the background combined with the 
 view of the area makes it one of those moments in which you are glad that you are PC gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbish1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  First, it should be mentioned that the computer scan at Nvidia resulted in a: This game will not 
 work on your PC message. Well,,, as long as one shuts off all the bells and whistles and turns 
 on only the effects to keep things interesting, it works great. The graphics are better than most 
 games that I have, in fact. It appears to me that someone had spent lots of time keeping this game 
 visually appealing. A lot of thought has gone into this, (not in plots or in story line) , but; 
 in the eye candy and special effects. I mean this not as a detriment, but in fact applaud it's 
 detail in keeping our interest. It is fun just to watch ! I found myself at times throughly engaged 
 and excited, at others frustrated. Some times it is just plain awesome. I sometimes lose patience 
 with PC games. It is but tedium to me to be going through actions just to build up enough points 
 just to get to the next level. But I've not lost interest in seeing where this game takes me next, 
 and keeping me entertained in the meantime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazed4Life
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Going back to its roots, Lara Croft Tomb Raider: Legend is a truly fun game, albeit short. Amazing 
 graphics and challenging puzzles drive you forward, through the game. Stellar frame-rates for mid-range 
 PCs with all the quality turned up to max. A fun game in total, brilliant time waster, condensed 
 quality make the fun per minute always at a high. Puzzles challenge but are not very hard at all 
 and never will stump you. Short sections of gun play are common and a good vent for built up tire 
 from continuous wall scaling. Absolutely amazing lighting effects (compared to other games when 
 ran on my computer) depth of field and plenty of other high quality graphical effects. Over all 
 a solid game, i recommend it. Hope this is helpful, thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_sangma
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Pretty Good Game, To tell the truth this is the first time i played a Tomb Raider game. The game 
 is very short, it is over as soon as you blend into the story, but the visuals are nice. The next 
 generation content is great looking, i got very choppy framerates with it so i had to play without 
 it. The water effect was very impressive, when lara gets out of the water her body glisters with 
 water, she looks really wet ( not in any obscene way) . There are a few bugs though, sometimes Lara 
 just gets stuck in an inappropiate situation and falls down the cliff in crusified pose. Other 
 than that, it was fun playing this short game. However the bosses are pretty frustrating to defeat 
 if you dont know the trick. Nice game altogether,............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Ok... i'll say it out loud first : IT'S THE BEST IN THE SERIES!!!. I don't know, but the developers 
 read my mind regarding the new Tomb Raider release which is that dumb meniu in which you select 
 the required item to use, well in this one you just pres a button and there you have the pistols 
 or that rope u can swing (sorry i dunnow the term) or any other item you need, brilliant simply 
 brilliant.
  
  And Lara... ufffff she is very... ummm, you know.... well made :) you can see her wet skin after 
 you get out of the water, her movings are much more realistic, dust rises from the ground when 
 you jump, excelent... what can i say? they have done a great job with this one. Too bad it's a short 
 one but i presume ther will be a continue.
  
  TIP. did you know that Tomb Raider and Resident Evil are the most popular games in prison?
  
 
  Not that i was in one or anything like that but i figured it's good to know.
  
  So if u are looking fore some action,,, this is the game for you.
  Play it, buy it, you won`t 
 regret it.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristophH84
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  When playing Tomb Raider Legend it's like playing Tomb Raider for the very first time. It is completely 
 new yet astonishingly familiar Tomb Raider game. Graphics (especially Lara Croft) , music and sound 
 effects have been combined with state of the art game engine technology to created a new sequel 
 which will ultimately defy the Tomb raider universe and the franchise. As some one who has played 
 five of the previous Tomb Raider parts, I can honestly say that: gameplay has never been smoother, 
 Lara has never been more acrobatic, has never had more moves, puzzles have never been more diversified 
 and, most of all, the plot and Lara's personal back story has never had more depth and complexity 
 than in Tomb Raider Legend.
  
  Many other reviews about this game say that the over all time to complete the game is to short, 
 but in my opinion it is more than worth the while. Plus time trials and bonus outfits, items as 
 well as un-lockable cheat codes make revisiting some of the great levels more interesting, thrilling 
 and challenging.
  
  Tomb raider Legend is a sneak peak into the next generation, the new era of Tomb Raider and the 
 adventures of Lara Croft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beautifulman_71
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  i played all the tomb raider games on pc. I did love this game. It's a good sequel... have to say 
 not really much innovative... all is in the right places and the game is balanced... i was hoping 
 for something more difficult... puzzles are sometimes too easy, compared to the previous games 
 of the series... I think, and i suggest, next time to improve the difficulties... The graphic is 
 really good. the whole technic of the game is advanced... playability is perfect... the bosses 
 sometimes have strange solutions... i mean to kill some bosses sometimes weird things are required... 
 that's bad because logic have to be the key... Is there a zooming features that helps not much, 
 and i think the creators of the next game should concentrate more on new moves, incorporate some 
 combat idea ( see prince of Persia ) ... I still don't like the combat of the game... killing is 
 too easy and involves almost no strategies...
  It's again a good tomb raider. I hope the next one will be more challenging... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game which took me roughly 10 hours to finish, I thought it was pretty entertaining. 
 The game has good production values, great looking vistas of landscapes and tombs and solid voice 
 work. One of the things that keeps bugging me with third-person games is camera views, which some 
 game developers somehow don't seem to get the hang off. The same so for Tomb Raider: Legend. And 
 for a game that mainly focusses on puzzling, a good camera that should be completely user controlled 
 whenever required, is a small thing to ask.
  
  Other than that for 10 hours I was glad I only paid 15 euro (roughly 17 usd) for the game. I am 
 not really interrested in finishing the time trials and getting all the gold, silver and bronze 
 secrets out of this game to unlock all the so-called extras (outfits, artwork, models) . There was 
 a video with mishaps but it would've been a lot nicer to see some mockup goofs or early game visuals 
 or whatever (a. k. a. real extras) .
  
  Anyhow, if you find this for 15 euro or less and like action, puzzling and some minor fighting, 
 pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  The game falls into place just as the movies, and Lara croft is always hot even in games. So you 
 get to look at a nice ass the whole time playing which suits me just fine! Umm back on the subject 
 jumping from cliff to cliff while shooting guys and giving it an action packed scenery, after experiencing 
 something like that its got my good graces.
  
  God point about it is that it keeps you interested the hole time playing, you dont get board at 
 any point. Unless you get frustrated from not landing a combo or hitting a jump right.
  
  Bad point about it is after beating it you kind of move onto another game, even though its a good 
 game its not something you really play more then once or twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarek75
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  Lara is back .... with more as usual ,but is it more fun or more ...?
  my opinion is it was really more fun... more moves. more jumps and more
  puzzles..!
  game play 
 it self was a great experience u have to face ,story line was the only weak point , they need to 
 study history in a (MORE) accurate way as usual...!!
  graphics also was something from another dimension, far good from other tomb raiders versions.
 
  sound effects is stunning, with each move u make babe i need to hear more and more...!! finally 
 it is a great value for your money. just play it...!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debusentel
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The game is alot of fun and has some interesting challenges. If you like to solve Semi-Difficult 
 puzzles and the Mini puzzles of finding secret coins then you will like this game.
  
  It has some action sequences in it. They are preety much the same just different scenery and they 
 are always right before a chain of puzzles and after you complete them.
  
  The first few bosses require no strategy at all , just run in shooting. But after those the rest 
 get progressively harder and need tactic in order to defeat.
  
  Trying to find all the coins in the game can give it replay value if you miss them as you are progressing 
 through levels. Once you beat a level you can pick that level to go back to in order to find the 
 coins you missed. The more you find the more stuff you Unlock , such as outfits and weapons.
  
  My only real big problem with the game was the length. It was definatly much shorter than it 
 should have been. When I beat the game I was like , wait thats it? I was surprised. Good games 
 always leave you wanting more but it almost felt like it never started.
  
  All in all , a pretty good game , worth getting. Though It definatly can be beaten in the amount 
 of time you have to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1956
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Learning to play the game is the hardest for me; I have never played a game like this. I find that 
 shooting (while aiming) and not moving is weird and down right annoying. The puzzles are different 
 then Half-life, being some involves moving up, swing and climbing. Another thing that annoys me 
 is that the save does not work the way I think it should. If you want to save at difficult part, 
 it only saves at the last check point. The graphics in the game are awesome. A very good game to 
 add to your collection, well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend
  
  Well, this was certainly odd. Tomb raider: Legend is boring once you play it for a long time. I 
 wouldn't have rated it so low if I knew that I'd be playing ALL DAY. I was never a big fan of Tomb 
 Raider. =P Anyways, down to buisness (Or however you spell it, lol..)
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well, It got boring, I never liked shooting games where you hold down a button to target someone 
 in order to shoot, I like games without stuff like that, it makes it WAY to easy with it. Roaming 
 around was pretty fun, but that's all I liked from the gameplay.
  
  Graphics
  
  I knew the graphics would be like this, but I never cared about graphics, so yeah. But for those 
 who do, They were what They should look like for an okay game. Not good, but just Okay ..
  
  Difficulty
  
  Well, The difficulty was easier than I expected, I thought that it would've 
 been like the other Tomb raiders (Bad memories..) It seemed as if the game was letting we win.
 
  
  Storyline
  
  Well, The storyline was the only thing Iiked of the game. It was a great story, and If they didn't 
 make it so damn easy, I would've bought it. But times have passed, and I've forgotten mostly about 
 the story, but I know I liked it.
  
  That's my review and I give it a 6.4 =&THORN; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBUK1987
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical of this game, with the film franchise and Angel of Darkness being below expectations. 
 But this game gave everything a Lara fan needs. Fun and not too hard puzzles, fewer supernatural 
 enemies (a step towards the roots of the series, and a step in the right direction) , beautiful 
 graphics, beautiful locations and a beautiful lara. The voice acting was also good, as you really 
 did start to feel angry and sad at/for the characters. The only flaw is that this game is too short, 
 but that is only a testament to how fun this game is. If i could change anything about this game, 
 i would only make it longer. I hope they make a sequel carrying on the story of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I play pc, mouse. I am an older gamer and have quite a few games under my belt. Ive played Bad 
 games and said so, Ive played good games, then ive played Great games. This is in the Great Catagory. 
 It has it all. Wonderful waterfalls that you can almost feel the spray on your face. You seem to 
 interact with her. Many different locations, missions are different but leading to one objective. 
 The king Arthur sword and her mother. Your quest takes you all over the world, you swim ,climb, 
 dive, ride motorcycles for rewards. It doesnt stop in action not for a moment. You get to visit 
 croft manor after a few rewards are gotten. Nice place.. anyway, you fight kill many men, many 
 many puzzles that are not one bit easy. meet strange and interesting creatures. killing them is 
 also a puzzle in a riddle. fun though. There is a motorcycle chase on ice that i loved. when id 
 wipe out id feel her slide on her butt. She is a very pretty model. Best laura ive seen. They keep 
 you going quessing right to the end. The final boss fight is a real challange. it took me for ever 
 to figure it out but when i finally did i sceamed YA. This is a for sure keeper, if you havent 
 played legende yet do so. youll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebolanow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 6, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing this masterpiece and all i can say is BRAVOOOO to the guys at Crystal Dynamics. 
 I mean ,where have this guys bean hiding all this years , their great. The gameplay in great ,only 
 the camera can cause some problems sometimes ,but overall it doesn't do eny harm (at list most 
 of the time) .The game is a little short (i finished it in 6 hours at medium) but the story is 
 great and you don't even notice wen time starts to fly .It's a game that everybody can enjoy and 
 it feels like your watching a movie , a very good movie. Best Tomb Raider game in my opinion .Try 
 it, you wont regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwmfleming
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game was the best game i had everplayed out of the thousands of games i played in my lifetime. 
 i give this game a 10 out of 10 because the graphics the sound controlling was easy for me. i hate 
 the shooters where you have to aim where as this one all you have to do is point and shot. basicly 
 automatic aiming. i don't care what anyone says about thuis game this is my fav. even though i 
 haven't beaten it yet and thats because i don't own it. i borrowed my friend's PS2 and rented it 
 and only made it half way through the game. i didn't want the PS2 to over heat but i will be buying 
 it for the PC. this game ROCKS no matter what system you play it on. and i did play allitle bit 
 of it on the 360.
  
  this is rwmfleming signing off.
  
  see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The Tomb Raider series is one of the most well known series on gaming because it was one of the 
 first 3-D gaming series to implement many possibilities on 3-D gaming that includes: characters 
 the levels and the whole game design and 3D controls. But also because the main character is a 
 sexy female heroine that adventures through different countries in search of special artifacts 
 from the past that have great value or are dangerous weapons. The series got many sequels that 
 eventually started to become the same thing over and over again. On the PS2 and PC Tomb Raider 
 Angel of darkness made it even worst with horrible camera and control problems. However because 
 of the great success of the series it was adapted into a movie starring Angelina Jolie that thanks 
 to the movies she got a lot of famous not to mention she really does her role perfectly. And the 
 movie like the game was a success and they are now already planning to start the 3rd installment. 
 Now Eidos finally decides to change the developer and bring the series to crystal dynamics that 
 makes what is perhaps the best Tomb Raider game yet.
  
  The story is about Lara starts to remember things about her past, her mother's disappearance and 
 has she progress through the adventure she believes her mother is still alive. Yet on the other 
 side she has to deal of finding a legendary artifact with immense power that could destroy humanity. 
 She will need to travel through different worlds to find each piece but she will also have to deal 
 with the mercenaries that also want this important artifact. She will go to: Japan, Bolivia, Peru 
 and many other places that each of them is simply interesting to explore.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend offers quite a lot of variety when it comes to gameplay. From doing acrobatic 
 moves like: climb on poles, ladders, ropes, cliff sides there is simply nothing she can't do. She 
 can also do other surprising tricks like jump from a clip side backward and land safely, do high 
 jumps to hold on to a cliff side, make her go faster when climbing to pick up more pace in the 
 game, she can also swim on the water or dive in it to reach certain areas and she can use her grappling 
 hook to reach an area or move an object on the way. Doing all this crazy cool stunts is not hard 
 at all thanks to good controls and great control of the camera, is pretty similar to Prince of 
 Persia with all of this stunts that the prince can do. Yet what makes things feel so realistic 
 is that everything looks real is not like the game puts in a special color or anything to show 
 you what stunt or acrobatic move you need to do. You have to figure it out all yourself. The combat 
 in the game is quite surprising and the game features quite a lot of it. She can use her 2 pistols 
 to fight the enemies or pick up weapons from the enemies you kill. The only thing is that only 
 her 2 pistols have infinite ammo. She can kick enemies, slide below them to make them fall, bring 
 them to her using her grappling hook or jump on them to enter focus mode where things go on slow 
 motions and you are able to shoot at them at a stylish matrix way. Plus she can shoot special objects 
 like bombs that explode when you shoot them or cars and such and she can pick up grenades from 
 the enemies and blow them up; only thing is that they are not good aiming the grenades but you 
 will not really need them.
  
  Sadly when it comes to battling animals is pretty annoying, it takes quite a lot of shots to actually 
 kill them and the fact that they will attack you and throw you on the ground and that you cannot 
 jump on them so you can enter the slow motion focus mode to finish them off faster is disappointing. 
 But at least the animals don't appear constantly but feels annoying because they were not on the 
 demo of the first level and on this full version they decide to include them.
  
  Now when it comes to equipment Lara is always ready for anything. She can store health packs that 
 she obtains by beating enemies (up to 3 she can hold) , a special light on her chest so you can 
 turn it on when she is on very dark places, her grappling hook has mentioned before that has multi 
 purposes, special binoculars that come in handy for hard puzzles plus the binoculars can tell you 
 they key objects of that puzzle but you still need to do a lot of thinking and of course her 2 
 pistols that can be use on combat but also to destroy ropes that hold special objects and other 
 kind of stuff..
  
  Lara throughout the game will also use special vehicles to help her on the way in which the most 
 used one is the motorcycle in which will be use twice in which consists of avoiding obstacles on 
 the way plus also shooting down the enemies that appear on the screen. It is pretty cool and fast. 
 They will be a set of ramps in which Lara will fly but also be careful not to get hit with a rock 
 by enjoying too much the flying. The only small problem is that sometimes the checkpoints seem 
 to take too long to appear when doing this motorcycle missions but you will get the hang of it 
 and have not much problem beating the mission easily.
  
  Another interesting idea of the game is the cut scenes. Similar to Resident Evil 4 the cut scenes 
 will make you hit indicated buttons to avoid obstacles and safe Lara from a horrible fall and such. 
 The idea is pulled of pretty nice and in a very intense way however sometimes they don't give you 
 enough time to hit that button so you will have to eventually memorize them next time you try, 
 but is just mostly hitting left, right, up and down. While not a big addition they make the game 
 more interesting and make you pay attention to the cut scenes and not just sit back and relax.
 
  
  When it comes to puzzles the game offers from moderate to hard thinking puzzles. Most of the time 
 you need to look around your environment and see what could best work. Most of them consist of 
 pushing up balls and blocks to a floor yet you will have to figure out how to bring the block or 
 ball to the area you need to place it. Your binoculars can come in handy because they scan the 
 objects that can help you solve the puzzle you just have to figure out how they will help you. 
 There is a total of 5 bosses in the game that each of them you will need certain strategies to 
 defeat them even some of them consist of defeating a puzzle in order to hurt them rather then just 
 shoot them.
  
  There are eight huge missions that take place in Bolivia, Kazakhstan, Africa, England, and the 
 Himalayas that have a mix between inside and outside environments. All of them are very varied 
 and always bring you new fresh gameplay to do on the game. Another place to visit is the croft 
 mansion that features special collectibles, hidden and secret stuff and also features some nice 
 puzzles. Is a pretty fun mansion to explore and look around is more of a side quest of the game 
 tough because it's outside the story.
  
  Graphically Tomb Raider Legend is simply really good looking with outstanding design and art throughout 
 the entire game. It features a great amount of texture and very good lighting effects too. Not 
 to mention that is simply the best looking model of Lara Croft besides Angelina Jolie of course. 
 Every area you visit on the game it's attractive because it's always different but always looking 
 perfectly beautiful. However the versions that feature an even better experience are the XBOX 360 
 and PC version. There is simply no denying that this is the best looking Tomb Raider game yet.
 
  
  Legend also offers a very smooth soundtrack that goes from adventure style when doing puzzles or 
 exploring the areas to fast cool intense soundtrack when it's time to battle enemies around. The 
 sound effects of guns, vehicles and specially the motorcycle are also in great quality. The voices 
 are handled nicely on every character and never being cheesy or dumb. Plus the game let's you choose 
 the language from English, Spanish or French in everything from the menu to the dialogue and voiceovers 
 of the characters which is pretty cool for those that English is not there first language.
  
  Unfortunately the game is about 10 to 15 hours long depending on your skill. However the game 
 lets you replay any level you like but also gives you the option to beat them on a time trial. 
 Plus a lot of special collectable items on the levels and also the Croft Mansion that has also 
 a share amount of puzzles and collectibles to get. There is no multiplayer but is not quite needed. 
 But it still could have been a much longer game still the ending shows that a sequel might be coming.
 
  
  Overall Tomb Raider Legend is simply one of the best games that have come out this year. It delivers 
 a pretty cool action combat of shooting and motorcycle missions, plus exploring different countries 
 in search for a certain piece of an artifact and solving puzzles that require some thinking. Not 
 to mention it has gorgeous graphics on interesting locations to visit and a great quality on the 
 audio department. This is truly the best Tomb Raider game yet and we can't wait to see more of 
 Crystal Dynamics on the revival of this great franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangergv
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft Tomb Raider Legend is a amazing game in graphics and in game play use of the keybord 
 and mouse make it easy to control lara. 
  
  And with the right computer and hardware Tomb Raider Legend is the best game I ever seen. With 
 next-generation on and all options on Tomb Raider Legend is the best game I ever played the graphics 
 are amazing even with next-generation off the games graphics look good. I love the look of Lara 
 
  after a swim talk about the wet look.
  
  Next-generation on the graphics are amazing Lara Croft looks amazing in 
  here outfits and if 
 you have a videocard that suports shader 3.0 the graphics
  are even better. I downloaded the 1.2 patch and mybe it's me but the game
  plays and looks better.
 
  
  Tomb Raider Legend has every thing roming puzzles shooting and killing
  driveing and a story line and I love the music the game dos have it's glitches but anazing graphics 
 make up for it so I overlook the games glitches
  
  To all you gamers out there that gave Tomb Raider legend a score of 6.8
  or less shame on you 
 for the score of 6.8 beacuse the game short the game is not shrot it's just right seting it uo 
 for the next Tomb Raider.
  
  I'am I gamer and I played bad games and I played good games Tomb Raider is truly a amazing game. 
 I love this game I finished the game three
  times and I'am playing the game again to find all the secrets and trying the time trials.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The only tomb raider game ive played of the series is the first one which was a great game for 
 its time. Now playing Legend it seems they have added quite a bit to the way the game plays making 
 it feel more like one of the prince of persia games at times. The story behind this game is pretty 
 cliche but it works pretty good. The games graphics are really quite good and i was playing in 
 next gen version. Lots of different effects add to it like the dripping water when u get out of 
 the water. The expresions on the characters faces is done pretty good as well. The load times are 
 virtualy noexistant on my computer as well under 3 seconds for a level. The voice acting is pretty 
 good except for the two assistants of laura which are somewhat annoying. The sound effects are 
 pretty good but alot of the weapons aside from the pistols sound pretty much the same. The game 
 is pretty short n i beat it at 8 hours but you can problary finish it much faster once you know 
 what to do. Some of the games puzzles are pretty challenging to figure out at first which is a 
 good thing. The game also has alot of unlockables and a time trial mode which adds to the replay. 
 Overall i would definatley recommend this game as it is very fun and challenging 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunstar7
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The game starts nicely as Lara tests out her skills and gadgets .An immersive storyline and interesting 
 characters help add to a fun entry in the series, leaving the game to not only rely on action and 
 gunslinging but to keep you intrigued by Lara's next move. The graphics are quite beautiful and 
 the gameplay is fun and simple. With plenty of weapons and acrobatic feats, Legend is a sure way 
 to keep entertained over a slow, rainy saturday. The game may seem a bit short to the more hardcore 
 gamers and is most recommended to those more familiar with the adventure than action games. Tomb 
 Raider is a great time but more quickly a rent than a purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boredwithgames
Rating: 3.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Tomb Raider since 1996, from the first one and played all of them as they were 
 released. I always liked the exploring part of the first 4, the atmosphere, music, etc.... did not 
 like TR Chronicles (5) and Angel of Darkness (6) . 
  
  I heard the new team wanted to go back to the tombs and the original TR..... I of course believed 
 that PR talk, silly me, so I got the game the day it was released (actually 3 days earlier because 
 I am friendly with one supplier) .
  
  I thought, OK, this is gonna be a nice month playing Tomb Raider, classic style.... wrong..... all 
 in all I played it about 8 hours, including getting most secrets (first time finish was 97%) , so 
 I played it 1 night (3 hours) and then 1 afternoon (5 hours straight, day off) . The gameplay is 
 anything but classic TR, in fact it is your average Prince Of Persia ripp-off (oh wait, the same 
 team did that game....) with some Legacy of Cain in it (Including portal and sword... yes, the same 
 team made that game too) .
  
  To keep it short, too easy (children's game at best) , disgustingly limited0linear, very arcade 
 shooter-ish, no exploring whatsoever, just run to the next checkpoint while listening to the lame 
 jokes by dumb and dumber, music is annoying because it is always on and has techno, camera has 
 a problem with you wanting to see what is in front of you..... the game is very short like I mentioned, 
 however I was glad it was that short, I was about to stop playing it.
  
  Just because Lara Croft is in it, does not mean it is a TR game... I never cared about that character 
 anyhow, it was the locations, challenge, exploring etc that did it, but all that was taken away.
 
  
  Nice graphics though, but definitely not worth buying, just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrontopia
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  When I heard this game was coming out, I didn't know what to expect. I was kinda cautious after 
 the lame TRAOD. But, after playing this game (over a few times) , my whole opinion changed. Gameplay 
 is great, graphics is good, sound and voice acting is excellent, and it's quite immersive as it 
 makes you feel you wanna be a part of it. The only downsides I can think of is the demanding system 
 requirements, and short length (only took me about 10 hrs first time round; can't really blame 
 Crystal D tho, cuz the were probably looking for quality rather than quantity after the sacrilegious 
 AOD) . So for me, this game was worth every cent. It's one of the outstanding games in the series 
 and for the newcomers to TR, this isn't a bad place to start. Keep up the good work, Crystal D!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo426
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is one of those games that promised a lot to the fans and turned out to be 
 average. The graphics and the control system has improved greatly from the last Tomb Raider games 
 but the game doesn't have a lot to offer other than that. There are one or two cool gunplays but 
 they are not essential to take out the enemy. The levels are not challenging at all except some 
 puzzles but once they are solved even if the difficulty of the game is increased there is no differenece. 
 The story of the game takes the gamer to different exotic locations but the challenges remain the 
 same as its always shooting the bad buys and solving some puzzles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend revives the athletic, intelligent and entertaining adventurer who won the hearts 
 and minds of gamers worldwide. Lara comes alive with intricately animated expressions, moves and 
 abilities. An arsenal of modern equipment, such as a magnetic grappling device, binoculars, frag 
 grenades, personal lighting device and communications equipment, allows gamers to experience tomb 
 raiding as never before.
  
  Lara comes to life - the dual-pistol-wielding adventurers polygon count and animation set has 
 been increased significantly, presenting Lara in the finest fidelity to date 
  
  Return to the Tombs: Laras new quest brings her to lost ancient realms that guard Secrets of the 
 Past 
  
  Fluid movement: the revamped control system provides intuitive and fluid character movement 
 
  
  Dynamic animation system puts focus on continuous motion, giving Lara the ability to seamlessly 
 handle any obstacle and interact dynamically with any surface 
  
  Move and shoot. Lara uses her physical prowess to combine gunplay with unique signature moves 
 
  
  Variety of player choice - intelligently use the environment, technical gear and weapons to overcome 
 challenging situations. 
  
  Physics, Water and Fire systems bring the perilous environments of Laras world alive, and challenge 
 the player to improvise solutions to obstacles 
  
  Visit a vast array of cinematic & exotic locations including ancient tombs, dangerous jungles, 
 snowy mountain ruins and numerous unexpected surprises in between! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendods1441
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Tombraider legend is a good game. I think its very fun and adiptive. But it is very anoying when 
 you get stuck because you give up straight away. But when you figure it out you carry on. when 
 you are fighting a lot of enemies and you want to shoot them it is very hard. But if you use the 
 mouse it makes it so so easy. But not much pple like using the mouse but its ok just using it for 
 killing. Most pple like using arrow keys. You can use w s a d for moving and mouse for tunring. 
 Because there were leapods to kill and i couldn't kill them with out using the mouse. You get a 
 torch a graple greanades and to pistols with infinity bullets. Also when you kill an enimy you 
 can take there weapon and use it. You are also giving a gadget thingy which are can't remember 
 what its called. Anyway what it does is tells you your objectives and what to do. You are also 
 giving binonculas. If you press e while using bononulas a light comes. If you look at anything 
 suspisous lara tells you what you can do with it. Like telling you you can move it or thats fragile. 
 When you are using the arrow keys the camra is quite poor but its still ok and good. But when you 
 use the mouse i find it easier. You also get to ride motobikes which is quite fun but hard to controll 
 at first. But you'll get use to it. Also some pple say the game is to short and its not. Well thats 
 there opinian but you get stuck on Tombraider and its a long game kow what i'm saying. I think 
 this game is great. The graphics are lovly and this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzycmk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft.. where have you been?
  
  I had given up on the Tomb Raider series. TR1 & 2 were superb games. TR3 was a little disappointing. 
 TR4 had some issues but was a good return to what made TR1 & 2 fun. TR5 (Chronicles) was mediocre 
 and seemed to be little more than an attempt to get one more payday from the TR series. It had 
 an aging engine, dated graphics, and had just fallen behind the times.
  
  Then, there was Tomb Raider : Angel of Darkness (TR6) . This was supposed to be a reinvention for 
 the series. It was supposed to take TR in bold, new directions. Instead, it was buggy, with a ridiculous 
 story, abysmal controls, and a handful of new features that were touted as revolutionary but seemed 
 either tacked on or were poorly implemented.
  
  After that, I probably would have passed on Tomb Raider : Legend, except that I heard that Eidos 
 had made the wise decision to get a new developer. Core Systems was replaced by Crystal Dynamics.
 
  
  Bottom line, Im happy to say that Crystal Dynamics took a fresh perspective on Tomb Raider (ironically 
 by returning Lara to her traditional venues) and TR is fun again.
  
  Lara is back where she should be - exploring tombs, caves, temples, jungles and the like. Legend 
 also features the return of the Croft mansion to explore at your leisure, and secrets to find 
 within the levels (in the form of various bronze, silver, and gold trophies) .
  
  The story for Legend is typical TR / generic action game stuff. Lara must find an artifact of incredible 
 power. or the world as we know it could come to an end. I dont think its a huge spoiler to mention 
 the artifact in question is King Arthurs sword, Excalibur. However, the story is developed against 
 the backdrop of Laras past, particularly the death of her mother following a plane crash in the 
 Himalayas when Lara was a young girl. This event has been referenced in prior TR games, but never 
 really developed. Gaining some insight to Laras past and motivations is fairly interesting.
  
  Of course TR wouldnt be TR without exotic locales, and this game doesnt disappoint. Youll 
 be going to places like Bolivia, Ghana, Nepal, and Kazakhstan. Environments range from steamy jungles 
 to frigid mountainsides. There is one non-traditional level in a high rise building in Japan, but 
 that level does offer a nice change of pace.
  
  If youve got a rig to support it (more on that later) , the game is a visual feast. Some of the 
 views are truly breathtaking. Youll be standing on a mountains edge with an incredible landscape 
 presented before you (mist covered mountain ranges, huge waterfalls, enormous valleys, etc.) . Even 
 when youre in the tombs and caves there are nice graphical touches (rays of sunlight coming through 
 cracks in the wall, with dust particles visible floating in the sunbeam) .
  
  Sound in the game is also well-implemented. Voice actors are very good. Lara is in constant radio 
 contact with Zip (her computer guy) and Alister (her historian) . The banter between them all sounds 
 fairly natural, and has its humorous moments. Theme music has some strains that sound like the 
 classic theme to the first TR game. Ambient noises are abundant. Some of best moments in game are 
 when Lara is alone in a dark corridor, and all you hear is dripping water, or Laras footsteps, 
 or various creaks and clatters. Really helps to set the exploratory tone of the game. 
  
  So the game look great, sounds good, and has a decent story, but how does it play? TR has always 
 had a healthy mix of platforming, puzzle-solving, and combat, and this game continues that tradition.
 
  
  Some have said that the excellent Prince of Persia series took a lot of cues from TR. In spirit 
 of everything coming round full circle, I think its very fair to say that Legend has taken a 
 lot of cues from POP, at least from a platforming standpoint. Lara is much more mobile that shes 
 ever been, and moves much more fluidly. Finally, in a TR game, when you approach a 90 degree turn 
 you can just keep moving. You dont have to stop, pivot, and then start running again. The game 
 includes all manner of running, jumping, shimmying, swinging activities. Some of them are a dead 
 rip-off of POP (particularly the horizontal pole swinging, and the ledge / crevice jumping and 
 shimmying) , but theyre still effective, and for the most part theyre pretty fun.
  
  Laras been given a few new tools to aid in the platforming, the most essential being a grappling 
 / rope device (note  this seems to be another bow to the Daggertail weapon used by the Dark 
 Prince in the last Prince of Persia game) . This tool has a lot of uses. It can be used to swing 
 across large gaps, to grab and pull objects to you, and can even be handy in combat.
  
  Controls in the game are the best ever for a TR game (although they cant compare to POP) . There 
 seemed to be just a touch of lag between hitting a button, and getting a response, but nothing 
 that caused problems. Only problem I had was that I couldnt always get Lara to run as quickly 
 as I wanted to. She would start off walking for a few steps before breaking into a run. This caused 
 some limited problems with the platform challenges as youre often faced with a jump in which you 
 need a running start to clear a gap (and not a lot of room to get the running start) . In fairness, 
 Im not sure if this was an issue with the game or my gamepad. At any rate, it didnt cause huge 
 issues.
  
  The game also includes a variation of platforming in the form of a few interactive cut scenes. 
 In these sequences, Lara is usually facing some type of harrowing escape, and youll be given some 
 visual clues as to what button to press in order to save Lara. You dont really have any control 
 over Lara, its just a matter of timing your buttons. Hit the buttons too soon or too late, and 
 Lara meets an untimely demise. There were probably 10 or so of these sequences spread throughout 
 the game. Some were a little annoying in that even after getting the cue, it wasnt apparent what 
 you were supposed to do. At least in the PC version, all you got was an arrow pointing in a direction. 
 It was often unclear if that indicated the direction in which you were supposed to move, or if 
 it was pointing out an object you should see (like a latch to shoot so you could release a gate) . 
 At any rate, these sequences will probably take you a handful of tries. They dont really add to 
 or detract from the game.
  
  Puzzles in the game offer an appropriate challenge. Most puzzles are of the standard TR variety 
 (pushing boxes / crates into some logical pattern, figuring out how to properly weight some scales, 
 etc.) , and while some are obvious, others require a bit of thinking. All are fairly logical (again, 
 unlike Angel of Darkness which had some awful, random challenges that made no sense) . I got fairly 
 stuck on one near the end of the game, but felt foolish when the light bulb went off in my head, 
 as it was actually pretty straightforward. 
  
  Combat in TR has always been somewhat hit or miss. In past games, Lara always had an auto-aim feature 
 and would lock on any enemy that came into sight. Then it was just a simple matter of mashing the 
 fire key. Most enemies in those games werent too bright and would run around in circles until 
 you put them out of their misery.
  
  Combat in Legend is much improved. Its not a real focal point of the game, but what is there 
 is pretty good (although still not particularly challenging) . Lara now has a targeting button you 
 have to press to lock on an enemy (no auto-acquire) before you can start shooting. You can keep 
 hitting the target button to cycle enemies. For most of the game, when youre attacked, the enemy 
 comes at you in a group, so you have to be somewhat strategic about how you attack (duck and cover, 
 run in with guns blazing, etc.) . The enemy AI isnt the best Ive seen, but its not bad. Many 
 enemies will lob grenades that will do a great deal of damage to Lara if they connect. 
  
  For her part, Lara has been given some new moves as well. Lara can carry up to four grenades at 
 a time. She can use her rope to pull enemies off ledges. She can slide tackle guys to take them 
 off their feet, and deliver a roundhouse kick that is handy for knocking guys off cliffs or bridges. 
 Shes also been given a mini-bullet time skill. If she jumps at a guy, and then jumps over him, 
 time will momentarily slow down, and she will be given some easy shots at her enemies. This is 
 a very effective move that helps even the odds when Lara is severely outnumbered.
  
  Weapons in the game are nothing special. Lara has her trademark pistols. You can only carry one 
 other weapon at a time. During the game youll come across machine guns, grenade launchers, and 
 shotguns. I mostly stuck with the machine gun because it had decent range, allowing you to hit 
 guys your pistols wouldnt reach. There are also assorted turrets and other weapons around the 
 game that you can jump on by utilizing the use button.
  
  Would have been nice if combat included some true hand to hand action, other than the occasional 
 kick. A game like Indiana Jones and the Emperors Tomb from 3 or 4 years ago included a ridiculously 
 fun fighting engine allowing you to punch, grapple, kick, put guys in headlocks, etc. Now 3 or 
 4 years later, you would think that something similar could be given to Lara Croft, who, even at 
 close range, has to resort to plugging guys with her guns.
  
  There are two short motorcycle sequences in the game. Motorcycle controls were very loose. Moving 
 the gamepad even a little sent Lara shooting across the screen. Sequences arent bad, and do feature 
 a couple of cool jumps and such, but these parts felt somewhat like afterthoughts, as if developers 
 got done and remembered that they didnt have any vehicles in the game.
  
  Almost every level ends with a boss battle of sorts. These end up being a mix of combat and puzzle 
 solving, as theres usually some trick to beating each boss. Some were more difficult than others, 
 but none of them were too bad.
  
  Game uses a checkpoint save system, and while it usually annoys me when a PC game does not offer 
 quick saves at the users discretion, the checkpoints are so plentiful that having to replay large 
 areas over and over never became a problem.
  
  So whats the bad? For starters, the game is an absolute resource hog. It weighs in at 10GB on 
 the hard drive. To run the game with all the bells and whistles, youre going to need a pretty 
 advanced rig. The options menu includes a choice of Next Generation Content, which apparently 
 really burdens your system, but is the driver behind most of the eye candy in the game. I was able 
 to leave the Next Gen content on, but I needed to turn off anti-aliasing, and eased my screen 
 resolution in order to get the game to run at a relatively smooth framerate. Id not that I have 
 a pretty new machine that was above the advanced specs. Even after playing around with the settings, 
 I still encountered some choppy moments, particularly when I would first start up the game each 
 time I played. The first five minutes or so of each session would be really choppy, as if the game 
 was warming up, and then it would be relatively smooth.
  
  While the game has been criticized for being short, I didnt really think it was (there are multiple 
 difficulty settings, although I cant imagine it makes much of a difference, since the majority 
 of the game is platforming and puzzle-solving, which likely isnt affected by difficulty setting) . 
 If you rush through, only looking to complete the direct mission objectives, you can probably jam 
 through it in quick order. But if you take your time, and try to look for the secrets, as well 
 as taking in a lot of the views, I think youll get your moneys worth. That being said, the end 
 of the game felt rushed. There are eight levels. The seventh was very short, and the eighth wasnt 
 really a level. Its just the final confrontation, and then its game over. When you finally 
 get Excalibur, you dont get much of a chance to use it.
  
  At the end of the day, this is the best TR game in years. TR2 is still my favorite, but this one 
 has certainly reinvigorated the series and recaptured the sense of wonder and exploration. Hopefully, 
 this is the sign of more good things to come from Crystal Dynamics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I'll just keep this simple and to the point.
  
  - Homing bullets from AI very annoying (shooting around corners)
  - Very linear (too convenient)
 
  - Laura's Mansion is no where near as immense as the old PS TRIII
  (PS TRIII even had a quad race track and more territory)
  - Weak AI or just plain stupid... actually 
 maybe they ARE to spec!
  - It ISN'T that good graphically considering the unrealistic PC 
  requirements needed to play it! (Yes my comp. is more than capable of
  handling TR: Legend)
 
  - Levels that are torn or "leak"
  - Several bugs ie: hanging off graphics while on vines or ropes (before and
  after patch 1.2)
 
  - Easy puzzles (well for me they were)
  - Corny storyline
  - Too short 
  
  However:
  
  - Control is very responsive
  - Really good graphics 
  - Great atmosphere (kinda gives 
 you anxiety at times)
  - Levels are well done... well almost
  - Keeps the same feel for the series (The series still emphasizes the
  importance of family and 
 friends)
  - Good sound 
  - Great music
  - Excellent voice work 
  - Reward system/incentives for replay value
  - Alot of work DID go into this title and that is 
 appreciated from a fans
  perspective (love them @$$ kicking babes ;)
  
  Overall I liked TR Legend and was worth the purchase, but I also played all the TR's for the PS 
 and enjoyed the series (PS means Play Station for you snap heads) . That's why I gave it the score 
 I did. So if your new to this type of game then you may want to rent it first. But, if you like 
 Indiana Jones meets James Bond then I definitely recommend it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlen007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Halfway through the game I realized I wasn't playing the latest Tomb Raider game as much as I was 
 playing Nvidia's latest tech demo. 
  
  The game has two main graphic options:
  
  1) Looks great and plays great.
  2) Looks Spectacular but plays badly.
  
  If you turn off 
 the fancy shmancy graphic options, you get treated to a fairly simple Tomb Raider game with environments 
 we have been exposed to in the past, but with simple mechanics and puzzles, and it's about freakin' 
 time we lost the square level building designs!
  
  The story is an interesting exploration into Lara's past, although quite predictable in it's choice 
 of ancient super artifact we all know, and a villain that always is one step ahead of Lara.
  
  One of the things I appreciated in previous Tomb Raider games is the sense of scale and exploration. 
 Legend is a linear platformer with the occasional puzzle. The motorcycle chase sequences seem a 
 bit of an afterthought.
  
  The controls are a little funny on the PC version, but are improved in the patch.
  
  If you 
 played and enjoyed Tomb Raider games in the past, this is a must. If not, this is a great introduction 
 to the bulkier games of the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, I just completed the game within 10 hours; so, I decided since it's still fresh in my mind, 
 Ill review it now.
  
  Gameplay: It had everything in gameplay, that I both desired and hated about the very first Tomb 
 Raider; plus, a lot of more good stuff to make up for it. I enjoy the adventure of having to figure 
 out puzzles and mazes in ancient architecture. The added epic storyline was done very well and 
 was entertaining. The added bonus of finding secrets in Lara's manor, and throughout the game, 
 to unlock other features makes the game last a lot longer. So, I have a lot more of that to do. 
 And the fact that it was a fun game really helps. unfortunately, sometimes I find combat for a 
 lot of 3rd person shooters a bit tedious at times. But the developers managed to make it fun enough, 
 to not be too bad. The final boss really felt like a final boss. It was a bit of trial and error 
 until I made just the right moves.
  
  Graphics: I could still notice how the levels were a built around the gameplay. But overall it 
 blended ok into the scenery. The graphics are very beautiful, as well as Lara herself, if you have 
 the right computer to max out all graphics. You can zoom in on Lara's face and see her freckles, 
 pores, shiny naturally oiled skin, glistening lipstick, and lifelike eyes. So the character details, 
 still with a little animated look, are the most realistic I have seen for a 3rd person game. 
 
  
  Sound: I have always loved the Tombraider soundtrack. The music was so immersive in the older Tomb 
 Raider. And the same goes for this game. It brings the world to life. It has almost an Enya style, 
 with sometimes the added trance beats. But it really is a dreamlike music. I also though the voice 
 acting was 100% on par.
  
  I cant wait to get back in and unlock more secrets and features. It's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  I'll be straight this is the first Tomb Raider i've played I don't know about the ones that were 
 I know about the one that is. I want to start by sayng that I wasn't realy ipresed with it but 
 in general i's a good game. 
  I'll start with the graphichs, their OK they give you prety good visiual efects like high places 
 and bog bangs. The acrobatics are like in Prince of Persia or Bloodrayn oh and the combat sistem 
 is The two Thrones with guns.
  The sound is good it doesn't have anything original but it's OK.
  A big PLUS is the very well 
 made inviromentes and the puzzels that can put your brain to work. 
  In the end Eidos made an OK game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  
  TR: Legend :-
  
  By,
  $rpi_g@mr a. k. a Neerajkumar_4 
  
  About The Game IN SHORT :- 
  
  The GooD : Graphics and Sound are Solid -- Lara's amazing moves 
 -- Superb interactive Cut-Scenes 
  
  The BaD : Bad camera angles at times that can be frustrating -- Requires Humungous Specs -- Short 
 Game -- NOT too Great AI.
  
  Introduction:-
  
  The Legend brings more action with amazing graphics and kewl moves of Lara croft. In this game 
 Lara is in search of artifacts for which she goes through different parts of the world, her athletic 
 skills help her for jumping of ledges to swinging ropes (using her magnetic grapple) and shooting 
 down enemies in different style moves who try to stop her way, She is in search of the pieces of 
 the Ultimate powerful Sword, this sword will help her to solve the mysteries of her past. Specifically, 
 the death of her mother several years earlier.
  
  Game-play:-
  
  The interactive Cut scenes of LEGEND are simply superb! You can enjoy the Cinematics while playing 
 them .... what could be better??? The puzzles aren't that difficult once you get the basic trick. 
 The Bike levels are fun, you can shoot your enemies while riding the bike. This game Aiming more 
 is AUTO so you need not take strains to aim your enemies you jus have to shoot at them after pressing 
 the Aim button. Grenade throwing is Awful in this game, Lara throws it very near ....... it very 
 DU*B! 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  Graphics have improved significantly from previous versions and Lara Croft looks HOT ! Character 
 details have been done pretty noticeably
  well. The environments look great and the environment objects can be shot at times (they'll be 
 iconised ) but the camera angles can be really frustrating at times. Its always been a problem 
 with tomb raider games about the camera. 
  
  Sound:-
  
  Sounds are done amazingly well. Her voice acting is top class. Cut scenes sound is very good! 
 
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  There are many unlockables in this game. There are five boss fights, they are not very difficult 
 it will take some tries to take them down after you figure out what should you do to kill them 
 .... its a bit tricky! The game is "WORTH PLAYING". The game is better played with a USB analog 
 Joypad though i finished the game with my Keyboad and mouse easily in 9hrs 30 mins. I've made few 
 TR: legend videos and have uploaded here. Please do check them ! 
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzikar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  I thouroughly enjoyed this game and here's why:
  
  The controls were very user friendly. Unlike the previous Tomb Raider games, things like hanging 
 from the side of cliffs and rope grabs and the like are automatic, you simply have to make Laura 
 jump in the correct direction. Accidents like your finger slips off the grab key and you plummet 
 to your death after just completing a very complicated platform sequence are gone with this game, 
 to be replaced by simply hitting keys in the proper sequence and remembering which one does what 
 at critical moments.
  
  Tomb Raider Legends introduces a new action sequence which is quite reminiscent of a very old arcade 
 game involving a knight on a quest and most of the game was moving the joystick per the visual 
 cues fast enough before he was killed. It was quite refreshing to see that old school style implemented 
 here were split seconds count at critical moments.
  
  Another interesting feature was an identification mode built into Laura's binoculors. When she 
 looked through them at certain objects, the binoculors would scan the objects, ala Star Treck, 
 and give her an analysis of what could be done with it. This helped solve puzzles and find potential 
 traps when you were planning out how to do things. It was quite an interesting feature to the game.
 
  
  Another new feature was a grappling cable, which reminded me very much of the PS2 series of Ratchet 
 and Clank and is even used in very much the same manner (only at certain points) which the exception 
 that Laura can also pull certain things around with hers. 
  
  Graphics were superb. An great implementation of the enviorment effects were when Laura goes swimming. 
 After she exits the water back onto dry land she's actually dripping wet. Attention to detail like 
 this just adds so much to the immersion factor. Lights and shadows and looked very nice throughout 
 the different locals.
  
  Sound was Hollywood production quality along with the voice acting. 
  
  I was suprised we got 
 to see Laura's dark side toward the end of the game. She was awesome and the final scene where 
 she takes the sword and says "Anyone who stands between me and the stone will die!" and then she 
 sweeps the sword , releasing a wave of magic, repulsing all the enemies away was very memoriable 
 and sent chills up and down my spine. And then at the very end she holds a gun to her nemisis head. 
 I was rooting for her to pull the trigger. lol
  
  Anyway, this is a great adventure and enjoyable game and the only dissapointing thing was we didn't 
 get see her step through the portal she set off to find at the very end.
  
  Well, that and her two chatterbox assistances. They were a bit annoying hearing their pointless 
 commentary. They would say completely uneccessary things like "Watch out, it's live!" when your 
 doing an action sequence and jumping and diving under live electrical wires. Well doh, yeah, I 
 can see they're live, why do you think I'm jumping over them? They only had about 3 useful things 
 to say the entire game.
  
  This game is definately not as difficult as previous Tomb Raider titles. I've played Tomb Raider, 
 Tomb Raider II and Tomb Raider, Angel of death and Legend is much less difficult than all of those, 
 so if your looking for the old school, do everything yourself Tomb Raider style of play, you'll 
 be dissapointed. Legends incorportates ample visual cues to guide you through the game. It's very 
 much user friendly. The difference between Tomb Raider (orginal) and Tomb Raider Legend is like 
 the difference between Dos and Windows XP.
  
  I can reccommend this title enthusiatically to anyone interested in a great story wrapped around 
 an action adventure game presented with a Hollywood action movie flair. It gets a Innovative rating 
 from me due to the very much improved control system for Laura. Whoever designed the control system 
 for this game deserves a promotion!
  
  Alz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Wow, just finished playing the game...
  
  The GOOD: Definitly the graphics and sound. Awesome environments, and the story and voice acting 
 is awsome. The camera is improved since the last game, the camera is back to the regular Tomb Raider 
 style game. Great story, and good ending to the story. Adventure game lovers this is one game you 
 guys should be playing. Tomb Raider lovers, Lara is back and the game stays true to it's history. 
 There are some new stuff to look forward to like the grapple and stuff.
  
  The BAD: This would be that the game is pretty short more like about 7-8 hours of game play, although 
 there are some extras to play after you finish the game. The puzzles can be frustrating at time 
 but that is what Tomb Raider is all about. You need some what of a good computer to run it on, 
 although doesnt mean you can't run it, but you'll miss out on some awesome graphics. I recommend 
 that your VGA card supports Pixel Shader 2 or 3 other wise your gonna miss out on a lot. Also you 
 better have at least 1GB of RAM.
  
  Overall I loved the game and was addicted to it the time I was playing it, also the puzzles are 
 super and the results are breath taking. Lara's got some cool outfits, and the story is something 
 for you guys to look forward to, well ballanced game I would say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider impressed me a little . I liked the most the motorcycles chases . I did not like the 
 game that much because there are to many boss fights .In Tomb Raider Legend , Lara Croft goes after 
 a sword which killed her mother . The sword is broken into fragments , and she must get the sword 
 piece by piece .
  The graphics are great ,works perfectly on my pc . The games camera it not that good ,when your 
 hanging from a cliff you dont see where your jumping , if your jumping backwards .
  The controls are not so good either .If you pull your gun out you cant use any other item except 
 the health pack.
  The story of the game its actually pretty good but not perfect .
  So Tomb Raider Legend its being held back by small detail : camera ,to many boss fight and controls 
 .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueSinew
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. I have replayed it many times trying to either beat the time trials or at 
 different difficulty level. I have kept this game on my computer longer than any other I have ever 
 played.
  I have read different forums of players giving up on the game because could'nt defeat the bosses 
 on some levels. I had the same problem until I realized that the game is about camera angles and 
 once I allowed for that I had a more enjoyable time and was able to complete each level faster.
 
  The graphics in this game are great. There a little nuances in Lara's actions, the cut scenes 
 and various little things that weren't necessay in the game play but were created anyway, just 
 added to the enjoyment of this game. I was playing Dreamfall at the same time I was playing this 
 game, and although Dreamfall was a good game, it didn't come close to the detail put into TR. Great 
 job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_over_here
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  Finally a return from Lara Croft that actually looks good, well sortta. The surrounds scenary of 
 the game really stands out. The one problem with this game that really puts a rut in it is the 
 frame-rate and the horrible graphics of Lara. When standing by water she has a glow arround her. 
 And when in a cave in Nepal, the snow level, she glows blue. 
  
  The gameplay is okay and the boss fights are pretty interesting. I beat the game in 18 hours and 
 found it had no replay value, unless you want to unlock all the extras by finding all the hidden 
 objects. The Sound is done really well, no complaints there. Laras accent sounds just right for 
 a british woman. Of course there is a "Croft Manor" that you can explore. Although I likethe house, 
 I was dissapointed when theres no basement or outside area. Also the butler doesnt follow you around 
 so you cant lack him in the freezer... oh wait there is no freezer in this one, not even a kitchen. 
 Overall this was a nice and refreshing addition to the Tomb Raider series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redjack443
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It reminds me of Prince Of Persia, and that's a good thing. The puzzles and the jumping 
 actions are rather easy but fun to do. The gunfighting could have been improved a bit, the controls 
 on the PC-version aren't easy to handle and last but certainly not least the game is way too short. 
 You can finish it in an afternoon.
  
  Graphics: The game looks beautiful, even without the "next-generation content" option turned off. 
 If you take Lara for a swim, she'll be wet when she comes uit of the water and you can see everything 
 glistening. If you start rolling around in the sand, you can see streaks of sand on her legs and 
 body. For some reason there were some graphical glitches on my computer, but my dads computer doesn't 
 have them/
  
  Sound: Nothing special here
  
  Value: The replay value is rather low. You could play the game again to unlock all the outfits 
 in the Croft Manor, but that's it.
  
  Conclusion: It's a fun game, with a good atmosphere and graphics, but it's way too short and the 
 controls could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sky-ia
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 18, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game since Tomb Raider Chronicles and to be honest I did not expect 
 much, especially after Angel of Darkness, which IMHO was just a big crap (maybe not as a game, 
 but surely as another Tomb Raider) . 
  
  What I received surprised me very much. I did not expect such a dynamic game play, nor such good 
 graphic or background music. The only thing I regret is that my PC is still too slow for the next 
 gen mode, but maybe after few years I'll be able to play it too. There are a lot of improvements 
 e. g. Lara is not alone anymore and all the time she's talking to someone or to herself. Although 
 their talks always fit the situation it somehow moves the game away from the true Tomb Raider spirit, 
 where Lara was always alone, tete-a-tete with the player. From the point of view of a common player 
 the whole game is amazing but from a point of view of a TR fan it might be a bit confusing. On 
 the one hand Lara does not behaves like Lara anymore, she seems too flippant, but on the other 
 hand the whole game is full of kind of flashbacks to the past and I felt as if it was a compilation 
 of the best moments of previous games. I was really confused while playing but my general thoughts 
 and opinion about TR Legend were more than just positive. I love this game and I hate the fact 
 that it is so short. I also needed some time to get accustomed to the mouse but that was easy to 
 overcome.
  
  Summing up, there were some drawbacks I was complaining about during the game but they transferred 
 probably from the fact that I was too much accustomed to the original TR1-5 and needed some time 
 to shift to the new game. The only thing I still cannot stand is the length. Too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chichan123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  I never really played any of the tomb raider games. Frankly i don't like Lara much. I saw the preview 
 of this game in TV and many sites, which was certainly good. Also i am playing a lot of platformers 
 lately. So i thought i why not give it a try. After playing the game, i found the game quite interesting.
 
  
  The game has a loose storyline, in which Lara searches for the pieces of a broken artifact. she travels 
  etc in this action packed adventure.
  The graphics are good but not groundbreaking. The sound is also of average quality. The menu music 
 is very good. Gameplay makes this game a real winner. There are lots of variety in the gameplay. There 
 are lot of platforming elements, some good puzzles that requires thinking, combat sequences and then 
 the action sequences (like Indigo Propechy) . Also the bike sequences are interesting. I wish there 
 are more action sequences. Then there are several unlockables in the form artifacts scattered through 
 all the levels.
  One of the major disappointment of the game is its length. I finished the game is 12 hours. Though 
 there is an extra game mode the time trail, nobody wants to play the same levels again in rush. Also 
 the game demands high system requirements (7 gigs for installation) .
  
  So my only complaint is the game length. But neat graphics, average sound and awesome gameplay makes 
 this game a good experience overall. Also there are several unlockables. Worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gingerman2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legends
  It had great graphics and i loved the music. Had some glitches in it though. No Major glitches 
 during gameplay, just 1 or 2 when you looked at the things you were rewarded!
  
  I think EIDOS spent too much time on the graphics and not enough time on the game's story. Look 
 at Tomb Raider 1: it has a great story and has virtually no graphics whatsoever. 
  
  Oh, and What is Next-generation content. There was a thing in the settings which i couldn't use 
 due to not having "a good enough graphics card" which supported Next-gen content. 
  
  Everything else was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Im like most of you guys out there. I played all 7 Tomb Raider games and I can confidently say 
 that I had fun again while playing Legends. If you hated Angel of Darkness for whatever reason, 
 there's always somebody out there to agree with you. Not anymore with Legends, ask anybody who's 
 a fan and they will say its a good game. Even if you are not a fan. 
  
  The first thing you should do is just download the demo. Thats what I did and my oh my did the 
 demo sold me for this game. I had so many expectations but I didnt think they could pull it off 
 here. 
  
  The best thing about this game is that, if you watched any of the Tomb Raider movies, playing this 
 game will finally make you feel like Lara, and care about her. How? The mansion (exploring and secrets) , 
 the gadgetry (grenades, grapple, binoculars) , the new animations, the voice acting, the humor and 
 fun while playing are all there and well done. The storyline can get a little confusing later, 
 but with creativity its all alright. Plus, a sequel is happening so dont judge this game like its 
 the last. 
  
  The worst part is that its not long enough. Even if you are new to this game, you can beat it in 
 8 or so hours. There's 3 difficulties but its not that much of a difference in terms of challenge. 
 
  
  I thought there would be some new puzzles to face, but a lot of them are similar. There are lots 
 of stuff to unlock like Time trial modes, outfits, which you can replay a level with any appearance 
 you like, there are concept arts, cheat codes, in game 3d object models (which I find pointless) , 
 bloopers video, and a few other stuff. You can tell they knew about the length of the game so they 
 are trying to fill in time.
  
  AI is another weak part. But that wont matter since they managed to make combats more fun now. 
 So, the plus side is they implemented a new bullet-time feature, where you can jump off or kick 
 off an enemy to trigger slow-mo, so you have better aim....
  
  Or just to enjoy the cool feature. She can also kick, (like AOD) , environments are more interactive 
 now (like explosion barrels) , you can grapple your enemy, slide kick, etc. In summary, this game 
 is fun.
  
  It could be better, but Im happy with it. A sequel will only improve, and make a Tomb Raider the 
 game it should be, and hopefully invent something new that will change how its played. 
  
  Just download the demo, or get the game quick because why wait? Its a good deal on PC already. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T3hPhoenix
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game will blow you away. It is crazy. It's everything that made the original Tomb Raider games 
 great, without the bits that made it boring, with everything cranked up to the extreme. It features 
 proper Parkour-style moves, and it knows that yes, of course Lara couldn't do that with those pencil-thin 
 supermodel's arms, but shouts "Who cares? It's fun!" then swan-dives off a waterfall.
  The dialogue is scripted perfectly for a witty blend of humour, helpful advice, and emotional backstory. 
 The headset provides you with a great support team, unlike the original Tomb Raider games, which 
 felt as if you were all alone in a tomb- this feels like you actually have someone who cares about 
 your survival. Which is nice.
  The scripted action sequences... they rule. They are used in the cool bits that if it was a movie, 
 you'd say "Why can't I play that? That'd be so cool!" but if you were playing it, you'd feel cheated 
 out of all the cool slow motion effects and neat camera angles, leaving you dissapointed. The way 
 the scripted action sequences work has a great balance between the two- it leaves you thinking 
 "That was so cool!" and "Wow, I did that! Neat."
  Despite a relatively short story mode, the replay value adds loads to it. It is so tempting just 
 to play through that level one more time, to try to get the last secret token you missed, in the 
 hope of unlocking more of the vast sea of unlockables. Of which there are many.
  I would have to say that, in conclusion, this is definitely the best Tomb Raider game so far, and 
 is probably my favourite non-Metal-Gear-Solid-series action game. It's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This format for TR: Legends makes it a more modern game, the fps style WASD movement is 
 far easier to manipulate in conjunction with the other common keys... the cube system has gone, 
 lara will now grab on to anything in reach, which is far easier than judging how many blocks you 
 have to go back for a jump.
  
  Graphics: There is no hiding it, TR: L is really beautiful, and it's not just lara either, although 
 her new character model is far more realistic than previous versions. The graphics aren't unstable 
 like the ones in TR: AOD. The scenery looks brilliant and you do not need a high-end pc either
 
  
  Sound: The sound is perfectly fitting for the genre, and Keeley Hawes' voicecast for Lara is stunning, 
 and hints a more aristocratic accent than previous vocals have
  
  Value: No denying it, this game is TOO short. The redeeming factor is its high replayability and 
 the addition of unlockables (most interestingly, pistol upgrades)
  
  Notees: I would suggest this game as a MUST BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda590
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The Tomb Raider series has been waning (to put it softly) ever since its first sequel, and the 
 folks at Eidos have handed the reins to Crystal Dynamics with hopes that Lara may still have some 
 greatness left in her franchise. Thus, we have Tomb Raider: Legend, an attempt to reclaim the glory 
 of the Tomb Raider series as a respectable platformer/action game. Tomb Raider: Legend sports some 
 incredible looking graphics and environments, as well as intuitive and enjoyable platforming and 
 controls, but unfortunately, Tomb Raider: Legend never quite nails the satisfying feeling of exploring 
 that the Tomb Raider series is (supposed to be) about.
  But that isnt to say that the game is completely without redeeming qualities. Crystal Dynamics 
 has done a fairly good job of bringing Tomb Raider back to its roots. No longer will Lara be running 
 around wonderfully craptastic environments such as a jail cell, an apartment building, a sewer, 
 or an oil rig (sorry oil rig, ye shall be missed.) . No, in what can only be described as the most 
 outrageous and unbelievably brilliant decision in the history of game design, Crystal Dynamics 
 has decided to let the player RAID TOMBS. Raiding Tombs in a game called Tomb Raider? Unheard of. 
 Seriously though, the new locations and environments that Lara progresses through in Legend are 
 without a doubt the most outstanding and impressive feature of the game. Youll be able to explore 
 a decent amount of caves, tombs, mountains and other exotic locales during the course of the game. 
 There are even a few more urban environments in the game, and while they arent as cool as the 
 tomb levels, theyre still surprisingly fun and impressive to look at.
  While all of this sounds great, the game really falls short of an amazing experience when you factor 
 in the gameplay. A Tomb Raider game should be about exploring and adventuring, and there arent 
 many who can argue with that. The problem with Legend is that it simply doesnt let the player 
 explore... ever. Not once in the game are you aloud to wander off of the games main path and explore 
 any of the beautifully rendered environments. Instead, the game ends up feeling more like a Prince 
 of Persia, minus the fun. Legend is unbelievably linear. I know that every videogame is linear 
 to some degree, but Legend takes it to such a ridiculous level that it isnt long before it becomes 
 obvious that the player has no freedom to do anything... for the whole game. During the platforming 
 portions of the game, there is only one way to do everything. Every ledge, cliff, trap, puzzle, 
 and pretty much everything else has been designed so that theres no way to experiment, explore, 
 or do anything that the designers didnt want you to do. The worst part of this is that Legend 
 is simply not a challenging game, in any respect. This kind of linear game design works good for 
 the Prince of Persia games because the environmental puzzles and combat are much more challenging 
 (which is probably why you were given the option to rewind time and try things again) , but every 
 event in Legend simply feels staged. It really hurts to realize how short and linear Legend is, 
 because it would have been a truly awesome experience to have been able to explore these levels 
 in an open-ended game.
  Even worse are the action sequences. Theyre not terrible, theyre just not... whats that word?... ah 
 yes, fun. Many times in the game, youll come across enemy soldiers whose only wish is to full 
 Lara full of lead. Like I said, these generic bad guys are not exactly fun to fight. The games 
 shooting and dodging mechanics work fairly well, but Legends combat is just so underwhelming. 
 The gun sound effects are very weak, and did I mention that there are a whopping three different 
 guns to use in this game? Its not like Im spoiling a whole lot for you here, so Ill just tell 
 you: theres an SMG, a rifle, and a grenade launcher. Youll probably never use the SMG, and the 
 grenade launcher isnt very effective. That leaves you with a rifle and dual pistols for most of 
 the game. Oh yeah, and Lara has infinite ammo for the pistols. Thanks for the complete lack of 
 challenge, Crystal.
  While the gameplay may feel lacking at times, the graphics in Legend are nothing short of stunning. 
 Each environment feels alive and exactly how it should. There are nice touches and environmental 
 effects everywhere: Jungle environments boast rushing waterfalls and birds that fly from their 
 perches as you approach, while other levels include great snow and rain effects, as well as awesome 
 photorealistic backgrounds. Each locale in the game is rendered to sheer perfection, and no detail 
 is too small for Legend to handle. Personally, my favorite level, found late in the game, takes 
 place on a snowy mountain range in Nepal. In levels like this one, I often found myself stopping 
 and admiring the level design rather than venturing down the games restrictive path. Even the 
 few non-tomb environments proved to be impressive. Swinging, jumping and climbing hundreds of feet 
 above the streets of Tokyo proved to be especially tense. Its just too bad that the designers 
 didnt let us actually explore these environments. The levels in Legend are so well done that it 
 really, really sucks to realize that you arent taking them for a test drive them so much as you 
 are being forced down a one-way street. Character animations are pretty good, although physics 
 can be a bit off at times. For the most part, all of Laras platforming animations are well done.
 
  The games sound design is solid, but nothing to freak out about. All of the voice acting in the 
 game is good, and Lara Croft is portrayed, in my opinion, exactly how she should be. She comes 
 off as a badass, but the game doesnt try so hard to be edgy that it leads the franchise down a 
 completely different road. Yeah, Im looking at you, Warrior Within. Environmental music is fitting, 
 though you probably wont notice it most of the time. The sound falls flat when it comes to the 
 gunplay. With games like FEAR, Half-Life 2 and Black on the market, your guns cant sound like 
 paintball guns anymore. Unless youre making a paintball game. But no one plays those anyway. Yes, 
 its very unfortunate to hear the uninspired pop of the weapons in Legend.
  Legends replay value isnt anything spectacular. The game can be beaten in about six hours, and 
 there really isnt any reason to go back, even with unlockable costumes and content. Crystal Dynamics 
 realized that a game needs extra content for replay value, but it seems that they failed to realize 
 that the player needs to actually care about the extra content in order for it to be worth anything.
 
  Overall, Tomb Raider: Legend isnt anywhere near the amazing and compelling action\adventure game 
 that its hyped up to be, and that I hoped it would be. The ending is somewhat of a cliffhanger 
 and a definite sequel setup, so hopefully Crystal Dynamics will aim higher with its next installment. 
 Having said that, Tomb Raider: Legend is not a bad game. I just dont feel that its ambitious 
 enough to be a truly great experience. We need an open-ended Tomb Raider game with satisfying combat, 
 a game that gives us the freedom to explore tombs and ruins without having to feel like were being 
 drawn down a linear path. Tomb Raider: Legend fails to give us this. Couple the games short length 
 with mediocre gameplay and little replay value, and youve got a game with rental written all 
 over it.
  
  6.5 out of 10
  Fair
  
  PROS and CONS
  
  LEGEND
  + Very good graphics and awesome environments and effects
  + The platforming, while not challenging, 
 is fairly fun the first time through
  + Lara Croft. Just looking at her is entertaining enough for me.
  
  ANGEL OF DARKNESS
  - 
 Linear gameplay kills the fun of exploring
  - Gunplay and combat are just lame
  - Short, and there isnt much replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enridem
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  Well, well, well... Finally a game worth carrying the franchise name. I must admit that my innitial 
 expectations of the game was rather low despite the hype. Being a fan of the earlier games (1 & 
 2) and after struggling through the rest I thought I might as well give this one a try for the 
 simple reason of completing my Tomb Raider collection. Imagine my surprise when I actually ended 
 up enjoying the experience.
  
  Tomb Raider legend offers more than just eye-candy, which I might add is plentyful. Gone are the 
 horrible controls and watered-down story line from TR: Angel of darkness. The old Lara is back with 
 a pretty snazzy update to her character model. Gameplay mechanics are smooth and handles as expected. 
 Lara can now only carry two weapons at a time but this hardly takes anything away from the experience. 
 I personally believe this game to be one of the better releases of the year despite some minor 
 bugs and 1 or 2 personal problems with the overall presentation.
  
  Even though the Pro's far outweigh the cons in this title, I feel I should list some of the minor 
 irritations I encountered on my Tomb raiding journey.
  
  1. Some graphic glitches on certain graphic cards, especially the Nvidia series. I believe the 
 latest patch may fix most of these.
  
  2. The camera may be quirky at times, especially in tight corridoors or small rooms.
  
  3. 
 (Personal opinion) Tomb Raiding in the first 2 titles really gave you a sense of being isolated 
 which really added to the atmosphere. Just an archaeologist, her tools and mostly animals to kill. 
 I dont mind having a pistol showdown with a couple of human enemies but don't let it interfere 
 with the experience... which it did.
  
  4. Small amount of puzzles compared to older titles in the series
  
  5. Waaaayyyyy too short. 
 Some replayabilty is possible with the addition of unlockable items but ultimately its a rather 
 short trip from start to end. A tip to the developers: You know this game did well financially, 
 take a shorter vacation and use some of that money to hire a larger development team. The game 
 should be at least 2 to 3 times its current length.
  
  6. Levels are very linear, would have liked the option to figure out the way to my destination 
 on my own. Tomb Raiding is about exploration after all. Would like to see more open terrain exploring 
 and less bike riding sequences (Although I did enjoy the snowmobile in TR:2)
  
  Conclusion: A very appealing yet rather short experience. They certainly succeeded in leaving me 
 wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  A different kind of review.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend
  
  Well it is better than the last game, matter of fact it is probably the best tomb raider to date. 
 The story ends in such a way that there will most likely be another one. 
  
  The graphics look nice on the pc. She has her two pistols with infinite ammo. 
  
  The game 
 is short, but this is cool for a rental, which is mostly what I do. 
  
  Combat: Although it is kind of fun, it lacks diversity in enemies, like Egyptian zombies or something, 
 although it has some interesting boss fights. Yup some of them are monsters. I like how you can 
 bounce of an enemies head and it goes into slow motion letting you shoot a few dudes. 
  
  The platforming is engaging and at times a little hard. 
  
  The story is good and the sound 
 is awesome. Lots of conversations taking place during game play, some of it has a decent sense 
 of humor. 
  
  The new toy adds a new element to the puzzle solving. The puzzles are not like other tomb raider 
 games, which is good. 
  
  Over all I say it is a good rental, her mansion is the hardest regular level, so you should check 
 it out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyder_pk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is the best Tomb Raider ever not just in terms of technology but also gameplay. 
 This game has got the same x-factor back that made playing the first Tomb Raider games an unforgettable 
 experience and went missing in a past few titles. Some of the new moves that Lara does are a pleasure 
 not just to execute but just watching someone play and do them makes you want to play the game. 
 the motor bikes and action scenes absorb you and Lara's constant communication to base makes game 
 playing experience even better.
  
  The graphics are superb and Lara looks the way she never looked before, the most sexy heroine ever 
 to hit the gaming scene. The sound at some places though breaks up.
  
  Definitely a must buy... if you like Tomb Raider, you'll love this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JT355
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  I'm quite an old gamer and the original Tomb Raider game was one of my favourites when I was getting 
 into PC gaming. That original game was revolutionary as most people would agree. It also had a 
 very BIG feel to it. The level size and design were awesome, even bewildering at times.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is neither revolutionary nor does it have the BIGness factor to it (except for 
 one amazing level which you have to see to believe) . However, it does manage to capture the exciting 
 feeling you get when you first walk into a new area and have a good look around.
  
  What I have to say is that the control scheme for Lara is really quite good. I was using a PC gamepad 
 though which I got especially for this game. It was a good decision to buy one as I found the keyboard 
 a bit tricky to use in the heat of the firefights.
  
  The general consensus here seems to be that it is a solid platformer but a little bit on the short 
 side. I took just over 12 hours to complete it on normal difficulty level. I didn't get a strong 
 feeling that it was too short. I thought that it was good value for money. The most important thing 
 was that I had lots of fun and a good time while I was playing it. I for one will be eagerly anticipating 
 the next Tomb Raider title from Crystal Dynamics. Good job!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Aha, at last we got this babe right next to us and start rooling, jumping and showing acrobatic 
 moves with her. 
  
  An excelent game!! Really liked it. 
  
  NEw developed game engine just so amazing. Graphically game is just on top, plus storyline as always 
 astonishing. 
  
  Lara's trip through different continents makes this game bold and colourful. Combos in game is 
 really good. Especially that one which in close distance to enemy you Press "E"+"RMB" and here 
 you go.... slo mo effect and Lara on the top of dude pulling triger as a mad, holing around all 
 that "shait" which obstracts her way to glory or what ever there!
  
  Anyway, enjoyed it it i recomended whom never had this experience before. At start it might seem 
 a bit dissapointing because of "confusing camera", but believe me I got used to it within first 
 level, so that is not big deal.
  
  Enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karatedog
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 31, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  In the last few weeks on my unlucky days when I was away from my PS2 and GT4 I've managed to play 
 some Tomb Raider - Legend on PC.
  
  It was a nice game, especially the time trials and other features that kept me with it after finishing 
 the main game itself. Overall it wasn't as entertaining and special as the first couple episodes 
 but still it was the best TR game this side of TR4 - The Revelation.
  
  I think it's safe to say that for most parts this game is what we've all been expecting and waiting 
 for. I can even forgive for the utterly weak biking parts.
  
  So! I kept playing until everything was done. I wanted to see that "Black Bikini", which means 
 100% Bronze, Silver and Gold secrets in all levels, + all Time Trials. And finishing the game of 
 course. So I did. 
  
  Oh, I would like to note however, that "NexGen" video option is not available on my Ati x800Pro 
 videocard. Is this card so old school??
  
  Oh, and I missed the original music : (
  
  Considering the end of the story next episode might be the best game of all. The potential is there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legice
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider LEGEND is a game you get ,play and win. It is a game that makes you think a bit about 
 history (eaven if it is not true in the game) action and realy bad japanise guys with guns. The game 
 is like I said very good, but short. And as being a Tomb Raider game, i think it is a game without 
 zombies, monkeys, wolfs, and all that. It is actualy an improvment for the game i think. It has a great 
 story, shoting sistem, and a lot of humor. But the only things that I suggest is the choise of worlds 
 like in TR:3 ,some upgrades for equipment and guns (I like the number of guns there are so please 
 no more but some pistols mp5 and some bangers) night vision , more thinking like the other TR series 
 a bigger house with more secrets and maybe a silence mision, come, get, and by by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider legend, a masterpiece game in the Lara Croft series, increasing the adventure and doubling 
 the action, the game takes "Tomb raider" to another level....
  The Graphics were spectacular especially of open areas like in the level of Nepal... The "Next generation 
 stuff" is really beautiful, but the problem is the requirements needed to run it smoothly.
  The story was not bad, compared to previous Tomb Raider games where you had to go through a crapy 
 storyline, and the character (Lara Croft) even showed emotions and was more realistic.
  Another positive issue about the game is the come back of Lara mansion and even better, where side 
 adventures are made around the place.
  
  I really enjoyed the game very much... It is a must have for all Tomb Raider fans.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 25, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  High Graphics but a short game
  the game at frist gives u a great pleasure after seeing the grate graphics that require a small 
 pc requirements but after one playing houre u feel bored nothing new simply EIDOS tried to make 
 a combined game 
  1-you will notce that the climbeing and jumpping engine similar to POP put in a worse way 
  2- 
 it looks like Indigo prophecy in some partes in game
  
  the only thing that the game keept the same stupidity and unreality of gun shooting
  and there 
 is a huge quistion that blowing my mind 
  Why a small story and mission game like this took 10GB?
  please don't tell me that to ease on 
 old and humble pcs
  
  I hope in the next parts EIDOS make longer , better story and fix the stupidity and unreality of 
 gun shooting
  OH and for Allah sake put cinematics or ingame videos between missions
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tweek87
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 22, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  All-round I would say that this is quite a decent attempt to reclaim the Tomb Raider name after 
 a few duffers but its not without its problems.
  
  This game is quite possibly the easiest Tomb Raider to date. Perhaps this is to make it more accesible, 
 as even my little sister could get through it, but for long-term fans (I have played all the games) 
 it seems a little dumbed down. 
  
  This is helped by the fact that the game is largely quite linear. There is nearly no backtracking 
 involved (as indicative in the older titles) and it is very easy to know what to do and never be 
 left wondering. Once again, I suppose this is good for those who aren't that into games but for 
 others it just feels too easy. Puzzles are also very easy, mostly consisting of putting blocks 
 onto certain switches which are getting quite boring.
  
  Before this game came out, it was advertised as being quite open-ended with the player being able 
 to decide how to solve puzzles (given the example you can shoot a path clear or use momentum) but 
 I would argue that this is only the case once or twice and otherwise the game requires you to do 
 rather specific actions... sometimes not working unless the action is just right. Some of the animations 
 certainly seem to have a sweet-spot... even jumping to grab onto a rope can be uneven as sometimes 
 Lara will grab a rope she has missed completely and other times she will fail to grab a rope directly 
 in-front of her.
  
  This brings me to the animations. The new graphics looks quite superb and although I have heard 
 complaints about framerate issues I haven't experienced any of those. The graphics are soo good 
 that even when Lara is wet you can see that she is dripping and her skin reflects light as you'd 
 expect. In fact, the graphics are reminicent of recent Price of Persia games which is a compliment, 
 however, many of Lara's moves and animations actually seem to be ripped straight out of Prince 
 of Persia. There were times when it felt I was even playing that game and so perhaps the developers 
 should try and distinguish Lara more.
  
  One way they've done that is by giving her a gapling hook which breathes new life into an otherwise 
 stale formula. This addition is greatly welcomed but it does sometimes seem as though this is applied 
 so a child could understand what to do as every object that can use the graple hood is shiny and 
 removes any doubt of what to do next.
  
  The developers have also distinguished Lara by introducing Boss battles which are perhaps the hardest 
 things in the game. In most cases the challenge comes from not knowing what to do although sometimes 
 it can seem as though the bosses don't give you a chance. The most frustrating thing about these 
 encounters is that you are required to do VERY specific actions otherwise the bosses regain all 
 their lives and this can be enormously aggravating.
  
  One last addition that has made this game considerably easier is the implementation of a checkpoint 
 system. If you don't know what to do - which is rarely the case - all you'll need to do is run 
 around until you see you have reached a checkpoint and then you know you're heading in the right 
 direction. By making it so you can't save absolutely everywhere you sometimes have to repeat puzzle 
 sequences when you return to the game. However, this is a very small issue and doesn't really detract 
 from the solidity of the title.
  
  Ultimately, although Tomb Raider Legend is a welcomed return from a long absence with great presentation, 
 it doesn't quite do enough to make it a classic. Its 8-hour (being generous) story mode is filled 
 with good level design, yet nothing as memorable as say Venice from Tomb Raider 2. Although you 
 can go back and discover all the secrets I'm not really into that so for some once the adventure 
 is completed there is little to no value in returning.
  
  Also, the constant implementation of gun fights which you'll often emerge from with more health 
 than you started just detract from the overall enchantment of the levels you encounter. They are 
 soo bad they feel as though they were just tacked on and its a pity that they consist of what seems 
 to be at least 25% of the game. Also, it is hard to suspend disbelief when you have people flying, 
 sending demons at you and throwing magical attacks without anyone in the game batting an eyelid. 
 The frequent use of motocycle chases is by far the worst addition to the franchise as these are 
 essentially levels which go on until you've killed all the bad dudes and so repeat ALOT of the 
 same textures, are much too easy and are very dull, in fact it is difficult to fail these levels 
 as between the constant supply of medikits and the terrible aim of the badies you never die.
  
  The control on the PC is suprisingly good. The only problem I had with it was that in certain 
 situations where it was required to roll to the right (requiring you to hold D and press F) was 
 quite tricky as both required the same finger. I never tried it with a gamepad but I assure you 
 its manageable without. The camera control with the mouse is really helpful and apart from the 
 rare camera problem - where you normally need to jump backwards but can't see what is there - I 
 found the mouse well implemented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumpyjim
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Having played every Tomb Raider game, I was anxious to play this one given the above average reviews. 
 I was disappointed. The game itself is what you would expect from this series- interesting maps 
 and well-crafted environments. What I didn't like was the semi-controlled level of game play in 
 certain sections. In one scene you walk up to narrow path over a pit and when the path begins to 
 fall away, arrows direct you to where you need to go. Not only is this not fun, but it was one 
 of the most frustrating parts. I must have tried 50 times using the hint from the directional arrows 
 (and there are only 3) but when you land on a narrow ledge no matter which way I directed Laura 
 I would fall into the pit. 
  On the positive side, I would say that this game stays true to the Tomb Raider theme and player 
 expectations but it would have been nice to see them spend more time perfecting the controls via 
 a keyboard and mouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcio_castro
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 20, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft is back. She is more beautiful, sexy, with realistics movements, cool outfits, but... something 
 is missed.
  The presence of the assistant Zip and Alister sends to the film Tomb Raider, because in the cinema 
 who we see first Lara Croft to be assisted by somebody: in the games, we only find an assistant 
 in Tomb Raider Chronicles (no comments...) . It can be said that they give a certain consistency 
 to the history of the game, but are irrelevant.
  In fact, there is great change of the gameplay, where now we have to use mouse to control the camera, 
 besides more having some keyboard keys for some actions. The movements of Lara are well more realistic, 
 in special in combat, when she receives a shot or a blow from the enemy. She doesn't load more 
 than two weapons for time and 3 medipacks maximum. Lara has a new device that it allows that she 
 pulls some items in inaccessible places or same to jump between valleys, buildings, etc., and a 
 binoculars with an analyzer, who informs some characteristics of objects in the environment: if 
 they are part of some mechanism, if they are possible to move, etc.
  The appearance had improved. The textures, light and shades, as well as the details of the landscape 
 are gorgeous. When Lara falls in the water and leaves, your clothes are wet. If you stand for some 
 time, Lara move the arms, clean the sweat, arranges the boots, or rubs the arms because of the 
 cold. Lara also looks at for where it has something where she can be hung or shoot or catch.
  The kinematic sequences appear at right times and there are very good movements of the lips and 
 eyes, as well as expressions in agreement tone of the talking on the part of Lara - of the other 
 personages, it is not so good. However do not wait a level of quality like in Half-Life 2, as we 
 see with Alyx, for example.
  It is important to speak now about the item Next Generation Content, that only can be activated 
 with video cards Pixel Shader 3.0 compatible and at least 256 Mb of memory. By standard, this resource 
 is deactivated. When activating it, we see an outstanding graphical improvement : the shades are 
 much better, the light proceeding from the fire oscillate, the skin of Lara are shown with more 
 details, the water reflects the external environment with precision and shows undulations in agreement 
 Lara swimming. It is spectacular. But... as the specifications, a video card with 512 Mb is necessary 
 to have optimal performance.
  The history of the game starts at the past, when young Lara and her mother had suffered the accident 
 in the Himalaya. There was an event that it takes off the life of the mother of Lara that relates 
 to a stuck sword in a rock. In current days, Lara is in Bolivia verifying the place and finds, 
 of course, some mercenaries. The game is lead in such way that fragments of a mystic sword are 
 being looked for a group of bad guys, including a ex-friend who Lara assumed to have died in an 
 accident in one of the archaeological digs that she participated in the past. This sword seems 
 to be the same one that Lara saw when child and that was apparently responsible for the death of 
 her mother.
  In certain levels, Lara will pilot a Ducati motorcycle (equal the one that Ethan Hunt pilots in 
 film MI2) but do not wait a cool sound from engine, nor a great gameplay. But you have some fun. 
 It would be cool if she could drive other vehicles.
  What it disappoints in the game is the fact of it to be linear and the levels of difficulties only 
 to become the enemies most difficult of killing. Moreover, although history in the beginning to 
 seem interesting, the end is lacking something. By the way, it seems that the game does not finish, 
 giving idea to a continuation. The animals (yes, it has some leopards) are few and appear in some 
 places without reason.
  A cool level is Croft Manor. Although you havent access to all the mansion rooms, nor external 
 area, is a beautiful level, where you can train the movements and appreciate the environment, with 
 the suit that you to choose.
  One more detail: some items as suits, weapons upgrades, only are available if you find hidden items 
 in each phase. Some of them are difficult to find and this becomes the game next to the first Tomb 
 Raider, where you had secret items, that weren't need to finish the game, but demonstrated a differential 
 for who played.
  In summary, we have certainly the best game of the series, but still we cannot credit as the best 
 Tomb Raider already made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mascre
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  on the E3 2005, the designer said there would be an approx 10-12 hour gameplay fr Tomb Raider: 
 Legend, im not a really advanced gamer, but i think i just finished the game in about 5 hours!!! 
 or maybe less.... man the design in this game is great, no matter ruins or the cities, but just 
 no chance for you to enjoy too much, everything just gone too fast, it also has less problematic 
 pazzles for you 2 solve, the only a lil bit charlenging pazzle is the one in Napel, it's not much 
 of a challenge, you just need 2 figure out how to transport the goldn cube to the upper lever by 
 using the balance, but it only took me like 5min at best! man i really looking forward to the Tomb 
 Raider 8, and i hope they will put more depth in  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 14, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Story: This time around TRL brings the story a better story with a meaning to her actions. Lara's 
 motives feel authentic and not just "Hey i'm going to raid tombs for fun" and your learn why through 
 the great cutscenes and well animated flashbacks. The production value's very high, without a doubt.
 
  
  Gameplay: TR has been completely redone with a fully controllable Laracroft, You use the keyboard 
 for all your main movements and your mouse for the controls, jump, and shoot. The controls this 
 time are perfect and really have boasted the game to where it should have been a long time ago. 
 
  
  Graphics: Another huge upgrade from previous installments, lara looks more real and with more detail 
 than ever before, including a whole new outfit change with grenades, a PDA, and a Personal Light 
 Source. The enviroments are nothing short from stunning and the animations are very smooth and 
 fluid.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is well done and Lara's new voice is quite fitting with a very witty attitude 
 and well written dialogue. The music now is more hollywood and the track that plays in the Mansion 
 is by far one of my favorites.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend did almost everything right but still has a little further to go to being perfect. 
 Some bigger eviroments with a little more open gameplay and some more original ideas and we might 
 be headed back on a memorable series that somehow went wrong but is now comming back with a bang. 
 Game is fairly short and is the biggest problem, it leaves you wanting so much more after the 10 
 hours it took you to complete it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Lara, light of my life, fire of my loins, my sin, my soul.
  L-a-r-a.*
  you are back! 
  
  At the moment, I am to going on a virtual trip
  to the past. I am playing Tomb Raider Legends.
 
  As if one dreams of somewhere that no longer exists.
  playing Tomb Raider Legends is like looking at old family photos.
  It is nostalgic/sad and it 
 has somehow depressed me.
  It just can't bring back the euphoria which the first TRs gave me.
  10 years has passed and I 
 am not the same person anyway. 
  In this 10 years I have seen it all (so far) and there are really few
  games which can really 
 bring back the possession of the old computer games.
  Don't get me wrong, I am a devoted Lara fan.
  I would kill for her!
  Someone who hasn't played 
 the previous TR series, discovers with 
  TR Legends a fascinating and absorbing game. The game has it all:
  -Magical Mysterious backgrounds,
 
  -an interesting plot
  -an amazing lead figure
  -enough action
  -a lot of adventure in most exotic places
  -great graphics and brilliant effects
  -beautiful 
 level design
  As a girl-gamer I usually play games with female leads, and Lara is
  not only the most famous but one of the best heroins in computer
  gaming. Yet I find there are 
 rarely any novelties in TR Legends 
  and there are partly annoying moments which irritates the player:
  First of all, it is all too 
 easy and not really challenging
  and at some points, because of the absence of quick saves,
  it can get quit frustrating. (there 
 was a quick save option in all
  previous Lara games.)
  The control and the camera are rather strange, for example is there is no
  "Look," button, you 
 have to look around with the mouse.
  When Lara is in combat, she moves only in the aimed target direction.
  (One shoots and can doesn't 
 see where one shoots) .
  There are also this funny direction pointers, some thing similar to the
  "hand pointer" in AOD. 
 
  Some platform performances which are new in this game are exactly the
  same as a certain game, only that in that game the heroin was half human
  half animal and it 
 some special abilities were suited well to her.
  I also miss the the familiar TR theme, was is necessary to cast it aside? 
  I must add here that 
 I am at the beginning levels, maybe sinking more and
  more in TR world again, will brings me back the magic and enthusiasm
  I felt 10 years ago as 
 I played the first Tomb Raider. Not only a game
  but one of the most thrilling experiences that I ever had.
  
  *Quoted from the book"Lolita" 
 by Nabokov.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Its the best Tomb Raider game i played so far. The contol is awesome, the moves, and her equipment 
 all awesome. Its remind me of Prince Of Persia. Cool : The game's graphics are really good, when 
 make her swimming and dive when she come out from the water u can see she is soak in wet. Its really 
 good. And realistic, i'm surprise when i see her wet after she take a swimming. Its awesome!! The 
 Sounds are good, the pistols, machine gun, vehicle all good. And i really love the physics... when 
 she kick a barrel, move sum stuff. Its really awesome! Uncool : Freaking short and waste a lot 
 of Disk Space.. whatta hell 7GB for 10 hours of gameplay? And sumtimes u feel like u play a woman's 
 game...
  
  hardcore Lara Croft's fans will be pleased about this game. Even when u are not her fan, you will 
 be one, when u play this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 11, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Happy 10th anniversary, Lady Croft. You have a blast entrance to the market 10 years ago, and you 
 redefined (along with Mario 64) what it means to be in a free, 3D environment. You jumped, shimmied, 
 and pulled so many blocks and levers. You opened a lot of doors. And you fell a lot. You fought 
 the God of Atlantis - and it was a blast escaping that hell.
  
  Unfortunately, your second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth outings were not so remarkable. Yes, 
 you learned a couple of moves. You had plastic surgery. You learned how to use a bazooka. You went 
 to all those weird jungles, and cities. But there were no tombs.
  
  Well, you're back, and if this is your apology, then it is well accepted.
  
  || Gameplay
 
  
  The gameplay in TRL is a hybrid between the original TR and Prince of Persia. Thankfully, Lara 
 went back to her roots to discover tombs, which are abundant in this game. Even the untomby Japan, 
 however, plays well, and serves as a "breather" from all the tomby action.
  
  Lara never was more athletic than in legend. Perhaps she have learned a few moves from the Prince, 
 and, admittedly, she looks better performing them. Lara can now shimmy faster, and jump-climb ledges. 
 She can also swing off poles. Perhaps the most intuitive is the grappling hook, similar to Link's 
 in Wind Waker. With it, Lara can swing off large distances as well as pull objects or grab far 
 away treasures.
  
  There are two main gripes however: The first is that the game is a bit short. The second is that 
 the game is a tad easy, but that's maybe because I got used to Prince of Persia. The fact is that 
 you would want to spend more time with Lara's acrobatics and new moves yet at the same time you'd 
 wish they were more challenging.
  
  Overall however, the fact that you'd spend a lot of time exploring tombs (and killing ocasional 
 gunsmen) as well as enjoying her new moves and vehicle sequences is a great comeback for Lara.
 
  
  || Sound & Graphics
  
  Graphically the game is impressive even with all the next-gen games looming around the corner. 
 My PC specs weren't that great so I couldn't even run the next-gen effects, and I had to turn off 
 DOF to avoid tearing, but still the graphics looked solid and, of course, very smooth frame rate. 
 The environments are vast yet realistic in size. Stair steps are normal, not the expanded ones 
 in TR2 so many years ago. The architecture of the buildings and caverns looks realistic and believable. 
 The textures are thankfully sharp and crisp, and Lara of course looks gorgeous with all the animations 
 she is given.
  
  Soundwise, it's probably the defining feature of this edition, where previous versions had almost 
 no sound except at key moments, TRL has lots of music - and they're pretty darn good. The main 
 theme is of course the best and is quite a blast, marking a triumphant return to the franchise. 
 Lara sounds wonderful and the conversations are witty. Lara's attitude is well perceived.
  
  TRL has quite a lot to explore, even though the game is short it has some replay value if you 
 want to try the various difficulty settings and the time trials to unlock all the secrets. But 
 once you're done with it the first time the excitement is half gone, and all that remains is the 
 fact that you get to see Lara doing the tricks all over again. Regardless, it is a brief but welcoming 
 comeback to the series, and I wish that the next one is as remarkable as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 10, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is amazing game with a lot of features like good things and bad things, I play 
 it in two different PCs the first one spec is processor AMD fx-60, RAM 1GB DDR 400, graphic card 
 Nvidia 7800GS and creative sound card, the second PC spec is processor Intel Celeron 2, 5 GHz, 
 RAM 1GB DDR 400, graphic card Nvidia FX 5200 128 mb and creative sound card, it worked great on 
 both. Now lets talk about the game:
  Graphics: amazing graphics with next gen content.
  Sounds: great sounds with great music.
  Physic engine: Superb physics of movement and shooting.
 
  Game play: great game play with different modes.
  The bad things: the length of the game.
  My last word is : it could be perfect if it more longer in the story .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 8, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Story is as good as always 
  
  I mean Tomb Raider games stories were always good but talk about graphics, Woooooow, Amazing
 
  
  but drop that now
  
  the first thing and the most important change (which has to be done a long time back) is the character 
 it self, the control, the movement, the speed, the quick response 
  
  i mean they totally change every thing there
  
  Lara is way more fixable as she should be, 
 easier to deal with
  
  not the dump doll anymore, you are really now controlling a hero
  
  but what about the graphics, the whale environments are fabulous 
  
  it gives you the impression 
 of realism for sure, enable all effects and see the difference for your self
  
  Maybe the game is not that long but it's an experience you should consider having
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuiGonJ
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I remember the fun of playing the original game in 1996, and have played most of the subsequent 
 titles (other than Angel of Darkness, which I played a demo of and hated) , and this is a fine title.
 
  
  The graphics are very nice, the soundtrack well done, the outfit selection feature fun to play 
 with, and the sidekicks were a nice way to both tie in with the movies and make the game less lonely 
 feeling than some of the other titles. It's nice having a story and seeing that Lara does have 
 friends in the world. It certainly makes Lara seem less like a killing machine as she was in some 
 of the games, particularly the third one.
  
  I have been playing just to explore and am at the 14 hour point at the end of the England level. 
 In that time I have all the statues from the manor and the other locales done so far, and for someone 
 who enjoys adventure games, they have done a nice job on the puzzles so far. I think they did a 
 good job on the level design.
  
  I would agree it's not quite an all-time classic though. The motorcycle levels are the weakest 
 part of the game because they tend to repeat a lot of textures and the solution isn't that obvious, 
 but they aren't that bad. The game's sound has a tendency to stutter on my system (an Athlon 64 
 3400+ with a gig and a half of PC3200 ram and a 256meg FX5700 card) , and Eidos has ignored my requests 
 for tech support on that, and considering the disc space requirements [10 gigs, but with my 250gig 
 drive I didn't notice it till my brother went wow after he got it] , one would think the game should 
 be longer.
  
  For those with problems using the controls, try using the arrow keys, have "use" mapped to the 
 middle mouse button, duck/roll on num pad 4 and the grapple key on num pad 1. It makes the game 
 a lot easier to control with those modifications, specially the use key.
  
  Overall, I am having a blast playing TR: Legend, and I think it was well worth my $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obel-X
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The first impression was very good. The graphics were great and even on my old Radeon 9800PRO the 
 game ran pretty well on higher details. The second impression difficulty level. I never was a big 
 fan of Tomb Raider series because they were quite difficult and rather boring so I didn't like 
 them but this time it was different. The game was actually interesting and easy! Not too easy of 
 course but even my younger brother went thru it without any problems. Ok so I played and played 
 and... played? nope the game just ended it was actually shorter then Quake IV which I did in 8 
 hours flat. It took me like 7 hours to get thru TR... I was a bit dissapointed but only because 
 the game ended and it was really really cool! They really did a Tomb Raider that was playable for 
 absolutely everyone. I can safely recommend this game it's a must have even tho it's so short it 
 absolutely is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: never-named
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  We all know that the Tomb Raider franchise has been lying stagnant for quite some time since the 
 appalling Angel of Darkness, but now that a new developer has taken the reigns we are finally rewarded 
 with a Tomb Raider game that we are not embarrassed to wave about. But to say that Tomb Raider: 
 Legend puts the series on the same level as some of it's revered predecessors is being too generous, 
 but it can be said that the series is finally starting to get back on its tracks.
  
  A good storyline has always been a key element for the Tomb Raider games and Legend doesn't disappoint. 
 It tells how Lara came to be what she is and the mystery behind her mother's supposed death with 
 some sort of far fetched connection to the King Arthur myth. It all boils down nicely and is complimented 
 by some well-animated (and well-acted) cutscenes.
  
  As far as gameplay goes the Tomb Raider formula isn't vehemently changed, but it still feels quite 
 fresh. It's still basically three parts exploration with a little combat added for good measure. 
 While the exploration is still a blast the gunplay is where the game falls short. Mostly due to 
 some awkward control glitches, but it's not something that would hamper the enjoyment of capping 
 someone in the crotch too badly.
  
  Graphically the game looks spectacular. From the art direction to the awesomely detailed character 
 models and the jaw-dropping environments. Turn on the next-gen graphical contents and it looks 
 even better, but be prepared to do so with a rig that qualifies the crazy-ass "Optimal Requirements".
 
  
  A huge comeback of an icon in the gaming world; Legend reminds us why the series was acclaimed 
 so much in the first place. The only major problem that plagues Legend is that there isn't much 
 of it, the game ends in the blink of an eye, but in the end it is always quality that wins over 
 quantity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dopestghost
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 7, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok it have exellent graphics BUT:
  Where's that weapons u can use when u want and anywhere u want?
  NO bundge of animals, dinossaurs, 
 or even monsters...
  Where's that level u think "great, and now, what the hell should i do?"
  And even worse... ALMOST 
 NO SWITCHES....
  Honestly... Tomb raider with no switches???... Its just not right...
  Really... i've played a lot of tomb raider by now... and This... it only has lara croft... cause tomb 
 raider things... u just wont find...
  And the soundtrack?... not sayin that is bad... but it doesnt sound like the others, the sacry movie 
 that appered when u enter a room is just gonne...
  It is a kind of good game... but again... just not a tomb raider... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawookie
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 7, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  When you think Tomb Raider, you probably think an archeolagist running around with guns, shooting 
 stuff, and doing extreme sports. This game breaks the Tomb Raider experience and throws in Indiana 
 Jones style gameplay. First, weapon gameplay is BAD. The pistols have infinite ammo, so its easy 
 to run out and continuosly shoot the crap out of these guys. There are some cool bits, like a few 
 special moves such as flipping over a guy and shooting him in the back in slo-motion. But because 
 the enemies often have assault rifles and shotguns and you can pick them up, you'll clear out a 
 machine gun nest in 60 seconds. You can't even use melee combat! Second, the exploration. In most 
 areas the atmosphere is fantastic and it really fits a Tomb Raider experience. But there are excessive 
 puzzles in the game and this you should expect. Most people would think this is an action game, 
 when its more like Prince of Persia. Alot these puzzles are really hard to figure out at first, 
 but after a while they become repetetive and boring. The sound and Graphics in this game are either 
 horrid or brilliant. The weapons sound fantastic and that excellent click as the casing hits the 
 ground and even though its not Angelina's voice, she sounds great. The graphics can glitch now 
 and then in some gunplay moments and the movies have issues, but the envirments look like you could 
 step right into them. A few new things are put into this game, like the movies are sometimes interactive 
 like in Resi 4, so you have to press a certain button at the proper time to survive, but some of 
 the animations for death are funny so die a few times for a laugh. Next is her magnetic hook. This 
 can grab onto anything metal and pull it or can be used as a rope. This adds to the conventional 
 feel of the game. next is the Motorcycle bits. Sometimes Lara will have to jump on a chopper to 
 get to a destination. In these bits you rise around samey enviorments and shoot guys with a pistol. 
 Again, been there done that, blah blah blah. And finally, you can roam around Croft Manor in this 
 game which is BRILIANT!!!!! There is a gym, a garden, a library, a safe room, you name it they 
 got. This is where you will get most unlockables like some stupid custom art, a few outfits, weapon 
 upgrades, that stuff. Unfortunately, this is where you'll probably be spending most of your time 
 rather than in the actual story. There is no multiplayer in this game, the story is poor, and the 
 gameplay all been seen before. The story has to do with Mrs. Croft's death were she pulls this 
 sword from a stone and is sucked into this other dimension. I'll let you figure it out yourself. 
 In conclusion, bad story, bad gunplay, difficult puzzles, but is saved from being shunned because 
 of Graphics and sound. I's worth a rental, nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decebal
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, NO this game DOES NOT have multiplayer, I just thought the title would be funny. 
 :)
  
  This is not a full review of the game. Just some random thoughts of a Tomb Raider fan. 
  
  
 I never had the chance to play the original Tomb Raider. I head that one was amazing. But I did 
 get to play the second Tomb Raider. And that one was in my top 10 many years. 
  
  Since then I tried many others (tomb raider games or simply action adventure games) , but nothing 
 really captured the beauty of Tomb Raider 2. (the GBA version of Tomb Raider is probably the closest 
 one) .
  
  The series has done worse and worse over the years. Then the Hollywood movies came out where Angelina 
 Jolie, completely destroyed the character. And Tomb Raider, dug itself more and more into a tomb. 
 
  
  This game, Legend is the game that every tomb raider fan was waiting more. It is Lara Crof resurrected. 
 And it's awesome. 
  
  There are many things changed from the good old days. Some of these things are good and some aren't. 
 However most of them, have a both a positive and a negative.
  
  For example, Lara now is constantly in touch with 2 other guys. That... is not the greatest thing 
 in my opinion, since it ruins the atmosphere. Yes, I guess it builds a little more character, but 
 at the same time, that feeling that you are alone deep down below the surface of the earth, and 
 if you die, there is no one to ever know about it... is gone... Well it's not the same. 
  
  On the other hand, the dialog that the characters are having is very impressive. Legend, has some 
 really cool lines and sometimes very funny, without using the same tired clichs that most of the 
 games/movies are using.
  
  Another change is Lara's moves. For the most part she has the same moves. But if you play around, 
 you will quickly find that Lara has new moves as well (even some slow motion ones) . However the 
 very basic backward flip is gone. (unless you are using guns. ) . I may not remember correctly, 
 but I think in Tomb Raider 2 you could just flip backwards and sideways without using the guns... 
 And that's something I miss.
  
  There are many changes like that. And that changes the feeling. However, that was to be expected. 
 (Like this one, having a little more story. I dont' eve think the other one had a story. LOL Just 
 a bunch of tombs)
  
  The graphics are wonderful. At the beginning I wasn't very impressed. I think Lara's new look, 
 and the first few maps... threw me off a little (not a fan of her dress, even though it's probably 
 the most revealing.) . However, when Lara wears that Ducati motorcycle outfit, than... it all hits 
 you back. IT'S LARA!
  
  I have a decent computer, Dual Core, 2 Gb, and a 7800GTX and yet I wasn't able to play with next 
 gen on, since it was too laggy. So I have no idea what specs you need for this game... (7900GTX 
 SLI, I suppose) . But the game looks beautiful regardless. 
  
  The game is very short, so that's another plus for me. I hate long games. And this game is very 
 easy as well. And I love easy games. So what can I say, this Tomb Raider is pretty much perfect 
 for me. 
  
  Well it's not perfect, since there is room for improvement... But unlike the gamespot reviewer 
 said, it doesn't leave me unsatisfied. It leaves me very happy. 
  
  If you never played tomb raider before, well... this will not give you the perfect accurate tomb 
 raider flavour... but it may give you an idea of what Tomb Raider could be. 
  
  Somebody said that the Tomb Raider idea was cool 10 years ago... but now it's very outdated. I 
 have no idea... it may be so. It may be that younger gamers, have newer better things out there. 
 But as far as I'm concerned, I hope Tomb Raiders will keep on coming. 
  
  I love Prince of Persia and God of War but they just ain't Tomb Raider!
  
  This game receives 
 a perfect 10 from me, not because it's perfect, and everybody should play it, but because it really 
 made me as happy as a game can make me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsvt
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  After following most of the Tomb Raider series since the first one on my PC the series seemed to 
 have died down a bit and moved into another direction. I heard the team really brought back a lot 
 of the elements from the first couple of games and they did a great job of bringing back what originally 
 hooked me. The game runs fairly smooth on my AMD XP2400, 1GB RAM, NV 6800GT, @ 1280x1024 everything 
 on except for the new graphic content option or whatever its called. The game looks fantastic, 
 areas are rich and colorful with great puzzles and some pretty good combat although its not to 
 hard. I was just hoping for a great story and some good ole tomb raiding and I have to say that 
 I am satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubby_spiderman
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 5, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Well finally a god one. Eidos hits the stores with a title everyone thought which was long gone. Tomb 
 Raider legends is surprisingly good. Everyone was afraid that it would turn out to be another led 
 down 4 the tomb raider fans, But was not the case.
  
  Tomb raider legends is different from its previous titles. They all were slow. Not that much interesting 
 as this one. This one is fast & is very very furious.
  
  The gameplay has been a major prob 4 the eidos. but this time making no mistakes they clear all 
 odds and make a very good game. People playing the tomb raider first time will have some prob, but 
 not much. On the other hand people who have played the previous title will find this one a very 
 easy and much intersting. From stealth killing to the motor bike riding. From america 2 Japan this 
 game has it all.
  
  GRAPHICS have been a major part in all the tomb raiders. The graphics of all the tomb raiders have 
 been quite good if not best. Well this title also continiues the good work of its previous titles. Adding 
 Some very good lighting effects the graphics r very good. well a very good game with all the G (amplay 
 & raphics) Factors. Hope they (eidos) continiue the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sr-gogeta-goku
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 3, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Finally a tombraider game worth playing when i played angel of darkness i
  started to detest the game but Tomb raider legend is a big relief there is a
  big improvement 
 in the gameplay the people at crystal dynamics did a good job in making lara croft acrobatic as 
 she should be th. even though the shooting system is a bit tackey it is still worth playing the 
 puzzles were not hat difficult as it was in the previous games in the series coming to the graphics 
 part the game is'nt much demanding on an average machine provided you turn off the next gen content 
 option you can only turn on this option if you have high end system lara's body structure is perfect 
 when she falls into the water her suit gets wet which is pretty realistic the cutscene's are also 
 pretty good adding the gameplay element to the cutscenes is an nifty idea coming to the sound the 
 voice acting is pretty good the sound of lara's foot steps and other environmental sound are an 
 added excitment to the gameplay the one thing that i didnt like about this game is it is very short 
 and it does not provide a great replay value aswell other than that the game is beautiful and Lara 
 Is Hot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IREDGE
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  So OK! Lara is back and she means busyness. Say goodbye to the oh so clumsy controls of the pitoresque 
 Angel of Darkness which surprisingly were more of a downfall compared to the older versions. Wave 
 at the cubic graphics , flat vegetation, life less caracters with there playmobil like animations 
 and design, before they swan dive into the abyss of your memory.
  This is Tomb Raider Legend. Thanks to Prince of Persia Lara has learnt a few new tricks and this 
 time they are actualy helpfull to her survival. The British Babe got a complete facial as well 
 which gives her more humanity than the flat faced doll you may have dated in the past. The design 
 team has done a great job at keeping the essence of what tomb rader is all about: "A beautifull 
 chick with attitude Raiding Tombs". What I still can't understand is why did it took them so long 
 to get it right? 10 years ago I remember playing a game called FAKK Heavy Metal wich riped the 
 concept from tomb raider and made it somehow more enjoyable. The gameplay was more fluid, the graphics 
 better. 
  Anyway, despite the jaw droping scenery, of the first few levels which I really enjoyed playing 
 I can't help but to think that this episode falls short of it's promises. The levels are short, 
 the puzzles are way too easy to figure out, some boss fights live the poor Lara iresponsive toward 
 the obvious dangers eg:"Ok I am standing in front a dragon like creature... It's spitting fireballs 
 at me but I won't move!!! No I won't duck or jump because I am beautifull and that would ruin my 
 overall aspect!... Oh! I am dead now maybe I should jump!!?" or when you're in a gun blasting sequence 
 the camera gets jercky and Lara has the bad habit to get right in front of you which totaly makes 
 it impossibe to see the obstacles, enemies, or, more important, the abyss behind or in front of 
 you. The enemies AI is grotesque mostly living your targets quietly waiting next to a grenade for 
 3 seconds before it detonates.
  But the worst thing of all is that I could live with all that just for the sight of yet another 
 abysmal waterfall or a gorgeous mysterious antique temple... Unfortunately the game is also very 
 short finished it in 10 hours living you salivating for more. It's a bit like having sex with a 
 beautifull chick and her saying to you that she has to go just after the foreplay.
  In short, a good game with some stunning visuals, a good enhanced gameplay, and some interesting 
 levels. However, despite the fact that it's an massive improvement on the series, (which is not 
 a big leap in gaming itself) , this episode of Lara Croft's ventures is enjoyable but falls short 
 (maybe to meters away) in content to justify it's 49 euros retail price. In other words "viva Prince 
 Of Persia!!!"
  
  Iredge
  A dedicated gamer 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentDenton
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is the 7th (can you believe it?) game in the series. Being the guy who tried 
 to follow the Tomb Raider series (not very successfully, I might add) , I eagerly anticipated the 
 arrival of this game. And we've got it...
  
  Firstly, we get an involving story. One where Lara explores lavishly designed tombs to uncover 
 a mystery that's been haunting her since early childhood. I won't reveal specifics, but let's just 
 say it's gripping at times.
  
  Speaking of which: Lara has been improved. And she also comes across as being "real" in the sense 
 that she is a person, and not just the busty model. She is very acrobatic and nimble, and this 
 you realise as early as the opening cinematic. Kind of like a female Prince of Persia :-)
  
  Combat in the game is actually very forgiving, as the emphasis is on puzzle solving. That said, 
 it still remains exciting when you see the henchmen coming in and the action starts. She can only 
 carry two weapons (which adds realism) , but overall gunfights are spectacular.
  
  Another new addition is the (Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones inspired) is the motorbike scenes. 
 Ducati has kindly lent their name for branding, but it doesn't get in the way. It gets challenging 
 when other baddies appear on bikes and in SUV's to try and shoot you down. Lara's not defenceless, 
 brandishing a pistol in one hand to deal with them. Be warned though, while the camera is near 
 perfect for normal exploration & combat, it is horrible in the motorbike scenes.
  
  All in all, a great experience. My biggest complaint is its brevity. I normally take a week to 
 finish the average length game. Legend, however, took me a weekend. And I don't spend 8 hours a 
 day gaming (more like 4 at most) .
  
  Worth getting? Why not? Though some might feel more comfortable with a budget release later in 
 the year, I still think this is a Tomb Raider that everyone should play (if only to hear Lara's 
 brilliant British accent) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epikhigh
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is simple but there are puzzle elements to make the game require more thinking. It 
 is the best Tomb Raider Game out so far. 
  
  -Graphics-
  The enviornments look descent and things like water and cliff walls look very detailed and "texturized". 
 But the best part about this game is Lara Croft. She looks super hot and when she gets in the water, 
 she GETS WET! 
  She has very "human like" characteristics and she looks extremely good. 
  
  -Sound-
  The music in this game is very "jungle like". The voice overs are extremely well 
 polished and the sounds of rivers, rocks falling, and foot steps are all well done. 
  
  -Gameplay-
  This game is simple. You jump, you climb, you duck, shoot etc. 
  The game play 
 itself is pretty dull but there are some puzzle elements to keep you "awake". After you have solved 
 puzzles, it instantly rewards you by letting you enter a passage or kill things. But all in all, 
 the gameplay is where it falls the most but the graphics and sound are really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saddlerBOB
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 2, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the Tomb Raider games, and the be honest the first one is still my favourite. Maybe 
 because at the time it was 'groundbreaking'. After years of the series slowly going downhill Tomb 
 Raider has finally come back to life. I enjoyed playing Legend a lot, it seems to have gone back 
 to basics. It looks fantastic and sounds great. The control system works very well. One of the 
 problems of the previous games was that the camera angles could be annoying at times. There are 
 still times in Legend where you'll shout at the screen because of a bad camera angle but in my 
 experience these a few and far between. The major drawback is it's length, it really is very short. 
 Still a very enjoyable game to play... can't wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightBlade151
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  1) Graphics
  
  Great graphics! Everything is very detailed.
  I believe, that this game fits perfectly in relationship of modern-day graphics even without the 
 Next-Gen. graph. option turned on. If turned on prepare for some gasping! Just amazing! It's like 
 on movies! The only bad thing is that if you have a great graphics card, but not a great enough 
 for every feature in the Next-Gen option, then you won't be able to turn on the ones, which your 
 graphics card supports. It's everything or nothing.
  You can't miss the good animations either.
  
  2) Gameplay
  
  Well true gamers should be 
 able to beat the game in about 7-12 hours. I did it in about 14 hours, because this is my first 
 Tomb Raider game yet (if we scratch that i've played a bit in my early childhood. Note: i'm 13 
 )
  It's a bit easy, but not that easy. You should be able to beat every level's boss in about 0-7 attempts. The 
 environmental puzzles are not that hard to figure out, but they are good too. Some people say that 
 the game is over too soon. I say that it's just right (well maby just a bit soon, but it's ok)
 
  the combat mode is also very good. With many attacks available. Lara's acrobatic skills are at their 
 peak! I especially like the slow motin ones, with which you can hit the enemy and in slow motion 
 shoot him from the air (kinda like the Matrix)
  I also like the interactive cinematics on which you have to push an exact button in the exact moment. 
 If you get the button wrong, then prepare to watch Lara die in a bit-funny way.
  There are also 2 motor races. Well you can't say that it's exactly a race, but at least you get 
 to shoot bad guys on the way. Controlling the motor ain't that hard - it's even too easy!
  
  3) Sound
  
  Well the music is ok. You can't expect more from a game like Tomb Raider. It's a 
 bit... how can i say...-inspiring.
  The voices are fit just right!
  
  4) Story
  
  Now this is my favorite part! The story is very very very interesting! I can say that the my favorite 
 thing from the game is the story. The funny thing is that everything in the end comes to an answer, 
 but that answer raises many more, which i think will be solved in the following games from the 
 series.
  Some people say that the cinematics are too long and annoying. I say: If they are part of the story (... duh) , 
 then let them roll!
  
  5) Extra
  
  If you get some artifacts (bronze, silver, gold) on your way to beating the game, then you unlock 
 rewards. They are nothing more than object models, biographies, new outfits, pistol upgrades etc. There 
 are also time trials, which if you complete - guess what - more rewards!
  
  6) Conclusion
  If you are an action-themed games lover or you are just a fan of the series, then 
 Tomb Raider: Legend is a must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lessthankris
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Not as good as the first but better than any of the others. The game looks and sounds excellent 
 and so does Lara ;) . The story and plot come together pretty well and keep you entertained and 
 wont put you to sleep. Probably the best new feature in the game is in some of the cut scenes that 
 have playable elements to keep you involved with the game so that if your not paying attention 
 your likely to die from untimely and comical death. The new magnetic grappler is also pretty sweet. 
 Sadly most of the puzzles in the game are slightly too easy but with the physics system you get 
 a lot of different variety of puzzles. The Combat system works pretty well and adds quite a bit 
 to the game. 
  
  All in all it is a lot of fun but too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiruZ
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  I want to make a quick review so here it is:
  
  I Just loved this game, the story, the graphics, all.
  There are still some things missing, i 
 think Angel of Darkness was more realistic and harder to play.
  I loved the cinematics, there are lots of them and in some you have to interact like shenmue.
 
  This game catches the earlier tomb raider's style which i loved because Angel of Darkness lost 
 it all.
  The gameplay is very simple and easy to learn, many say the controls are a mess, i think the're 
 very cool.
  I didn't like the game's lenght, it's really too short, it installs 7.6GB and only has 8 levels.
 
  It took me 4 hours to complete the game. I was very disappointed.
  
  It's worth the play! Enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbygr
Rating: 2
Date: May 1, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The game is totally messed up because of the checkpoint save game system.
  
  Be prepared to watch cutscenes over and over and over ad-nauseum when missing very difficult jumps.
 
  
  It amazes me how they could have come up with such a lame save game system. It absolutely frustrates 
 and ultimately ruins the game.
  
  I don't know what the developers were thinking - probably just too cheap to port it correctly to 
 the PC from consoles.
  
  Do yourself a favor - and reduce serious frustration in your life - get a game with an up to date 
 save game system.
  
  There is no way to stop the ridiculous redundant cutscenes... stay away from this one - save our 
 hard earned money for up to date PC games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcampbell87
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legends is great its as good as the first two games except it comes with nice new shiny 
 graphics.
  
  The Good:
  The plot comes across better than the originals and there is lots of dialogue and cutscenes during 
 the levels to help it along.
  
  The whole jumpy tomb raider thing has had a little face lift and all Laras moves seem a bit more 
 acrobatic making it all the more fun
  
  The updated Croft mansion ties in with the layout from the movies and has a proper tomb raider 
 feel with cryptic clues to find the gold statue to unlock extra content.
  
  Runs well on my pc (yes i know i need an upgrade)
  Althon XP 2000, 512 RAM, 128MB gforce 5200
 
  
  The Bad:
  Those damn statues! The game has you collecting bronze/silver/gold statues in order to unlock the 
 cheats and extra content. I guess they think it adds a replay value but I think its annoying I 
 think the content should unlock as you complete the levels not have you searching the depths of 
 every level into the early hours of the morning.
  
  Summary:
  Its good, get it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundsODD454
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I started gaming on Tomb Raider. I remember for my 8th birthday, my dad came home with a copy of 
 Tomb Raider: Gold, and said, "Here kiddo, try this." I was hooked. Boobs and bullets notwithstanding, 
 Tomb Raider was just a freaking great game. Up until then, my gaming experience was limited to 
 intense rounds of Battle Chess with my sister, so I was floored by the great gameplay, style and 
 most of all, the mythological flavor to the story. I'm something of an ancient history aficianado, 
 and even at 8 I was totally at home in the Tomb of Qualopec, St. Francis Folly, and the Sanctuary 
 of the Scion, to name a few. It's been 10 years, and the lovely Lady Lara Croft has never been 
 far from my hard drive. 
  
  However, it's painfully obvious to see that Core Design declared Tomb Raider a good job, and preceded 
 to take the rest of the decade off. Another year, another game that was identical to the one I 
 played back in 1996. But, as a true fan, I stayed by my number one gaming old lady. Not Cortana, 
 Aerith (although she's a damn fine second) , or Farah could dislodge my faith in Lara. And then 
 they made Angel of Darkness.
  
  Angel of Darkness damn near broke my soul. All the running and gunning and for God's sake the freaking 
 TOMBS, gone. Replaced by a lame-ass attempt at a stealth mystery. God, what were they thinking?
 
  
  And there, in her darkest hour, Lara Croft was saved. Eidos said sayonara to Core Design, and brought 
 Lara to Crystal Dynamics, the sick minds behind the excellent Soul Reaver series. And Eidos spake, 
 and they said:
  
  Fix it. We'll even throw in Toby Gard, the man who made Lara in the first place.
  
  And fix 
 they did.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is the rebirth of one of the greatest action/adventure games out there. Everything 
 seems to click. The graphics, some of the best I've ever seen, bring the environments to life in 
 a manner that makes them truly fantastic. Every surface is expertly rendered, with pictographs 
 and murals and statues that make you feel that you are really in an ancient temple, and that once 
 upon a time, it was a beautiful testament to it's people. 
  
  The sound in Tomb Raider is pretty damn sweet. The music is haunting and atmospheric, and serves 
 as a really good way to immerse the player in Lara's world. The two characters back at the manor 
 offer some entertaining commentary, although it sometimes gets a little repetitive. And I don't 
 know what happened with the boss battles, but hearing the same taunt 50 times in 30 seconds is 
 re-taw-ded. Emphasis on taw. But that's one of my only complaints.
  
  The biggest problem I have with Legend is that it's just too easy. Even on Tomb Raider (Hardest) 
 Difficulty, I beat the game in about 2-3 days. And the cliffhanger-y ending is no good. Now I have 
 to wait another year and a half to get more. It's like Halo 2 all over again.
  
  But, all in all, Legend reminds me of why I fell in love with Lara in the first place: Boobs, bullets 
 and mythical artifacts. And in this crazy, mixed up world of ours, isn't that all we need? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robthehomer
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 1, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This entry into the Tomb Rider series is almost the videogame equivalent of the anticipation level 
 for the new Star Wars movies and whilst those films had an undeniably technical gloss they lacked 
 something from the originals.
  
  This Tomb Raider evokes the same kind of feeling for me. It is a very polished game and on initial 
 impressions it looks to be the best incarnation so far, yet scratch beneath the glossy veneer and 
 it comes up short.
  
  First off, the good points - Lara has never looked better, frankly she looks astonishing considering 
 this is on current gen hardware - the animation, the lighting, the um, proportions are all stunning, 
 she gets dirty as the levels progress, she emerges from water with a wet sheen that dries over 
 time, she will scrabble to ensure she reaches the ledge she is vaulting towards, it all adds up 
 to create appropriately enough the finest female video game character yet. 
  
  The settings that Lara finds herself in are equally good-looking with impressive vistas and giant 
 caverns being par for the course. Aurally things are also well catered for. British actress Keely 
 Hawes is excellent as Lara and really brings an extra dimension to the character, the ambient sound 
 effects are also well done and the weaponry involved sounds meaty enough.
  
  But Tomb Raider was always about the gaemplay - the death defying platforming acrobatcis and whilst 
 the new controls and moves feel a little strange to any TR veteran you have to say Lara now handles 
 very nicely. The ability to speed up your motions in dangerous situations is an excellent idea 
 and works really well in the game to make you up your performance to ensure you don't plunge to 
 a horrible death.
  
  All in all, it all sounds good so far, but once the initially strong first impressions are out 
 of the way, the cracks start to appear.
  
  First, the difficulty - this game is way too easy on the default difficulty setting. Gun battles 
 are routinely simple with guards being pretty imobile and inept and also drop an insane amount 
 of healthpacks. The puzzles which are very well constructed (the use of physics is a nice variant 
 on the norm) are not particularly taxing and the boss fights like most are the "work out the pattern 
 and repeat" variety and don't pose much challenge.
  
  This Tomb Raider also suffers from the fatal flaw of not keeping the game where it belongs - i. e. 
 in the tombs. The first Tomb Raider was set entirely underground due to technical issues that prevented 
 the use of expansive outdoor locations, however this was its strength. The underground aspect gave 
 the game a wonderful clastrophobic feeling and kept the emphasis on the Indiana Jones style archaealogical 
 locations. In Legend we have a number of quasi infiltration levels that seem to come from a sup 
 par Splinter Cell game. For example we have Lara sneaking into a Kazakstani research station. This 
 is not what Tomb Raider is about for me and I was just itching to get to the next "dig" location 
 to continue to actualy "raiding" part of the game.
  
  Then come the horribly misguided motorbike levels - wrong, wrong, wrong and then some more wrong. 
 Thankfully there were only two but they were so out of place it left a bad impression on the rest 
 of the game. Horrible to control and utterly banal I can only hope they will omit these altogether 
 for the inevitable sequel.
  
  What is most disappointing is that given the time of development for this tite the game is over 
 oh so quickly with barely 8 levels and about that number of hours of actual gameplay. The last 
 two levels are a joke, lasting about 30 mins for the pair, the last level in fact is just a boss 
 fight and thats it. It makes you wonder if they spent so much time focusing on getting Lara right 
 they forgot to make much of a game for her to be involved in. Whilst Tomb Raider 3 on the PS1 was 
 flawed it at least provided one hell of a long game and a hefty challenge to boot. Legend is just 
 too short and too easy by far.
  
  I desperately wanted to love this game and recognise it as the return to the top of the genre pile 
 but its not. Its a very competent and polished game but it lacks the "soul" of the original, in 
 a similar way to that of SW Episode 1 to Episode IV. Whilst the platofrming elements are fun to 
 play and a joy to watch the easy combat and horrendous motorcycle levels reallly ruin what should 
 have been Lara's finest hour.
  
  Given the way the narrative finishes and the fact Legend has sold very well so far there will almost 
 certainly be a sequel, however games will expect more value from the next entry and won't tolerate 
 sub standard and hap hazardly employed games elements.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chemartista
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Lara is still smokin', the graphics are amazing, the puzzles are challenging and entertaining, 
 the sound effects and ambient sounds are great and the controls are sophisticated.
  
  Lara, of course, is still as beautiful as ever. I like the look. I like the body. I like the voice. 
 And, I can't deny that I don't use the camera to check out every crevase on Lara's body. Especially 
 when she's climbing a rope or a pole and you get the camera right under her and watch her little 
 as... eh-hem, anyway. Great stuff there.
  
  The graphics are best they've ever been. Even though I can't really support the higher resolutions, 
 the one that I use still looks amazing. Some of the surrounding areas in the jungle stages just 
 look like a relaxing paradise. I haven't really noticed any graphical glitches in the game yet. 
 Well, there was this one time where I was flying at high speeds on my motorcycle and part of a 
 large rock in the middle of the driving area looked like it went through to the other side so I 
 drove into it and ended up killing myself! It's pretty funny watching her smash her bike into something 
 and her lifeless body flies up in the air like a ragdoll. Sorry, Lara. I do love you.
  
  The levels in the game are great! Some of them are easy and straight forward and some of them make 
 you rack your brain and say things like, "I hate this game! I need more pizza rolls to finish this 
 level." I absolutely hate fighting the bosses. The first boss was easy. Then the second one was 
 super hard. And the third and forth ones are unbelievably hard. The main thing that makes the boss 
 levels so difficult is because using a mouse and a keyboard to constantly jump and do backflips 
 to avoid things bombarding you is very tiring. Not to mention that sometimes it takes a while to 
 beat the bosses and your hands get tired. One of the best features that I take advantage of quite 
 often are the binoculars. Especially if you're in a jam, you can point those things around the 
 room and get data on things that you can interact with. Sometimes things move or can be grappled 
 that you don't notice right away.
  
  One of the first things that I noticed when I started up the game were the controls. I love all 
 of the little flips and rolls that Lara can do in different situations. A lot of the time I find 
 myself flipping up stairs or instead of just jumping off of a ledge normally, I'll do a little 
 swan dive and gracefully land on the level below. The only real problem that I have with the controls 
 is the fact that in some situations it's hard to lock your grapple onto certain things even though 
 you might be directly facing it. You end up shooting it multiple times which can really suck, especially 
 if you're fighting a boss and you have a short amount of time to grapple onto something and use 
 it.
  
  So, overall I love the game. I'm still playing it at about 70% completion. I'm stuck on a boss 
 that I can't figure out how to kill!!! MORE PIZZA ROLLS, NOW! I'll let you know how it goes.
  
  Thanks! -C 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  The Good: awesome graphics and sound. and then i mean the sound effects, the voice acting and everything. 
 and the new lara is sexy and hot as always and i love her more than ever and everything is perfect 
 with this game.
  
  The Bad: no online mode. and then i mean it could have some maps and online that peoples play as 
 characters from tomb raider and kill each others and everything but that's isn't a really, really 
 bad thing it's just something quite bad in this game.
  
  The Bottom Line: the graphics are awesome but the frame rate can slows down sometimes which isn't 
 a thing that effect me or anyone. no online mode is quite bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  Sister and brother gamers, like myself I was truly hopeing for a great game from EIDOS Interactive. 
 With all the hype and hoopla surrounding Laura Crofts latest adventure, I usally wait a few months 
 until the bugs and little things are ironed out. I thought oh lordy by now with all the new gaming 
 codes and newer 
  gaming engines I will just not wait. B ig mistake, nothing has changed still lots of crashs and the 
 game makers blaming the hardware companys for not keeping abreast of their games with new drivers 
 etc.. I ran my new copy of Tomb Raider: Legend on a Dell XPS gaminig machine with a dual 3.4 Intel 
 processor and ATI graphics board. I was trembling with excitement with all the
  reviews from top end gamers and many fine folks whom played the demo. My fault for not doing so 
 myself. I am truly dissappointed with game its self and the graphics are not close to even being 
 a great new experience. NOT !! 
  Like so many other gamers female and male I like to be able to save my games where I wish to. EIDOS 
 does not give us this option. One must get to one of their level points before one may save a game. 
 There are not any quick saves. The game its self is rather boreing, hard to control Laura with so 
 many different twists and turns. One should be a major in gymnastics to even try and 
  get through level 1. If EIDOS did away with all the popup help windows their programmers might 
 have been able to work around to quick saving. No such luck. A joystick would be a truly great option 
 to play the game with rather than ones keyboard. Even on the easy option this game is unrealistically 
 hard to play normaly as with a keyboard.. The gamers ideas and plots are far from realistic and 
 its setup a lot like "The Chronicles of Riddick" with all kinds of surprise keys to open certain 
 levels, one must find certain hidden tokens.. Games are suppose to be fun and challenging, this game 
 is just not any of the above. After completeing level 1, the gamer is then allowed to go inside 
 Croft Manor and meet her staff and employees. I highly suggest playing in the pool, gymnasiumn, and 
 climbing the rock wall before attempting to move further along in the normal levels of play of 
 the normal game. I became so dissappointed in the way this game is suppose to be played and the 
 gamers ideas of how to do things like ride a motorcycle and land inside of moving trucks. For now 
 if your have played to this point in the game. I have become so dissapointed with the game I removed 
 it from my computer. I guess some of the great guys games, like "Call of Duty" , "Indigo Prophecy", 
 "Still Life" and so many more fine games have really spoiled me. I was expecting so much more from 
 all the build up and reviews. Its truly a dissappointing effort on EIDOS Interactive and Crystal 
 Dynamics undertaking and certainly not worth the high price tag 
  on the many gaming sites.
  The graphics are so very disappointing. Laura's legs dissappear in 
 rocks when she is suppose to be standing on top of them. I think a lot of gamers here can recall 
 the early years of great games like "DOOM" where these same graphic problems where a issue. Oh well 
 perhaps the same programers are now working for EIDOS eh ? I will allow Laura to sit in her box 
 in the far back area of my games and maybe someday when someone wants a good laugh about badly 
 written PC games I will remeber it and give it to them. Very dissapointing game effort. Wondering 
 if I can get a refund.......... I am sure the sounds of the game could be salvaged to really nice 
 music, again there are so may sound issues. I don't even wish to go there. Well maybe I have a bad 
 game cd. But I was so bored I would not ask for a replacement ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barn79
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Whew! Lara Croft or should I say Lady Croft look fabulous in her 7th game. She got a face lift 
 and not to mention great controls compared to her previous games which are very lame! The light 
 effects amazes me, also when Lara gets wet, her skin and clothing becomes wet as well, her skin 
 becomes shiny when wet and her shirt darkens. Although my video card doesn't support the "next-Gen" 
 content of the game, Tomb Raider Legend still runs fine in my pc, just turn off the full screen 
 effect and the game runs smooth, hehehehe.. lol! Whats great about Legend to other TR games is 
 that you can drive a motorcycle which is something new to the series. Though the story is short, 
 I would give it an 8.7/10 its a shame though i cant use the "next-Gen" content still it runs smooth 
 on my machine and I recommend it to anyone who is a fan of Lara Croft! Trust me, its worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper242
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  I always felt that Eidos lost their direction after TR2. The first and second games were excellent. What 
 the other games lacked from the first two was the atmosphere. In this latest release from Eidos.. 
 they got back to the "tomb raiding" basics, only with improved graphics which just made the journey 
 sweeter. The reason i gave this game an 8 was the gun play action. I dont know how this game plays 
 on a ps2, but on a pc it was down right frustrating.
  Aiming was totally off the mark. Throwing grenades was just silly.. lara can climb mountains, jungle 
 jim herself anywhere she wants, but cant throw a grenade farther than 9 feet? Blah! The other problem 
 was one that has stuck to Tomb raider games like a fly to.. well, you know what. The camera was again 
 bothering .Try shooting at bad guys cant even see... 
  Other than these small (yet effecting) problems, this games brings you back to tomb raiding heaven.. 
 Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_dumi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  The best one off all Tomb Raider series until now!! I finshed it after 2 days of hard playin... 
 Waiting for the next episode to see if it will be as good as this one!!
  The graphics were excellent, the sound felt like I was right there in the middle of the action, 
 and Lara looked awesome!!
  I recommend this game to all who enjoy this type of game, by far the best one of its genre.
  
 
  he game kicks off with a bit of an introduction to Lara's tomb-raiding roots. The plane carrying 
 young Lara and her mother crashes in Nepal, and it's not long before the girl has stumbled upon 
 an ancient sword lodged in a stone. I don't want to ruin the story for you, as it's likely the 
 most coherent and enjoyable of the franchise. There are a number of cutscenes, although most of 
 the exposition is handled by Zip and Alister, the two men who feed Lara information through her 
 headset. The story takes the player all over the world, from the jungles of Bolivia and the frozen 
 wastelands of Kazakhstan to the ruins of an English amusement park and a high-tech high-rise in 
 Japan.
  Legend also offers a number of gameplay mechanics that haven't been seen before in the series, 
 including a number of entertaining survival mini-games. Like the classic Dragon's Lair, pressing 
 the wrong button or moving the wrong way in the mini-game will send Lara to her death, and the 
 developers made one for each segment (be sure to check out the "Unfortunate Mishaps Video" in the 
 Special section) . Lara's also got plenty of cool gadgets that you'll need to use if you want to 
 progress, including a personal lighting device and binoculars that allow the player to find points 
 of interest (such as movable objects) in the levels. We should mention the two long motorcycle 
 chases that blend driving with gunplay, but the less said about those the better.
  It's further proof that the Tomb Raider series is back in a big way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unopu2
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Look who`s back!
  
  Thats right Tomb raider, fans, Lara is back, not like the last time when she was almost back (in 
 the angel of darkness) , this time is for real!
  
  The team behind Laras newest adventure has set a goal, makes us feel like we are playing tomb 
 raider 1 all over again, but in the good way, this game give us the most closer feeling the we 
 are playing the game that makes the saga famous. A game whit renewed moves, graphics and storyline, 
 but the same sensation.
  
  Ok lest talk some history!.
  Lara is (like she is used to) searching for an artifact that we have no idea what she have planed 
 to do with, or selling to who, (lets face it, the big house, the car, the butler!) , when she find 
 herself in the awful situation of seeing an old face, (with some bad history behind it) . This cant 
 mean something good, so we (I mean she) have to find what is he up to. 
  
  How are we going to do this!!!!???
  OK , dont freak out!, if your machine (and by this I mean 
 your video card) is somehow closer to the last generation and technology, you are going to be able 
 to play this game beautifully, and if you are not: you are going to be able to play it anyway. 
 YES! My fellow  the newest adventure of Lara have been made 
 for us to play it as well. Whit some decent graphics and a great game you are going to think that 
 youre missing none.
  
  OH yes! I WILL shoot ya!
  Ho.. the time I waited for holding again the two little brownies of love, like their used to be, 
 auto aimed. The game have all new set of option from info, drawings, clothes, and gun improves, 
 as well as new close-to-the enemys-nose moves. Killer things!
  Also the team responsibly of making this beautiful scenarios, have tacked good look at all the 
 details, so if we dive in to water she well be wet (dear god!) when she come out. or when she is 
 climbing, little pieces of stone fall right from her hands. And like the old days, when she move 
 a GIANT boulder she does not even hold her breath, this girl have it going on!.
  This and a bag full of gadgets are totally at your will
  
  Ho no!, this is too good for me!
 
  Dont feel this way, let tear apart what is wrong with this game for the pc:
  Basically is so much in favour that is hard to tell if the little thing wrong really butters someone. 
 But 
  The control. Is somehow not quite, almost, but no there. It let us play the game just FINE, but 
 it could been better, but, if we save some money we might be able to buy the X360 controller that 
 have been just released in its pc version. Isnt that cool?!
  Putting that to side, a couldnt find nothing else wrong 
  
  Tell me what you think about this!!
 
  In conclusion, tomb raider fans!, this game is not to be missed, and the lack of a Monster pc, 
 is not an excuse, but if you have one better!
  
  MADE IN ARGENTINA!!! 
  (thats the answer to all this grammatical mistakes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vold3mort
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  Nothing has been done to give the game that something special, that something that sticks it out 
 from the other thousands of games made every year... it is a remake and nothing more. The game play 
 is boring and predictable, those pistols with infinite ammo are very unrealistic plus they leave 
 a red trail behind when you shoot... come on. Graphics.. well needless to say it does not stand out 
 from the crowd despite having over 4 GB. From the Tomb Raider series I must say it is the best, 
 but it does not impress you emotional. After you have played it you do not feel like going to your 
 friends and say "Wow that game was one of the best I ever played". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalton2K5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  The Tomb Raider series has had quite a history, and is one of the brands easily remembered by just 
 about anyone who's ever played games in the past 10 years. However, after quite a few games that 
 were either just re-hashes of the game prior, or just disasters overall, namely Angel of Darkness, 
 and a legal dispute over why the 2nd Tomb Raider movie didn't sell well, Lara Croft fell from her 
 graces.
  
  Finally, in an attempt to bring Lara to the 21st century, and to get rid of the hundreds of levers 
 from the older games, Eidos handed the brand off to Crystal Dynamics to try to re-do the franchise 
 again. To make it blunt, they succeeded with flying colors. 
  
  Funny how I never even noticed that Crystal Dynamics was around anymore after the few Sega Saturn 
 games they developed and published. I questioned from the onset if they could actually make a decent 
 Tomb Raider game; however, I couldn't resist trying the game out, especially after hearing that 
 it is a lot like Prince of Persia's gameplay now. I was very pleasantly surprised to see that Crystal 
 Dynamics not only fixed all the problems that plagued the old games, mainly involving controls 
 (Lara can turn around properly now! Awesome!) , but gave the gameplay quite a breath of fresh air.
 
  
  In the old games, where you almost had to wander around aimlessly to find this certain switch, 
 or lever to open a door to an almost frustrating degree, this game tends to go over doors instead. 
 Lara has been given the acrobatic, olympic gymnast treatment, allowing her to do moves that involve 
 swinging from poles, doing somersaults, and grabbing onto walls and moving along them if permitted 
 by the environment. Almost all of the puzzles have something to do with one of these newfound abilities, 
 and it makes it very entertaining to figure out how to complete them. 
  
  Unlike Prince of Persia, however, timing is quite a factor on when you jump, because if you don't 
 jump at the right time, namely too early, Lara won't grab onto a ledge or pole quite right, which 
 could lead to her untimely demise. While this is a welcome addition to a platforming/adventure/action 
 genre that seems to ignore timing altogether, it just frustrates matters when you're in a hurry 
 from something like a boulder, or falling platforms.
  
  These action segments however, are some of the most entertaining parts of the gameplay, due to 
 the speed required, and relatively quick thinking. Many times in these action scenes involve something 
 like the Quick Time Events (QTE) from Shenmue, where a button comes on the screen, in which you 
 have to press that button in a certain amount of time, or you get to see some fancy death scene. 
 Issue here is that none of these scenes are especially difficult, and the timely checkpoint right 
 before these events only makes it that much easier. Chances are, you'll probably just want to press 
 the wrong button on purpose just to see how many ways Lara can die, as it really won't hurt you 
 at all in the long run.
  
  Thinking about difficulty, this game is just lacking it altogether. There are no lives, no game 
 over screens. If you die at all, you just wind up at the last checkpoint you very recently crossed 
 just before with full health. Not to mention, health packs are quite plentiful, and gun fights 
 are as easy, much less, boring as ever. Some of the puzzles can get a bit challenging at times, 
 but will hardly stump any veteran player going through them. Other scenes, like the motorcycle 
 scenes are almost as difficult as they are linear. 
  
  Talking about motorcycles and gunplay, which take up about 30% of the gameplay, can get especially 
 boring at times, and the guns Lara uses almost seem like staples. Exactly how many bullets does 
 it take to take down a dog, for god sakes? Also, for a world-famous archeoligist, Lara has terrible 
 aim. The only time she can effectively hit anyone with her gun is when they are a mere 10-20 feet 
 away from her, and even then, she misses often. The targeting system tries to solve the problem, 
 which turns from gray to red when you get in close enough to shoot well, but more often then not 
 tends to target the wrong person, as it seems to take proximity over risk. There are certain objects 
 that you can shoot to change the environment against your opponent, like flammable barrels and 
 such that try to keep the gunplay relatively fresh, but it still doesn't help the problem that 
 you wished you were solving a puzzle instead.
  
  But hey, 70% of the game are puzzle-orientated, and they are certainly fun, if quick and easy. 
 The Boss fights in the game are interesting, and unconventional enough, and the massive world and 
 great story will keep you immersed in the game long enough to notice just how well Crystal Dynamics 
 did in polishing off dusty ol' Lara.
  
  Like I said, the worlds are immense, and incredibly well detailed. I'm not too much of a PC gamer, 
 but some of these scenes in Legend were just breathtaking. From the rooftop in Tokyo to the waterfall 
 in Africa, this game has some astounding sights. Add to the fact that Lara Croft is looking as 
 good as ever in her new physique and outfit (s) , and you get one heck of a pretty game. Although, 
 there are times, notably in King Arthur's tomb, where the game slows down from a smooth 30-60 to 
 about 10 frames per second, because of the high resolution of the textures. I find this to be only 
 a very minor set-back in an otherwise beautiful game.
  
  Half of presentation is sound, of course, and where the graphics show off a beautiful world, the 
 sound gives it life. The sound effects, outside of the plain, boring sounding guns, are great, 
 and immerse you well into the experience of the game. The voice-work, from Zip to Lara are top-notch, 
 and remind me of Metal Gear Solid's voicework through the codec. The voice of Lara Croft and well 
 thought out dialogue really bring her to life much better then Angelina Jolie could hope to do. 
 
  
  Too bad you don't get to hear enough of it. Sure, while the game is fun, especially the platforming 
 puzzles throughout the game, by the time you are really getting into the game, and thinking it's 
 getting real good, it ends, kind of the same way Halo 2 ended. Unlike Halo 2, however, there is 
 no multiplayer. Instead, they hand you the chance to pick up a bunch of miserable little treasures 
 throughout the game that unlocks outfits, cheats, models, character bios, and other wonderful stuff 
 that can be seen either in the Extras section or the Croft Manor. The Croft Manor, which is, obviously, 
 Lara's mansion, is quite big, and is fun to run around and pick up the wisely placed rewards strewn 
 throughout the place, but it gets old quick, as there isn't enough interactivity with the environment, 
 or the few people inside. After about 12 hours or so, you'll find yourself without much to do.
 
  
  But that shouldn't hold you back from trying this game out. Tomb Raider fans, rejoice. Lara Croft 
 is back in action, and looks better then ever. Newcomers, well, you're very welcome to join in, 
 as this game has hardly any continuation with the older games in the series, and the puzzles and 
 controls are finally easy, if not too easy, to get into. Plus, with the cliffhanger ending, and 
 the almost certain success of this title, I'm sure a sequel will have to be announced sometime 
 after E3, only more prompting you to get this game as the next one will be an almost certain continuation 
 of the events in this game. Remember, it's only $40, try it out!
  
  ~Dalton Zeal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lapette
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft is back.
  When I bought this game, I was thinking - hey, just another tomb raider game for my collection. 
 But I was wrong. This game is great.
  I simply loved it. 
  The riddles are pretty simple, kinda like the Zelda games', and the acrobatic moves make me wanna 
 work out seven days a week. 
  In fact, I have already started. So many nice moves, a great story, the sound is incredible - A 
 great experience from start to end - The only thing I think is pretty sad about this game is the 
 length! Only a little more than 10 hours of playtime is not enough in this marvelous gaming adventure. 
 So if you want a pretty short game, who definitely will amuse you, run run run, and buy this game!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madltu2005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  
  
  It's been years since they last release a Tomb Raider game. Many gamers and fans have had many 
 doubts that the series is dying due to the release of Tomb Raider Angel of Darkness and the flop 
 of the second film starring Academy award winner Angelina Jolie. With great promise, Eidos planned 
 to overhauled the series by taking it away from Core and bringing it to Crystal Dynamics. From 
 the look of this game, they made just the right choice. Crsytal Dyanamics took away the grid system 
 and brought a fresh approach to Tomb Raider. 
  
  Breath of Life in Lara
  Tomb Raider Legend is 70% adventure and 30% Action. The freshly modeled Lara looks over 20,000 
 polygons better. There are more humanity to her. She gets hurt and she tells it like it is, thanks 
 to voice acting by Keeley Hawes an astounding british actress lends her voice to this action packed 
 adventure. Lara felt more human and can now be related a real person. They paid such great detail 
 to her clothing, when she gets wet you will actually see drips in her skin. The look for Lara looks 
 good in all systems but better for the Xbox 360 because of the finer lighting the system has to 
 offer. 
  
  The game start you off to Bolivia and flashbacks occur before Lara begins her adventure. All the 
 places you travel somehow relate to each other. The story captures the player as you feel a sense 
 of aggression in Lara voice as she discovers what she now holds a legend unfolding. The level of 
 detail in the game is tremendously soft in the eyes. Very easy to look at, very wonderfully designed. 
 Each level breathes in a new life and gives you a great feeling of adventure. This time around 
 you really do want to make her live. The water detail flows like a dream and the 60ft waterfall 
 in Ghana looks amazing. CD also added some elements of Angel of Darkness, very briefly she will 
 speak with a bartender in beginning level in Tokyo (actual game-play) However, the level are not 
 as long as her past adventures. Some levels will take you 24minutes to play through second time. 
 There are time trials where you can replay the level and can beat it in 15minutes. When you complete 
 a level you may get new costumes for her to wear in the Croft mansion or past missions. Moreover, 
 this truly proves that its not about quantity but the quality of the game and Tomb Raider Legend 
 proves that. 
  
  Nevertheless, Tomb Raider Legend is a great action packed adventure that leaves you wanting more. 
 Crystal Dynamics wets their hands in their first development of the series and does an excellent 
 job. Lara Croft Tomb Raider Legend is a game that must be played by anyone who enjoys action adventure 
 games. As you traverse in the mysterious world of the past we begin to realize that the world is 
 a huge place to discover and that Lara still proves to be a great tourist guide
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheeseboy321
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  You don't have to be a Tomb Raider fan to enjoy this game. I've never played any of the other Tomb 
 Raider games, but I decided to pick this one up. After playing the demo, I wanted to play more. 
 Although the game was a bit short, it was definitely worth the purchase.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, you do a lot of jumping an grabbing ledges, and some occasional gun 
 fights. You also get to ride a motorcycle in a couple sequences (while fun, they are pretty easy 
 and very linear) . Most of the fun comes from exploring the different levels that are provided. 
 They range from Peru, to West Africa, to Kazakhstan, and even to Lara's mansion. There are a few 
 puzzles involved, and while fun, they are pretty easy. Only once did I have to look online for 
 help (on the Nepal level) . If you don't mind jumping and swinging on various objects, then you 
 will really enjoy this game. If jumping around is not your thing, then I suggest you stick to more 
 standard action or stealth games, like Splinter Cell.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty sweet. You can rotate the camera around anywhere you want 
 and observe the beautiful scenery (including Lara) . Occasionally the camera fixes on to a certain 
 spot and can get annoying, but overall it works very well. I was surprised that my computer was 
 able to handle this game. I only noticed my frame drop in a couple of places (I have a Pentium 
 1.8ghz with 512 ram and a ATI Radeon 9800 pro) .
  
  The sound in this game is very good in this game as well, especially the voice acting. Keeley Hawes 
 did a good job for Lara's voice, and Rino Romano (Luis from Resident Evil 4) did a great job for 
 James Rutland. The music is pretty good too, playing subtlety in the background. The gun noises 
 are ok, but that's no big deal.
  
  Controlling this game is very easy. If you play a lot of first person shooters, then you'll be 
 used to the WASD configuration to control the character and using the mouse to move the camera.
 
  
  While relatively short, and easy, this game is definitely worth the buy. Also, if you beat the 
 game, you can go back and play all of the levels to collect all of the rewards to earn secrets. 
 And if you don't mind playing Time Trials, you can beat the levels again to earn cheats and costumes. 
 An easy way to do this is to beat the last level on Time Trial, which gives you one shot kills 
 for the enemies and big bosses. I had no trouble beating the Time Trials after that. So if you're 
 either new to Tomb Raider, or have been oog-ling over Lara since she first appeared, give Tomb 
 Raider Legend a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaiexodus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Around TR6, they decided game playability wasn't the issue and subsequently got lost in the interactive 
 graphics. 
  Myst-Riven was once described as an interactive screen saver. The analogy for Legend is apt. While 
 it is reasonably playable, especially for those who tend to use both hands and feet while operating 
 the controls, the game has a number of drawbacks.
  First, it is small. With only eight levels, this is the smallest TR made. About on par with the 
 add ons to the earlier versions. To make up for this deficit, they added incentives to make a person 
 play it over and over again. 
  Second, the learning curve to get a reasonable handle on the controls is far steeper than any previous 
 TR. To actually perform all the fancy athletics requires a great deal of skill, and full mastery 
 and use of all the moves, extremely unlikely to impossible. Aside from the 'normal operation' there 
 are 23 exotic moves which aren't needed to play the game but are simply there to add eye candy. 
 As far as useful moves that would make the game easier to play, such as jumping backwards quickly, 
 that apparently wasn't the issue or interest of the game designers: Make is flashy show stuff and 
 the heck with playability.
  Thus, you get lots of eye candy, minimal game, and loads of fancy fluff to attempt to keep you 
 interested and intrigued. 
  
  As far as the graphics are concerned, they are excellent. They darn well better be, considering 
 the recommended PC to run the game is ultra high end with RAM and CPU speed a programmers wishful 
 dream of not to many years ago. 
  
  The only thing that balances out the general weakness of this game is a slight reduction in the 
 price from previous TR releases. 
  
  Finally, I think, if TR stays alive, we can look forward to a fully interactive screen saver with 
 a few hidden tricks come TR8, ala Riven. 
  It's playable and enjoyable, after a fashion. But you might consider buying a few DVD's of your 
 favorite movies for about the same price instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalneraka
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of the Tomb Raider series, whilst the story line has always been good, 
 I have been put off time and time again by the clunky control setup. When I think of a Tomb Raider 
 game, I get a picture of a "polygonaly" challenged heroin loping around a dull textured environment.
 
  
  Thankfully though, not any more. Tomb Raider: Legend is a stunningly beautiful game to look at, 
 it makes having a high end graphics card worth every sent. The environments are lush and full of 
 texture detail and the view for some high vantage points such as in the first level are incredibly 
 realistic.
  
  Lara has also been given a makeover and is looking beautiful as ever. It seems the designers have 
 finally taken the effort to dress Lara up to her full potential. Also, I have to agree with the 
 decision to reduce the size of her bust, to more "realistic" proportions.
  
  There are other realistic features that add to the experience as well, it is lovely to see that 
 some environmental variables such as water have an effect on your character. If Lara takes a quick 
 plunge into a tropical pool, or a dash through a waterfall, you can see the water dripping off 
 her and a wet sheen on her skin.
  
  Sound wise, Lara now has a dapper British accent which I feel lends to the sophisticated air of 
 the rich explorer. environmental sounds are equally on par, the chattering of streams and idle 
 chatter of bad guys are easily audible.
  
  The most noticeable feature though, is the Superior control setup, no longer will you have to curse 
 and swear as you try for an hour to clear a single difficult jump, the controls are now more sharp 
 and in my opinion best on the PC version.
  
  However, I felt though that the introductory movie was a bit week, it looked like the designers 
 had spent all their time rendering the actual game, then couldn't be bothered with the intro, I 
 would like to have seen some CG, but overall it is a minor oversight.
  
  As a final note, I would have to recommend Tomb Raider: Legends to anyone who is up for a good 
 adventure game, it's stunning graphics, improved controls and voluptuous heroin makes for a mighty 
 good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaymaster007
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft is back again and better then ever! This game features a brand new look of her and new 
 features. Even a new Mansion. The game may be a bit short like 9 to 10 hours but it is totally 
 worth playing twice.
  
  Lara and her team made up of Zip, Alistair, and Winston are to find pieces of a sword that is claimed 
 to be the real Excalibur from King Arthur. It ain't no Monty Python trip but be along for the ride, 
 because It's a hell of one.
  
  The levels are pretty detailed, and the graphics are outstanding. It's when you can say "Dang, 
 since Elderscrolls IV won't work on my PC, I'll get this game that'll work on almost everyone's 
 PC."
  
  The sound is absolutely fantastic. The music is one of the best parts in the game, it'll have you 
 just sitting there at the main menu listening to the theme and think how fantastic it is. Maybe 
 a little over exagerated there, but it's great.
  
  Get it, buy it, enjoy it. There are also plenty of surprises in the game so don't plan to be disappointed 
 when you beat the story, you still gotta get all the bronze, silver, and gold shields through out 
 the levels. You even get uniforms, trust me, it's worth the buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apeterso16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legends has to be the best Tomb Raider i have played so far. Graphics look spectacular 
 even with my Ge-Force 5200. Requirement weren't to bad either. The gameplay was great, i just think 
 that the story was a little short, at least for me :) . It only took me about 14 hours to beat the 
 story mode. The price for it was not bad either, usually brand spanking new games are $50 but Tomb 
 Raider Legend only cost me $40. Anyone who is a Tomb Raider fan is gonna love this one ;) . Even 
 if you aren't, download the demo and give it a try, you just mite like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pjatter
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've played most of the Tomb Raider games.
  Legend is really good looking, Lara looks real, the enviromnent looks real, but the enemy soldiers 
 look like crap. what really bugs me is that the next-gen content dosen't look any better than quake 
 4 (actually Q4 looks better) , but it requiers a whole lot more. With that said it is a really fun 
 game, the platforming is the most entertaining part, the fact that there is only auto-sight when 
 you move is stupid, i really hoped that you could aim your weapon like in all other games like 
 that.
  To wrap it up... Really fun, but way to short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I've rather stupidly stuck with the TR franchise for these past 10 or so years. Through thick and 
 thin, we TR fans have received more thin than thick and we've finally been awarded with something 
 special with Legend. Like many, i loved the first two TR games and unlike many, i stuck with the 
 rest of the franchise while it retreated to something beyond horrible. The four chapters before 
 Legend were legendary in their horrible existence (see the reviews if you don't believe me) . Crystal 
 Dyniamics taking the helm has brought Lara and her epic adventures back up to an epic status. The 
 first thing you notice are the Half Life 2 quality of graphics. The ability to turn on "Next Gen" 
 graphics does a lot for the beauty of this game. The world surrounding Lara looks more realistic 
 and Lara has finally reached a truly 'curvy' status beyond her blocky self in previous games. CD 
 has also made Lara a bit more effimiate and not so much the 16 year old's dream that first attracted 
 us to the game, way back when. We receive a back story that loosely plays through the small plot 
 that follows Lara through the many locations this game inhabits. Her movement and actions are more 
 realistic and she's finally back to the real tomb raiding we loved so from the first few games. 
 Gunplay is somewhat of a joke in the game as Lara auto-focuses on her many foes and hitting the 
 jump button and shoot button will win the fight 99% of the time. The puzzles aren't overly difficult 
 but just right in terms of difficulty. Theres some throw away motorcycle riding that looks as if 
 it was added to break up the puzzles and gunplay and maybe just because vehicles introduced themselves 
 in the second TR game and have been there ever since. Either way, it's not memorable. For solid 
 TR gameplay, puzzles and nice graphics, Legend is a solid and well deserved addition to the franchise. 
 Let's hope Crystal Dynamics continues to make future games this good or better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viperbeam28
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft Model
  
  Toby Gard, creator of Tomb Raider, Lara Croft and lead designer at Crystal Dynamics, comments on 
 Lara's new model as "... a natural evolution. We're now using close to 10,000 polygons, so we're 
 able to make her look much more realistic. She even gets wet when she goes into water, and she 
 gets dirty if she rolls around in filthy tombs long enough.
  
  "Lara now responds more realistically to her surroundings. If she is wet she will try and shake 
 the water out of her hair and clothes. If she is cold, she may shiver. She also sports a collar 
 bone, tendons, muscles, reactive eyes and emotional facial expressions."
  
  She will also speak with accurate lip-synch. Advanced techniques on the Xbox 360 and PC - such 
 as normal mapping - will add realistic imperfections to her skin. 
  
  Eidos is intent on keeping the plot of Tomb Raider Legend under tight wraps. What we do know is 
 that the game will delve much deeper into Lara's past than any previous episode. During this journey, 
 Crystal Dynamics have said we will find out exactly why Lara Croft became a Tomb Raider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turdtamper
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Pretty good game but it doesnt even finish the story, maybe they rushed it and didnt have time 
 to put in the real ending, or they wanted to make money with a sequel. Fun for the 8 hours it lasted, 
 has some puzzles that aren't so obvious at first so some of the puzzles do take time but the ending 
 was to sudden. Seems like they wanted to make money with a sequel, if its as short as this one 
 then it'll be pretty sad, they coulda just combined the two games and made one really great game. 
 Go out and rent it if your playin it on a console save yourself the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rkp3
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a decent Tomb Raider for a while now. I can say the wait is over, I am 
 happy with Tomb Raider: Legend. The gunplay could use a little more tweaking but is fun overall. 
 While Lara doesn't have many special moves, the kick in the face and vault in the air while shooting 
 enemies in slow-motion almost never gets old. Legends environments look spectacular and although 
 there isnt a huge variety it all seems right. The technical aspect of the game is very rough, 
 to keep it simple, you need a high-end pc to run the game with full graphics settings. I can run 
 the game on the highest graphics; however it isnt very enjoyable, so I play it on the regular 
 setting. It still looks great and it runs really good so its worth it.
  
  One thing in games I love is puzzles. Legends has a few puzzles that require Lara to use most of 
 her equipment. She has a camera that can analyze most objects and tell you if they are useful. 
 It takes away some of the fun and part of the puzzle but gets the job done. The puzzles are also 
 the most difficult problems you will come to face in Legends. Besides the tricky motorcycle riding 
 and enemies, the game isnt too tough nor does it take a while to finish. You should finish 
 the game in under an hour and there isnt too much stuff to make you come back. Yes, there 
 are different costumes, but nothing to worth seeing.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good but gets old after a while. The gunplay isnt anything spectacular. 
 Shooting countless enemies is great, but it is just about every action/adventure shooter game. 
 The targeting system is nice but makes the game so easy its only a matter of targeting and 
 killing the enemy and thats it. I do like the Indigo Prophecy like interactive cutscenes 
 and parts of the game. There arent a whole lot of them, but they are fun and it adds a nice 
 tone to the game.
  
  Overall, the atmosphere of Tomb Raider: Legends is great and it feels the way it should. The gunplay 
 is good but not great; it could have use a little more tweaking. If the game were to have more 
 content or a little more depth to the story it would have been a top-notch Tomb Raider game. Still, 
 it is one of the best Tomb Raider's in this decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  imagin that, you get to combine Prince of Persia jumping from one platform to the other with silly 
 combat style like old lara croft's with some awsome puzzles and you might get the picture.
  
  the game is well put the storyline, the mighty graphics, the voice acting and the very sexy 
 lara croft. the only and very buggy thing about the game is its shortness. 
  
  it took me less than 7 hours to complete that game considering i was playing the game on normal 
 not hard and i stopped a couple of time to have some break.
  
  the game's addiction is unbearable, you just cant get enough of it, but it sure got enough of you 
 so soon, going around through the story figuring what the hell happen to lara's mother and her 
 lost friend amanda and discovering the misterious artifacts and relics are the things you gonna 
 be doing in the game.
  
  the fighting parts of the game take two types the Enter the matix crappy style without any time 
 freezing or bullet dodging and the other way is the Beyond good and evil style of pushing the button 
 on time and figuring where to push something to hit someone.
  
  the graphics, very very well made and very hard to run, the game needs a top-end computer to run 
 it on medium forget about high options.
  i ran the game on low but it ran well not glitchs or flickering or whatever.
  
  the camera 
 isnt that bad, its not very easy to use but stil not soo hard, easier than Prince of Persia The 
 Two Thrones though, so its not that hard.
  
  the game isnt so easy but due to its awsomness you find yourself retrying the parts you failed 
 the first time few times again without getting frustrated but still the game is pretty easy to 
 play, i havent try to play it on hard but what the point anyways, you cant ply most adventure games 
 more than once that you already know how to solve all the puzzles and stuff but i guess i will 
 give it another chance to challenge my skills.
  
  i'd advice every adventure fan, or action adventure to be more accurate to own their copies of 
 the game, plus who doesnt love sexy lara.
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Behold the power of the Downloadable Demo! Ive heard of Tomb Raider, but what Ive been hearing 
 and reading about the last few games in the series has been less than flattering, and the TR film 
 I was dragged to a few years ago hardly helped matters. Still, I gave the PC demo a spin and was 
 so impressed by its high-performance visuals and fluid acrobatics that I went right out and bought 
 the game on release day.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is a story-driven adventure. The games plot is based on Lara Croft, a young, 
 athletic, and very rich orphaned British noble, trying to discover the truth behind the plane crash 
 that led to her mothers death and almost destroyed a very young Lara, who somehow managed to hike 
 her way to safety in hostile Nepalese mountain terrain. What follows is a fairly personal tale 
 about Laras mysterious background, with all the requisite archaeological and supernatural elements 
 one would expect.
  
  While the story certainly figures into the game, this is a bona fide example of a by-the-numbers 
 video game storyline. Its competently written and exposed, and it completely lacks cringe-worthy 
 moments, but  in contrast with, say, the plotlines of Max Payne or Metal Gear Solid  it is really 
 just an excuse to send Lara into beautiful, exotic locations all over the world. A story like this 
 could never be the backbone of a film (a good one, at least) ; this isnt really so much a criticism 
 as it is a statement of fact.
  
  When it comes to exotic locales, however, Legend goes all out. Laras destinations include sunny 
 Bolivia and icily surreal Nepal  two sites important to her mothers story  as well as the skyscraper 
 rooftops of Tokyo, the ancient catacombs of Ghana and Peru, an underground Soviet base in Kazakhstan, 
 and even a condemned Arthurian museum in Laras native England. Such varied environments are a 
 great opportunity for Ms. Croft to show exactly what shes made of.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Having never played a Tomb Raider game in the past, I wasnt sure what to expect here. That said, 
 the game is instantly accessible to the greenest action adventure gamer, so most should feel right 
 at home here. Ms. Crofts activities are divided into two categories  environmental puzzle solving 
 and mindless enemy horde shooting. Theres also the boss battling, which is basically a combination 
 of the two  Lara will have to do a lot of shooting to take the big guys down, but theres usually 
 an added trick to actually make it possible.
  
  Taking on these one at a time, the puzzle solving is easily the games most organic and rewarding 
 mechanic. Lara is remarkably easy to control, whether you use the mouse or analog gamepad, and 
 anything involving leaping, swinging, or grabbing ledges of any type just feels totally right. 
 She also has a grapple gun, which can be used for various (unfortunately, always pre-scripted) 
 tasks. Laras movements not only look smooth and easy, but the controls make her feel as lithe 
 and acrobatic as she looks. The Prince of Persia influence is obvious here, but if youre going 
 to copy someone, you might as well copy the best in the genre. All the while, the mouse-controllable 
 3rd-person camera gives a great view of the action, though it does have the unfortunate tendency 
 to glitch out in tight corners.
  
  Crystal Dynamics certainly didnt skimp on Laras moves. In addition to the bread-and-butter ledge-hopping, 
 she can roll, somersault, sneak, and even swan-dive around the environments. A lot of these moves 
 are unnecessary, but they sure look cool, and definitely raise the players level of admiration 
 for his/her in-game alter ego.
  
  Of course, everybody knows that any tomb worth exploring is fraught with potentially deadly puzzles, 
 and it takes much more than Laras aforementioned gymnastic skills to get through one. The puzzles 
 are variations on the same Indiana Jones themes youve seen a million times before  place a rock 
 on this pressure plate here, reverse the flow of water in that pool there, etc.  but theyre still 
 fun. On the other hand, theyre definitely not hard, as all but a few of the games puzzles can 
 be mentally solved literally in seconds. The optional side mission involving uncovering the secrets 
 of Laras stunning Croft Manor has much more challenging puzzles, and youre bound to enjoy these; 
 in fact, I found myself wishing that the main quests puzzles were a bit closer to the Manors 
 in difficulty.
  
  Beyond the puzzle-solving lies the combat system. Unsurprisingly, Legend does a less stellar job, 
 here. Its not that Lara doesnt pack a punch or that she lacks moves. On the contrary, her unlimited-ammo 
 dual pistols and other weapons can take out enemies with ease (as long as shes in range) . She 
 can evade fire with a myriad moves, and she can even kick, grapple-gun, and melee-bullet-time her 
 opponents, whose AI is unremarkable at best. The problem is that the keyboard-and-mouse control 
 scheme is too complex for its own good, the biggest issue being the necessity to switch from explore 
 mode to gun mode in the middle of battle. In tight quarters and in boss battles ones combat 
 strategy often becomes hopping like a madman and spamming all buttons simultaneously until everyone 
 is dead (thankfully, I could map a few of the functions, like roll and grenade, to the side buttons 
 on my mouse) . Simplicity is a virtue, and Crystal Dynamics may have been better off going with 
 a simpler, sleeker combat interface like that in Remedys Max Payne series. Thats not to say youll 
 encounter much difficulty eliminating enemies, but youll probably mostly feel thats the case 
 because they suck, not because youre all that good  not that rewarding a feeling.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend also contains a few motorcycle chase sequences, which are marred by repetitious 
 landscape and camera control that refuses to properly react to mouse movement. These are rare enough, 
 however, not to affect ones overall impression of the game.
  
  All told, I had some trouble pinning down Tomb Raider: Legends gameplay score. Through the first 
 half of the game and Croft Manor, it definitely felt like a 9. But the last few levels of the game, 
 while retaining the stunning looks and atmosphere of the first few, were fraught with annoying 
 boss battles and shallow interactive cutscenes, instead of focusing on the games strengths, which 
 are Laras puzzle-solving acrobatics. (After all, both bosses and interactive cutscenes were done 
 much better by Resident Evil 4, or, as I like to call it, The Bid Daddy of action adventure games.) 
 Overall, it feels like something between an 8 and a 9, but close to 8/10.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is one of the most graphically polished, prettiest games I have seen for 
 the PC platform yet. This is one of those games where the visuals are so convincing that the gameplay 
 itself feels more fun because of it. All of the graphical techniques that Crystal Dynamics chose 
 to implement are executed nearly flawlessly. The star of the show is, of course, Lara Croft, and 
 it will only take you five minutes of the first level (or the demo) to understand what I mean. 
 Her presentation seems as effortless as the characters athletic skills. She has a fairly high 
 polygon count, expressive facial animations during regular gameplay, and 100% perfectly convincing 
 motion-captured body animations no matter what shes doing  and this girl can do a lot of moves. 
 Her animations perfectly convey the characters agility as she vaults over huge chasms, shimmies 
 along narrow ledges, propels herself on the grappling rope, or mercilessly perforates her enemies 
 with automatic fire in bullet time. Equally impressively, Laras appearance changes according to 
 the environment. The best example of this is how her skin and outfits (nearly all 30 of them) realistically 
 get wet and/or dirty depending on what she did recently (swimming, climbing, etc.) . It is somewhat 
 odd, however, that a few of the outfits arent provided with wetness effects, so, for some reason, 
 Lara looks totally dry when getting out of the water in her swimsuit. Its odd, but its no more 
 than a quibble.
  
  While Laras model, animations, and environmental effects are the most impressive aspect of the 
 presentation, the environments are not far behind. They are as varied as they are beautiful, and 
 the games engine is equally as capable of showing off classic catacombs as wide-open outside areas, 
 the urban sprawl of Tokyo, or the softly lit Croft Manor with its shimmering swimming pool and 
 dusty library. Water looks particularly fantastic, whether swimming underwater or on the surface.
 
  
  Crystal Dynamics didnt content themselves with all that  the screenshots dont do this game justice. 
 They added a host of full-screen effects such as motion blur, depth of field, dust fog (no, not 
 the cheap, frame rate-increasing kind) , etc. For this reason, the game looks best in motion as 
 opposed to still shots, since motion blur works together with regular anti-aliasing to create a 
 cinematic, jaggy-less experience. To top this off, at slightly-above-recommended specs of a 6800GT, 
 1GB RAM, and Athlon 64 3400+, the game ran at a 70fps average with no slowdown, ever, in comparison 
 to system hogs like Oblivion or F. E. A. R., which have the annoying tendency to run well most of 
 the time but bog down in isolated instances where its the most noticeable, such as big fights.
 
  
  The graphics arent entirely a bed of roses, however. The above performance was achieved at 1280x960, 
 with all settings set to max including anti-aliasing, except the controversial next-generation 
 content option. I do have to say, Crystal Dynamics and nVidia really screwed up with this one. 
 The idea is that turning on this option  which has no sub-options to control individual effects 
  enables effects seen in the Xbox 360 version of the game, including radiosity-like lighting, 
 special waters effects, and HDR. Well, with the latest nVidia beta drivers, the next-gen content 
 option drops the frame rate from 70fps right down to 20fps. This isnt an isolated case, either 
  check out some forums for this game. Ive heard reports of people running dual SLI cards and 
 still getting only 30-40fps. The bottom line is, unless you have an extreme rig (were talking 
 512MB video card) , this nex-gen option isnt really an option at all. In addition, even at the 
 low frame rate, the game didnt look all that good  the HDR/bloom lighting was nice, but environment 
 shadows looked weirdly pixelated, and the whole game just looked a lot darker than it should. Basically, 
 I just turned the option off and contented myself with the fine looks and excellent performance 
 I described earlier.
  
  However, even in the non-next-gen mode, the visuals have their flaws. Laras model looks great, 
 but not as high-polygon as the fighters in the last couple of Dead or Alive games. Much worse is 
 the fact that enemies look identical to each other and non-descript, and they dont feature rag-doll 
 death animations, which makes shooting them look kind of boring aside from Laras aerial maneuvers. 
 Its a fairly big complaint, but the fact that everything else looks so fantastic definitely makes 
 up for it: This is one good-looking game. It almost makes me want to knock that Godfather graphics 
 score of 7 I gave down to a 6, because the standards they are a-changin. 9/10
  
  SOUND
  
  Legends sound work is a mixed bag. On the one hand, the infrequently and non-intrusively used 
 musical score tends to be varied and sublimely fitting to the environment and action at the time 
  I particularly enjoyed the female choral vocals while I climbed around the icy mountain peaks 
 and precarious temple ledges of Nepal. The music definitely strikes just the right notes atmospherically. 
 On the other hand, the voice work could definitely use improvement. True, Lara and her supporting 
 characters  who are primarily heard over her headset while in action  have a uniformly excellent 
 script and equally solid acting (even if Alister the scientist guy does sound incredibly nasal, 
 making Laras sarcastic retorts doubly fitting) . However, the rest of the in-game voice work is 
 done rather poorly. The enemies repetitive bantering can be forgiven, but the constant, unending, 
 repetitive, overbearing blabbering by the games bosses will likely be enough to force you to use 
 the mute button, especially if the battle isnt going your way. It doesnt sound like a big drawback, 
 but something like that can leave a sour taste in ones mouth, especially since the last thing 
 one gets to do in the game is fight a long boss battle. 8/10
  
  VALUE
  
  The games main quest, if undertaken with the sole purpose of finishing the game without stopping 
 to stop smell the roses, is about 8 hours long. The Croft Manor bonus level is a relatively tough 
 collection of puzzles and is good for another couple of hours; it also serves as a nice counterpoint 
 to all the tomb raiding in the main quest, which is nice since the Manor can be explored at any 
 time from the main menu. All the levels are also peppered with reward objects, some of which can 
 be decidedly difficult to reach, which will be a nice challenge for observant players. Finally, 
 the player can undertake time trials for all the levels. All of this activity does have some rewards, 
 the coolest of which are  what else?  extra outfits for Lara to use whenever one wants. All told, 
 a skilled player will be able to get every possible extra out of Tomb Raider: Legend in at most 
 18 hours. To be honest, the average guy will probably get bored somewhere short of the 15 hour 
 mark after obtaining the main outfit varieties (do you really care to unlock the Orange Winter 
 outfit if youve already got the blue one and the gray one?) .
  
  As youve probably gathered, replay value is far from the games strong point, even at the relatively 
 low $40 price point. 6/10
  
  FINAL SCORE
  
  Put simply, Tomb Raider: Legend is a fun game with a very high level of polish but not a great 
 deal of depth. Itll cast its spell on you early with its beautiful visuals and agile main character, 
 and its a fantastic experience while it lasts, which isnt nearly long enough. That said, I wouldnt 
 worry about the future of the franchise, as this title puts it back on the map in force. Eidos 
 would be wise to devote quite a bit of cash for the sequel, because with Crystal Dynamics, its 
 in good hands. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterek123456
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  It's my favourite Tomb Raider but this part is like Prince of Persia and it's very short play time. 
 Graphics is good but not beatiful. Sounds is best of technical in TR Legend. Mark is 7,6 because 
 gameplay and story is best of series. I like too fighting and motorcycle driving in this game. 
 Next defect is too darkness over long time of the game. Engine of this game is great! It working 
 on medium graphics on really old computer ( I check it up on my friend computer and it is true 
 ) . And Lara is in this part beautiful :) Generally I instructing this game. Sorry for errors but 
 i'm not from english speaking Land. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earl088
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  This is the latest addition to the tomb raider series, Tomb Raider: Legends. The story covers mostly 
 a minuscule about Lara's past and mostly focused on King Arthru's sword, Excalibur as a very powerful 
 ancient artifact which is sought after by other people in claims of power.
  
  Now this is what i found on the game;
  Puzzles are supear easy, No more head cratching puzzle 
 on this game
  Game is EXTREMELY linear.
  Storyline is very poor.
  Graphics is way below modern standards, But next generation content kills your system even if you 
 have a 7900GTX or a X1900XTX.
  Sound quality was just average, i didnt like the gun firing sounds as it sounded so "plastic"
 
  The game is pretty short, less than 12hours of gameplay!
  
  All in all this game is not the worse game out there but if you ask me its not really worth the 
 money and the time even if you are a hardcore TR fan you will still buy the game but in the end 
 be very disappointed by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikidoleschal
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  great revival - liked it almost as the second one - 5th one was very disappointing actually i had 
 to de-install it cause the game was buggy like hell this one delivered big time - i almost thought 
 laras legacy would be dead but gladly i was wrong keep them coming - thanks for listening to the 
 community of lara croft fans and doing it right now - maybe the graphics could be better but actually 
 it doesnt hurt to have the same feeling as i had when i played laras second and until now best 
 adventure - this is the right step in the right direction in my opinion so plz let her live forever 
 and listen to the fans and let them experience interesting and entertaining adventures like this 
 one 
  
  cheers hal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchex
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  If we are making differences between all other tomb raider games that we're made for cool adventures 
 is Tomb Raider Legend the best of them. The animations of Lara are made perfect. She climbs, runs 
 and flies in the air as an angel. This time the creators made an interesting story of Lara's past. 
 Specially i like the riddles in the game and the motorcicle in the second chapter. This game did 
 or will make a point in the history of Tomb Raider. So let us hope they'll make movies from all 
 those games in the future. They have many ideas awailable from the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armygoose
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning, a team at Eidos produced a remarkable game that was a genesis of its kind, that 
 game was Tomb Raider. They followed with a banging sequel that continued to amaze fans of the serious. 
 Other titles followed as the years went by. The technology age hit, and computers and gaming systems 
 came out that could do surprisingly frighting things. Unfortunately, the Tomb Raider team failed 
 to utilize this technology, and still ran their game off of the same graphics engine that they 
 started with. This proved to be a grave disappointment.
  
  Not now, a new genesis has awakened. . . a second beginning. A new age has emerged with the release 
 of Tomb Raider: Legend! The graphics in the game are remarkable, the sound explosive, and the game 
 play is immense. 
  
  Fortunately for us old-timers, the strategy and controls are very similar; So the learning curve 
 is cut drastically for veterans of the series. Due to the story line layout, newcomers won't miss 
 vital aspects of the game, or misunderstand what is going on. 
  
  I would highly recommend this game to anybody who enjoys action games, and especially to those 
 already familiar with the series. It's another chapter in a famous novel. The ancient scrolls finally 
 have been revealed! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mTizvandi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Best in tomb raider series is this version of it.
  I love new lara craft on tomb raider, so pretty and beautiful game
  I talking with my son and 
 say it, "play with game and enjoy it." because this is a good and my favorite game.
  I playing the Tomb Raider series and make a the Lara Croft history with writer. I played the first 
 four games and their expansions (or Gold versions) when available. I even enjoyed number 3 somewhat, 
 in spite of the reviews it got. I never picked up Chronicles, but did revisit the series with the 
 flat Angel of Darkness and tried very hard to like it, but couldn't get myself to finish the game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zubair_Ahmed
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  No doubt this time eidos got something to show on market and they impress 90% people i think because 
 this game has revolutionary graphics n gameplay .Superb Lara structure i mean costume n body each 
 n everything is been focused this time n they realse blockbuster all n all good sound some others 
 intresting peoples 
  ALL n ALL folks Worth to play because as far as i concerned this is best in lara series
  No doubt 
 this time eidos got something to show on market and they impress 90% people i think because this 
 game has revolutionary graphics n gameplay .Superb Lara structure i mean costume n body each n 
 everything is been focused this time n they realse blockbuster all n all good sound some others 
 intresting peoples 
  ALL n ALL folks Worth to play because as far as i concerned this is best in lara series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forbes101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game contains the best graphics i have ever seen, but is still able to be played on a lower 
 system due to its versatile spec. The way Lara moves has obviously been studied using a real person. This 
 allows you to become Lara and part of the game. This is truly the the Tomb Raider that contains 
 it all. The level locations are evenly space out through the world, with a good balance of amazing 
 tombs and rich cities. Lara herself has never looked better. The use of the mouse in the PC version 
 allows you to move the camera around your surroundings and lara. Her eyes are constantly moving 
 which adds to the realism.
  
  This game truely has to be played to be believed, with definitely more pros to cons. If you have 
 some money to spare and are thinking of buying a game, not matter what sex you are, this is the 
 game for you. Brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iAmit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  In this ver i really surprise to see good graphics and also new features like cut scene game play 
 coz it also involve you in game i like that and one more thing when Lara goes into water then her 
 texture changed instantly. But that game is not looks like old one coz it lacs of its story line 
 which is too bad.
  In this game you see Lara in many outfits and also some secrets to reveal for you so you have to 
 play that game again and again for completing ur status 100% and there is a concept art also included 
 who gives you a glimpse of that game production pipeline and reveal some secrets of it.
  
  But After all that game give you a enjoy so just buy it and play it .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nowakee_Kitty
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I'll give it credit for the graphics - those have drastically improved.
  
  I've never been to interested in playing the old games but I figured that I may as well give this 
 one a shot.
  
  They're still overplaying the image of a perfect, sexy, and impossible women, they're really outdated 
 with the controls, and overall the game is boring.
  Again, I enjoyed the graphics. They're not Baten Kaitos ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipsnonly
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  If it weren't for the fact that Lara Croft was the video game industry's hottest eye candy, Tomb 
 Raider would be 20x less successful as it is today. They still haven't figured out how to master 
 the camera work. You're up against a wall and you want to see what's behind you? Too bad. And how 
 many bullets do you have to put in a leapord to make it die? Ten? Twenty?
  
  The story line is decent, the voice acting is good, Lara's getting hotter and hotter, but all of 
 these things can only last a game so long... much less a franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gasperbojanc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Lara na Ducatiju. Wow, lahko reem le noro. OK sama vonja sicer ni ni podobna motoGP-ju 
 ampak je zadovoljiva, posebej, ker lahko med vonjo strelja. Nebodijihtreba bi lahko bili bolj 
 pametni, navkljub temu da gre za postulovino. Sicer so avtorji pila UI probali nadomestiti 
 z mnoinostjo nepridipravov, toda tudi to ne zalee zadosti. e eden vejih minus je 
 kamera, ki bi morala v tovrstnem pilu biti na dosti vijem nivoju. Posebej pea pogled zgoraj, 
 za iskanje prehodov, skrivnih poti itd...
  Drugae je pa igra res super. Jokarica ima na voljo dovolj igrak, med katerimi e najbolj 
 istopa izvrstno "dolgo oko", katerega bi bil vesel e 007. Npr. ko pogled usmeri na kaken mehanizem, 
 ter pritisne tipko E, te naprava lepo obvesti, ali je zadeva mehanizem ali je namenjena premikanju....
 
  Samo vodenje lika je izvrstno, e posebej skakanje, Pri odrivu ti ni treba biti ve do milimetra 
 oz. piksla natanen. Streljanja ter pretepanje je dovolj elastino, tako da teav ne 
 bodo imeli niti zaetniki nevajeni kombinacije mike ter tipkovnice. -- tak je pa prvi 
 opis igre moj seveda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NGUYENANHKIET
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is the best game that I was waiting for, but there're some mistakes in game 
 as some Lara's clothes don't get wet after swimming in water, and example if she wears another 
 clothes in some levels, we realise that her eyes aren't moving- they just stand still. the final, 
 If she wears Suit, Cream clothes, we see her mouth has a blue line in the middle (You can check 
 by yourself) . Although there're some mistakes above but ths game runs very smooth on my system 
 that uses video card Geforce FX 5200 of Asus with all features on (not anti-aliasing) . Thanks Eidos 
 for that. I hope the next seri won't take a long time. Eidos can release a new expansion for this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeuxcine
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  I loved the first and second sequel. So ahead of time and so cinematic as watching the movie. And 
 those brilliant moments like T-Rex chasing you, it was worth it.
  Now graphics is great, Lara looks even better. Story is dull and unimaginative. Lacks something 
 that first two sequels had - thrill of playing, you now whan you sweat as each level passes due 
 to excitement of what is coming next. I expected more not to mention that game is too short. 
 
  Sound is good although it would be better if it were surround.
  But those console like controls.
  Why PC players have to suffer due to consoles? Give us back 
 our good old fashion controls!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Even though there has been several films shot according to Lara Croft, we still couldn't experience 
 any good game titles along with it.
  Except for Tomb Raider and Tomb Raider 2 which were quite a success, but all its sequels were getting 
 far away from perfection, and Eidos took the rough decision to break contracts with Core Design 
 which failed them repeatedly on all fronts.
  
  Crystal Dynamics, which is widely known for Legacy of Kain, took the responsibility of developing 
 Legends, which is supposed to bring back Lara's reputation back .
  
  The introduction scene begins with Lara and her mother on a plane, which suddenly starts falling 
 onto the ground due to the engines failing.
  Lara and her mother survive, and they discover that they crashed near some ancient ruins. 
  Young 
 Lara accidentally activates an old artifact, and her mother in desperate action to save her child 
 gets sucked into some uknown portal.
  
  Right after, the game starts and we experience the new gameplay Crystal Dynamics has put upon us, 
 which has improved on its predeccesors.
  
  The majority of the gameplay is all about platforming, where you'll need to guide Lara through 
 several traps, which includes avoiding obstacles, jumping from one platform from another or simply 
 solving a puzzle.
  
  We also have the ability to ride motorcycles, but only in specific levels.
  This is quite fluently 
 done and adds a nice feel to the game. 
  
  The combat system of Legends is quite dull, all the Lock on buttons give the game a console port 
 look, plus the shooting doesn't feel realistic and is rather tedious.
  The enemies themselves don't show a really high IQ, they don't even bother to run under cover when 
 approaching them from the back.
  
  The graphics side of the game is rather impressive, but it also has rather high requirments for 
 an adventure game.
  This game also possesses the "Next-Gen" graphic option, which looks really nice but it takes a 
 really decent computer to play it without 10 fps average.
  
  The replayability of the game is quite low, beating it on Easy and afterwards trying Hard didnt 
 really give me anything new - the puzzles stayed exactly the same, and there was no interest replaying 
 them again.
  
  But anyways, this game is a MUST BUY for any Tomb Raider fan, especially for those who were disappointed 
 in the previous games, and to those who simply want an interesting adventure in the world of Lara 
 Croft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: francyx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  ~ Welcome back, well its been a while since there has been a good tomb raider, a lot of people 
 don't understand the game you'd have to pretty much played them all, and yes the requirements, are 
 CRAZY, the frame rate is crazy my amd 64 laptop with 1.5 gb of ram and 128 video card was lagging 
 here and there , had to use my amd fx 2 (60) 512 video card 2.0gb of ram and it finally all fell 
 in place, but this good brings back so many memory it does leave you thinking.
  
  the game it's self is pretty much like every tomb raider, the jump has been taking out completly 
 you jump like so low now, and sometimes things can throw you off in the game, kinda lame you got 
 the bincolars telling you things you can use, but the game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shangtsungmk363
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The Tomb Raider series has had it's ups and downs, ans after Angel of Darkness one would almost 
 think that Lara would just be best off to crawl under a rock and die. Thankfully that didn't happend. 
 Eidos wised up, binned Core and got themselves a new developer (the cleverer choice) and the fruits 
 of this decision is coming through.
  
  Gameplay wise, lara has come a long way in Legend. I did not have a problem with how lara moved 
 in the previous games until after I played Legend. Lara has so much more fluidity to her movements, 
 she now answers to your every whim, and flawlessly at that. Basically Lara can in Legend do all 
 the things you thought to yourself in the previous games "Why can't she do that" (I thought it anyways) . 
 She can grab ledges from angles, she doesn't have to jump back before running to jump a gap, and 
 although she can no longer sprint, she can instead shimmy, climb etc. faster simply by pressing 
 a button in rythm with her movements which help to speed up the pace more than sprinting ever could. 
 As for the firefights, there arent really that many of them, and they are clearly not the games 
 stronges attribute. Don't get me wrong, they work and the can be quite enjoyable but besides from 
 some kicking and jumping off enemies there really isn't that much depth there, and it cant even 
 be compared to the exploration part of the game where what you need to do isn't painstakingly obvious, 
 but rather instinktive.
  
  As far as visuals go, the 360 version of Legend is very good, especially for beeing a cross-generation 
 game. but there are tinmes where the graphics don't allways look so good. Whenever the soft shadows 
 hit lare they form these dancing shadows on her body that look blocky and sort of off. The lighting 
 however looks absolutely amazing and is rendered beautifully. Propably the most beautiful part 
 of the game is the water, water has never looked this good. Allready in the first level you see 
 the water and it makes you just stop and stare. As for the environments, they also look quite good 
 although I would say that the Bolivia and South-Africa levels look the best, that could be beacause 
 of esthetic preference, beacause all the levels really are incredibly well made. 
  
  The musical score in the game is quite well made, but even more so it suits the game perfectly, 
 the music really sets the tone wherever you are in the game you never feel that the music is ill 
 fitting. The music does not stand out, or is anything exceptional, but it is fitting for the game. 
 There are quite alot of dialogues in the game aswell. These can be quite entertaining and help 
 to break up the monotony of the game, plus it helps the story line as a little kicker to the cutscenes. 
 The voice acting is all very well done, and Lara has a fitting new voice in Legend.
  
  Overall Tomb Raider Legend is a very good step in the right direction for the Tomb Raider series, 
 and the game really does make you feel like a Tomb raider (all over again if you played the first 
 games) . The only real drawback to the game is that it's very short. Sure there are a lot of costumes 
 and other things to unlock, and there are cleverly hidden secrets hidden all across the game in 
 quite surprising and refreshingly intricate places, but thats only for the hardcore. Even so Tomb 
 Raider Legend i definively a game that is worth your money even if you just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hero_911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  i think its a great game ... that you can do a lot of things on it , you got the abilities , & you've 
 to think a lot to solve the clues in the game...&also you must be fast in your fighting ,thinking, moving... etc
 
  i think its a better version of tomb raider series
  may be its not perfect but its great game... cause every game has its faults
  and for this one 
 maybe the camera a little noisy, and the aiming not so good.. but i think thats makes it relabel,
 
  and about lara she's without a mistake ... and the game put her in her position and the story is 
 good but not so great so i hope that's the next one will be more greater... thanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N3BU7AR
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Since I started playing the game, I couldnt put it down! It was THAT gripping! I love the action 
 sequences when you have to participate in the cinematic sequences. It really makes the game more 
 interesting and anticipating. I really feel that this is teh begining of a whole new range of ideas 
 that can be implemented into the game, I mean just think, if the physics in the game are this good 
 now... just wait till November time when the PS3 cxomes out! There's no doubt in my mind that they 
 allready have new plans for the next Tomb Raider game, I just cant wait! 
  Spectacular game in all, I hope the following Tomb Raiders are just the same... or even better... 
 if thats possible! Come on PS3! Show us what Lara can do! Take us to the Tombs that fill our minds 
 with mystery and wander once again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wynkz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend.... I thought this game was really good and only took me a day to complete. 
 But because of that very reason I am also quite disappointed. I have played Tomb Raider from the 
 beggining and I dont think any of them where as easy as Legend. I also think that this one was 
 more of an action game rather than a puzzley type of game (if you know what I mean) . There werent 
 half as many puzzles in this one like the others. And if there was then I missed them beacuse they 
 were way to easy to solve.
  The graphics for the game where absolutely brilliant though and it ended the game with a good cliff 
 hanger for the next Tomb Raider.
  I still liked Legend though and I would defenatly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwnummelin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  A Tomb Raider game worth playing. And it's all thanks to Crystal Dynamics.
  This game brings back the excitement and that "flare" the original TR had (1 & 2) . Yea it's kind 
 of short (5-7h) , but if you want to you can try finding all the tokens to unlock all the extras 
 and pistol upgrades, you'll end up somewhere around 10-12h gameplay which I think is fair for an 
 action adventure.
  
  There aren't as much action in this TR as in the previous games, but the developer has made it 
 much more fun. I hear people complaining about the action controls and lock-on system, but I can't 
 say I had any problems with that. I just love to dodge-roll behind a rock or something in the middle 
 of the gunfight throw a grenade at the enemy, then jump out at them. It's like there's less action 
 yet it's much more of it.
  
  The platforming is obviously the priority of in this game, and with a camera that works 99.9% of 
 the time, it's just plain fun. Many of the puzzles are quite obvious, but there are som you've 
 got to think twice on.
  Add Laras new moves and that she can't jump 2.5m vertically, it feels like a NEW game. I mean, 
 no one can say that TR 3 - 6 had any drastic changes to the game (other than Laras "equipment") .
 
  
  The sound is great (at least for the PC version) and the music is good (not FF-good but still) .
 
  
  When it comes to graphics it looks quite stunning with all effects on, but it doesn't come for 
 free. They say that Oblivion is the most demanding game at the moment, but this game isn't that 
 far behind, even though the graphics in Oblivion looks much better (Graphics engine etc.) .
  
  And last but not least: The controller... I have one word for this one.. FINALLY!
  The controller 
 is so much better than all TR games put together, and it didn't take me long ti recognise it from 
 The Legacy of Kaine series. One of the many features these games share. If you're new, you've probably 
 learned the controls before you get up the first hill.
  
  There's one thing I'd like to say that I didn't like, and that's the MC driving.. This is only 
 part of two levels and it's quite quick and painless.
  
  All together I think this is a great game that everyone should try, TR fan or not. Take your time 
 and notice the small details in the game, like the 1000 year old tombs are old, worn down and actually 
 dusty, or that even Lara Croft can't grab a perfect hold on a ledge every time.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend isn't a revolution or anything, but somehow it just works.
  Try it! It's worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mi2scg
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game that gives you a lot of fun and very interesting researching like in old, good Tomb 
 Raider time! Lara Croft looks better than ever, her movements are so fluid and real! Levels are 
 short, but complex and interesting. For Next Generation graphic enabled prepare powerful graphic 
 card and the newest processor! Opponents AI is ok, but it could be a little bit mor efficient. 
 Once you enter Legend game you won`t stop playing it until you`re finished! Believe me!
  Just play it and enjoy it! After all this is great come back of Lara Croft! And what a come back!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Tomb Raider series and the Lara Croft history. I played the first four games 
 and their expansions (or Gold versions) when available. I even enjoyed number 3 somewhat, in spite 
 of the reviews it got. I never picked up Chronicles, but did revisit the series with the flat Angel 
 of Darkness and tried very hard to like it, but couldn't get myself to finish the game.
  
  Along comes Crystal Dynamics and the return of Toby Gard, and woot! we're back in business! I don't 
 really know where the story fits in, and I don't really care, because Lara's back, and she looks, 
 moves, and talks better than ever. I have only cleared 3 of the 10 levels or something like that, 
 but I am very impressed with the fluidity of the environments and the way Lara can move around 
 in and interact with it. The puzzles are naturally laid in the tombs so nothing seems too artificial 
 (though there are some things you think Lara should be able to do but can't) . And I love being 
 able to control the game with the keyboard/mouse setup finally!
  
  The game is loaded with secrets, many of which I can't figure out how to get to, but am looking 
 forward to playing through again just to get them all. You unlock "extra" content by finding the 
 bronze, silver and gold secrets from each level, including models from the game, concept art, new 
 outfits for Lara, and even pistol upgrades. After clearing Bolivia (the first level) , I found I 
 could wander through all of Croft Manor, exploring the many secrets and cool things there (all 
 her unlocked outfits are kept in the bedroom) . She has a homemade obstacle course set up to hone 
 your skills and pick up the extra secrets there as well (I'm only able to get about half of them 
 so far) . Once you beat a level, you unlock a time trial for that level which, if you beat in a 
 certain amount of time, you unlock cheats that can be used right from within the main menu. Anyway, 
 they've given us a lot to do here, and I actually want to replay levels just to get to that content. 
 
  
  The levels themselves do seem a bit railroaded, in that there really is only one way to solve the 
 puzzle, only one way through the level, etc. The thing that makes it fun is how neat all the puzzles 
 really are, and how interactive Lara is with her environment. She looks at things of interest as 
 you pass, her binoculars help give you clues if you get stuck, she has impressive combat combo 
 moves that help you kick butt, and more. Plus, the polygon count on Lara is impressive, she has 
 never looked better, and the environments have received the same sort of treatment. Everything 
 looks great! I experienced a few graphics artifacts with open sky levels, and a few other minor 
 things, but never anything to seriously hamper gameplay (plus, my computer isn't Grade A top of 
 the line any more) . Once in a while, my sound crackles though, but I'm experiencing that in a few 
 other new games as well like Elder Scrolls: Oblivion.
  
  If you were a fan of the series and gave up on Lara, give her another chance, she'll win you back. 
 If you've never tried a Tomb Raider game, pick this one up, it'll get you hooked. If you don't 
 like these kinds of games, pick it up just so you can stare at Lara :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dust24311
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  I have played many of the Tomb Raider games in the past, only to be left wondering where the past 
 30 hours of my life went. There have been marked improvements in almost all aspects of the game. 
 Tomb Raider: Legend is the best game yet, and is pretty fun to boot!
  
  Graphics: This is the bread-and-butter for this game. Patch 1.1 enabled more next-gen features 
 for a lot of Nvidia-based GPUs. I can easily say that this game uses more features on my 7800GS 
 than any other game on the market. The number of shaded pixels on each screen is amazingly high. 
 Shader Model 3 is in full effect here. HDR lighting and real-time shadows are numerous in this 
 tomb/jungle environment. This adds up to an engrossing gameplay setting that you find yourself 
 pausing to admire on many occasions.
  
  Gameplay: Lara is much easier to control in this game. I would ditch the keyboard and mouse, and 
 pick up a 12 button gamepad with analog sticks. I'm using a logitech rumblepad 2 (which they patched 
 in v1.1) . The biggest improvement in this part of the game is that you don't have to be dead-on 
 in jumping perfectly to a ledge for her to grasp. As long as you don't completely miss, she will 
 grab on to the target and pull herself up. This was a MAJOR SOURCE OF FRUSTRATION in past installments. 
 I think we can all remember countless reloads after missing a ledge by a few pixels.
  
  Lara Model: The physical model of Lara is well done, with perfect pixel shading, and fluid motion. 
 They have also added fun animations to her routine - for instance, climbing up a ledge is now finished 
 off with a handstand. Getting from area to area can be accomplished with a full and fresh set of 
 gymnastics, that look refreshingly smooth.
  
  Gunplay: A gauntlet of typical soldier and cat battles (the staple of the series) await you in 
 Legend. A variety of automatic rifles can be picked up to accompany Laras dual pistols. Jumping 
 and firing is pulled off very well, and becomes second nature after an hour or so of gameplay. 
 Again, I can't be impressed enough at the shaded pixel smoke and bullet-fire.
  
  I am still working through the game, but I must say that I am looking forward to any future PC 
 installments of the Tomb Raider series. They finally found the magic formula to increase fun, and 
 technical graphics in one solid package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  In the last few months I have done two things. One was to go on holiday; the other was to engage 
 in a Tomb Raider marathon, completing every other game of the series in preparation for Legend. 
 So, I had been building up to this game for a long time, and as such had very high expectations.
 
  
  Was I disappointed? Hell, no!
  
  This is comfortably the best addition to the series. While the original still stands as probably 
 the best Tomb Raider game due to the fact that no one had seen anything like Tomb Raider before, 
 Legend is the best of the sequels.
  
  The series had fallen behind the times at the turn of the century, and so new developers Crystal 
 Dynamics specifically stated that their aim was to reinvent the series and bring Lara Croft into 
 the 21st century. They have succeeded. The games controls have been tweaked, the graphics have 
 been giving a massive overhaul, the voice acting is professional, and they have introduced alternative 
 ways of playing the game with unlockable rewards - something that previous instalments have not 
 featured. Lara Croft is here in 2006, risen like the proverbial phoenix from the ashes of Angel 
 of Darkness - a game slated heavily enough by critics and gamers alike that the series could well 
 have been finished off.
  
  The plot of Legend sees Lara facing up to tragedies from her past and uncovering the truth behind 
 a very famous myth. The story is engaging, and while most of the levels simply involve recovering 
 an artifact, the game is able to keep the story ticking along at a good pace. There are of course 
 cliffhangers in the game that cause you to hurry through, eager to find out what happens next. 
 The story is fun and engaging, though frustratingly it is very short and leaves many questions 
 unanswered (they clearly want us to buy the next game, so that our questions may be answered!) .
 
  
  The length of the story is a pretty major problem. In fact, its my only real criticism of the 
 game. The game is breathtakingly short. I have a tendency to take my time with games like this, 
 preferring to investigate all the areas thoroughly, take time to think about the story and fight 
 battles strategically. Despite this, I completed the game for the first time yesterday in just 
 13 hours of gameplay. I've heard of people who have apparently completed it in half that time. 
 The story is so good, and the gameplay is so fun, that the length of the game really disappoints 
 me - I want more! Thankfully there is the opportunity to replay levels to try and find the secrets 
 that were missed on the first run through, a time trial mode, and one increased difficulty setting. 
 These challenges unlock various rewards, meaning that there is a definite incentive to complete 
 them.
  
  The game is not massively difficult, with all the puzzles being fairly obvious once you have completed 
 one and worked out the formula for getting past them. There are various other activities aside 
 from puzzle solving, such as shooting enemy goons, fighting bosses (two of which are very tricky 
 to defeat - I won't spoil the surprise by giving details) , as well as sequences that require you 
 to hit the appropriate combination of movement keys quickly, much like a dance or music game that 
 you could find in an amusement arcade. This final element is new to the series, and while it may 
 sound a little strange it is used only sparingly, and appropriately breaks up the regular sequences. 
 It would be nice if there was some variety in the standard puzzles though, but at heart they are 
 classic Tomb Raider - it just wouldn't be Lara if she wasn't pulling blocks and activating switches! 
 
  
  On the subject of pulling blocks, we now have complete 3D control of Lara, meaning that she can 
 pull the blocks where she pleases, rather than simply along vertical and horizontal axis. This 
 is brought about by a change in the controls for the PC version, incorporating the now standard 
 keyboard/mouse movement system seen in contemporary games. While at times this makes executing 
 moves quite difficult due to the fact that you only have one hand on the keyboard to hit buttons, 
 on the whole it is a big plus, not only because it is the modern way (as opposed to the now dated 
 keyboard only controls of previous instalments) , but also because it allows us a full 360 degree 
 view, meaning that we can fully appreciate the games rich graphics.
  
  It is no lie to say that the graphics are mind-blowing. At times it is hard to believe that you 
 are looking at computer-generated graphics - it looks like watching a live-action movie. My PC 
 only just meets the recommended specs and the game looks beautiful. I stagger to think about how 
 good it would look if my system met the "optimal" requirements stated on the box. I have also seen 
 the game on the Xbox 360, and it looks incredible. In particular the water and the lighting effects 
 are out of this world! Supposedly it would look even better on a top of the range PC.
  
  The sound is also top class. Not to discredit the voice actors of the previous games as some of 
 them (though not all) did a good job, but it is a relief that they have finally got an entire team 
 of good actors to voice the characters. It is particularly pleasing that they have an established 
 actress voicing Lara. Keeley Hawes, who is well known to British audiences, and in America is best 
 known for her role as Zoe in MI-5 (or Spooks as us Brits know it) , is perfect as the voice of Lara. 
 The other actors all do a great job, giving the characters a class not seen in the previous games. 
 Another new element to the game (well, it was used fleetingly in Chronicles) is the introduction 
 of a video and audio link between Lara on her adventures and her two associates back home. They 
 give her advice and information during her adventures as well as providing amusing banter. If the 
 two actors in these roles had done a bad job then this could have been a very annoying feature, 
 though thankfully they do an excellent job with a good script, and as such are a welcome addition. 
 The sound effects are also spot-on, and the ambient music in the levels and during the menu screens 
 is appropriate and enjoyable.
  
  I found one major bug with the game, which was that it would crash when I was viewing a few of 
 the unlockable rewards. This problem was fixed when I installed the official patch though, so for 
 me at least the game is now entirely free of glitches.
  
  So I have covered the standard information about graphics, sound, stability etc. By just talking 
 about these though I cannot hope to convey just how good this game is. I encourage you to go out 
 and play it if you have a system that can cope with its demands. It is a fantastic game that successfully 
 reinvents the series and brings Lara into the modern age, while still staying true to her roots. 
 The game has something for the veterans of the early games as well as the new generation just discovering 
 the series. Sadly the game is remarkably short, but if this is just a sneak preview of what Crystal 
 Dynamics will do with the series then we can all relax, safe in the knowledge that Lara is in good 
 hands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuTel
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  Controls are smooth and no longer frustrating. Visuals (of both scenery and Lara) are spectacular. 
 The game play is clearly focused on fun, action, and intriguing and logical puzzles. Though short, 
 there is value in the game because of its quality. Having finished in about 10 hours, repeating 
 the game to find all the treasures is appealing, and not the tiresome process that I am left with 
 in most similar games. The story and the action keeps you engaged until the end. This was a rare 
 game that I did NOT grow weary of after the first few missions. I am once again looking forward 
 to a Tomb Raider sequel!
  Only complaints: gun fights were lame, and the animal attacks were just annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllReadIt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, first of all, I haven't found the game to be that short. I finished Chronicles of Riddick 
 sooner than this. I am at the 60% completion level, and have a little over ten hours recorded gameplay. 
 I have it on hard difficulty, although I don't think that matters much. Of course, I'm not playing 
 10 hours a day either. I have been playing it for 2-3 hours a day for 6 days, a nice enjoyable 
 pace, and still have the replays for goodies to look forward to. For me, the game is a keeper. 
 I have PC version, and there are NO load times, loads are a snap. I have a Nvidia 7800 GT card 
 and play it full tilt, with 1600 resolution, I have had no framerate problems, no glitches, freezes 
 or any problems of any kind. I have an e-machine AMD 3400 + with Audigy 400Z card, 1028 memory, 
 so it's not top of the line, but it plays all games full tilt graphics on! Gunplay is standard 
 Lara, a few targeting options, I have mine on advanced targeting, grenade throwing I thought was 
 weak, she cannot get much arc or distance with them. Puzzles aren't the usual out of control back 
 and forth cross country ventures, so that is sweet. New binoculars with RADAD is cool feature. 
 Acrobatic moves are great, she still looks damn fine, and the multiple costumes are very cool for 
 replay entertainment. I thought the motorcyle parts weren't any worse than in James Bond games, 
 so I was fine with it. The voice acting is excellent. I really look forward to seeing further Tombraider 
 games of this quality, and I'm sure they will get even better, seems they have refound their niche 
 with the franchise. If I had to improve anything it would be the enemy variance, throwing abilities, 
 more flexible and alternate non linear gameplay, oh yeah, and if I can add without offending the 
 girls, I'd like to see her breasts jiggle when she moves like in Angel of Darkness, hey, it's a 
 guy thing haha. I never understood why girls get upset over guys attention to the female beauty, 
 afterall, they would expect it from their boyfriends/husbands, go figure. Otherwise, welcome back 
 Lara, I know I missed you, and am damn glad to play with you again. I think EIDOS deserves a big 
 "atta boy" on a job well done considering all that was at stake. The game isn't revolutionary, 
 but it doesn't have to be, it's Lara, and that's revolutionary enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roosteratumd
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996, when I was thirteen and didnt have a girlfriend, Lara Croft was my first. 
 She was graceful like a mother swan, poised like a pink flamingo, and beautiful like a really, 
 really hot supermodel. She had two sets of guns, one for staring at and one for killing dinosaurs. 
 She was the perfect woman: silent and strong like a man, complete with random urges to explore 
 caves and kill things, but the same time feminine and fragile. With every passing year, I watched 
 her body get a little curvier, her breasts get a little bigger, and her moves get a little sexier: 
 our relationship was deepening, and we were growing closer.
  
  Ten years later, and guess what? I still dont have a girlfriend, and I still havent 
 seen Lara naked. Gentlemen, is it reasonable to date a woman for ten straight years and not see 
 her naked? My very own father told me that it wasnt even reasonable to date a woman for 
 ten straight months without seeing her naked. So after a ten year love affair with a digital woman, 
 I feel it is time to part with Lara Croft. I stood by her by her in her moment of weakness, Angel 
 of Darkness, but Im not going to take Lara Croft flirting with two bozos over a headset 
 sitting down.
  
  Yeah, thats right. One of the new features of Legend is that she is always talking to two 
 nerds while shes jumping around and capping men. Honestly, I forget their names: to me, 
 they are Toot and Snoot. Lara does something death-defying, and Snoot will say, Oh dear, 
 Lara, you mustnt do that anymore. Then Lara will say, Dont worry, Im 
 experienced (wink) . Then Toot says, Golly gee, Lara, are you out of your mind? 
 And Lara says, What can I say? Im a psycho! No doubt there will be gamers 
 (probably women) who will enjoy what Lara has to say to Toot and Snoot, but I liked her better 
 when she was silent. Women talk too much to begin with, and I could always rely on Lara to keep 
 quiet. Not anymore. 
  
  For an entirely new engine, Tomb Raider plays a lot like the old games. The newest addition is 
 a movable camera controlled by the mouse: you may now look at Laras front as much as you 
 look at her backside. The addition tweaks the gameplay slightly: the game controls like a third-person 
 shooter. This would be great, except the shooting part is crummy. Looking in an enemys general 
 direction will automatically lock on to the target, and once you shoot him eight times, hes 
 dead. Some challenge. Laras enemies couldnt hit the broadside of an elephant, probably 
 because shes too beautiful to damage. And when she does get shot, she rarely flinches and 
 continues firing like nothing happened. The only part of this game that isnt way too easy 
 is Lara Croft herself. 
  
  Legend lets you gather treasures to unlock outfits. This was my favorite part of the game, but 
 unfortunately, there are only two really sexy outfits, and you cant even wear them during 
 the regular missions. You can wear the black bra and panties around Croft Manor, but by that time 
 youll have completed the game entirely. And where is the nudity? After ten years, Lara Croft 
 has played us all for fools. After unlocking all outfits, cheat codes, and extras, there will be 
 no reason to play through this game again. You can complete these tasks in about twelve hours and 
 the tasks take even less with a walk-through. Consider yourself warned. 
  
  So I guess this is it, Lara. Im leaving you. You cannot continue to release games based 
 on your breasts and your curves while failing to innovate. And you simply cannot lose all the qualities 
 I liked about you to begin with, flirt with two men on a headset, and then rely on a rushed, sloppy, 
 and ultimately unsatisfying cliffhanger to make me buy the next game. Youve had ten years 
 and seven chances to commit to me, but I can see that you have no intention of disrobing entirely 
 for me. No, a nude-patch is not good enough, Lara: thats not you; that is just some cyber-pervert 
 undressing you with his eyes. Getting over you will be a hard, mountain-climb, but I have all the 
 time in the world. I will be strong. 
  
  Screw you, Lara. Screw you to Hell. Go jump off a cliff. And this time, dont miraculously 
 catch some ledge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft is back and shes brought with her a beautiful new design, improved controls, intriguing 
 puzzles and an engaging storyline worthy of the original. Legend has turned the Tomb Raider series 
 on its head; its so different than its predecessors it sometimes feels as if youre not playing 
 Tomb Raider at all and are only reminded of the franchise when Lara speaks. Some intriguing tidbits 
 from the previous titles are missing; those things that made Lara unintentionally amusing at times, 
 but shes evolved to be a stronger and more endearing heroine this time around. Legend gives Lara 
 the opportunity she was lacking before to speak more intelligently and be taken more seriously; 
 it also sheds some light on her past and the player gets to really see what makes this archeologist 
 and adventurer tick.
  
  Legend displays a great deal of influence from such huge recent titles as Prince of Persia in its 
 improved gameplay and controls. Lara flips, jumps, spins and grabs ledges with ease and can even 
 vault from ledge to ledge to scale walls all with the grace that only Lara has. Joyfully her signature 
 handstand climb was not left out of this chapter and her emergency ledge grip is much improved 
 and more realistic than ever before. The biggest enhancement to the control system is swimming 
 by far. In previous titles Lara could easily get trapped in an underwater corner and drown before 
 you could turn her in the right direction; the new controls allow you to swim freely, turn realistically 
 and most notably swim up for air with the press of one button. The new automatic targeting system 
 makes shooting enemies almost too easy but helps you save ammunition by instantly letting you know 
 the range of your current weapon.
  
  Lara comes back to life in Legend with a more athletic build and looks better than she ever has 
 but shes not the only thing that looks better in this title. Legend follows the formula of the 
 majority of Tomb Raider titles and has Lara traveling the globe in search of ancient artifacts 
 that are dispersed in remote uninviting locations. The difference in Legend is that these locations 
 are absolutely breathtaking. The map designs are phenomenal. Lara travels from a snowy outpost 
 in Kazakhstan to neon skyscrapers in Japan to a lush and bountiful forest in Ghana just to name 
 a few. The maps are so visually impressive that I found myself swan diving off ledges just to view 
 more of them and restarting the levels. Water effects are mesmerizing because of their detail, 
 but the most detailed and fascinating addition to this chapter was something very simple and underappreciated; 
 when climbing, gliding along ledges and jumping from platforms particles of dirt would fall adding 
 to the realism and graphic beauty of the game.
  
  While Legend is one of the shortest games in the series its story makes up for its lack of length. 
 Similar to Last Revelation you visit some keys points in Laras past and learn more about what 
 makes her the best at what she does. The story really drives the game and every location you visit 
 makes sense and follows the plot of the story. Even the bosses in the game, although sadly too 
 easy to defeat, are key pieces to the plot which makes them even that much more enjoyable to kill. 
 
  
  The only real issue with Legend is its length. The game is very short and just as you are really 
 getting into a level its disappointingly over before you know it. The number of levels are perfect; 
 they could have been a lot longer, however. It was enjoyable to visit so many stunning locations 
 but it feels like the developers could have done a little more which each one.
  
  In conclusion Tomb Raider Legend is an excellent action adventure game that series fans will undoubtedly 
 drool over and action adventure fans may find a little on the slow side, given the game is more 
 puzzle-based than action, however, rationally there should not be any game-hating with this title 
 as with previous ones like Angel of Darkness; it captures the players attention for the few hours 
 it can be played. Only because of its length Legend is recommended as a rental for those non-religious 
 Tomb Raider fans. Overall, Legend rates high on a Tomb Raider scale, being surpassed only by the 
 original; graphic comparison to the rest of the series would be ridiculous.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdstyles
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: The following review is written by a true-blue Lara fan. The first two games in the 
 series were what really got me into adventure gaming, and since this title could not be a truer 
 spiritual sequel to those glorious games you should understand that I might be slightly biased 
 towards the gameplay and mechanics of this game for nostalgia reasons, so you should take everything 
 in this review with the appropriate grain (s) of salt. Capiche? Good.
  
  I'm not going to waste your time talking about the graphics of this title, because there are tons 
 of people telling you all about that. The only thing I will mention is this: the best way to experience 
 what this game has to offer is of course going to require a monster system, with a bleeding-edge 
 graphics card. My card is a 7800GTX, and I must say that the graphics look absolutely stunning. 
 But as with Oblivion, I have to run at a realatively low resolution and such so I actually just 
 ordered another 7800GTX to run in SLI for this and Oblivion (thank you Uncle Sam!) . I will say 
 that the game is definately worth upgrading your PC for if you love Lara games.
  
  Now that that's out of the way, its time to address the core "issues" the public appears to be 
 having with this title: a relatively low difficulty (resulting in boring, inconsequential fights) , 
 and a short length. Well, what if I told you that I had an incredible solution to solve all your 
 problems? And what if I told you it would only cost you 3 easy payments of 19.95? But wait, THERE'S 
 MORE... ok I'm not really going to charge you because quite frankly, the answer is far simpler 
 than any of the logic puzzles you will be helping Lara overcome: play the game on Hard mode! Let 
 me explain what I am talking about, because I think I just heard about 100 people groaning simultaneously... 
 
  
  I stopped playing games on normal difficulty a long time ago, sometimes to an almost masochistic 
 extent, but for this game it is definately the best setting to start out on. I read a review on 
 some other site that said the game is "70% adventure, 30% action" and that you could get through 
 the game "blazing through all the battles" in about 7-10 hours. It is times this that I silently 
 weep for this coming generation of attention-deficit instant-gratification junkies, for they simply 
 do not know the way you are supposed to play a Croft game. Any long-time fan of the Tomb Raider 
 games knows that dealing with frustrating situations is something we're conditioned to, so the 
 fact that this game replicates the original gameplay so well while bringing it up to date, and 
 manages to have so few gameplay problems is quite a feat indead. But if you are blazing through 
 the game, how are you going to get any lengthy amount of enjoyment out of it? This is where the 
 difficulty boost saves the day.
  
  When you play this game on Hard mode, combat is not merely a matter of running around in circles 
 blazing your guns and felling enemies like so much paper-mache... no, these guys can HURT you, 
 and they're quite good at it. So you have to use your noggin a little bit; you begin to think to 
 yourself, what would Lara do in this situation, given her abilities? Luckily, the game developers 
 have gone through the trouble of placing tons of movie-theatrics style nooks, crannies, secret 
 passages, ropes, sniping spots, and strategically-placed destructive barrels and other objects 
 (a-la Black) to help you get through each and every fight in the game. Add to the fact that Lara 
 wields an impressive arsenal of weapons and a very large repertoire of acrobatic moves and you 
 begin to realize the possibilities. In fact, the magic of having to fight for your life in the 
 game opens up enough new gameplay opportunities that you almost yearn for death just so you can 
 try and beat the level in a more efficiant (or cooler) method. Starting to sound like the game 
 for you yet?
  
  I will say that this game (on hard mode at least) is not for everyone. You have to have a somewhat 
 high tolerance for frustration to play games in this method (but if you are a fan of the Tomb Raiders 
 this should practically be part of your DNA structure) so PC gamers that dislike having to restart 
 from checkpoints and such may want to look elsewhere (Prince of Persia being an excellent place 
 to start) . But the beauty of having this challenge added to the game makes all the fights a little 
 more like puzzles themselves. In fact, using the other reviewer's description, if the action sequences 
 consist of 30% of the game blazing through it on the too-easy Normal setting, then you are adding 
 an additional 30% to your game time by turning them into strategic quests.
  
  The best part about my strategy for improving your Tomb Raider: Legend experience is that if at 
 any time the game becomes difficult to the point of being frustrating, you can restart the level 
 you are currently on with a lower difficulty. That's right, you aren't locked into playing on Hard 
 the whole game if you don't want to. But I think once you do, there will be no going back. So go 
 ahead, play the game on Hard. You know Lara would want it that way.
  
  :::Scoring Quickies:::
  Gameplay - 9 - Easily the best gameplay seen yet in a Tomb Raider game. 
 Movement is especially fluid and fun. Combat is remeniscent of Oni, with a touch of Prince of Persia 
 and a spash of pure Lara style. Lara's acrobatics will captivate you.
  
  Graphics - 10 - On a high end system there's no way I could give this game any lower of a score. 
 It simply must be seen. Water in particular is done so well, you can use the reflections to see 
 around the areas (If you have an nVidia card and are having framerate problems, go to the official 
 forums at www. tombraider. com. There's a patch out and a new beta driver from nVidia that will solve 
 your problems more than likely.)
  
  Sound - 8 - I found the music to be very good, and it changes dynamically with the action. Very 
 cool, and adds to the illusion that you are in an action movie. The weapon sounds are average at 
 best, but they do the job. Lara is voiced flawlessly by Keely Hawes. Enemies and secondary characters 
 are voiced decently enough to avoid being cheesy.
  
  Value - 9 - if you have ever played a Tomb Raider game and liked it, or if you feel like this is 
 the sort of game you could get excited about, this will be a title you will definately enjoy several 
 times over. Also serves as great "whoa" material for showing off your new monster rig to your jealous 
 buddies (much better than 3dMark, that's for sure) . And it only costs 40 bucks. You really can't 
 go wrong here.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10 - This is where my undying love for the Croft games factors in.
  
  OVERALL 
 - 9.4
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeWLMoNkX
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Quote NVIDIA "The Way It's Meant to be Played" ..... Oh really? So we are supposed to play our games 
 in CHOPPY, LAGGY, UNPLAYBALE modes with YOUR own GPU's that YOU recommend for them? HAH!
  
  If your all wondering what I'm talking about (and I doubt it) .. I am referring to the NEXT GENERATION 
 GRAPHICS mode in Tomb Raider Legends ... WHAT A DISASTER! The game was clearly RUSHED off to the 
 stores WAY too soon, there must have been some serious issues with communication or something because 
 this 'next gen' mode doesn't play right even on the most powerful systems out there ... not that 
 most gamers can even AFFORD them.. but still that is absolutely inexcusable!
  
  NVIDIA released an updated driver (a BETA at that) ... and EIDOS released their pitiful 1.1 patch 
 ... any changes? Nothing worth making a fuss about .. they added SLI stuff and controller nonsense 
 ... well how about worrying about that crap later and getting your stupid video cards to work right 
 with the game your promoting so heavily .. I mean that NVIDIA logo is ALL over this game ... What 
 a freakin joke, a really reall BAD joke. Gamers would rather WAIT a few more weeks for a game that 
 WORKS than get a game early that doesnt... when will you 'suits' ever figure that out? ... yeah I 
 already know the answer...
  
  Oh, and by the way - tha game is great when you take OFF the Next Gen Graphics ... but seriously, 
 what a waste of time to play it that way when you know it should look like a current game and not 
 like a game you played 5 years ago.... (sigh) what a sad, sad day for Miss Croft.
  
  ~KeWLMoNk~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Okay lets get straight to the point here.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend.
  
  Its a great game and all but its a little overated its not like they advertised 
  it to be its 
 completely differnt then I thought Its not in a bad way its a medium good way its a great game 
 I love the Graphics the controls 
  are a little messed up though. The Graphics are Amazing with this Geforce 3 my 6800 Gt broke While 
 playing the 1st level so will be getting a 7800 GT and I cant wait to see what the graphics are 
 in that if the Geforce 3 looks this good. But this game is good its not the best but its a good 
 game there
  are a few ups and downs like the camera views are not the best they
  are kinda like prince of persia but worse. 
  
  but thats about it hope this helps you all.
 
  
  Thanks for every thing and thanks for reading this review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMoister
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is a very easy playable game. U do not have to search were to climb or go or 
 what to do. I also do not have the feeling I am playing the original game the feeling I had in 
 TR 1, 2 and 3. Missing the wide open views. and textures did not completely cover the body. And 
 I got an error loading a body special from japan "party lady nr 2 or 3". Game exits and returns 
 to Windows and yes I have updated it. :P 
  The only trouble I had was figuring out how to get the thing out , I forgot the name, where the 
 Tesla balls were hanging. I thought U had to kill the beast or Amanda, did not hear the clue though. 
 
  The moves where amazing, I did not know she could do that feeling is what I got. Well worked out.
 
  Puzzles were easy except the book puzzle in the manor took me some time.
  
  Greets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jean0rogue
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is an overall good game, entertaining and a fun pass time. However, in my opinion 
 its a shame its too short and fairly easy. The in-game bosses are beaten each in 10-15 min once 
 u get the hang of it and the levels although stunning are too short. I wonder what would have been 
 if the levels were a bit longer and the game a little more difficult. I'm glad to see you have 
 multiple options to overcome obstacles (no ofense but its very frustrating to repetedly try to 
 avoid some traps and u can simply jam them now) . The controls are a nice change from the other 
 TR games and i just loved the fluid gameplay; the save sistem adds to the fuidity and its less 
 frustrating than other TR games. The music, sound effects and voice acting are superb.
  I had some problems with the camera, for example when u are swinging on a pole in a small space 
 and u need to ascend, the camera is pointed down and u can t really see what you are doing. 
  The extra outfits and special stuff may prelong its life but overall its too short in my opinion.
 
  
  My conclusion: Fun but too short and a bit too easy (i played it at normal dificulty and it seemed 
 like easy setting) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimBee
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Lets begin with the plot, well, not that it really mattered in most games before it...
  
  Firstly there is something about Lara's past with her mother getting "killed". And eventually you're 
 next adventure involves Lara emotionally getting caught up between THAT, and other events such 
 as her friend supposedly getting killed during an adventure with Ms Croft, oh and travelling to 
 places which you would of never seen before... Like Japan, and err.. Kazakhstan!
  Somewhere along the line though, the Tomb Raider games never really were thick with plot. It was 
 all about the visuals, the levels and what you can do, and how to get out of it! And more precisely, 
 which wall made the camera move so you can see Lara's front ;)
  
  Previous games involve precise, square-like movement. The more moves Lara learned over the series, 
 it seemed, that the old movement and control style was a bit too cumbersome to handle the new levels 
 and new abilities. And eventually no matter how many things Lara could do, the old control and 
 movement style was not up to the match to make the games any different from the last!
  
  For this game though, Developers Crystal Dynamics concentrated on making Lara smooth. And it works 
 rather well! So well in fact that is entirely enjoyable to play! (except maybe pushing a crate... 
 but I will get back to that later!)
  Lara is so smooth, she has lots of details (heck, even a grey line going down her face with some 
 outfits!!) . If you have the PC to prove it, its worth while, although, that said, a reasonable 
 fast PC will make this game still look sweet and give a nice frame rate.
  Which is what it is all about really. Seeing Lara move so smoothly makes game-play far more enjoyable 
 than in the last series, but making things too fluid is what they have done, sadly.
  
  You can easily swing through the game in about 6 - 7 hours, which... which is kind of bad for such 
 a LEGENDARY return to the series. If this game was possibly a couple more levels longer, or if 
 you could perhaps LEARN new abilities, then return to the previous levels for a different route... 
 you know, something a little more different.
  Apart from completing the levels, exploring the Croft manor, collecting the emblems and beating 
 the levels as fast as possible. There really isn't much left for you to do.
  The game is so fluid, it becomes second nature to move her around. And the obviousness of the ledges, 
 glowing boxes and boulders, and the completely easy lock-on shooting system makes the game TOO 
 easy.
  Although, that said, they did make controlling the only vehicle you drive (a motorbike) a complete 
 sloth to steer. It's like going from one extreme to another though! And that is what makes this 
 game feel slightly rushed out.
  
  Fair enough, there are some wonderful things to be seen in the game. Fantastic looking levels, 
 and some nice boss fights. But it's all a bit too easy. With the old Tomb Raider engine (if you 
 can call it that!) it was more like a puzzle game, with it's squared preciseness and all. 
  Taking that old system away has taken the puzzle and exploration away from the series. And now, 
 more or less, you follow the path, find a way to open a door, follow a very clear path and zip-line 
 across some parts. Easily manoeuvre along ledges to ropes, solve a bit of a puzzle and there you 
 have it, job done! It does look wonderful though, and some of the atmospherics, especially the 
 music, really add some polish to her poshness!
  You will beat the game fairly quickly, and once you find the emblems, rotate game models very slowly 
 in only two directions, and play the game in texture-less mode... there really is no reason for 
 you to go back and play through the levels again, UNLESS you liked the LOOK of the levels.
  
  The game really is that easy, and then you get to England, and its a bit tougher... 
  
 
  The voice acting is superb, music and Foley is AWESOME, the graphics really do their job. But 
 a tomb raider game, with a bit too many boundaries is not what i was looking for. I was hoping 
 for Lara to be stuck in a massive tomb for hours, now it seems almost like "Tomb Raider : Arcade".
 
  And that's how I describe it.
  Exploration is quite often minimal, you never really get to a point where you go "right... where 
 the heck do i go?!". And you never get to be inventive at all! No combining items, you can push 
 crates... there is a rag-doll system and it seems to be almost like a havok physics engine is implicated.. 
 However, it is not used hardly as much as it could of been.
  There are some nice touches, like when you shoot enemies, you can bounce off them Matrix style. 
 But the enemies are so easy to kill, bounce around firing usually does the job every time.
  
  At the end of the day, Tomb Raider fans will be happy to see Lara return, but I am certain 
 that the next game has GOT to be much better than this. In this game, it is almost as if Lara has 
 been given the "star" treatment, so much so that the dare-devil style she used to have has been 
 rubbed away with the nice polish Crystal Dynamics have put onto it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_o_n_i_c
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The controls and moves are far improved from the earlier series (and especially compared 
 with the sometimes horrible movement of AOD) , puzzles can be solved more easily. But they should 
 have made them a bit harder also. Also on the latter levels you still get help to solve most puzzles 
 (grapple-indicator) , really when you get that far and you cant still figure it out how to 
 solve the puzzle, TR is not youre sort of game. And the game should be focused more on puzzles 
 then combat anyway (there were very few puzzles) . The enemies AI is better, they even use tactics 
 now to flank Lara. The physics of objects is also greatly improved (barrels, stones and other objects 
 roll when you kick them) . The new system of carrying a single alt weapon is more realistic but 
 they should have included a greater variety of weapons. The biggest annoyance for me was the length 
 of the game (played it out in only about 8h at 100%) some TR games (TR4) had about 40 levels in 
 total (Took me over 70 hours to play that one 100%) and this TR only has about a 1/5 of that. Still 
 its a good mix of Urban and Jungle tombs levels, but far too few in total. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Laras model is as it should be now, greatly improved from the earlier games and 
 very realistic (and she looks very pretty ;p) . The locations are also very realistic now and at 
 some points really breath-taking as if you were really there (Doesnt the Mansion look really 
 cool now? And the cutscene at the start in Bolivia) . Compared with the earlier games the models 
 and objects are very smooth now (I know they had lesser hardware back then, but its still a very 
 good step forward) .
  
  SOUND: The sound is good, its now everywhere also (remember TR1 to 3 where there was only ambient 
 sound, except on dangerous or special occasions) but it doesnt annoy, it fits good with 
 the gameplay also, at intense moments it still increases in intensity, and with surround-equipment 
 (yeah I have) it sounds really nice and gives you sometimes the feeling of really experiencing 
 the adventure.
  
  VALUE: All in all its a great game and a must for every Hardcore-fan of TR and Lara just 
 for the experience of it, but the price is high compared with the real value IMHO. Non-hardcore 
 TR players that buy games for playing long and lengthy levels and to pass hours, should consider 
 to wait for the sequel (the end of Legend does indicate there is going to be another TR-sequel) 
 or just find another adventurous game.
  
  CONCLUSION: If CD continuous with this sort of gameplay, graphics and sound, improved with larger, 
 longer and MORE levels, complexer and more numerous puzzles, they can still make the perfect TR 
 game in the future. And I hope they keep the secrets & unlock system its great!
  
  (Note: This review was made from my own point of view (and Im a Hardcore Lara fan) so might 
 differ from others opinions)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatopsis70
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  This would have been the best Tomb Raider yet if the developers hadn't succumb to the horrible 
 control scheme that has made many other recent action/adventure/platform games equally unplayable 
 (Prince of Persia, Indy: Emperor's Tomb) . Why doesn't "back" make them hop back like the old Lara 
 and Indy? Why do they do a 180? And why does left and right make them run in a circle?? It should 
 just make them rotate, but if they have to run, why don't they run in a straight line, as the new 
 Lara does when her guns are out? They don't curve one way or another when running forward.
  Why can't Lara perform her acrobatic flips unless her guns are out? And why does she put her guns 
 away after one second of non-use so I can't keep her jumping this way?
  Furthermore, it is really annoying that sometimes you have to jump left and sometimes you have 
 to jump back to reach the same place depending on where the camera is. Lara should always jump 
 to her left when you press "left."
  Why can't "classic controls" at least be an option for people who don't want to wrestle with this 
 unintuitive control system?
  A beautiful game, otherwise. It is too bad that the one thing that set Tomb Raider apart from other 
 games is gone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  First, I must say that I've never played the original Tomb Raider - I missed the boat on that one. 
 My first Tomb Raider experience was, oddly enough, "Angel of Darkness". Well, you'll be surprised 
 to hear that I very much enjoyed AOD and think the game is highly underrated. I did play a couple 
 of older TR games like "Chronicles", which was also good but rather buggy. Eventually, I hope they 
 release a compilation of the older games. 
  
  I eagerly awaited the arrival of TR: Legends and immediately headed over to the store to grab a 
 copy. I certainly wasn't dissappointed as Lara and Co. have evolved superbly in an excellently 
 crafted game. My initial reaction was "wow... this is one beautiful game, Lara included". I will 
 note here that I did not activate the "next gen" technology since my pc doesn't have that capabilty.
 
  
  Moving forward, I will outline the positives of Tomb Raider: Legend. First, the story was immersive 
 and interesting. I found myself always eager to find out what will happen next. In short, the story 
 revolves around the discovery of King Arthur's sword Excalibur - or is it King Arthur's? One may 
 be a tad confused at times by the story, but it is fascinating nonetheless. Lara travels to several 
 exotic locations, such as Bolivia, Peru and Nepal, and more urban environs such as London and Tokyo. 
 It goes without saying that the graphics are excellent, even without the next gen turned on. At 
 times, I (Lara) just found myself standing in place as a looked around the environment in amazement. 
 As I said above, this is one gorgeous game. The gameplay in Legends is better than ever. It's quite 
 reminiscent of the earlier TR games with better controls and camera functionality. There's some 
 added features like a PDA and grappling hook, which is used quite frequently in both maneuvering 
 and solving puzzles. Also, there's a couple of extended gamplay scenes on a motorcycle which everyone 
 should enjoy. Lastly, Eidos and Crystal have added what essentially amounts to a bonus mission 
 with the Croft Mansion. The mansion is not part of the main storyline, but does provide a whole 
 new environment to explore and puzzles to solve. 
  
  As for negatives, I really can only come up with a couple. The main disappointment which I think 
 you'll find mentioned often, is that the game is quite short in comparison to earlier games. In 
 fact, it almost seemed like the missions became shorter as the game progressed. The last mission 
 in Nepal, before the final boss fight/mission, went by in a flash. The game does end in an obvious 
 cliffhanger, so I aspect the developer to release another TR in the near future or hopefully and 
 expansion pack. I'm not sure if expansions have been released for Tomb Raider games before, but 
 this one surely warrants one. The game is immersive as usual, but I thought it was less immersive 
 than AOD, which contains some levels that seem to play for hours. Another small aspect of the game 
 that I didn't care for were a few "cinema-like" action sequences. Essentially, at some point in 
 each mission, a short sequence occurs in which the player must simply press the arrow button displayed 
 to progress her through a difficult situation. Personally, I would rather just play Lara normally 
 in these scenes and thought they only served to shorten a rather short game. Regardless of any 
 negatives mentioned here, the game is still highly enjoyable.
  
  In closing, Tomb Raider: Legend should appeal to all the old TR fans jonesing for some more Lara, 
 as well as turning on new fans to the series. I've heard some mention that Tomb Raider and it's 
 style of gameplay is a thing of the past and should be retired. Tomb Raider: Legends proves that 
 this is far from true. Long live Lara Croft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myote16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is absolutely fantastic in all ways. The sounds were really realistic, the gameplay was 
 really good, and it wasn't that hard to understand. The new look of Lara also impressed me with 
 her new outfits. But... every pro has a con. Unfortunately because of my fault (playing too much 
 with the game) I finished it within 6 hours, which is relatively short and I was not relly satisfied 
 with the end. It was like an American movie (the end has no end) , and we have to wait for the next 
 game years and years.
  But anyways it's an 8.9 MAN! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorcs
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game make me feel like a Tomb Raider again, it's like TR1 and TR2....
  TR: Last Revelation was quite good to.....
  
  This game has great graphics, but the NG-gfx 
 lacks sometimes, even the settings without NextG looks better sometimes....
  You need a good GFX-card to run smooth with NG turned on...
  
  This game is like the movies, 
 you have friends on your side! And your never alone..... I meen the guys at your "house", and the 
 butler...
  Nice thing is that Lara have got a new look, she look more like she did in the games for PSone.. 
 In Angel of Darkness she looked just ugly, I wonder why they made her like that?
  
  The game itself is funny, but when you think you're gonna dig deeper into its story it ends..... 
 The main story take about 10 hours to get thru, but with lots of bonus-stuff you get lots of extra 
 time with it.....
  
  It's easy to learn, and just by pushing 2 buttons you can get some fancy moves that looks good, 
 especially when climbing... It's almost semi-auto....
  
  But because of the short finishtime, you don't feel alone since these 2 guys are talking to you 
 all the time, (no surround?) , very lowsense mouse when driving the bike and a few lacks in the 
 NG-graphics it ends on a 9.7...
  
  I loved the part when I was climbing up the snowy mountain,
  reminds me about the movie "Cliffhanger" 
 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerjai
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game, im going to get no matter what. Graphics of the world is good, the actions are brilliant 
 added with some new styles e. g. doing a flip while shooting. Amazing water reflections and etc. 
 are good, no lag on the demo even with the highest resolution. Voices sounds good, matches each 
 character. 
  Though, just two problem i picked up from demo, her hands sort of go through the cliffs and walls, 
 showing the cliff edges out of her hands sometimes. The other characters like the mercs doesnt 
 seem to have properly developed cause i see their texture a bit blurry. But these few points are 
 hardily noticeable when gameplay, heck i have to play it a few times to realize there's tiny bits 
 of problem in it.
  
  Overall Amazingly Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genie2476
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutly a masterpiece!
  Everything looks great about this game.
  Lara Croft was always one of my favorite games
  this time they really did it! 
  The way they 
 made the stunts and other tricks are beautiful!
  especially lara looks hot ;)
  
  this game is worth the buy for sure.
  if you are a tomb raider fan you really have to get this 
 one.
  the pretty lara with the really good british accent
  and the humor in this game is also pretty good :)
  Tomb Raider legends is a perfect game in the 
 tomb raider series
  Tomb Raider legends, you deserve a big fat great 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick0060
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best of all the Tomb Raider games, although it's also probably the easiest. 
 Some of the previous games took me quite a while to figure out what to do in some cases whereas 
 the puzzles in Legend seem to be straight foward and it was usually immediately obvious what to 
 do. Even so, the gameplay is great, there are so many more features and extras to do to keep you 
 playing it over and over. Combat is much more fun in this version, and so it should be as there 
 is a lot more combat in this game although the ammo limits annoy me sometimes. All in all it's 
 a fantastic game and I will be playing it for a long time to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpfan4life0904
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I'm just going to start off by sumarizing the whole game. It's short but sweet.
  
  The Tomb Raider series from the beginning to now are still popular. Tomb Raider took gamers on 
 adventures almost all around the world with the famous Lara Croft to search for lost artifacts. 
 Lara took on deadly puzzles, wild animals, and even other people. After the game began to get famous, 
 they continued making Tomb Raider games.
  
  It's been three years since the previous Tomb Raider game (Angel of Darkness) was released by Core 
 Design. And after that game doing not so well, Crystal Dynamics and Eidos began a fresh new start.
 
  
  The graphics are absolutely amazing in this game ( at times, more in some levels then others) . 
 The new Lara model looks great and it's definatly a big change from the previous games. Being honest 
 here, i'm new to the whole Tomb Raider games. This has been the first one i've played. I have seen/read 
 reviews on the previous ones. Considering the last game (Angel of Darkness) got a pretty bad review 
 because in that game you weren't actually raiding tombs, even though the game was called "Lara 
 Croft, Tomb Raider", i'd say this one surely makes up for it.
  
  Out of the whole game, graphics stand out the most. It's amazing, because when you look at games 
 now, it's crazy how realistic games look/are, compared to before. 
  
  The game itself is highly addictive. When the demo came out, i played it, and it just left me with 
 wanting more.
  
  They have a good storyline to the game but it ends too fast. The story is about Lara trying to 
 uncover what happened to her mother when she was younger and this legendary artifact that she is 
 searching for may help her answer this question. 
  
  Taking my time through this, it took me approximately 10 hours to beat the main story. I was somewhat 
 disspointed but with all the things like Time Trial, collectables, unlockable outfits, and Croft 
 Manor, i found it made up for it.
  
  In the game, I found some of the puzzles to be rather easy, but others to actually take time to 
 think. I also found some of the levels to be long (like Khazakstan) and some to be short (Bolivia 
 first level) . The combat in the game is pretty bad, but i won't go on about it because Tomb Raider 
 isn't really focused on the fighting anyways.
  
  Overall Pro's of the game:
  
  - Great Storyline
  - Graphics
  - Extra stuff (outfits, unlockables, etc)
  - Some hard thinking 
 puzzles
  
  Overall Con's of the game:
  
  - Pretty short
  - Combat is pretty clunky
  
  For any hardcore Tomb Raider fan, you may not enjoy the fact on how short the game is but other 
 then that, Legend has definatly gone back to it's roots by raiding tombs. And for people who are 
 new to the series, you definatly should give this game a try. I'm new to the Tomb Raider series 
 and i love this game.
  
  Overall, this is an great game and Crystal Dynamics did an excellent job on reviving the Tomb Raider 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giolon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is without a doubt the best Tomb Raider game yet, and I don't mean that in a 
 bad way. While it's not perfect, for example, its length leaves a litle to be desired, it is absolutely 
 a solid game and worthy of any action-adventure game fan's collection.
  
  Let's get the bad out of the way first. Tomb Raider Legend is quite short. With approximately 7 
 levels, none of which are particularly long, you'll find the game lasting you somewhere between 
 6 and 10 hours on your first play through. That is not counting the Croft Mansion, which acts as 
 sort of a standalone scavenger hunt, since there are a few more hours of gameplay to be had there. 
 Finally there are the time trial runs and finding all the secrets in the levels in order to unlock 
 various outfits and even a few gameplay perks like better accuracy or bigger clips for Lara's pistols. 
 Also, Lara's original backstory seems to have been tossed out the window and is now replaced with 
 a new one, which is still ok, but not as inspired or inspiring as the original.
  
  Now on to the positives  Legend is the best controlling Tomb Raider game ever. While the old, 
 rigid, grid based movement scheme was suitable in 1996, in 2006 it could never fly. Crystal Dynamics 
 has made controlling Lara very fun. She moves responsively and believably, no longer confined to 
 the grid as in the past. Essentially, the controls match up to any excellently controlling modern 
 action-adventure game like the Prince of Persia series. Lara's also got some new moves, such as 
 swinging off horizontal poles like in Prince of Persia, and shimmy quickly along ledges. There 
 are even a few undocumented moves like flips and backbends that serve no practical function but 
 provide nice little Easter eggs when you discover them.
  
  Combat is relatively simple, but fun. It utilizes a lock-on system similar to the old Tomb Raider 
 games, though weapons now all have a range and you can only carry 1 additional weapon aside from 
 your standard pistols. Weapons and ammo are picked up from defeated enemies (the pistols still 
 have infinite ammo, but now have a clip that needs to be reloaded) . New combat moves include the 
 ability to kick and slide-tackle enemies as well as an over the head flip that puts Lara into a 
 sort of bullet time that gives you extra time to get some shots off.
  
  Legend is very focused, and it's always focused on making sure you're doing something cool or fun 
 at any given moment, never leaving you stuck for too long by making everything you need in proximity 
 with each other. There's a certain convenience to that, but it does make the game linear and easy. 
 I hope for the future that they can strike a balance between the old almost completely open ended 
 areas that would leave you stumped for hours and the new to allow us to keep our focus on "fun" 
 but ratchet up the difficulty of the puzzles a bit and give us more exploration. 
  
  While it's a little short and a tad on the easy side, Tomb Raider Legend is still a very good game. 
 If you've passed up on the Tomb Raider series in the past because you didn't like it, now is a 
 great time to give it another try. If you're a long time fan, the lack of difficulty and shortness 
 may turn you off, but you'll more than likely enjoy what is there and will have to agree that controlling 
 Lara has never been more fun. Tomb Raider Legend is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redcat1984
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is a must have for all the harcore tomb raider gamers. this time Lara as a game 
 the is right for her not like the last one (angel of dark) that was engulfed in mistakes and flaws. 
 Has for the story is well developed but short but in the general is very good. Has for the graphics 
 they are very good and Lara has more realistic movements and looks so great in her clothes!!!! 
 The controls are now diferent from the last tomb raiders but work well as if they were intuitive 
 and were there from the begining of the series. has for movements our dear Lara have more and wither 
 pack of moves like picking up the weapons from dead enemies, the new grapple thing, the personal 
 flashlight, the new style of movement of boxes and the possibily to kick rocks. even the aiming 
 was remaped has know we can do aim with the mouse and even shoot things in the screen to cause 
 avalhanches, etc. the sound of the game is good and nothing to report about that. has for the cut 
 cenes they are absolutly astonishing. in resume is a really good game and that doesnt require 
 must to be played. i know because i have a amd 1200GB with 40Gb of hard drive and 256Mb of Ram, 
 Running an Gforce 2 MX400. so dont think that just because it have good graphics that you cant 
 play it. its a great game that overcame my expectatives about this new release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metr01973
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is one of the best games of the series. Eidos and Crystal Dynamics have really 
 pulled it off, with the whole game just oozing pure genius but as with most recent game releases 
 it will all be over way to quick. Lara has to stop the world being destroyed by collecting the 
 fragments of King Arthur's sword Excalibur and then using them for good. You might say that this 
 is an old premise, saving the world, but the story is just fantastic and has you playing all over 
 the world and even in Lara's past. The actual story has really been thought out well and with excellent 
 voice overs from Keeley Hawes (Lara) , Alex Desert (Zip) , Greg Ellis (Alistair) , Kath Soucie (Amanda) 
 and Alan Shearman as the ever faithful butler Winston. The locales of the game range from the lush 
 jungles of Bolivia to the cold and abandoned Russian research facilty and even to the highest peaks 
 of the Himalayas. Even though you'll be raiding tombs in this game it still brings some of the 
 action back from the previous few games with your trusty pistols, submachine guns, shotguns and 
 even a grenade launcher! You'll be jumping motorbikes across skyscrapers in Japan and even take 
 a visit to a disused King Arthur museum in Cornwall in the UK (my favourite level) . The graphics 
 are superb and I could play at 1280x1024 with everything on, except full screen effects and next 
 generation graphics. The next generation setting takes the whole look of the game and makes it 
 look twice as good but you're going to need a 7800 series card or similar to take full advantage. 
 But even so, I have a P4 3.2ghz, 256mb Geforce 6600 and 2gb ram and I played it with a good 50-60fps 
 on 1280x1024. And it looked superb with Lara looking more rounded than ever, lol. The levels are 
 huge and really give you a sense of being a small piece in a huge world. The puzzles are great, 
 with physics taking a front seat now, one prime example of this is a puzzle with 3 boxes and lift 
 system. All the boxes weigh differently and you have to get them to the top by rearranging them 
 so they balance out at the top so you can pull them into place. This works fantastically and really 
 gives the grey matter a work out and a break from all the running, jumping and shooting. The sound 
 is great but no option to use EAX but still some great music and sound effects which add a whole 
 new dimension to the TR genre, especially through a 5.1 speaker set-up or above. The only thing 
 that did dissapoint me was the length of the game and I finished it on med/hard settings in just 
 over 10 hours, with 88% of the game completed. There are numerous "artifacts" to find throughout 
 the game and they unlock special items in the main menu and also unlock more rooms in Croft Manor. 
 Croft Manor can be explored with even more things to get upto in there so once you've finished 
 the game there are still plenty of things to do and there is even an option to replay the levels 
 in time trial mode, where you have to beat the level before the time runs outs, not as easy as 
 it sounds, believe me. Overall Tomb Raider: Legend is probably one of the best games in the series 
 and personally, I loved it. I would reccomended it to anyone who even slightly enjoyed the other 
 TR games or the Prince of Persia series. This is one heck of a come back and especially after the 
 very poor (AOD) last outing. I for one am glad to see Lara back hard at work raiding tombs and 
 saving the world and it dosen't look like I'm the only one, here in the UK TR: L has just reached 
 No.1 in the game charts. All hail Lara and the might that is Tomb Raider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazion
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, Tomb Raider comes again - and it came pretty good,
  Games looks nice, Feels awesome and Hears tight.
  
  Gameplay is the best, action is good, storyline 
 has sense,
  I always liked Tomb Raider, since you got to resolve riddles and all.
  The Gameplay feels really good, action its ok.
  
  Graphics are nice, better than Max Payne 
 Game, the engine is tight and is sweet, pretty smooth. Pistol and Weapons look real and shots too, 
 u see stuff like smoke tur gun, hook lights and others.
  
  Stoyline is tight, it has sense and it look interesting, since Lara suffered so much, the storyline 
 makes you play more.
  
  The BAD of the game   Antialiasing i just hate it :)
  Suck ur computer memory so bad.
  
  The GOOD   Game still owning and increasing $$ :) ,
  i 
 bought it, and i love it.
  
  So the one who doesnt like it, its not a gamer and never know what Tomb Raider is.
  
  Peace.
 
  dazie:.
  GG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampyreVayne
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This is really the first Tomb Raider to shine since the first one. The last one, Angel of Darkness, 
 had made me all but lose hope for the series but Legend brought it all back if only for a short 
 run.
  The new non-grid gameplay system is excellent. Moving Lara around is so much easier and faster 
 than in previous installments. The graphics are amazing so long as you can turn on next-gen graphics. 
 The fighting isn't much improved but Tomb Raider isn't really all about fighting anyway.
  The level design is amazing and feels so much more organic than all of the other games. The unlockable 
 content is pretty cool, but it wasn't enough to make me play through the levels again to find the 
 secrets. Overall I'd say this is a great game but a short one. If you've lost hope in the Tomb 
 Raider games, then look here, this is how Tomb Raider was ment to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwcho83
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best TR series i've ever played. Great graphics, Excellent music and FX. Moreover, 
 Lara looks more beautiful and sexy than ever. Previous version is a huge letdown to me, but TR: Legend 
 really makes a legend in this category! Although the early release is graphically bugged for NVidia 
 users, which I'm one of them, it's bizzare that a game optimised for NVidia cards can't run properly 
 on the 'green-cards'. IThe water reflection or the disturbed water surface doesn't show any wave 
 at all!! I'm using an AGP 6600GT by the way. The Croft Manor is a great extra but mayb more vehicle 
 use can be added while in the manor in the next sequel. I LOVE the bike stages. I can't leave my 
 pc alone when I started to play this game. All in all, this game is a sure grab and grab this game 
 ASAP guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markissnu2000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AWWWSOME. I HAVEN'T HAD THIS MUCH FUN SINCE TOMB RAIDER 1 CAME OUT FOR THE PS. FINALLY 
 LARA GOES BACK TO THE TOMBS WITH NEW GENERATION GROUND BREAKING GRAPHICS. THE GAME PLAY IS FUN, 
 THE ANIMATION IS SMOOTH. THE CONTROLS ARE JUST PERFECT. I GIVE THIS GAME A 10 OUT OF 10. LARA CROFT 
 IS BACK AND STRONGER THAN EVER. SHE HAS A WHOLE NEW ATTACK SYSTEM WITCH ALLOWS THE PLAYERS TO PULL 
 OFF A DEADLY ASSULT ON ANYBODY THAT STANDS IN HER WAY. NOT ONLY THAT, SHE CAN EVEN RIDE MOTORCYCLES... 
 THAT'S RIGHT, YOU HEARD ME. SHE RIDES IN STYLE AT YOUR CONTROL. DODGING ROCKS, JUMPING RAMPS, SHOOTING 
 ENEMIES., ETC... I'M TELLING YOU IF YOUR A TOMB RAIDER FAN. THIS GAME IS MADE JUST FOR YOU. CHECK 
 IT OUT, I PROMISE YOU WON'T BE DISAPPOINTED... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  In Tomb Raider: Legend (TRL) you play the popular Lara Croft trying to figure out the mystery behind 
 her mother's death. The game consists of 8 gameplay levels where you play Lara in different locations 
 all around the world of course mostly in tombs but also in other locations like in buildings and 
 deserts.
  
  The gameplay mainly relies on puzzle solving where in each level you'll have to solve different 
 puzzles to advance in the game. However, the action has not been totally cut out, you will have 
 to use Lara's shooting skills in order to fight few enemies and boss monsters at the end of almost 
 every level. You can of course adjust the difficulty in the game (Explorer (Easy) , Adventurer (Medium) 
 and Tome Raider (Hard) ) .
  
  The graphics in the game are very good and you can enjoy them even if you do not have the most 
 powerful PC on earth. The next-gen option, available only for high-end computers, do add a few 
 (and unimportant in my opinion) visuals to Lara and to the surroundings. The camera control can 
 get a little annoying in some places throughout the levels, but it's easy to overlook these.
  
  The sounds are really wonderful. They are recorder with great quality and synced awesomely 
 to the characters. The soundtrack in the game is also good and goes with the mysterious Lara Croft 
 theme.
  
  The main problem in TRL is the very short gameplay it offers. You will probably finish the main 
 gameplay levels in 8 - 12 hours even if you're not a hardcore gamer. However, the gameplay does 
 not totally end after that, you still have a special level called the "Croft Manor" where you go 
 inside the Crofts' mansion and try to collect rewards to unlock extra stuff in the game like new 
 outfits for Lara, cheat codes and other extras. Rewards (bronze, silver and gold) are also well 
 hidden in 7 of the 8 levels and collecting them will also unlock more and more extras. You can 
 also replay each level in the Time-Trial mode to see if you can finish the level in a specific 
 time period. All this will probably keep you coming back to the game for a few more hours.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is obviously the best game in the series. Developer Crystal Dynamics has 
 done a very good job, though it would have been perfect if they added just a little more gameplay 
 time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend just lets u go in to a fantasy, and u realy dont want it to stop , i just finshed 
 the game , and just thinking about the continuance , the environments r very varied and colorful 
 , some time u just want to stop and take apicture , and lara ........ wow lara , they made her 
 beautiful and feerles .
  some times u feel like in indiana jons movie , with all the tempels . 
  the movment of lara is 
 similar to "prince of persia" trilogy who ever played it , but much better , u got guns and a gruuber 
 that u can grab things and push it your way .
  the game is very wise , and sometimes u need to use your brains to pass a level . overall this 
 is areal masterpiece ....... and i'm sure that evry one who play this game will enjoy it as much 
 as i or more . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XKIL3R
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  I bought this game and I finish it in 4 hours and 50 minutes. The graphics, the sound and the gameplay 
 are amazing, but the story is to short.
  I think the Eidos and the Crystal Dynamics give so much important to graphics and forget to make 
 the game story big. 8 levels it's nothing compare with the amazing Tomb Raider 1. 
  Tomb Raider 1 was the first game i had played and i love it, and i had played all Tomb Raider since 
 then. 
  I just hate the Tomb Raider 6, it's a game to forget, and i think many people think just like me.
 
  This Tomb Raider it's good, but if Eidos our someone who works with them read this review, try 
 make a new Tomb Raider with all what this have and make a BIGGER story like TR1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  I will start with what's good in it because I'll finish fast :) . I really liked the puzzles from 
 this game, this time it's not only run, jump routine, it also involve some thinking. The solutions 
 are not very hard and intuitive, just enough to not make you angry but to feel that you're rewarded 
 when you got it. This makes the game fun to play.
  
  The story it's same as usual (james bond, lara croft style) which is not exactly my favourite, 
 but it's good for its kind.
  
  Lara looks good, has some good outfit (unfortunately not all :) because they thought that bikini 
 wouldn't be appropiate in Russia's cold) so for those who like to watch her it will be entertaining.
 
  
  The control, weapons, camera are same as usual but I would expect more from it since prince of persia 
 proved that there is space for evolution.
  
  Finally it proved to be fun but nothing to remember too much. And by the way they've tried to make 
 repayable the game but the method looks lame to me, they could have made the game longer if they 
 want people playing this more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider starring Lara Croft graced game systems in November 1996. Within a year, the sexy, 
 smart and sassy heroine would go on to become world-famous for her voluptuous build, can-do attitude, 
 and endless mass market appeal. Along with Shigeru Miyamoto's brilliant Super Mario 64, the first 
 Tomb Raider illuminated new corridors in 3D game development, showing fresh possibilities in character 
 and game design, 3D control, and camera work. A lot has happened since the heady days of Core Design 
 and Eidos Entertainment's first big splash. It's been nearly a decade. Lara's popularity has continued 
 to thrive well into this century, especially with two movies starring Angelina Jolie, but though 
 she remained a cultural icon to the masses, her games went down the toilet. After Tomb Raider 2, 
 fans got five progressively worse sequels, the last of which was so second-rate that Eidos canned 
 Core Design from its own series.
  
  Enter Crystal Dynamics, the Menlo Park, Ca. developer best known for its gothic action-adventure 
 game, Legacy of Kain. Crystal D spent more than a year researching the Tomb Raider series before 
 it actually started the design proper, digging up the essentials to figure out what people loved 
 so much about the originals and how to return to that point. Among other beneficial moves, original 
 designer and animator Toby Gard was retained as a consultant. And the team's research pointed to 
 a few things: people love exploring enormous exotic locales, they love great stories, and they 
 want the freedom of making an acrobatic character move nimbly and athletically. That's exactly 
 what we get with Tomb Raider: Legend. Crystal D's fresh approach, erudite design and execution, 
 and its focus on good controls, smart puzzles, and competent combat, do the trick. They've resurrected 
 an icon and a legacy from its tumultuous past by making the best and most definitive Tomb Raider 
 yet.
  
  Uncover new details at King Arthur's tomb. Slated for PC, PS2, Xbox and Xbox 360 (with a PSP release 
 in May) , the game starts with a focused thematic storyline that carries all the way to its final 
 moments. In one of the first of many flashback moments, Lara and her mum begin the game traveling 
 in a small airplane. Suddenly an engine catches on fire and they have to crash land. The two make 
 it through the crash unharmed, but they find themselves in an ancient land with strange iconography 
 and mystical architecture. Lara activates an ancient artifact and her mother is sucked into a magic 
 vortex that pretty much ends Lara's childhood on the spot. The game proper starts soon thereafter 
 in modern times in Bolivia with Lara Croft climbing cliff sides, a little reminiscent but a lot 
 less vain than Tom Cruise's intro to Mission Impossible 2.
  
  The narrative proceeds through in-game dialog, cutscenes, and flashback sequences, both watchable 
 and playable. Just like in Resident Evil 4 (or Diehard Arcade if you want to get technical) , many 
 cutscenes demand quick interactions to keep Lara alive, and the extra effort pays off. It's clear 
 Crystal D has done its homework. The story unfolds at a healthy pace, the dialog is extremely well 
 handled, and while there are some obvious videogame archetypes, the enemies aren't terribly comic 
 or over-exaggerated. The dialog is crisp and nicely edited. Lara is witty, and then it's back to 
 the action. But Crystal D does develop Lara's character. You do get the feeling that she has a 
 past that drives and haunts her, and she shows some real emotion. As Lara says to an engineer friend, 
 she is in the business of digging up things. That's what this narrative does well. Crystal D builds 
 her character and makes you care for Lara. Considering the history of the series, that's a daunting 
 task. The funny thing about Tomb Raider: Legend is how much has changed, yet remained the same. 
 Crystal D made distinct changes to the game's every aspect, yet Legend is still very much a Tomb 
 Raider action-adventure title. The core evolution to the once diminished series is how Lara controls. 
 Moving Lara around environments is not an issue any longer. She is not tied to an invisible grid. 
 There are no rigid means to make short jumps and or three-step rules to make a long jump. With 
 the exception of gravity, she's free. Particular changes to her means of locomotion are all in 
 the details, however, and these improvements make this adventure game worth your while. Lara can 
 still jump, swim, walk and run, climb on poles, ladders, ropes, cliff sides, and she can shimmy 
 and vault. When shimmying across a cliffside or climbing up a mountain, for example, by pressing 
 a single button Lara can double time it across the object. This is pulled off by rhythmically pushing 
 the button to her motion. Seems simple enough, but it actually speeds up the game's pace, an idea 
 the previous six games could've used. While clinging to a cliffside, she can jump backward or aim 
 at a 45-degree angle. This addition was in Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness, but here it actually 
 works smoothly and without frustration.
  
  Little flourishes create a sense of experimentation and playfulness in Legend. Lara pulls off a 
 beautiful swan dive from a 20-story African cliff into a massive lake. By pressing and holding 
 a button while grabbing a cliffside, Lara can transform a normal jump into a silky smooth back-bend 
 to a perfect landing. If you time it right, she executes a series of back flips and summersaults 
 into a mid-air summersault finish. She feels nimble and athletic, easy and actually fun to manipulate. 
 Not such a hard concept for most people to grasp, but for this series, control has been a bane. 
 The swimming mechanics are smooth and likeable too. Mind you, Tomb Raider: Legend isn't as artistically 
 stylistic or as mechanically high-end as Prince of Persia: Sands of Time, but overall, Lara's fluidity 
 and dexterous nature are of high caliber. Combat was also once a thorn in Tomb Raider's side, but 
 not any more. Lara doesn't control that much differently, strangely, but many improvements have 
 been handled with skill and attention so that combat isn't arduous. Lara's been given more moves, 
 she animates very well, and she is quick to respond at all times. You'll still control her from 
 a third-person perspective, she still has auto-target lock-on aim and, when in combat, simultaneously 
 jumping and shooting are a must. But that's about it. Crystal D grafted on a free-range shot, which 
 is slow and still targets to the chest, but it aims the gun at anybody, any object, at any time. 
 You'll also find a little bullet time going on. When in punching range, Lara can jump off an enemy's 
 chest or head, enter into focus mode, and spring behind them and shoot -- all in one swift set 
 of motions. (This works especially well with guards wielding shields.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 1, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game it is not that grate at the start but the farther you get the funner it 
 gets i love i and i would say a lot of people have to try it, but at this time i would say wait 
 a moth or two for the price to drop about 5 or so dollors i didnt and i still had fun with it and 
 i think you will too. So that is what i think of the fun but dump at frist game and i will play 
 it tell i get a new game. thats is all and thanls for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Tomb raider has arrived again... and this time with a comfortable storyline and ambitious graphics!
 
  
  The Good: This game got a good storyline for it's title and got what you expect with that movie 
 style kind of storyline... Maybe a bit kinky but almost there!... the Graphics is just amazing. You 
 can't see the ends of the natur you live in and you feel the living natur that you are surounded 
 by... And every move you make with her is beautyful and the diving under the water is a beauty too. 
 with her beauty the made her as your dream girl and trust me she is attractive even if it's just 
 a game: P... and the outfits are amazing... the sound of the motorcycle is awsome and the jumps you 
 make with it is also cool and when you shoot from it too... and the traps is nice and reminds me 
 of prince of persia games but with guns... there is ropes and everything.
  
  The Bad: The bad things is few... just that the storyline is away too short and the AI is a little 
 bad. The career is too easy and there is no challenge even if you set it on the hard level still 
 it is easy... but all the other things is good!
  
  Overall this game rocks and I guarantee you as a happy owner of this game so buy it and play it, 
 worth every cent and secound you spend on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shot_gun
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Camer problems: So i figured I'd check out Tomb Raider and this is the first of the series that 
 I've played. Figured it'd be like Prince of Persia in gameplay style but the camera's not quite 
 as tight. Sometimes trying to get the right angle on the landscape leaves you staring at her rack 
 and with it's size, yes it can get in the way. You could use first person or semi first person 
 view but that's a bother.
  
  So now what do I do.... there are points in the game where you're left wondering "what the....?" 
 Oh, this must be a puzzle... guess i'll look for levers to move....... or, "predefined sequences" 
 where you have to hit a button at the right time in the sequence or else Lara dies.......... after 
 9-10 tries on the first one of these, I figured out..... oh, ok, i get how this little sequence 
 thing works now.
  
  Too short: I flew through the game in little more than 7 hours and am left wondering, now what 
 ? Replay ? No, not really. Just don't get the urge to go back and find more of the little medallion 
 things. What am I going to get out of it? I'm 89% complete (according to the game saves) but it 
 seems there's the Manor to go explore and tons of ???? for items yet to be uncovered.
  
  Vehicle sequences leave something to be desired as does this "just pull out your guns and it'll 
 aim for you, pull the trigger when it turns red for guarantee kills" makes it boring and doesn't 
 give me that REPLAY feeling I'd hoped for.
  
  Graphics rock, pure and simple. Lighting, texture, you name it. they got it right. Interesting 
 enough story line keeps you intrigued.
  
  I really hoped and wanted this to be a kick ass game but I have to say....... Not bad, worth playing 
 once, rent it first. you'll probably complete it before it's due back so why buy? I, for one, will 
 probably have it uninstalled before you get through reading this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shushens
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  In Gamespot, I was never much responsive regarding writing reviews and such before. But this time, 
 looking as the rating this game has received from Gamespot and reviews some people have contributed, 
 I really wanted to speak my mind not only as an adventure gamer, but also as a veteran Tomb Raider 
 gamer. Funny thing I never had a console and I never felt like having one despite most of the PC 
 games I loved the most are all ported from console or recieved highest regards on console editions. 
 Now, let's get to the point.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is neither extraordinary nor revolutionary compared to what TR series has already 
 contributed to the gaming world. This gaming series has definitely seen better days (though it 
 never seems to be so if a TR newbie looks at the ratings they received!) but this game felt so 
 extraordinary because of the last magnum failure named Angel of Darkness. What is revolutionary 
 is the comeback of this game. The game might be short, but good things never last too long. This 
 TR title is more involved with the storyline than the previous ones. And this time Lara is after 
 something bigger and more discussed and fantasized of than anything she laid her hands upon previously. 
 If this game were to be made longer, that could only have been done with more soldiers, more jumping 
 puzzles and more giant monsters, but the story could not possibly be much elongated. Short entertainers 
 are never considered bad entertainers because they are short.
  
  This game, though at some points fails to refelct the TR image (especially the music) , they do 
 have a strong appeal to new gamers. Previous ones were mostly suitable to TR veterans only, so 
 I would say this is definitely an achievement, because it's business Eidos is looking forward to, 
 not a promisekeeping to some seasoned TR gamers. The music and voice acting is superb. Though at 
 times Lara's voice seems too casual with respect to the scenario. She never gets tired, never even 
 pants while she talks right after escaping a series of fatal traps. Her movements are more grown 
 up and so is her physique. She definitely looked more busty in the flashback than she looked on 
 present day. But she looked exquisitely beautiful nonetheless. Lara shows no lip movement usually 
 when she's communicating over her headset. But that's very much forgivable as the flow of the game 
 do not wait for such conversations to finish. Enemies are there just for a change after a long 
 engagement with the lonely antiquities. Weapons are nothing the developers were much bothered about. 
 They put some in the game only because they had to.
  
  The game has pretty much fine finish. Bugs are not what I found more than a couple of times or 
 three. Among them, one was just a repeatation of a few sentences between Lara and Zip while she 
 was on her way down the hill to the monestary in Nepal. In some of the fansites, the villain's 
 face has been put up right beside Lara's so some people know who the villain is even before starting 
 the game. But this game definitely leaves room for a sequel. Because, this game was not about the 
 artefact, neither it was about saving it from the bad guys. Just like Lara went after the Triangle 
 of Light in the movie to see her father once again, this time also she is out there for some personal 
 sentiment. And that sentiment may pretty damn well still haunt her for the rest of her life unless, 
 of course, a sequel comes out, which won't be easy because this game is a fantasy adventure which 
 always keeps link with reality and history, it's not an abstract fantasy. Moreover, in the end, 
 Lara accuses the villain of a crime at an age that is impossible. Perhaps she lost her sense of 
 practicability in agony for a few seconds. I'm not even sure we can call the final boss a villain, 
 because if going after a once in a lifetime opportunity for some personal reasons makes someone 
 evil, then Lara is evil too in this game. More coverage should have been provided on a few side 
 characters, but there is no issue to whine over.
  
  The biggest of two flaws in this game are i) a cheap spicey intro movie which creates an impression 
 like this is another instant fun title like Total Overdose and ii) absence of any FMVs within the 
 game. Cutscenes are not that good compared to what leading game developers have already achieved 
 an year ago or even earlier. Turning on Next Generation Content demands a very recent and expensive 
 graphics card, though sometimes it has no better impact on the gamer. It's really hard to believe 
 even veteran TR gamers stop to look at all the wall topologies to find out what extra finesse the 
 wreckages offer. Little lara does not really look like a little girl. Something was there that 
 made me remind of "Look Who's Talking". In all of the previous TR titles, Core Designs offered 
 some panoramic views when Lara entered a new area. Sometimes in evening light, a few silhouette 
 panoramas were also observed. But it's not really necessary to inherit all of the past results 
 of experiments Core Designs conduct on our beloved!
  
  The puzzles, which are no biggie to make through, still remain entertaining. But this time, looked 
 like they've realized puzzles are a part of the game, the game is not for the sake of puzzles. 
 Not that I did not relish a single bit of puzzle solving in earlier titles, but this grown up move 
 is appreciable. No game, just like anything else, can be perfect. So no wonder this game also has 
 some disappointing characteristics. That should not be taken more seriously than it should be. 
 Overall, this is a terrific effort from Crystal Dynamics. They surely portrayed more epic stories, 
 but the progress of the game never been this smart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milopauljuricek
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Forget what you've seen about Tomb Raider, Legend is going to pull that out with roots! Their ambition 
 was to create a new TR (and to evade the fate of Angel of Darkness) , in which they succeeded. For 
 good, or bad... try it yourself.
  All I can say about the game is that when you get into it, you can't stop. It feeds you, like a 
 drug, you have to ask for more, and suddenly... BAM! The End... game's really short on first time 
 playing and seeing how long it took to create it and all... I thought that they had cheated us! 
 But apart from that... only amazing! The architecture of levels and the throughout design is great, 
 fast and with almost no deaf places. Biggest plus I think is the fact that puzzles now don't consist 
 of pulling this and running there. All connects together, and the action sequences, those are just 
 cool!
  Legend has some nice graphics and I am grateful, that Crystal Dynamics created an engine faithful 
 to the series, with almost no pressure on the system. Older PCs will be able to run it although 
 you'll need some newer graphic card to be able to switch on the next-gen features. Sounds great 
 and Lara's British accent just adds to the atmosphere. 
  All in all this game is really fun from the beginning to the early end. It's surely worth your 
 money, and to TR fans it's some kind of duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I actually had difficulties choosing the classification. "Masterpiece", "immersive", "rocks", "surprisingly 
 good", "best in series", "amazing", all these words describe this game well. Legend doesn't bring 
 anything new to the genre, but it still manages to shock the player. 
  
  If you look at the elements of this game, nothing is truly revolutional. The gameplay is a mix 
 of Prince of Persia and some pretty weird shooting. The engine looks good, but to look really good 
 it needs a computer with some 512mbs of video memory. The sound is awesome, though, but great voice 
 acting doesn't make the game great.
  
  However, Tomb Raider: Legend is an impressive game. Sometimes its visuals are stunning, the action 
 is always fast-paced and good-looking, the dialogue is just fantastic, the boss fights are the 
 best I have ever seen and the plot really made me stare my monitor after the ending. Come to speak 
 of it, the ending is just genious. I knew Crystal Dynamics know how to tell a good story, but anything 
 this good... Nah, you have to see it for yourself to understand.
  
  There are some bad things about this game, too. Despite its size it's really short, and even though 
 there are unlockables (actually I believe more than 100 of them) they could have rather made the 
 actual game a bit longer. Also, even though the controls are perfect when it come to climbing and 
 jumping, the combat controls can be pretty frustrating. I never liked auto-targeting, why couldn't 
 they make an option to aim with your mouse? Shouldn't be that difficult. The engine also has some 
 glitches, like missing textures and things like that, but there are only few of them.
  
  Nevertheless, Tomb Raider: Legend is a wonderful game. It's the second Tomb Raider I have played, 
 so I can't compare it to others. Some say it doesn't feel like TR. So what? I guess I'll never 
 understand. All I can say is that when you get on your bike, speed up to 200km/h and start shooting 
 with your lovely akimbo pistols, all you can say is:
  
  WOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  It's been a few years since Angel of Darkness, which i actually enjoyed a
  bit. In my opinion Tomb Raider 1 and 2 are the best ones, and 3,4 and 5
  more re-hash (more of 
 a fact actually) .
  Though the locations were varied in the last few ones, one wondered 
  why the hell it was called TOMB Raider.
  Not to mention that the same controls were used over 
 those 10 years.
  But that's all in the past now, since Legend is upon us.
  
  After installing it for five years, i clicked the icon with great anticipation.
  The new Lara 
 model (which looks much better) isn't the best improvement,
  it's the controls! Never did Tomb Raider controls feel so good!
  This time she can actually walk 
 360 degrees without problems!
  Fluent movements and lots of acrobatics in this game;
  Think Prince of Persia.
  
  The sound is good too, though all the guns sound the same;
  Lara 
 sounds over-British sometimes.
  But.. who cares really.
  
  Real downfall of this game is it's length.
  With only seven levels of approx. 45 minutes, you 
 can only guess how
  quickly this game is completed.
  You will unlock Time Trail modes as you progress, but nothing to
  keep you coming back a lot 
 after completion.
  
  They tweaked alot with the formula, and with success;
  this game is recommendable for any Tomb Raider fan.
  And those who aren't one of course.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: s23m
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  I have been eagerly awaiting the release of tomb raider: legend for quite some time now; naturally 
 I picked it up as soon as it hit the stores. However the game is not as good as the developers of 
 this game would like us to "believe". Sure, this game is easily the best in the series-it features 
 good graphics and exotic locales. The incredible acrobatics of Miss Lara are bound to keep you hooked 
 throughout the entire length of the game (Lara looks more seductive than ever in this title) . Lara 
 also features some great moves this time and also a reasonably good arsenal of weapons; for example 
 she can use her nifty grapple to pull enemies towards her (a la spiderman in "spiderman: the movie") 
 and execute a wide varierty of punches, kicks etc to finish off her enemies. Lara can also ride bikes 
 at break-neck speeds while firing away at her foes in certain levels. The game also includes a great 
 deal of hidden rewards as well as other unlockables to ensure replayability-you will be able to 
 unlock weapon upgrades, new outfits, concept art etc after playing the game for a while.
  However the game is not as challenging as we would like it to be. At "easy" difficulty settings 
 playing it is a complete cakewalk. The enemy AI too isn't upto the mark. The game is also plagued 
 with certain stability problems which may cause system lockups on a few occasions. If you have played 
 a Prince of Persia game like POP: TSOT then you will notice an instant similarity between it and 
 this title in terms of Lara's moves. Also the game is disappointingly too short ; for a game that 
 has been under development for more than 3 years-this is rather unacceptable. Therefore it can be 
 safely concluded that this game features nothing NEW or REVOLUTIONARY (apart from a better looking 
 Lara and highly improved graphics) . This game is an absolute "MUST BUYfor die-hard Lara fans 
 as well as gamers who are fond of playing action-adventure titles-it is worth the money that you 
 will be spending on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider has had a chequered past. Originally one of the most innovative and exciting games 
 during the early days of 3D gaming, it suffered from its success. It's popularity spawned a series 
 of lackluster sequels which never quite managed to recreate the awe so many felt playing the original.
 
  
  So I picked up the game with some trepidation (a local store had it on the shelves a bit early! 
 Whoo-hoo!)
  
  Legend isn't revolutionary, by any stretch, but it is a fantastic game. And for the first time 
 in years, the spirit of the original Tomb Raider is back.
  
  But let's be honest -- the game is essentially stealing back the third-person action adventure crown 
 from the Prince of Persia franchise (which has been the torch-bearer for third-person action for 
 some time) . Lara has lost some (just some) of her acrobatic prowess as demonstrated in the early 
 Tomb Raider games, and has picked up others (nearly all of which could be found in Prince of Persia) .
 
  
  Jumping, climbing, swinging, diving, swimming -- its all here, along with some fantastic set piece 
 action that is simply stunning. And fun.
  
  The game isn't precisely a modern version of Prince of Persia (not all of the princes moves are 
 recreated) but the feel is very similar, along with the puzzles. But one can't help but feel that 
 this is the Tomb Raider we've been waiting for for so long. It also manages to leverage some of 
 the ideas from the (admittedly mediocre) movie series to punch up the game.
  
  Graphically, the game is amazing. Lush jungles, vertigo-inducing high-rise towers, dark and dangerous 
 dungeons -- the game throws a variety of environments at you. And nothing beats jumping a motorcycle 
 onto a moving train or off the edge of a building! Shadows and textures are breathtaking, and if 
 you have some advanced, cutting-edge hardware, the game will take advantage of it. Still, even 
 on my mid-range system, the game looked glorious. And performance was excellent -- no crashes at 
 all, and the framerate was smooth, with only extremely rare hitches when all hell was breaking 
 loose. Even then, the game chugged along with nary a glitch. There was occasional clipping problems 
 which were distracting, but nothing too severe.
  
  Voice acting was similarly superb. Lara's sly, aggressive humor is perfectly conveyed. Even the 
 less important characters were voiced wonderfully. The game's plot, while rather standard, was 
 well done and offered a few surprises. It fit together far better than most plots for these games, 
 and fit into the Tomb Raider world wonderfully.
  
  The puzzles themselves can be challenging, although some are easier than others. Enemy AI is only 
 adequate, however. They do run and hide behind cover, but only on the highest difficulty level 
 will they offer any real challenge. Numerous hidden treasures are tucked away in the levels, and 
 it is a challenge to find them all.
  
  One irritating part of gameplay is the occasional move away from direct control of the character. 
 Occasionally there are sequences where you are not in control of Lara, but are instead asked to 
 press a series of direction keys, etc., in order to get through the sequence. It's really unnecessary 
 and irritating, since most of the time you are more directly in control of the character. It does 
 provide the opportunity of showing the gamer some interesting and amazing stunts done by Lara, 
 and at least tries to make you feel a part of the action. But really, we're here to make Lara do 
 these things ourselves. It's distracting, and the game could have done without it. But they are 
 only occasional, and at least they're interesting.
  
  The game is rather short, though. But some features make up for it. You'll be given access to Croft 
 Manor, with all sorts of puzzles inside to tease out, which adds a few hours to the game and is 
 actually enjoyable in itself. 
  
  So, finally, a Tomb Raider worth playing, which takes advantage of the advances in hardware we've 
 seen over the last few years, and manages to recover the fun of the original. Not revolutionary, 
 but its nice to see the series back on track. Recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Its been a while since the last Tomb Raider, and to be honest - it sucked. So did pretty much all 
 the others since Tomb Raider 2. So this left people quite apprehensive of the latest game. However, 
 I am quite glad to say that Tomb Raider Legend not only lives up to, but surpasses most peoples 
 expectations.
  
  You are thrust into the game in a search for lost fragments of a legendary sword. You visit such 
 interesting, varied and great-looking environments as Peru, England, Kazakhstan, and even Tokyo. 
 You can shoot the hell out of people with your trademark pistols while doing 'neo' moves through 
 the air. You even ride across rooftops with a Ducati Motorbike. The moves in tomb raider are, as 
 is expected, fantastic. And the animations for these moves are even more so. The real problem with 
 Legend though, is that its short. It took me exactly 6 hours and 56 minutes to complete the game 
 (thats not including the time afterward collecting all the extras in her mansion though) .
  
  The graphics in tomb raider legend are (if you have the hardware) amazing. The bad thing is 
 that its all on one option. You can turn almost everything on highest settings on an average gaming 
 PC and get about 40fps. But if you turn on "Next Generation Content" (which is just one big setting) 
 you need a super kick-ass PC to run it well. Without next-gen content it just looks average, but 
 with it turned on its the best looking game ever. Period. You will see some amazingly high resolution 
 textures, the water looks better than in real life (lol) , and if Lara jumps in water and you climb 
 out again, water drips off her body and her clothes and hair get all wet. Oh, and can can get muddy 
 and dirty if you roll around or get knocked down too much, and if you jump in water it all washes 
 off. Its awesome.
  
  Sound is pretty much superb. The voices are excellent. Lara's voice in particular is soft, sexy, 
 and just says "im going to kick your ass". All at the same time. Hats off to the girl who did her 
 voice - she pulled it off. Environment sounds are equally great, it really sounds like your in 
 the jungles, or jumping across skyscrapers in Tokyo. Only bad part of the sounds is the weapons. 
 They really dont sound particularly loud when they fire, and dont pack much of a punch. (It also 
 takes about 7 shots to kill one guy, which is annoying)
  
  Overall, Tomb Raider Legend is a game you really need to at least check out, if not buy. It appeals 
 to just about anyone, and is one helluva thrill ride.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Great_Woggy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is amazing return to form for tomb raider all those problems in the other games 
 have gone such as the difficult controls in angel of darkness. The series new makers crystal dynamics 
 have seriously done great for this series for their first tomb raider game they have made a great 
 story which you find out what happened to lara's mother and see an old partner of lara's turned 
 evil. the only bad point of this game is it ends too quickly but you can forgive Crystal D easily 
 once you play the game and find the extra's you can also change the difficulty of the game which 
 is another good point, overall this is a near perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aureliusmicron
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Legends gameplay is very simplistic, its fun while it lasts but alot of it has already 
 been oversued in previously games of the serios as well as the games uncanny similarities to prince 
 of persia 3, such as the grappling hook/chain, the wall climbing and pole jumping.
  the AI are also farely stupid but the story is descent but should have included more the game ends 
 unfinished with a sequal in mind.
  
  Graphics- the grapghics are great, similer to rpince of persia but with much better lighting as 
 well as water illumination on the body the game also runs very well.
  
  sound - that acting and sounds are descent but some of the background chatter seemed a little uneccessary
 
  
  value - short, finished in 8 hours, unless your bother to redo it while finding all the collectables 
 the game has little replayability
  
  tilt - a serious improvement from angel of darkeness, whos controls didn't warent playing past 
 10 minutes, this game is a joy to play but should have definately used a but more variey and chellenge 
 to it other than the odd unneccessary interactive cut scene, taking all skill away from the user. 
 to replace with a simple trial and error puzzle.
  
  i would recommend this game unless youve got the cash, its worth the time but not the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_x_ray
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  after the last two TR that made us disappointed in Tomb Raider series , the TR is now back ... 
 a perfect come back ... i think this is obvious this game is amazing ... it will sticks in minds 
 of every pro gamers ... coz its really pro ...
  the graphic and the gameplay is just perfect ... sounds are great and will bring u in game ... 
 the only bad thing about this game is its shortness ... its short and it will end just when u want 
 more of the same ... but it wont make that unvaluable ... i think every gamer should play this 
 one ... yaeh ... everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_damon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  10 years ago, Core Design and Eidos released a game that would revolutionise the gaming world. 
 Tomb Raider took players on an exciting adventure where a girl named Lara Croft would set out on 
 a journey to find lost artefacts. Throughout her journey she would face death defying puzzles, 
 monsters and human enemies but she never let that bother her. Lara Croft was not afraid of anything, 
 and she wasnt going to let her reputation slip. 7 years later, Core Design had developed 5 more 
 titles in the series ending with Angel of Darkness with bugs galore. Eidos noticed this and decided 
 to have a change. In comes Crystal Dynamics who made the fantastic Legacy of Kain series.
  
  After three years in development, Crystal Dynamics and Eidos released a fresh new start for 
 Tomb Raider, Tomb Raider Legend. Lara Croft was back, back for good. Crystal Dynamics dropped the 
 grid system, designed a new physics engine, developed Laras design and of course, went back to 
 the tombs.
  
  The game starts off with a flashback of Lara and her mother in a plane crash and quickly moves 
 on to the present day where Lara goes climbing up a mountain in search for a artefact related to 
 her past. Very quickly you get used to the controls, the environment, and of course free movement. 
 Lara can go wherever she wants using ledges, ropes and her all new magnetic grapple. Lara continues 
 to have her dual pistols with infinite ammo and can hold another weapon on her back. You immediately 
 feel like youre playing another great Tomb Raider game. The story progresses and you travel the 
 world to places like Ghana, Japan, Nepal, England and Kazakhstan looking for sword fragments that 
 relates to King Arthur and Laras mother. Along the way she meets Rutland, a sarcastic guy also 
 looking for the sword pieces. He travels with a girl named Amanda, who was Laras friend in the 
 past, but Lara thought she died. The story is engaging and very exciting and just about everyone 
 should give it a try.
  
  The graphics in the game are outstanding. Even if you dont have an excellent graphics card, the 
 game will run and look great. But if you are one of those lucky people with Shader Model 3.0 enabled 
 graphics card, youll enjoy the Next Generation graphics. The game looks even better and far more 
 realistic with next-gen enabled. However, even with the latest technology, you will struggle to 
 get a playable framerate, but in some cases (her gym is a good one) , you will find that you can 
 enjoy next-gen graphics. The sound is amazing in the game. The soundtrack helps give the environment 
 the right kind of feel. But it also shows Laras emotion, especially near the end of the game. 
 The acting in the game is brilliant too. Keeley Hawes plays Lara and she does it brilliantly, again, 
 especially near the end. The gameplay is fantastic also. Even if youre not a Tomb Raider fan, 
 youll enjoy it. The controls are easy to learn and the story is just too good to pass up. Plus 
 the game has a good amount of replay. There are tons of secrets to find giving you rewards like 
 costumes, cheats, character bios etc. 
  
  Despite the good points about the game, there are some bad points. The length of the game is the 
 main one. The game consists of eight levels plus Croft Manor. The levels can take about 1 hour 
 + depending if you explore the environment. In total, the game lasts around 7-9 hours, but again 
 it depends on how you play. If Crystal Dynamics were to make Tomb Raider 8 (which Im sure they 
 will) , this is a thing they should look at.
  
  However, Tomb Raider Legend is a great game that just about anyone can enjoy. The graphics, sound, 
 acting, game play and replay are excellent and Crystal Dynamics have done an excellent job at giving 
 Tomb Raider a new coat of paint.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smpb
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  I'm not what you'd call a huge Tomb Raider fan. I realize, and fully agree with, the quality and 
 revolutionary aspects of the original game, though i also feel that the poor and lackluster sequels 
 weren't really all that great. Thus, i approached this new title with some caution.
  First things first, though: Is it good? Sure. Is it great? Well, not quite.
  
  Graphically 
 the game is just right. The environments, the characters, everything looks just great. Lara's animation 
 is smooth and believable and you do get the feeling that you're exploring all those remote and 
 exotic locations. Coupled with this is the sound which is also one of the game's stronger points. 
 The ambient sound is fitting and solid and a special note should be said about the voice acting, 
 which is by far one of the more enjoyable aspects of the game. You really get a feel for each of 
 the character's attitudes and demeanour, specially Lara, and that adds some very welcome flavour 
 to the game.
  
  The gameplay is somewhat of a mixed bag. Lara controls just fine, the controls are smooth and responsive 
 and the lenient attitude of the game towards the player helps pull off some of the more impressive 
 moves without much trouble. The brief driving scenes are simple and straightforward, but feel way 
 to arcade-like. The novelty (if you can even call it that) , soon wears off. So, it's good that 
 there are few of those. Beyond the jumping, tumbling and driving there's also the gunplay. The 
 gunplay in TR: Legend is fun and varied..... if you want it to be. Sure, Lara can jump around foes, 
 kick them, pull them with her grapple and whatnot, but you don't really have to. Most of the time, 
 you can just pretty much stand there and shoot them out. They'll conveniently drop a health pack, 
 which you can use, and go on in your merry little way. A little more challenge on this end wouldn't 
 hurt.
  
  The central piece of the game is, obviously, the puzzles. Be it the environmental puzzles, or the 
 (apparent) tricky boss fights, these are the bread and butter of a game such as this. For the most 
 part, they are interesting and really fun to figure out. Unfortunately they are also terribly simple 
 and easy. There really isn't much challenge involved and you never really get that satisfaction 
 of completing something truly unique once it's done. Also, most of them have a "deja vu" feeling 
 to them, as most of the vaulting and jumping is very reminiscent of the Prince of Persia series.
 
  
  The single biggest flaw of the game is how horribly short it is. Transversing the game in the standard 
 difficulty setting, paying somewhat attention to the several hidden items you can find throughout 
 the levels, will take you around 8 hours. Maybe even less. Which is simply not enough. The story, 
 which is good without being great, seems rushed towards the end and, despite that, doesn't leave 
 you with a sense of completeness and closure at all, which heightens the sense of how short the 
 whole experience is.
  
  Once you're done, there aren't really any truly compelling reasons to go back and seek the 100% 
 mark. The side chapter available, of the Croft Manor, in which you go around Lara's house solving 
 puzzles and collecting items is a notable exception, but even that is short and not that challenging. 
 The other extras are mildly interesting, but nothing mind blowing. In such, a game that can be 
 finished in a day, and truly completed in a weekend without much effort is only worth a purchase 
 to those really big fans of Lady Croft's endeavours.
  
  To sum it up, Tomb Raider: Legend is a good game, providing a good amount of fun while it lasts. 
 The problem is, it doesn't really last all that long, and that is unfortunate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  ========
  Gameplay -Flawless and smooth gameplay, nice physics based puzzles.
  ========
  
  =======
  Graphics -Amazing enviroments that are bursting with life. Very detailed.
  =======
 
  
  =====
  Sound -Very cinematic, you'll want to listen to the music over and over again.
  =====
  
  =====
  Value - Loads of unlockables & secrets, lots of replay value.
  =====
 
  
  ===========
  FINAL WORD
  ===========
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is highly recommended for any type of gamer, there is action, adventure, exploration, 
 humour & puzzles. The dialog is very funny in a good way, the interactive cutscenes are really 
 fun and great too. There are 3 different dificulties, and tons of unlockables in every level. The 
 ending is very intense & is really good, no cliff hanger. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayn03
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  
  I newer been a Tomb Raider fan. I always pass every Tomb Raider game from beginning. But this game 
 convise me to Lara Croft and her adventures. Hopefully the change of Devoloper do so much good 
 and newesty to game that I played it all night long.
  
  Graphics on PC are no souch Hi-Tech, but its clean and verry butifull.
  Lara moves great, the 
 jumps, shots and ducks are verry good animated and give a nice smile on your face.
  
  For no Tomb Raider fan its game that you should start Lara's adventures.
  
  Im verry pleased 
 what guys from Crystal Dynamics do to Tomb Raider game.
  Nice work Crystal Dynamics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOrami
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  10/10!
  the best TR ever! if Sam Fisher (splinter cell) is the coolest caracter in the geanre, then Lara 
 is definetly the best looking! the game is amazing, the new engine definetly payed off... the graphics 
 are great and thats not even the party piece of the game...
  it took me a total play time of 10 hours and some minutes to get to 93% of the game status complete... it 
 wuld take someone new to the game a bit longer.... the learning time of the game is a few hours, 
 coz the game explains and tutors itself through the levels.... the levels are wonderfully complicated, 
 and every time you revisit them, you find something you missed earlyer... this ensuring loads of 
 play value later on...
  
  the game also has numerous extras... like gun updates, new outfits to put on Lara and just so much 
 more... the mantion is a great level all on its own, tho i wuld have liked to see more rooms and 
 chalenges there to explore
  
  the only down side of the game is the sound... the music and ambient sounds tend to flood the speach 
 many times, this is not good, coz many times, the dialogues are a key part to solving puzzles in 
 the game... also some levels are a bit too complicated and annoyingly chalenging.... the Nepal level 
 is the best example... tho i wont go into detali, to spoil the gamers that havent played it....
 
  
  to summ it up, the game is in my opinion the best game in the series... and one of the best adventure 
 games so far.... get it as soon as possible! 9 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapoka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  the best TR ever! if Sam Fisher (splinter cell) is the coolest caracter in the geanre, then Lara 
 is definetly the best looking! the game is amazing, the new engine definetly payed off... the graphics 
 are great and thats not even the party piece of the game...
  it took me a total play time of 10 hours and some minutes to get to 93% of the game status complete... it 
 wuld take someone new to the game a bit longer.... the learning time of the game is a few hours, 
 coz the game explains and tutors itself through the levels.... the levels are wonderfully complicated, 
 and every time you revisit them, you find something you missed earlyer... this ensuring loads of 
 play value later on...
  
  the game also has numerous extras... like gun updates, new outfits to put on Lara and just so much 
 more... the mantion is a great level all on its own, tho i wuld have liked to see more rooms and 
 chalenges there to explore
  
  the only down side of the game is the sound... the music and ambient sounds tend to flood the speach 
 many times, this is not good, coz many times, the dialogues are a key part to solving puzzles in 
 the game... also some levels are a bit too complicated and annoyingly chalenging.... the Nepal level 
 is the best example... tho i wont go into detali, to spoil the gamers that havent played it....
 
  
  to summ it up, the game is in my opinion the best game in the series... and one of the best adventure 
 games so far.... get it as soon as possible! 9 of 10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
