-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tombraider2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.6, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,087 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Core Design Ltd.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Taking its cue from the previous game, Tomb Raider II sees Croft becoming embroiled in a brand new 
 globe-trotting hunt for treasure. 

 It was only a year ago that Eidos Interactive released Tomb Raider, a game that had such innovative 
 flare that it defined its publisher as a formidable force in the gaming industry. With its cavernous 
 3D environments and charismatic protagonist - a hip English jet-setter named Lara Croft - Tomb 
 Raider pioneered new territory in gaming. But can Tomb Raider II, which seldom strays from the 
 original formula, stand up to the new generation of action games on the shelf? Definitely.  

 Taking its cue from the previous game, Tomb Raider II sees Croft becoming embroiled in a brand 
 new globe-trotting hunt for treasure. Again, levels are lushly appointed with colorful textures, 
 taking you on a visual voyage from the waterways of Venice to eerie subterranean catacombs, this 
 time in search of the Dagger of Xian, a relic that supposedly bestows great power upon its bearer. 

 Once again, plot has little bearing on the Tomb Raider experience. Most of Lara's activities still 
 consist of finding a key to open a door to find another key, with a lot of puzzle solving in between. 
 For example, in one level a switch is thrown and a door opens in another part of the level. When 
 the door is finally reached, it's shut. Solution: Drive a speedboat up to the door as soon as the 
 switch is thrown. There are also a host of "timed" traps, where Lara will find herself having to 
 charge desperately through a labyrinth of encroaching spikes and collapsing floors when she least 
 expects it. It's the process of finding the key, of getting to that particular door that just opened, 
 that makes Tomb Raider II a truly engaging adventure.   

 Complaints about the original, such as the tedium of levels and Lara's sometimes erratic control, 
 have definitely been addressed in the sequel. Basic moves such as running leaps and grabs are slightly 
 easier to perform with the new and improved heroine. Most importantly, this helps the levels stay 
 interesting. From the very beginning, each trap or physical obstacle poses an extreme challenge, 
 forcing you to control Lara with the utmost adeptness. More often than not, getting Ms. Croft from 
 one ledge to another requires that two or more specific moves are executed in series. Performing 
 a Hail-Mary leap only to cling successfully to a far-away wall; figuring out how to execute that 
 perfect double-gainer back flip to get around a seemingly impassable trap: These kind of activities 
 become the most rewarding part of playing the game.   

 Apart from being larger, the levels in Tomb Raider II are also more geographically interesting. 
 Lara is exaggeratedly dwarfed in her surroundings, scaling the enormous walls of a gangster hideout's 
 vestibule during one adventure, swinging from balcony to balcony in a surrealistically proportioned 
 opera house during another. When dropped into these extremely spacious environments, Lara becomes 
 a sort of modern Alice in Wonderland with you ultimately acting as guide. Featuring 18 massive 
 levels, it's probably safe to say that Tomb Raider II represents more of an adventure than Alice 
 ever had.  

 Tomb Raider was all about looks, and Tomb Raider II continues that trend. When running the game 
 with a 3Dfx card, it's often tempting to simply sit back and take in the view. Combining breathtaking 
 landscapes, fluid, Disney-like character animation, and (most importantly) a nicely balanced procession 
 of obstacles, traps, and puzzles, Tomb Raider II is an excellent continuation to the Lara Croft 
 saga.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sequekhan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft is searching for the Dagger of Xian - a legendary dagger capable of bestowing the power 
 of the dragon on the one that possesses it. But it won't be easy.
  
  For its time, Tomb Raider II was pure entertainment. By the end of the very first level you get 
 a feel for the graphics, sample the intriguing music, feel the rush of adrenalin as you experience 
 fast-paced traps - you may even smile at Lara's dry wit. Then you'll be hooked.
  
  While the game can be completed relatively quick for experienced players, this in no way detracts 
 from its value. Lara's voice seems perfect for the character, as does Marco's.
  
  But what's really attractive about this game is hard to say. I love it for the story (and yes, 
 because Lara's gorgeous) , Marco Bartolli, and the uncertainty factor. There were moments during 
 my first playthough where I had no idea what was happening. I think that can be a good thing. 
 
  
  Then, of course, there are the puzzles. What to do, how to do it. I'm happy with the variety of 
 puzzles and traps provided - rolling blades, slicing doors, boulders, wall spikes, unstable floor 
 tiles - there are even several tough moments underwater that are sure to challenge your deftness 
 with the controls. My personal favourite is Catacombs of the Talion, where giant bells have to 
 be shot to open doors.
  
  So don't wait! If you don't have this game yet or have never played it, scrounge around, check 
 out eBay, check trade-in stores. Did I mention there's flying giant Chinese warrior creatures with 
 dual spears? Would you believe there's a giant bird with arms and muscles too!? You better believe 
 it!
  
  Some newer PC models may require additional support to play. No problem - all you have to do is 
 check out some forums where answers have already been discovered. Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorcroft_
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  A great sequence of the game Tomb Raider, perhaps, better than the original! The sequence includes 
 many new features, locations, vehicles, weapons, movements. The difference in a game to another 
 is so great and lovely, that it is impossible to play only one time!
  As the first game of the series, it's great, this sequence continues so enjoyable, and fulfilling 
 the main objective of the history of the game that is "explore, shoot." The difficulty of this 
 sequence increased a little: the first level "The Great Wall" feel the difference. Levels such 
 as "40 Fathoms" are the most difficult, however, it's a different level because is underwater.
 
  The novelty besides the 18 levels, its "Lara's Home" has extended considerably compared with the 
 first game, is lovely. Especially for those who play for the first time in his home in Tomb Raider 
 II. But as you explore, and discover all the secrets of the house, there is nothing more to do. 
 =P. Game simply recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider 2, released in 1997, is a sequel to the very successful Tomb Raider. It is arguably 
 the most eagerly awaited game of the year.
  
  The story concerns the Dagger of Xian, an ancient Chinese weapon used by the Emperor to command 
 his army. By plunging the Dagger into its owner's heart, the weapon has the power to turn the person 
 into a dragon.
  
  In one such battle, the warrior monks of Tibet succeeded in removing the dagger from the emperor's 
 heart and the battle was won the monks. The dagger was restored to its resting place in the Great 
 Wall for centuries.
  
  In the present day, Lara Croft is investigating the truth behind the legend of the dagger when 
 she discovered the entrance to chamber at the Great Wall. However, the entrance is locked and the 
 mechanism to open the entrance is located elsewhere. The search for the key to the chamber takes 
 Lara to different parts of the world  Venice, Adriatic Sea, Tibet and back to the Great Wall.
 
  
  The presentation of the story is somewhat unconnected, and it's hard to understand it at times. 
 The game tends to meander along during the middle, but picks itself up for a very good finish. 
 The locations for most part are very interesting, and beautiful.
  
  The graphics are tweaked to deliver some great visuals, stunning landscapes, beautiful snow covered 
 mountains, and the eerie catacombs of the Great Wall. This game looks a lot better than the original 
  of course, a full year has passed since the release of the first game, but the visuals draw a 
 lot of attention because of their good looks.
  
  Level design is somewhat different, with more difficult puzzles and urban settings. This game features 
 vehicles for the first time in the series; cruising through the waterways of Venice is a lot of 
 fun, so is driving through the snowy landscape of Tibet.
  
  Overall, the levels are great, except during some where the level design tends to get a little 
 monotonous. The Great Wall and Tibet levels are very well done, and I thoroughly enjoyed them. 
 The scale of the levels is huge, which is particularly noticeable in some of the Offshore levels. 
 Lara is often dwarfed by the environment.
  
  The emphasis of gameplay has shifted a little. Tomb Raider 2 contains more combat with all kinds 
 of new enemies  tigers, yetis, sharks, thugs, spiders, etc. The AI is not the greatest, but the 
 enemies provide a lot of challenge, more so because they often tend to attack from behind, or jump 
 out of dark corners without any warning and so the gameplay becomes very challenging. 
  
  Lara is equal to the task, with a variety of weapons at her disposal. The weapons are more powerful 
 and do a lot more damage. The sounds of the weapons have been changed to provide the right effect, 
 and the result is very satisfying. 
  
  Apart from inexperienced gamers, Tomb Raider 2 should not frustrate anyone who played the previous 
 game, because this heavily relies on gameplay elements perfected by the original, so apart from 
 a few nagging puzzles, everything flows at a steady pace.
  
  The problem with Tomb Raider 2, if you can call it a problem, is the lack of innovation. Tomb Raider 
 was revolutionary, it set an example for all the other aspiring 3D games, but one year afterwards, 
 the sequel did not break any new boundaries, the gameplay essentially remained the same. So this 
 is somewhat disappointing.
  
  That is of course the bigger picture. However, all that won't matter while you are busy dodging 
 booby traps and flying over bottomless chasms with the snowmobile, because the game is immersive 
 and addictive enough to play it through to till the end, giving a huge sense of accomplishment 
 once it's done.
  
  + Great level design
  + Improved graphics
  + Vehicles
  + Interesting choice of locations
  
  - Urban settings at times
  - Not enough innovation
 
  - Persentation of story
  
  Verdict  Must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  This is the second edition of Tomb Raider. Those who loved the 1st one should be glad to be back 
 for more and those who are playing it first time will even love it more. If youre a guy there 
 is no way on earth will you not like Tomb Raider 2- due to its main character Lara Croft, but 
 thats not the only reason why this game is so Good- the game play will bring you to different 
 parts of the world in search for lost and valuable artifacts. The world of Tomb Raider II is rich 
 and big full of puzzle solving action pact walk in the Amazon jungle/ Pyramid. In the game you 
 will be spending most of the time trying to figure puzzles out like How to get up that wall? Controlling 
 Lara is easy she can do basic movement by using the Keyboard to perform the running, walking, handstands 
 and jumping, while you utilize the mouse to move the camera and aim you weapons. Eidos did a good 
 job in this sequel and has a good promise to keep gamers entertain, Players who dont have that 
 much patients in such action puzzle solving type of game-play might just stick to Marios simple 
 game-play but you dont know what your missing, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  When I got hold of the first adventure of Lara Crof in 1996 -- I got the impression that this character 
 was inspired by Indiana Jones, and blended with sex appeal. I hadn't played Indiana Jones from 
 Lucas arts as yet -- so I ventured into the game despite the fact that I hated the camera perspective 
 from the beginning. I did not finish the first game; the camera gave me a headache.
  I bought the second game and did not play it for a while. Finally when I did, I really liked it 
 despite the I-hate-that-camera factor.
  In retrospect I realise why I liked the game -- its the never ending puzzle combined with action 
 that kept me going. It took me some time to pick up the actions, which I did not find intuitive. 
 But when I did, I liked hoping from balconies to balconies. I liked the speed boat chases. And 
 I was impressed with the large level designs that covered different parts of the world.
  While Lara Croft's world was designed in line with the real world, it was also lifeless and too 
 silent. The only people (and creatures) you see is your enemies who you must shoot or dodge. The 
 eerie silence is a put off. Secondly some of the puzzles/challenges are time bound -- you complete 
 a task within so and so seconds, or you die. This can be a pain in the bottom when overused. In 
 this game, this trick was used many times (if I recall properly) .
  The biggest minus point of the Tomb Raider series that while the series has successfully created 
 an image of Lara Croft (with real world buxom models used in promo drives) -- each game lacks distinction 
 from one another. I played several of them. But its very hard for me to describe the distinct difference 
 between them.
  Nevertheless Tomb Raider is surely a successful series in general. And This installment is worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  I highly recommend this game for all players! It's just amazing! Controls are perfect, couldn't 
 have been more great, and just everything about this game is cool!
  
  Your character is Lara, who is in her twenties. She is very wealthy, because of her treasure hunting, 
 and also her father had lots of money too. Explore, fight, drive and treasure hunt are Lara's day 
 to day activities as she seeks to find her goal....
  
  In this sequel, Lara finds herself in China. She is looking for certain artifacts that she must 
 find. There are many immersing levels to play in and a lot of variety. You may find yourself below 
 the ocean, or in high mountains. You must fight with guns, and there a lot of different ones that 
 you may find. Pistols are the main weapon, and they never run out of ammo. You must also avoid 
 certain traps that may lead to your doom. The handy save-game book is really handy. Graphics are 
 great for the game, and sound is good. I must say, I found this game very difficult.. It was quite 
 a challenge and probably the most challenging game I have ever played. Lara is quite athletic, 
 and she can make huge jumps or can climb up huge cliffs without breaking a sweat. She can even 
 do back flips, front flips and side flips whenever she wants. This game was amusing and tricky 
 at the same time.. a perfect combination.
  
  THIS GAME IS A MUST-HAVE! YOU HAVEN'T EXPERIENCED THE MAXIMUM OF A GAME BEFORE THIS ONE!!!!
  
 
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldkill19
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  This is the second Tomb Raider for the PC. You will play as an athletic girl name Lara Croft and 
 the moves that she does are amazing. The controls are a little easy, but you'll get used to them. 
 This game has many levels, taking you from Venice to the Great Wall of China. The intro video is 
 awesome! The visuals in this game ---Wow I just love them so much. You will get so many weapons 
 to waste enemies with, whether it's a harpoon gun on a grenade launcher. The Antarctica level is 
 so amazing. You get do even driver vehicles and it's so much fun! You get to drive snowmobiles, 
 boats and many others. Some levels can be frustrating but just thinking about this game wants me 
 to play it again. I love it so damn much! The sound for everything rocks as well. The enemies can 
 be hard to kill, but just go at them with all you got and victory is yours! If you are missing 
 out on this game, getting it would be the best option. Tomb Raider 2 is a kickass game for anyone 
 to enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iilliiieee
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  IT WAs THE PERFECT GAME CONSIDERING THE YEAR IT WAS MADE IT HAD CHALLENGING PUZZLES IMPRESSIVE 
 LEVELS AND GAME ENGINE. IN MY OPINION IT IS ONE OF THE BEST TOMB RAIDER GAMES EVER (1 2 3 4 5 6 
 7.. (ANNIVERSARY) ... AND TR 8 WICH IS GOING TO BE RELEASED IN 2008 I THINK) . WHAT CAN I SAY IF YOU 
 ARE SICK OF ALL THE CRAP GAMES TODAY YOU CAN ENJOY PLAYING THE 'OLDIES' WORTHS AND IT DOSEN'T NEED 
 A HIGH-END SYSTEM IT CAN RUN EVEN ON A PC WITH 120 MHZ , 32 RAM , 1 MB VIDEO MEMORY (DDRAW ONLY 
 NO D3D) . SO IF YOU CAN'T FIN IT IN STORES TRY DOWNLOADING USING DC++ ,UTORRENT OR BITTORRENT.
 
  So WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR GO ON AND START YOUR RAIDING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itendsthisway
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Probably the best of the Tomb Raider sequels, TRII was a revolutionary game in the Tomb Raider 
 series. It took the original Tomb Raider formula that we know and loved, but it improved on it 
 in such a way that many people think it is the best of the series. TRII introduced new weapons, 
 new locations, vehicles, costumes, amazing graphic improvements, and much more. While the original 
 Tomb Raider had an amazing claustrophobic feel to it, Tomb Raider II had a very open, spacious 
 feel, which made it feel fresh, new, and better than ever. Locations such as China and Venice helped 
 the games atmosphere immensely. The game was also huge. It was 18 levels long and each level had 
 challenging puzzles, huge locations, tough combat, and immersive level design. More weapons were 
 added such as the M16 and the Harpoon Gun (which you could use underwater) . While the original TR 
 was a classic in its own, TRII took a good thing and improved it enough to make it remarkable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gleba2388
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally awesome... once again in Lara Croft's shoes, you'll need to find a even more 
 dangerous artifact this time, the Dagger Of Xian.
  
  Starting from the graphics, that are a lot more beautiful, detailed and now, Lara has a hair! Her 
 curves are pretty more detailed comparing to the first game, giving her a much more feminine touch. 
 The backgrounds are really distinct from each other, got their own textures, some of the wide-open 
 backgrounds looks extremely sharp and astonishing and the enemies are greatly designed. The AI 
 is great too, since enemies will spend some time finding some cover (if they're armed) and even 
 calling backup.
  
  The sound is one of the WORST things in this game. The sound is terrible, with every single sound 
 buffed. When Lara falls to the ground, it looks more like you're breaking a coconut in half than 
 a person hitting the ground. Her pistols sound like dog's barks. Tigers growlings looks like a 
 vacuum. At least, the songs in the game are pretty well chosen, but still in the worst place at 
 the quality scale.
  
  The gameplay still very solid, with high-responsive controls and varied actions, such as jumps, 
 rolls, etc. Jumping sidewwards or even swimming is easier in the follow-up than in the original, 
 since the responsiveness is higher.
  
  The game has a wide number of levels, but some of them are totally frustrating, like the underwater 
 one. In the end, you'll spend about 20-25 hours finishing the game and looking for all the secrets.
 
  
  Although the game's sound mishaps are abysmal, Tomb Raider II is a great game and will provide 
 you some of the funniest, yet entertaining digital challenge ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider II the sequel of a great game that will be legendary.
  
  The second part of a popular game normally receive several critics, and just a few times exceed 
 the expectations; maybe TRII is not the best game ever, and maybe it doesn't improve largely the 
 first part (TR one) , but it offers to us hours and hours of entertainment, action, adventures and 
 some headache trying to solve the puzzles.
  
  This game is great, some times very lineal, but is necessary to give the appropriate for to the 
 history. The playmode is excellent, the puzzles are some simple and others too difficult, you will 
 continue playing until dawn trying to solve some of them.
  
  The graphics are really good, and even better the perfect body of Lara C. (very nice to see her 
 all the game) ; The music and sound FX are little good, some time the atmosphere feels empty.
  
  This game is enough long to give several weeks before you finish it, and the perfect difficulty 
 to make it possible but not easily.
  
  Finally, TRII is a great game, and for those who likes this genre one of the best ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalsound00
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  a well minded story with gameplay to back it. the puzzles are simple enough to deem them as minor 
 hurdles, and the action sequences are right on.
  
  the characters movement can sometimes get annoying, and the camera is sometimes a problem, but 
 that goes along with most games of this caliber where you're running through canyons and swimming 
 underwater. 
  
  the opening level itself is pretty neat, the end giant boss, and you have to make you're way down 
 into his massive den. the game's got that eerie feel throughout it all, really a great achievement 
 and i believe it set many standards for puzzle/shoot-em-up games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbdl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Sometimes when you ask to someone to tell you what a MasterPiece is, well if he doesn't react, 
 he has obviously never played to games like Tomb Raider 2.
  Tomb Raider 2 is the game once you play you never forget : 
  - First there is the character : 
 Lara a beautiful woman with 2 handguns and an acrobatic style no one can imitate
  -Then what surrounds the main character : Her huge house, her servant, the training in the garden.....
 
  -Finally the game itself with the world Lara "visits" : TR2 opens the door to amazing places that 
 you will never forget . Who can talk today about Venice without thinking to TR2 ? This latter is 
 one of the seldom game offering such an immersive and amazing atmosphere. The music takes off course 
 an important part in the game.
  
  TR 2 is not a game like the others because Lara's ennemies need several bullets to die, because 
 when you're there you can't hide, because when you want to kill a dog you will have to jump 3 times 
 whitout stopping to fire and because the game make you discover an always more charismatic woman 
 you will always follow until the end of the adventure !
  
  Fantastic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Yeah, by far it's the best 3rd person shooter there is. One of my all time favourites, I can remember 
 playing this game over and over for the story as well as to see the sexy Lara Croft
  
  GOOD: Graphics are pretty good for it's time I mean it no GTA but it's got up to standerd graphics, 
 the story line is well made up.. The game play is what's there to talk about, the game runs for 
 hours on end and keeps you entertained and hooked on to the game, with puzzles that are so awesome 
 to challenge and creatures that give you the creeps
  
  BAD: There really isnt much bad in the game, only that some of the puzzles could be frustrating 
 when solving such as constructing something or searching for a key and you will end up playing 
 an area over and over again to get through.
  
  Overall one of the best game I have played of the time, and I see everyone believes it too cause 
 the 7th installment Tomb Raider: Legends is about to hit stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Tomb raider was a revolutionary game when it came out, being one of the first to offer complete 
 3D worlds to explore. These coupled with an engaging story, good action, thoughtful puzzles and 
 a sexy heroine propelled the game to legendary status. Tomb Raider 2 (as its name suggests) is 
 the first of many sequels.
  
  Tomb Raider 2 is a highly enjoyable game. While it does nothing new in comparison to its predecessor, 
 it just seems that little bit more polished. The graphics are sharper (though this is to be expected 
 considering a year passed between the release dates of the two games) , the environments are more 
 realistic, and the game simply seems a little more sure of itself. The problem is that it is no 
 longer pioneering. Since the release of TR1 other games have done the same thing (though not as 
 well) , which means that we were really looking to TR2 to push the boundaries just that little bit 
 further. It doesn't, simply being a polished version of the original.
  
  That is not to its discredit though, after all there is no need to fix something that isn't broken. 
 TR2 has excellent gameplay, being full of very large levels, interesting puzzles that require logical 
 thought, and some challenging battles. The puzzles tend to be the pull lever, push block, jump 
 over spikes, avoid boulder style that we are used to from TR1, but they are still fun. What I particularly 
 like is that none of the puzzles require huge leaps of intellect - everything makes sense. In almost 
 every situation you can see what you have to do, you simply have to work out how to do it; the 
 difficulty is in the execution rather than in the vision.
  
  The battles are quite tricky too. This game is very fond of suddenly pitching Lara into battle 
 with no warning. Enemies will appear in dark corners or from the side seemingly out of the blue, 
 meaning that you need to be alert all of the time. Most of the enemies will fall relatively easily, 
 though likewise Lara will fall quite easily if the enemies get a few clear attacks on her. For 
 this reason all enemies need to be kept at a good distance and dispatched with some urgency. Many 
 of the difficulties arise in the fact that often enemies will attack during difficult manoeuvres 
 or when Lara is in a small area with spikes/large drops/painful death all around, meaning that 
 you cannot simply leap around, firing manically. In fact, the only relief you get in terms of the 
 relentless difficulty is the fact that ammo and medi-packs are frequently found. 
  
  So we come to sound. Now I'm told that the sound is pretty good, with cool menu music and some 
 smart one-liners from Miss Croft interspersing the adventure, however the game seems to select 
 what sound it will allow me to hear and what sound it won't. I understand that this is a pretty 
 common problem for owners of the Sold-Out Software published version of the game. To begin with 
 I couldn't even play the game on my Windows 2000 machine, with SOS informing me that the game only 
 runs on Windows 95 or 98. Then recently, on the internet, I discovered an altered version of the 
 ". exe" file produced by Core that enables the game to run on Windows 2000/XP, thus enabling me 
 to play the game, albeit with no sound during cut scenes. I get some sound during gameplay and 
 during the FMV sequences, but not during cut scenes. This meant I had to find a script of the game 
 on the net and simply read the story as I completed the levels. This is not ideal but to be honest 
 this is better than not playing the game at all, so I am grateful to Core for releasing this update. 
 
  
  Aside from the sound and compatibility issues there are no bugs in the game, thus meaning that 
 I was able to play through it completely. This in itself is an achievement, considering that the 
 game is damn hard. I played TR3 when it first came out in 98, when I was 14, and it was a severe 
 challenge for me. Relatively I would have to say that TR2 is tougher. It is not as long but requires 
 some intricate and perfectly timed sequences of manoeuvres and some tough battles. It's taken me 
 one week of almost solid playing to complete it. I enjoy the challenge though. If you get easily 
 frustrated with games or don't like games that are too difficult then this isn't for you. If however 
 you are like me, and enjoy the challenging puzzles, battles and execution of moves then you will 
 love TR2. It has its flaws, it is not revolutionary like its predecessor, but it is still a hell 
 of a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orasion_Seiz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider 2 continues the journey of our very sexy Lara Croft. This time the journey takes her 
 to China as she searches for the Dagger of Xian, a legendary artifact filled with mysteries and 
 secrets. On her journey, she will encounter various obstacles once again and also puzzles that 
 will test the mind of you players.
  
  This exciting Tomb Raider sequel will have you swimming, jumping, climbing, backflipping, diving, 
 rolling, and shooting your way across the globe. In this journey, youll explore frozen Tibet, 
 exotic China, the beautiful canals of Venice, and an underwater ship. Of course no Tomb Raider 
 game will be complete without a set of cool weapons. M16, grenade launchers, automatic pistols etc.. 
 Those weapons will aide Lara on her journey, so dont waste those ammuntions.
  
  Gameplay is still the same as the first Tomb Raide but Lara has some set of new moves that you 
 will be like to familiar with. The graphics of the game very unique. Unlike the first Tomb raider, 
 the graphics had a different change. There are no games out there that can compare to the graphics 
 of this game. The sound also is also one big advantage. The sound and music is just excellent, 
 well perfectly balance and its sure to give players a real gaming sensation.
  
  Well in the end Tomb Raider 2 is one great adventure. I enjoyed playing this game as much as exploring 
 the Temple of Xian. This game maybe old now but its one of those games that hardcore adventure 
 fans will treasure for the rest of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swifthom
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Although some believe Lara Croft peaked after Tomb Raider three, some believe 
  nothing captured the original games ambition and others suspect the series was never good anyway, 
 obviously all of these people have forgotten the glory that is Tomb Raider 2.
  
  Tomb Raider two isnt flash, by and large it doesnt present Lara as much as the super celebrity 
 sex model she became with the next game. It may not be the first of the series but, with serious 
 graphical improvements over Tomb Raider 1 it is able to bask in a still fresh premise and just 
 smells; classic.
  The game controls simply, yet opens up every imaginable, combining intricate platforming with shoot 
 em ups and swimming. Nothing seems out of place whether youre fighting mindless thugs, dogs, 
 T-Rex, sharks or surprisingly undead dragons, all of which require a different tactic and the relatively 
 advanced for its time engine allows you to play the game the way you want. Also, I know very few 
 people who have ever completed a Tomb Raider without doing the extra ammo cheats, but whether you 
 do or dont it still feels like something monumentous when you complete the game. It doesnt pull 
 its punches, giving you enemies who will not die and some levels which even if you know and dont 
 die can easily take hours to run through. At points youll find yourself stranded in the middle 
 of the ocean with only a few minutes breath supply and who can remember the immortal moment in 
 the first level when the Tyranosaurus comes chagrining down the valley at you and the last level 
 which I wont spoil but, you thought it was all over and then... Absolutely sublime gaming, and 
 its due to the success of this that more recent games have struggled to be more outrageous whereas 
 what shines through here is the simplicity of it all.
  
  Laras adventure takes you from the Great Wall of China, to Venice, to a sunken underwater wreck, 
 to Tibet and then finally back to China to confront some surreal floating platform gaming before 
 concluding events in Laras Mansion (available from the start in a Training Level) The plot is 
 relatively simple, but intriguing; it all starts when a hitman tries to prevent Lara opening a 
 door hidden beneath the great wall of China and she slowly uncovers a secret cult based around 
 a megalomaniac trying to discover the secret of immortality. The levels are atmospheric, realistic 
 and striking, the Venetian and Chinese themes will haunt you for years to come. Sound wise the 
 games theme tune is its only masterpiece, but its strong and foreboding background noises accompany 
 Lara on her quest giving the game additional chills. The quest is long and arduous, but constantly 
 rewarding and engaging, and gives the game a good long span for you to complete it in, this will 
 not take you an afternoon to finish and even the best gamers should spend hours working through 
 it. The games puzzles are hard but generally solvable, and the ability to save and load where you 
 like helps to diminish annoyance levels. Some Tomb Raider games annoy me because there just arent 
 enough tombs, no worry here although the majority of your time is spent getting to and from said 
 tombs rather than exploring the insides of them. Lara visits three separate tombs here, the Chinese 
 site where the game begins and ends, a Tibettan monastery and most striking, a sunken ship, all 
 of which offer important and vita clues in Laras search.
  The bad guys are explained and drawn out well, but not overly complicated. You see them kill people, 
 kill each other, talk about things and do nasty deeds, but none of them have recognisable personalities. 
 That works in the games favour though as if you saw any more of the antagonists the game would 
 loose its sense of mystery, the question of what exactly it is that Lara has uncovered
  
  Tomb Raider 2 is the only Tomb Raider game I have played and completed without the all ammo cheat. 
 Not the original, but still the classic benchmark of high gaming that the series can only dream 
 of one day returning to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidgen3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider 2 is definitely better than the first one with better graphics and gameplay. The game 
 has an adventurous appeal that hasn't really been done before. I played TR 1 and was fun but not 
 as satisfying as this one.
  
  The Story is great and paces itself well, for an adventure game telling its story through levels 
 of exploration and a few scenes of narration it does a good job of keeping u interested, also some 
 of the scenes are animted incredibly well and make Lara all the more memorable. She is a witty 
 one and thats whats appealing about her.
  
  The graphics are... decent i guess, they arent anything amazing but get the job done. The textures 
 are kinda low quality but the animation pulls the games visuals together.
  
  The sound was great and has a few short commings but over all was pretty fitting. I liked the soundtrack 
 and has some very calm music like the menu screen and music that plays at Lara's mansion. I enjoyed 
 it and thought it did a good job
  
  The Gameplay is where the game gets a few problems. The controls are alittle funky and are pretty 
 old style and can cause problems when trying to line up a jump. The jumps are a tad forgiving but 
 usually there is a delay when u hit the button and u actually jump and usually requires you to 
 be dead on. And the bosses, sometimes they can be just plain hard and seem like gods after shooting 
 for so long.
  
  Over all the game was fun to play in small doses but might need a break every now and then after 
 getting ur ass handed to you from a failed jump or an invincible boss.
  I guess its a good game to get if ur into the first tomb raider and have 20 bucks to spend, which 
 is a very reasonable price for this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowRealm2FX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Although I have only played this version of the Tomb Raider series, I have to admit that the second 
 one is probably one of the best. 
  
  Firstly, the keyboard controls are rather straight forward, with the arrow keys to move forward, 
 backward, turn left and right. The alt key is used to jump, and the ctrl key is used to perform 
 an action, such as opening a switch, picking up a key, and so on, as well as firing your weapon. 
 Plus, the spacebar is used to draw out your weapon, so its rather easy to get out your weapon 
 easily since the spacebar is right next to the jump button. When I played this game for the first 
 time on the PC, the controls were rather easy to master after experimenting with the different 
 keys. When I tested out the number keys, I realized that they were used for drawing out different 
 weapons. So basically, it is all trial and error, and rather easy to master after a few minutes.
 
  
  As for the sound and graphics, I have nothing much to say for it, except that the sound was rather 
 good. The explosions and the sound of bullets zipping are excellent, especially when using the 
 Uzis and the M-16. The graphics were decent, honestly a bit better than the PS version. 
  
  Lastly, the actual game play itself is a bit beyond the expectations. The level of difficulty throughout 
 the game progresses rather steadily, as you try to make your way out of a certain level through 
 a variety of puzzles: opening locks, pulling switches, moving heavy blocks, and so on, at the same 
 time battling a group of henchmen, dogs, guys with flamethrowers, and others along the way. The 
 plot itself is rather easy to follow: Lara Croft is traveling across different places of the world 
  China, Tibet, the depths of the ocean, and a few others  so she can discover the secret of the 
 Dagger of Xian and retrieve it from an evil man, Bartoli. In retrospect to the levels, some may 
 require a bit of tactical thinking, as you try to figure out what to do next. For instance, you 
 have retrieved a key from a certain area, so where do you use the key? Thats where memory comes 
 into play. One has to remember what he or she has seen in the level in terms of keyholes or switches. 
 As for the enemies, their level of difficulty increases as you go along the game, although some 
 are a bit hard to defeat. 
  
  Overall, the game is very solid and rather fun. It will keep hardcore fans and newbies playing 
 it for hours. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
