-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tombraider3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 14, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 699 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Core Design Ltd.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 30, 1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest Tomb Raider game shows that the series is falling a bit behind the times. 

 Much has happened since Lara Croft first showed her face (and other body parts) to the world in 
 1996. There have been stunning advances in 3D gaming technology, and the third-person action game 
 - a genre that the original Tomb Raider helped to define - is now everywhere. Now Lara is back 
 in Tomb Raider III, and although her persona outside of the game continues to, shall we say, develop, 
 the latest Tomb Raider game shows that the series is falling a bit behind the times.  

 Tomb Raider III, like its predecessors, is an action game with a healthy dose of adventure and puzzle 
 elements thrown in for good measure. Your job is to guide Lara Croft through a surprisingly varied 
 set of levels, many of which provide an intense sense of immersion. In fact, the size, scope, and 
 atmosphere of the levels are probably the game's strongest point. But these levels, however cavernous, 
 are filled with things you've already seen, and in order to beat the game, you're required to make 
 Lara do things she's already done. Lara runs, Lara swims, Lara shoots, Lara must jump carefully 
 across a canyon. Is it wrong not to be more excited about these activities?  

 The strength of the original Tomb Raider was the fact that Lara Croft was a free-roaming character 
 in a real 3D world; at the time it was a new experience. Also, the sheer size of the levels was 
 enough to capture many gamers' imaginations. But even on Lara's first outing, the weaknesses of 
 the game's engine manifested themselves in that there wasn't always much to see or do in Lara's 
 world. From the get-go, the concept behind Lara Croft was always more intriguing than the execution. 
   

 In the time since Tomb Raider first hit the scene, gamers' expectations have grown exponentially, 
 and more than a few games have offered up environments on par with Lara Croft's romping grounds. 
 The stunning lack of innovation as this series has progressed is beginning to stand out more as 
 the world keeps moving forward.  

 Take the camera control as an example, as it is a major hindrance to your progress in Tomb Raider 
 III. The designers have provided rudimentary camera controls to let you get a better look at the 
 environment. But no matter what angle you choose, Lara's backside is just plain in the way too 
 much of the time; a true selectable first-person perspective would have been a very welcome addition 
 to orient yourself before making jumps. As other 3D games have hit the scene with improved camera 
 handling (the best probably being the N64 game, Legend of Zelda) , Tomb Raider's camera deficiency 
 stands out more than ever.   

 To be fair, Tomb Raider III does sport some advances. As already mentioned, the levels are bigger 
 than ever before; Lara has acquired a few new moves this time out (the monkey swing being the most 
 fun) ; and the game's cinematic cutscenes are better. But apart from the improved graphics, it would 
 take a well-trained eye to distinguish Tomb Raider III from the earlier installments.   

 One last thing: Tomb Raider III is hard. In fact, it would be difficult for most players to finish 
 the game without a strategy guide in hand. If you relish a real challenge, this level of difficulty 
 gives Tomb Raider III a lot of value; if you get frustrated easily, you may want to take some Advil 
 before you settle down to play.  

 If you loved the first two Tomb Raider installments and can't wait for more, then Tomb Raider III 
 is worth checking out. Likewise, if you've seen Lara Croft on posters but have never played a game 
 in the series, then Tomb Raider III is a perfectly enjoyable game that might just provide you hours 
 of fun. But if you're looking for something new, you'll need to look somewhere else.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: koldkolossus
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  i hate the game very bad dont buy it **** graphics any game is better excluding liberty cities 
 on the psp very bad .... if u buy it u are a jackass and u have no clue how dumb u are i have hated 
 the game for some time it is so crap. pls contact the makers and tell them to make more stealth 
 games
  
  p. s. its **** /crapTomb Raider III opens millions of years ago, when a meteoroid survived the plunge 
 through the Earth's atmosphere, impacting the then-warm climate of Antarctica. The first people 
 to discover this land were a tribe of Polynesians. Despite the now-freezing conditions, there was 
 an abnormal abundance of life and the tribe settled, worshipping the meteorite crater for the powers 
 it appeared to hold and then forged parts of the meteorite into four artefacts. Generations later, 
 though, catastrophic events forced them to flee in terror. Today, the same area is being excavated 
 by the research company RX Tech, headed by the eccentric Scotsman Dr. Willard. The team is picking 
 up unusual readings from the meteorite's impact zone. Soon after they uncover the body of a sailor 
 from Charles Darwin's voyage on the Beagle. It seems a few of his sailors had explored the interior 
 of the crater.
  
  Following a story from one of the sailors' journal, RX Tech have started to take a particular interest 
 in not only the crater area, but other parts of the globe where the sailors travelled to... and 
 therein died. One of these places is India - where Lara Croft is currently searching for the legendary 
 Infada artefact. Unaware of its true history, she only knows that in local beliefs it was supposed 
 to hold great powers and has been revered by tribes there throughout the years. After retrieving 
 the Infada stone she meets Dr. Willard on a sail boat who informs her of the story of Darwin's 
 sailors as well as the existence of the other three Meteorite Artefacts. They are found in London, 
 the South Pacific and in Nevada. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorcroft_
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Compared to the first and second game of the series, this weakened! The game has its high points 
 and low points. 
  
  :: The History : It's enjoyable and not escaped the theme of game.
  
  :: Places : News places good Selected India, Nevada, Pacific Island, England, Antarctica) , 
 and soon after the last level of India, we can choose the next place, but...
  
  :: Graphics : ... the graphics were not well supplied with the places of game. This is the main 
 problem. Especially in India, very confused texture. But the engine is the same of the other games. 
 And the novelty is the effect of transparency, ending with graphics opaque as the fire, smoke, 
 water.
  
  :: Gameplay: The Gameplay has not changed much compared to the old games, so nothing to discuss.
 
  
  :: Sound: The Soundtrack is great! But what disappointed me was the sound effects that are not 
 regulated (the volume) , without variations of sounds e voices.
  
  :: Difficult: The difficulty depends on your patience, because some parts laziness gives complete 
 the main objective.
  
  I not consider this a bad game, just without enthusiasm, but playable, (I, for example, played 
 this 2 times) :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philtharp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Probably the last truly amazing Tomb Raider game. Tomb Raider 3 still stands, to this day, as the 
 biggest and hardest Tomb Raider game. New weapons, moves, locations, costumes, and even bigger 
 and crazier puzzles made this a difficult, but ultimately wonderful game.
  
  Some of the highlights include the small, but powerful Desert Eagle, the ATV (which was a lot of 
 fun to ride) , and the entire South-Pacific section, which is some of the most fun you could ever 
 have in a Tomb Raider game. The only real flaw with the game is the replay value. After beating 
 the game (which will be a while) , you feel like taking a long break from video games in general.
 
  
  Still, this game is hours of amazing gaming. Great gameplay, good graphics (for its time) , and a 
 solid storyline make this game a classic.
  
  THARP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vixster181
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  i had to get a porta-loo as there was a fith of the game based on the frincin' extinct creatures. 
 i love this game as it has the most 'fear' involved. nevada is the best, no creepy creatures, wide 
 open spaces, lots 'o' water falls, desert eagles, high security compounds and area 51. this game 
 is an instant classic and inspires greatness. the fall and rise of tombraider started here. tomb 
 raider 4 was hard and there was a good use of egyptian puzzles and culture. tomb raider 5 was... 
 well lets just say it was "uniquely abstract". and finally the piece of poop we were hoping to 
 avoid. angel of darkness hits the shelves to destroy a perfectly good game series, what a pile 
 of old poop !!!!!! the puzzles had built up throughout the series and then it is destroyed. tm3 
 was a perfect mix of puzzles, action, fear and violence. there were many vehicles, weapons and 
 outfits. i loved the desert stuff (crop top, desert eagle, quad bike) and india. i love how they 
 captured the culture and managed to scare me on every level. 
  
  another review of games that you have sat through. how do you manage?
  
  pip pip 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 10, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  The third installment in the highly successful franchise, Tomb Raider III tells the story of a 
 meteorite crash that occurred millions of years ago in the Antarctic region. The Polynesians discovered 
 the meteorite crash site and settled in that region until they were forced to leave due to terrible 
 events that ensued from living in that area.
  
  In the present day a research company, RX Tech headed by Dr. Willard, is excavating the crash site 
 and discovers the journal of a sailor, Charles Darwin. According to the journal, a few of his group 
 members have explored the interior of the crater. The sailors soon travelled to different parts 
 of the world and died, each leaving behind an artifact taken from the meteor.
  
  Oblivious to this history, Lara Croft is in India in search of one of those artifacts, the Infada 
 artifact. She encounters the hired mercenaries of RX Tech and soon learns the reason behind their 
 presence. After retrieving the artifact she meets Dr. Willard and sets out in search of the rest 
 of the artifacts.
  
  This journey takes her to different parts of the world  London, South Pacific, Nevada and finally 
 to Antarctica where she learns the truth behind the expedition.
  
  The gameplay is essentially the same as the previous two games. You are given huge levels filled 
 with various puzzles which have to be solved to get to the next level and so on. However, the addition 
 of new moves in the game adds some form of variety in the way these puzzles are implemented, but 
 the concept does not bring anything new to the series.
  
  For the first time, the players can choose their path of progress. The first and the last chapters 
 of the game will remain the same, but the order in which the middle chapters are played is up to 
 the player. This does not impact the game in anyway, but its just an interesting addition.
  
  The puzzles have evoked mixed reaction from me. Some of them were very innovative and some 
 are extremely frustrating. More often than not, solving a puzzle is not difficult once you figure 
 out what to do and that is the hard part. The clues, if you chose to call them that are very obscure 
 and very often you find yourself in a situation where you are completely stumped and a walkthrough 
 is your only hope. Frustrating as this might be, I had a lot of fun playing through the levels 
 and trying to figure out the puzzles on my own.
  
  The levels are bigger than ever and they are filled with traps, enemies throughout. The combat 
 is more prevalent in this game, and you are fighting every step of the way in a given level. The 
 emphasis seems to have shifted more towards fighting enemies, unlike in the previous games where 
 exploration was the key feature. I am not sure I like that shift, because Tomb Raider for me has 
 always been about solving puzzles and exploring, with combat included to break the monotony.
  
  Another major flaw is the locations. Tomb Raider II had its little share of urban settings, 
 but Tomb Raider III takes that to a different height. Nevada, London and partly the Antarctic are 
 all urban settings, which made me wonder why this game was even called the Tomb Raider. There is 
 nothing remotely resembling a tomb in these levels. This is not just an occasional aberration in 
 the game. Three out of the five chapters feature complete urban environments. I was not pleased 
 with that at all.
  
  The game doesn't flow at a steady pace like the previous versions. You find yourself getting stuck 
 in places not knowing what to do VERY often. You find yourself struggling every step of the way. 
 Some might find this challenging, but to me it was frustrating. As if this wasn't enough, there 
 are a few bugs in the game, and should you activate it, then its game over. You'll have to revert 
 back to a previous save game, or download one from the web.
  
  However, there are some definite improvements. I thought the game started off extremely well with 
 the India levels, which are quite creepy at times, and the puzzles in these levels are very fascinating. 
 The South Pacific levels are very entertaining as well.
  
  The game has a lot of enemies depending on the location. India levels have tigers and giant cobras, 
 the south pacific levels have all sorts of different enemies like dinosaurs (including the Tyrannosaurs 
 Rex) , Polynesians. So there is a lot of fighting to be done throughout the game.
  
  The graphics are quite good throughout the game, but the lack of bump mapping means that you get 
 to see a lot of sharp edges on characters and objects in the environment. This is only just a minor 
 observation, overall the game looks great.
  
  The audio for most part is very good. Sound effects are very well done and it adds to the atmosphere, 
 the Indian jungles have excellent background audio of rainfall and insects chirping. The game doesn't 
 have a lot of music, but when it does, it's done right; the sudden sound effects produced when 
 a booby trap is sprung are very startling.
  
  One part of audio that I did have a problem with was the voice. It's not that acting isn't well 
 done; just that the clarity of the voice during the conversation is surprisingly poor and it's 
 quite hard to follow what's being said. I thought there might have been some problem with my CD 
 audio, but turns out that a lot of people had this issue.
  
  This makes following the story, which is complicated as it is, even more difficult. Also some of 
 the accents in the game are bad and hard to understand as well. Lara's voice though, for most part 
 is quite good. The rich English accent is well done by Judith Gibbins.
  
  Overall, I had mixed reactions about Tomb Raider III. I tried hard to look past the level design 
 and the often frustrating puzzles, but this is just not what I expected from a Tomb Raider game.
 
  
  + Graphics
  + Interesting puzzles at times
  + Audio
  + New moves
  + Some levels are brilliant
  + Vehicles
  
  - Too many urban levels
  - High difficulty
 
  - Bad voice acting
  - Technical issues
  
  Verdict  Does not live up to the standards of the previous game. It manages to be mediocre with 
 flashes of brilliance in between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  TR3 is an amazing game!
  Right i used to watch my dad playing Tomb Raider on the PS when i was 7 and when i seen it in GAME 
 for &pound;5 i thought, might aswell [the disc has got TR3 + 4!!] !
  So i got home, had dinner blah blah.. then there was nothing good on Tv so i installed TR3 [took 
 1 minute to install BONUS!!]
  i Started playing it and thought this is OK... next day played again GOOD... next day i got even 
 more involved and started loving it!! =D
  i may only be on the second level but that does not change a thing as the levels are hard [in a 
 good well paid for value way] !
  I now play it all the time that i can! After i complete TR3 i will install TR4 and give it a shot 
 and if it is anything like this game then it fits in my life perfectly =P
  This game is great, long/great value for &pound;5!!! and is a very fun game to play!
  anyone 
 with a pc/laptop [like me] should get it!
  + TR games will play on laptops like a dream NO KIDDING!
  I love this game and i think after 
 i complete these games i will get TR Legend, Anniversary and TR8 ??
  Well hope this review helped ohh and btw check out my very angry review on TRAoD for PC muhahaha 
 [toofar] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldkill19
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Eidos puts in another Tomb Raider and I love this one just as much as Tomb Raider 2. There are 
 better sound effects in this game and good visuals. You will kill more animals than humans in the 
 game, but the way how Eidos makes it is brilliant. There are creatures and not really animals, 
 nonetheless you will be killing humans as well. You will be in places like India, London and a 
 Military Prison. These levels are all so cool to play in. The weapons have been updated and I love 
 them even more. There's more realistic looking and sounding weapons. The enemies are hard to kill 
 sometimes, but give them everything you got, then you will probably win. I love the graphics once 
 again. You cannot go wrong with this game, unless you're not a Tomb Raider fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider III is one of those games that you love and hate simultaneously. This game is in my 
 view the weakest entry in the Tomb Raider series due to some outstandingly contrived levels that 
 were nothing short of punishing. Still, the good levels (and there are quite a few) make this a 
 game must for hardcore Tomb Raider fans.
  
  My main gripe with this game was the level design. While I did find several of the levels enjoyable, 
 I feel that the design of some of the puzzles works against the game; some of them were simply 
 too hard and frustrating and I honestly don't know how the developers expected a regular player 
 to figure out some of this incredibly difficult puzzles. I admit that I had to rely on a game guide 
 on several occasions, and the fact that a lot of this puzzles involved plenty of trial and error 
 only aggravated the frustration.
  
  On the other hand, for every frustrating level there was an equally amazing and enjoyable level. 
 I feel that the Nevada and Antarctica levels were far superior to the rest in the game, while the 
 London levels were the weakest. The Nevada and Antarctica levels felt a lot more like an adventure, 
 with plenty of combat and some clever, yet fairly simple puzzles. The London levels involved way 
 too much platforming, and I found myself staring at the loading screen for a lot longer than what 
 I would've liked, thanks to constantly missing the final ledge in whatever humongous structure 
 I was in. Also, the India and South Pacific levels were competent, though very unremarkable. But 
 to be fair, the overall enjoyment of the best levels in the game, did exceed the frustration of 
 the weaker levels (marginally) . I just wish the game would've been more consistent in it's level 
 design. Ironically, one of the best levels is a bonus level that is set in London... it made me 
 wish that level had been swaped for one of the actual levels in the game.
  
  The graphics in TR III are pretty much the same as in the previous 2 games, but there are some 
 very nice enhancements, such as more realistic water, more detailed guns and bullets (you actually 
 see the bullets, unlike in previous TR games) , as well as sharper models. Also, the scenery itself 
 in the levels was usually a joy to watch.
  
  The sound is pretty competent, although it was very hard to understand some of the dialogues in 
 the game, which made following the story a bit harder. On the other hand, the guns sounded great 
 and the ambience music in some parts of the game was really good.
  
  As with previous TR games, this game offers a lengthy adventure, with 20 huge levels to explore 
 (as well as bonus level which is unlocked if you discover all the secrets) . The overall size of 
 every level (except for the few that involved boss battles) is very large, and while this works 
 great for the best levels in the game, it only increases the frustration in most of the harder 
 levels. It's literally a case of hit and miss.
  
  Overall I did enjoy this game due to some really amazing levels (the Antartica and Nevada levels) , 
 but I do admit that I was able to struggle through the rest mostly due to my love of the Tomb Raider 
 series. I recommend this game to patient and forgiving gamers as well as hardcore Tomb Raider fans. 
 But like gamespot suggested, do bring some Advil just in case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowshoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 22, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider III is probably my favorite game in the Tomb Raider series. I must admit that it is 
 also the first Tomb Raider game, and thus is how I was initiated to Tomb Raider. So, I may be biased. 
 I have friends who claim the first Tomb Raider was the best.
  
  I liked this particular Tomb Raider because of the action/adventure nature of the game. The game 
 is in the third person view. Perhaps it has something to do with controlling a luscious babe and 
 protecting her from harm. Perhaps this is explained by the final girl theory (FGT) ( http://everything2. com/index. pl? node_id=1774556 
 ) . To rebuff the FGT, my wife is actually into the Tomb Raider series as much as I. What makes 
 this game so immersive is the diversity in rich landscapes from all areas of the globe. You travel 
 from citys to jungles, and the secretive area 51. Many puzzles require solving, shooting bad guys 
 as well as dangerous animals. If all the secrets are collected a extra secret level is opened up 
 for you.
  
  On the down side, I found bugginess in setting the game up initially on the PC. The display had 
 many problems with the stock video drivers, and ended up using unsupported drivers to get the game 
 to play without video display problems.
  
  Some have said this game is one of the hardest, and too difficult. However, for those who dont 
 mind cheating, there are unlimited ammo and other cheats available for this game.
  
  I loved this game and have played it through several times. If you have never played Tomb Raider 
 before, and would like to, this game is an excellent place to start before moving on. 
  
  Mike
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  The game is available in 2 different editions, a carboard box versions and a DVD box version thats 
 more XP friendly. Instructions are clear, and the boxart is great.
  
  Story & Dialogs
  The story is your typical Tomb Raider story, finding artifacts and going into new and exotic locations. 
 Nothing new here.
  
  Puzzle Design
  Some of the puzzles in the game are bad, but 80% of the level design and puzzles are pretty good. 
 
  
  Graphics
  FMV sequences are a bit weak compared to whats been done before this game. Real tome graphics are 
 nice, the new particle system is very pretty, the textures are much better. But the graphics engine 
 used is still out dated compared to whats going.
  
  Sound
  The musical score in this game is truly amazing, you will want to actually save the music and listen 
 to it over and over, it really puts you in a smooth mood. 
  
  Gameplay
  The movement system is the same as TR1-2, a grid base system. nothing has changed other than you 
 can use a few new ways of transport.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  You'll probably want to replay this only once, and every few years or so for the nostalgia, its 
 a good game, but nothing more.
  
  Last Word
  Great game, but gameplay is old now, yet manages to give a decent game.
  
  6.6/10 - Fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic addition to the Tomb Raider series. It offers a very long adventure, full 
 of varied environments, challenging battles and interesting puzzles. 
  
  The story sees everyone's favourite video game heroine tracking mysterious artefacts that are believed 
 to be parts of a meteor that crashed to Earth many thousands of years previously. Lara must search 
 through the jungles of India, the islands of the South Pacific, the streets of London, the mysterious 
 Area 51 in the Nevada desert, and finally the desolate wastes of Antarctica to find these artefacts. 
 Of course many enemies stand in her way though.
  
  The gameplay has been dramatically improved in Tomb Raider 3, not just with these varied and exciting 
 levels, but also with a host of new moves for Lara to show off. These include the ability to climb 
 across monkey bars and sprinting. There are also a variety of new vehicles to use, including a 
 kayak and an underwater propulsion unit.
  
  In terms of graphics the game is good. While it can be said that by this point the series was no 
 longer at the cutting edge of graphical advancement, that should in no way put you off. The game 
 still looks fantastic and is a step forward from the previous editions; it just is no longer graphically 
 pioneering, like the original was.
  
  The sound is excellent, with realistic sound effects coupled with occasional non-intrusive background 
 music that really adds to the atmosphere in some of the levels. This music normally occurs when 
 Lara makes a significant discovery and adds to the feel of mystery and tension.
  
  The games interface is very much similar to that of the previous two Tomb Raider games, which is 
 pleasing as the interface is easy to use and the screen is never cluttered while you are trying 
 to play.
  
  There are a few flaws in the game. I found that on occasion the sound wouldn't work in cut scenes. 
 I could not understand why this happened as the problem was intermittent and wasn't related to 
 particular scenes. There would be no sound in a scene on one occasion, but if I went back to a 
 previous saved game and played through to the scene again the sound would work perfectly. Also 
 the camera angles are often awkward, with Lara getting in the way of your view of what is happening, 
 especially when she is in tight, constricted environments. 
  
  My final criticism is that the game is slightly too difficult. It took me a very long time to complete 
 it. I bought it when it first came out (meaning that I was first playing it when I was 14) and 
 at the time it was a serious challenge for me. All of the harder enemies are beatable, often after 
 several attempts, but the puzzles are in fairness a little too hard. Some require you to find countless 
 hidden levers to get through doors, and to push several blocks to find secret entrances. The puzzles 
 are at times not intuitive and require testing everything in the environment just to find the secret 
 area. Having said all this, if you are a patient person who enjoys a challenge this game will be 
 perfect for you. It was the first computer game I played that really challenged me, and so it will 
 always be memorable for me.
  
  So in all, this is a long adventure that looks and sounds good. There are a few bugs, though nothing 
 really serious. The puzzles and enemies are very challenging but it is rewarding when you defeat 
 them and advance. The story is very engaging and full of interesting locations. I have had a lot 
 of fun playing this game over the years and would recommend it to fans of the genre. If you are 
 new to the series it would be an excellent starting point, and likewise if you own other Tomb Raider 
 games then this would be a worthy addition to your collection. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
