-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Chronicles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tombraiderchronicles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.1, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 564 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Core Design Ltd.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 21, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The main problem is that the Tomb Raider series hasn't grown with the times. 

 Core Design, maker of the Tomb Raider series, has proven to be a prolific developer. Without even 
 counting the "gold editions," Tomb Raider: Chronicles is the fifth Tomb Raider game in as many 
 years - a feat that deserves some sort of recognition. Not many games make it to a fifth chapter, 
 let alone in such a short time span. But while Core and publisher Eidos Interactive should be commended 
 for their commitment to avoiding the long development cycles that plague so many games, they can 
 also be criticized for squandering what began as an imaginative and interesting series. Tomb Raider: 
 Chronicles features good level designs and a bit of variation on the tried-and-tried-again Tomb 
 Raider formula, but there's too little in the way of innovation to make it seem like anything more 
 than just another trip to the cash cow.   

  At the outset of Chronicles, Lara Croft is presumed dead and several of her colleagues and friends 
 are holding a memorial service in her honor. This service leads to a sort of vigil, where the gathered 
 recall some of Lara's past exploits. These stories make up the adventures, and there are four unrelated 
 episodes. Each of these finds Lara searching for some mythical artifact in some mystical land, 
 usually against some European adversary. Descriptions of the episodes sound like variations on 
 Clue solutions: You have the Frenchman with the Philosopher's Stone in the Roman Colosseum and 
 the German with the Spear of Destiny in the Russian submarine. Lara will also have to hunt demons 
 in an Irish moor and find an Egyptian artifact in a high-security skyscraper.   

  The first three of these episodes follows the Tomb Raider formula to the letter, though veterans 
 of the series will note that Chronicles is an easier game than its predecessors. But the basic 
 gameplay remains the same. The first puzzle in the very first Tomb Raider involved finding some 
 gears to open a new area. And almost every puzzle in every Tomb Raider game since has been exactly 
 the same, though the gears have been replaced by seals, medallions, or what have you. Between these 
 door-opening puzzles is a series of jumping puzzles. You must simply find the right area to jump 
 or climb to and then execute the proper moves. Lara has some new moves in Chronicles, including 
 tightrope walking and hand-over-hand swinging, but these are little more than slight variations 
 on the theme.   

  The problem with Tomb Raider's jumping puzzles is that they are so clinical. In most platform games, 
 such as the excellent Rayman 2, learning the pattern required to complete an area is a test of 
 reflexes. This is not the case in Tomb Raider. Instead, you only need to jump within a certain 
 window of time, and Lara will jump at precisely the right time for you. Once you learn to execute 
 the moves, and you will do so very early on, the puzzles are just a matter of trial and error. 
 This takes away much of the surprise and suspense needed to make a game like this fun, and the 
 high-action settings that Lara explores are made somewhat dull as a result of gameplay that all 
 but does away with the element of surprise. There are a few areas that require you to perform a 
 series of actions in precisely the right order, but these are the exception.   

  The jumping puzzles are interrupted by the occasional gunplay sequence, but these aren't much better. 
 Lara aims automatically, and most combat is simply a matter of mashing the fire button while frantically 
 trying to avoid being pinned into a corner by your opponent. This can be harder than it sounds, 
 especially considering that the camera angles seem to conspire against you to make seeing your 
 opponent impossible until he (or she or it) is upon you. Luckily, there is little combat in Chronicles. 
    

 One of the new additions in Chronicles (dubbed "a hand-to-hand stealth attack" on the box) requires 
 you to sneak up on an opponent and knock him out from behind. This new move only makes one appearance 
 in the first three episodes, and it seems illogical. Here is a woman who can do a standing long 
 jump of over 15 feet, can jump 10 feet in the air without breaking a sweat, and yet she is absolutely 
 useless when it comes to hand-to-hand combat. At one point, Lara has been captured and her weapons 
 have been taken away. Crawling through the air ducts of a submarine, she comes across the kitchen. 
 If she doesn't sneak up on the chef and knock him out, she is helpless against him. Bear in mind 
 that she once took down a Tyrannosaurus with a handgun, and yet she is powerless against a fat 
 cook with a knife.   

  Stealth becomes a bigger issue in the final episode, which combines ideas from pioneering games 
 such as Metal Gear Solid and Thief: The Dark Project with the standard Tomb Raider gameplay. You 
 must sneak through a building, using chloroform to knock out guards. It's a welcome variation on 
 the formulaic action of the first three episodes (and the previous four games, for that matter) , 
 though the interface and camera angles occasionally make it seem like a less-than-perfect match 
 of styles. Still, it gives hope that future installments of the series will break even further 
 from the formula.   

  Chronicles looks better than previous installments and features smoother characters that look almost 
 like cartoons. The rocks and platforms are still noticeably angular, but the environments are colorful 
 and varied. Rome looks especially nice, as does the colorful and haunting island Lara visits in 
 the third episode.   

  The sound does not fare as well. The music is suited to each environment, and it provides some 
 well-timed cues that danger is around the corner. Unfortunately, the voice acting is almost universally 
 terrible, with young Lara being one of the worst culprits. The hammy readings mar the well-written 
 dialogue; you'll get the feeling not only that the developers themselves are reading the dialogue, 
 but that they were only given one take to get it right.   

  The game also has some noticeable technical problems. Debugging errors crashed the game occasionally, 
 graphics clipping abounds, and there were some slight problems with movie sequences that didn't 
 play properly.   

  Tomb Raider: Chronicles is better than Tomb Raider II or III, though it lacks the coherent story 
 that made The Last Revelation the best since the original. The main problem is that the Tomb Raider 
 series hasn't grown with the times. The artificial difficulty on some levels (such as giving you 
 no weapons and yet still populating the area with enemies) is just frustrating, and ideas from 
 other action games haven't been implemented as well as they could have been. There's no autosave 
 feature, the environments still seem vast and empty, and you never feel like you're in an interesting, 
 fully realized world that you want to explore. Instead, you feel like you're playing a game from 
 five years ago. And, if you really want to be honest, it's because you are.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: philtharp
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Every series has a sequel like this... A sequel that feels out of place and out of ideas... A sequel 
 that brings nothing new to the table and seems like an excuse to get cash fast. Well, Chronicles 
 is that chapter in the Tomb Raider series. It's not that Chronicles is that bad of a game. It can 
 be fun in places, but, for the most part, it's the same old repetitive Tomb Raider game with the 
 same old puzzles and the same old enemies, etc.
  
  Maybe all of this could be a little forgivable if the game had a goal or a point to it, but it 
 doesn't. At the end of "The Last Revelation" (the TR game released a year before) , the games ending 
 sequence showed Lara hang off the side of a cliff, about to fall to her death with the words TO 
 BE CONTINUED. This game does not continue anything... in fact, there is no real storyline. The game 
 is a collection of a bunch of four new adventures that took place in many different parts of Lara's 
 life and three of the four adventures are boring and repetitive.
  
  The only redeeming point of the game is the younger Lara levels, which (unlike the rest of the game) has 
 a lot of interesting puzzles, a decent storyline, and a unique approach to gameplay. Honestly, 
 the younger Lara levels are the only reason to buy the game.
  
  I may be a little harsh, but the reason Tomb Raider games were always amazing, despite repetitive 
 gameplay, was because each game brought a little something new. Chronicles has the same old gameplay, 
 same old graphics (please design a new game engine... please) , same old puzzles, and no storyline. 
 What more do I need to say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  This is the fifth game in the Tomb Raider series. Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation, which ended 
 on an interesting note, gave rise to a lot of speculation about the next game. Tomb Raider Chronicles 
 promised a lot, but I am afraid that it did not deliver.
  
  The game had a lot of potential, but instead of carrying the story forward, it dwells on the past 
 exploits of Lara Croft, previously untold adventures discussed by a group of friends who mourn 
 her believed loss. I felt quite disappointed to know that the game does not shed any light on the 
 future.
  
  The graphics are almost identical to the last installment, with a few improved textures and bump 
 mapping effects thrown in. The game supports higher resolutions, but those who have played Last 
 Revelation will have weary feeling of dj vu, because the improvements are not very perceptible.
 
  
  The sound is as good as ever, whether or not there are any actual improvements is hard to say, 
 it remains solid throughout the game. Unlike in Tomb Raider III, this time it is possible to follow 
 the dialogue without any difficulty.
  
  Gameplay wise, apart from a new weapon and the ability to walk on a tight rope, not much has changed. 
 I was willing to tolerate more of Last Revelation type of gameplay but the levels do not capture 
 my interest. Although the starting levels were quite good, and I enjoyed them, the rest of the 
 game does not offer a lot, because you find yourself in many urban settings.
  
  There is an entire episode dedicated to young Lara Croft, where you play without any weapons, and 
 evasion is your only course of defense. Yet again, this is not something new, we have seen this 
 in the previous games, and personally, I found these levels quite tedious.
  
  I did not quite understand this decision by the designers to include such levels in the game. Seeing 
 the lukewarm reaction they got with Tomb Raider III, they should have realized their mistake, especially 
 because Last Revelation has redeemed the series with excellent level design.
  
  I have to mention some technical flaws as well. The game has a few bugs in the final levels, and 
 if they are activated, it would be impossible to finish the game, and sometimes the player may 
 not even know that the bug was activated. I know I had to face that problem.
  
  In spite of these faults, Chronicles is not such a bad experience. I did enjoy some parts of the 
 game, and to its credit, it is not very frustrating. It is the shortest of all the Tomb Raider 
 games so far, and that works in its favor.
  
  Coupled with a level editor for the PC, this game has some good value for money. Tomb Raider fans 
 like me would enjoy it. By itself, it is not such a bad game, but it just does not have a lot to 
 offer and being the fifth game in the series, that is a bit of an offense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Chronicles isn't widely regarded as a classic. In fact, it got mostly lukewarm reviews 
 along with a decent, but not spectacular, fan reception. Personally, I can't see why. Having played 
 every Tomb Raider game since the original, I found Chronicles to be the most enjoyable game since 
 that old classic. It may not have been a revolutionary step forward in the series, and it may also 
 have been a tad too short, but the 4 mini-stories in Chronicles are all terrificly constructed 
 and very well executed, and end up providing 4 unique and very cohesive gameplay experiences.
 
  
  Chronicles doesn't necessary follow the story from Last Revelation (where Lara was thought to have 
 died) , but rather dwells on Lara's past adventures, as several friends of Lara sit down to pay 
 a tribute to their presumable deceased friend. The 4 stories in Chronicles are very varied, starting 
 in Rome (with a visit from some old foes) , going to Russia, where you infiltrate a base and later 
 attempt to escape from a sinking submarine (my favorite level in the game) , later moving on to 
 Ireland (where we get to play as the very cute teenage Lara) , and finishing with an encounter in 
 a high-tech facility with Lara's mentor/enemy, Werner Von Croy. All 4 chapters succeed in delivering 
 immersive game worlds and the stories are all very interesting as well as easy to follow.
  
  In fact, I'd say that one of Chronicles biggest strengths is, ironically, it's length. Previous 
 Tomb Raider games have felt a bit too long, making it somewhat hard to keep up the tempo of the 
 story, as well as including a lot of "filler" levels, which while not necessarily bad levels, weren't 
 on par with the rest of the game in terms of quality and ended up breaking the pace of the game. 
 The 13 levels in Chronicles are all very memorable and they never take you out of the context of 
 the stories. In the end this contributes to a much more cohesive and enjoyable experience.
  
  The gameplay in Tomb Raider: Chronicles hasn't evolved much from previous games, but it's still 
 as enjoyable as ever. There a few twists, such as new moves for Lara, a couple of new weapons and 
 gadgets, and different ways to interact with the game world. Chronicles feels like classic Tomb 
 Raider, and that's certainly a good thing.
  
  Also worth mentioning is the fact that Chronicles, while certainly a hard game overall, feels much 
 more manageable than previous games. It still requires some clever thinking, but the answer to 
 the puzzles is usually just a few steps away, whereas in previous games, a strategy guide had to 
 hold your hand while you played the game.
  
  Chronicles does have a few significant faults, and pretty much all of them reside in the game's 
 final level. This level is littered with bugs, nasty bugs, the kind that will prevent you from 
 finishing the game. Having heard all the warnings, I played that level with a strategy guide by 
 my side that pointed out all the potential bugs. I managed to finish the level avoiding all the 
 bugs, but being forced to play in such a cautionary mode really hampered the experience.
  
  Also, the ending itself is quite underwhelming. Bugs, aside, the final level is very challenging 
 and it seems to be setting up the stage for a spectacular ending, but Lara's actual exit is relatively 
 insipid. The stage was set for a grand finale, but it never materialized. It's my view that the 
 Sinking Sub level would've made for a much more appropiate ending, being that it was a highly challenging 
 level that did provide a climatic closure.
  
  But those issues are relatively minor once you take the whole experience into context. The success 
 of Chronicles lies in how well it manages to tell it's story (or stories) , something were previous 
 Tomb Raider games had struggled a bit, as well as delivering a much more accessible and playable 
 experience. It's not a revolutionary game by any means, but for me at least, it was the most fun 
 I had playing a Tomb Raider game since the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  The only problem which I had with this game was that when I missed it and I wanted to replay it 
 I couldn't run the **** on Windows XP... That's all of my problem.
  
  I love it's music (The first track) and it reminds me of so many sweet memories.
  The gameplay 
 and envmnt design were just great. Some ppl talked of poor graphic. In the year it was released 
 it was great. Don't compare it with 2007 or 2005 graphic solutions!
  The story and levels were great ideas. Lara was supposed to be dead but with this game you could 
 at least play her memories and have fun with it. All level designs and story lines were so great. 
 Both modern and ancient things that you'd to deal with them. I really liked this artistic mixture.
 
  I never got bored of anything of this game and even now I really want to replay it but I can't 
 because of XP's matter! :^ ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortis_Noctem
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of the game is not even close to being one of the best in the whole Tomb Raider series. 
 The Gameplay seems to have all the bugs the previous titles used to have, still not too hard, though. 
 You get 5 seconds of action each hour you spend searching for something that is embedded in the 
 scenario, and these challenges' rewards are not worth the effort. The sound is bad, just bad. The 
 graphics are definitely outdated. The game will bring some temporary entertainment, but if your 
 a hardcore Tomb Raider fan you might actually want to play it for more then a week (probably) . 
 In conclusion, the game is definitely mediocre, the only thing that saves this game is the name: 
 Tomb Raider . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  TRC is an overall good game but the main problem is it is a tad shorter than the rest of the TR 
 games [not including Legend] .
  The graphics are pretty good compared to the other TR's which is a bit easier on the eyes.
  The 
 gameplay is pretty good and can be tough at times, in a good way because the last thing you need 
 is a game that is short + easy!
  The sound is pretty good i must say, even though every once in a while the sound didnt play but 
 that didnt make me want me to throw it straight at the shop assisstant asking for a refund!
  The value of this game is it is a solid 2 month game, i was playing at about 1 hour a day, and 
 not every single day.
  I would say TRC was a very well made product by Core, and the little bugs dont do wonders but do 
 not make you want to stop playing!
  TRC may not be the best TR but it is still a very well done game THANKS CORE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  This title brings some incredibly new and exciting elements to an already enjoyable series. If 
 you haven't played the series, it's not the best place to start, if you have, did you really believe 
 Lara was dead at the end of Last Revelation? How silly of you for thinking that. This is the best 
 Tomb Raider title since the original and introduces you to some new interesting tidbits into Lara's' 
 past. There are also a few new moves including tight-rope walking and climbing on parallel bars. 
 
  
  The game is available in 2 different editions, a carboard box versions and a DVD box version thats 
 more XP friendly. Instructions are clear, and the boxart is great. The game also comes with a level 
 editor which is easy to learn and what fans have always wanted
  
  I giw 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Despite Lara's supposed demise at the end of The Last Revelation, Core can't resist wheeling the 
 old girl out for another adventure in Tomb Raider: Chronicles. I really like the series, but I 
 have to say that this adventure feels a little bit tired.
  
  The premise is that three of Lara's old friends are gathered at her home on the evening after her 
 memorial service. The friends reminisce about Lara's previous exploits, thus leading into four 
 separate adventures from Lara's past that you must play through. During these adventures you encounter 
 old enemies from the Tomb Raider series. Each adventure is independent and the first two are really 
 good - classic Tomb Raider, however the second two leave a lot to be desired.
  
  Lara has a few new moves in Chronicles, but these are nothing special. The old classics of jumping 
 from block to block, shimmying around ledges, pulling levers, and shooting bad guys remain. There 
 are a few new ways to dispatch bad guys involving stealth, which is a welcome feature as it is 
 not overused. Also, some enemies are impervious to Lara's gunfire, thus requiring you to use thought 
 to work out out how to destroy them, rather than blasting away manically.
  
  The game has a wildly changing difficulty level. For the most part it is very easy, requiring logic 
 to remove obstacles, and featuring pretty weak enemies. The last level however is beyond hard! 
 The balance throughout the game is all wrong. Most of the levels are fairly short, and there is 
 nothing particularly new, which just makes the game feel that it is a bit of a tag-on to the series. 
 The Last Revelation was damn good, featuring a coherent and exciting story, plus good action sequences. 
 Chronicles is a real step backwards.
  
  On the plus side, the universally bad scripts that have plagued the series to date have finally 
 been addressed! The scripts are now believable, the voice acting is good, and the plot never makes 
 ridiculous leaps or assumptions. However, the gameplay is just so tired now that the good work 
 on the script is largely wasted.
  
  Graphically the game is much the same as The Last Revelation. It is done very well, but to be honest 
 the environments are not particularly interesting, meaning that in terms of graphics The Last Revelation 
 is far more memorable.
  
  Stability is a major problem with Chronicles, especially in the last adventure. Re-spawning items 
 I can live with (though it does seem a bit amateur hour) , however save games that when loaded result 
 in changed environments, occurrences, or even instantaneous death I cannot live with. These problems 
 only seem to occur in the last three levels, which gives the impression that the game was released 
 before it was properly finished. These bugs coupled with the ridiculous difficulty of the final 
 level lead to a very frustrating experience.
  
  I would not recommend this game to people new to the series, but for fans it will probably be enjoyable. 
 The first two adventures are really good, and reminiscent of Lara's glory days, however the third 
 and final adventures are pretty poor. Stability is a bit of an issue, though if you are patient 
 you should be able to get through. The graphics are nice, without being groundbreaking, and the 
 sound is a major improvement on previous installments. Overall, Tomb Raider: Chronicles is good 
 in its own right, though weak when compared to the other games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  The game is available in 2 different editions, a carboard box versions and a DVD box version thats 
 more XP friendly. Instructions are clear, and the boxart is great. The game also comes with a level 
 editor which is easy to learn and what fans have always wanted.
  
  Story & Dialogs
  The story is your typical Tomb Raider story, finding artifacts and going into new and exotic locations. 
 Nothing new here. No spoilers here.
  
  Puzzle Design
  Some of the puzzles in the game are bad, but 80% of the level design and puzzles are pretty good. 
 
  
  Graphics
  FMV sequences are much better than the previous Tomb Raider FMV sequences. Real time graphics are 
 nice, the new particle system and shadding system is very pretty, the textures are much better. 
 But the graphics engine used is still out dated compared to whats going.
  
  Sound
  The musical score in this game is very average, music in other Tomb Raider games did a much better 
 job, most music sounds misplaced and clumbsy. 
  
  Gameplay
  The movement system is the same as TR1-4, a grid base system. nothing has changed other than you 
 can use a few new ways of transport.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  You probably won't want to replay this unless your a hardcore fan, its a average game, but nothing 
 more.
  
  Last Word
  Average game, but gameplay is old now.
  
  6.8/10 - Fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  This title brings some incredibly new and exciting elements to an already enjoyable series. If 
 you haven't played the series, it's not the best place to start, if you have, did you really believe 
 Lara was dead at the end of Last Revelation? How silly of you for thinking that. This is the best 
 Tomb Raider title since the original and introduces you to some new interesting tidbits into Lara's' 
 past. There are also a few new moves including tight-rope walking and climbing on parallel bars. 
 
  
  Enemies consist of the usual gun and club toting goons as well as some enticing new bosses like 
 my two favorites: the three-headed metal dragon and the giant eye-beam shooting Roman-solider. 
 One thing is for sure, it's good to have unlimited pistol ammunition for just such occasions. The 
 graphics have been cleaned up a little since Last Revelation but still seem to be lacking in places. 
 Just as in its predecessor the environments are not seamless and tend to temporarily pull you out 
 of the game entirely. Weapons, ammunition and medi-packs are plentiful and simple to find. Puzzles 
 are fairly easy to beat if not by skill by the process of elimination. The game takes place in 
 four different locations ranging from a German U-boat to a high-tech skyscraper. It is the best 
 Tomb Raider game for storyline and action; however, it seems to be a little short. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 3:45 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Chronicles is bad. Really bad. That's about all you need to know. If you own this game, 
 you're either a willing pawn of Eidos, whose careful planning around a very top-heavy female character 
 has indeed drawn a male audience. If that's not you, you'll be more like me - stuck with this crappy 
 game because it was bundled with three good games for a great price (Commandos 2, Thief 2, and 
 Deus Ex, to be exact) . First off, getting the game to run in XP and keep running longer than a 
 few minutes is an exercise in frustration. The game loves crashing to your desktop for no apparent 
 reason. Maybe the game engine can't handle you inputting more than two keyboard commands at once. 
 Who knows.
  
  If you do manage to get it to work for an extended period of time, you'll find the same uninspired 
 Tomb Raider design and gameplay that started to go stale in Tomb Raider 2. This is the fifth game. 
 Nothing has really changed. There's no real reason to play through the game unless you haven't 
 gotten tired of backing Lara Croft into corners to get the camera to close in on those attributes 
 you're so obsessed with. If you like that sort of thing, knock yourself out. If you're like me, 
 you'll quickly uninstall it and dispose of the CD as quickly as possible. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
