-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/tombraidertheangelod/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 5.5, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 1,203 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Core Design Ltd.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Jul 1, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hard-core Tomb Raider fans should be able to overlook some of the flaws and enjoy this new installment 
 for its engaging storyline, death-defying action sequences, and impressive locations. 

   

  One of the most successful video game series of all time returns from a hiatus with Tomb 
 Raider: The Angel of Darkness. This latest adventure starring modern-day adventuress Lara Croft 
 sends her to Paris, Prague, and a number of dangerous, ancient, subterranean catacombs. As before, 
 Lara will need to run, jump, climb, shoot, and think her way through various trials and tribulations, 
 and certain death often lies at the bottom of a long drop that is just one miscalculated step away 
 from where she needs to be. In development for years, this new Tomb Raider was intended as a reinvention 
 of the series, with a darker edge and all-new gameplay elements. That is indeed the case, but unfortunately, 
 it's easy to tell that Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness, despite all the time spent in the making, 
 shipped before it was completely finished. Much like in the just-released PlayStation 2 version, 
 numerous glitches, some superficial and some serious, as well as a cumbersome and often frustrating 
 control scheme seriously hurt this game, making it considerably less enjoyable than it could have 
 been. Nevertheless, hard-core Tomb Raider fans and other particularly patient players should be 
 able to overlook some of these flaws and enjoy this new installment for its engaging storyline, 
 death-defying action sequences, and impressive locations.  

          Lara Croft's latest adventure is fraught with peril. And camera problems.     

  Tomb 
 Raider: The Angel of Darkness begins in Paris, when a heated argument between Lara Croft and her 
 mentor ends with a deadly twist -- the old man is killed, and since Lara is the only one present 
 at the scene, she spends the first part of the game eluding the authorities, who assume she did 
 it. As Lara desperately searches for answers to why her mentor might have been killed, she becomes 
 increasingly aware that a notorious serial killer is apparently shadowing her wherever she goes, 
 leaving you to wonder whether she is indeed to blame for the crime in some way.  

  Suffice it to say that the plot thickens, and the truth comes out. The story soon involves a secret 
 society, the search for a set of paintings with a hidden secret, and a healthy dose of the occult. 
 Lara will discover the nature of a truly sinister villain, and she'll even cross paths with an 
 adventurer named Kurtis Trent, who seems to have a similar agenda -- as well as some surprising powers. 
 The story of The Angel of Darkness unfolds gradually and in different ways, such as when Lara happens 
 upon important documents, during dialogue between Lara and other characters, and in stylish cinematic 
 cutscenes using the game's 3D engine. It's surprising that the game scraped by with a T rating, 
 as the story features some decidedly grisly and violent imagery, the likes of which would land 
 any other game these days an M rating. At any rate, rest assured that this Tomb Raider doesn't 
 pull any punches. In the early part of the game, you hear about the grisly way the serial killer 
 dispatches his victims. Later on, you get to see it firsthand.  

  In fact, the interesting story is probably the most compelling reason to struggle through the game. 
 The actual gameplay of Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness often isn't fun at all, but instead can 
 be frustrating, difficult, and tedious. The controls are the biggest problem. Though the first 
 few sequences of the game are intended to be a sort of tutorial that introduces you to Lara's various 
 moves and abilities, the beginning of the game merely makes its problems painfully apparent. Though 
 she's supposed to be agile, Lara moves like a cement truck. There's a very noticeable lag between 
 when you input the command to move and when Lara actually begins moving in the direction you've 
 indicated. Just turning in place can be difficult -- sometimes you'll accidentally turn a full 180 
 degrees, rather than just the few degrees you needed to line yourself up with the platform you're 
 standing on. Simply put, you'll undoubtedly struggle for hours getting accustomed to the game's 
 control. Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness supports only keyboard (and optionally mouse) controls, 
 though for what it's worth, the digital control afforded by the keyboard actually is somewhat better 
 and more precise than the analog gamepad controls of the PS2 version.  

  The camera is just as problematic as the controls. The third-person perspective goes haywire in 
 situations when Lara has her back against a wall, whereas many recent games have solved this problem 
 by seamlessly switching to a first-person view in such cases. Sometimes the camera will switch 
 on you from scene to scene, and occasionally this will cause the controls to flip. For example, 
 you may be climbing hand over hand across a rope stretched across a bottomless pit, and suddenly 
 just turn around, or just stop. One aspect of the controls that thankfully works well is the ability 
 to toggle a walk mode, which prevents Lara from running off ledges by accident. The other good 
 news is you will eventually get used to the controls if you stick with the game.  

          You can eventually get used to the controls, but you'll never stop wishing they were simply 
 better.     

  You'll also get used to the fact that approximately half the time you mistime a jump and die -- and 
 you'll die very often -- the controls will be at least partly to blame. It bears mentioning that 
 the Tomb Raider series has never been known for its responsive control, but rather than buck the 
 bad trend, this latest game seems to control even worse than its predecessors. As a result, Tomb 
 Raider: The Angel of Darkness probably won't be winning over any new fans, though since trial-and-error 
 gameplay has always been a part of the series, existing fans shouldn't feel completely out of their 
 element.  

  Lara essentially has all the same moves that she had in previous installments in the series. She 
 can jump high and far while standing, jump even farther while running, shimmy across ledges, swim 
 underwater for a while, and automatically lock on to enemies whenever she draws her weapon. Lara 
 can also crawl on all fours or while prone. The most obvious new gameplay element is a stealth 
 mode, by means of which Lara can creep up on unsuspecting foes. She can also flatten her back against 
 a wall and take a peek around a corner, just like Snake from Metal Gear Solid. Stealth elements 
 are rapidly becoming overused in games, so it's probably for the best that the stealth mechanics 
 are largely irrelevant in Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness. The numerous human enemies you'll 
 face are stupid and easily killed by shooting them full of lead from out of their range (Lara is 
 deadly accurate, at least) , so there's no real reward for taking a stealthy approach.     

 
  It's been a couple of years since the last Tomb Raider game, and apparently Lara's fallen out 
 of shape in the downtime. An important aspect of the gameplay is that she can't climb indefinitely -- her 
 ability to hang onto ledges or other objects is governed by a grip meter that begins dwindling 
 as soon as she catches hold. You'll often have just enough grip to make it across a chasm of some 
 sort, and the camera will often cause you to become disoriented and die during these timed sequences. 
 Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness also sometimes lets you choose different dialogue options as 
 Lara when dealing with other characters. This strange nod to traditional adventure and role-playing 
 games has little bearing on the gameplay, but it isn't a bad touch.  

          The new gameplay elements, such as the stealth mode, are largely pointless.     

  Lara 
 also bulks up over the course of the game, in what's probably the most nonsensical new feature. 
 At particular moments when Lara pushes boxes, climbs, makes big jumps, and performs other such 
 physical feats, she'll comment that she's gotten stronger -- this will enable her to leap slightly 
 farther, kick open previously locked doors, and more. It's a gameplay contrivance that keeps you 
 on a linear path through each area. One consequence of this is you'll probably never really know 
 exactly how far she can leap. Just when you're starting to get a good sense of the range of her 
 jumps, she'll grow stronger and jump a little farther. All this would have gone over better if 
 the game controlled well, but since it doesn't, it'll just lead to many more untimely demises. 

  Thankfully, you can instantly save your progress at any point, and the loading times between deaths 
 aren't quite as lengthy as on the PS2. Still, you might find yourself dying a dozen times or more 
 in a single area, especially when the path to your goal isn't obvious. On these occasions, you'll 
 end up watching loading screens more than playing the game.  

  To be fair, these particularly frustrating sequences aren't necessarily commonplace in Tomb Raider: 
 The Angel of Darkness. They just tend to stick out, because you might find yourself having a good 
 time making progress in the game, only to hit a huge snag of this sort. Some of the jumping and 
 climbing puzzles are actually thrilling, especially since Lara moves as fluidly and realistically 
 as ever, and often just barely manages to get her grip on a faraway, seemingly out-of-reach ledge. 
 The action sequences, meanwhile, are much easier than the jumping, so you'll probably greet them 
 with relief. Just like every other Tomb Raider episode, this one has its fair share of puzzles, 
 and some of them are pretty good. You'll need to carefully observe your environment and maybe even 
 consult your former mentor's notebook to figure them out.  

  Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness has a lot of variety to it, which is one of the best things 
 about the game. During the few sequences when you play as Kurtis Trent, the game becomes more like 
 a survival horror game like Resident Evil than a typical Tomb Raider game. Close-quarters battles 
 against surprising foes will keep you on your toes here, but while Trent's sequences seem different 
 from Lara's and he has a few unique animations, he controls exactly like Lara does. At times, the 
 game's levels are filled with enemies and require a lot of shooting. Other times, it's just you 
 against the environment, such as in one memorable sequence when you need to figure out how to activate 
 an ancient and gigantic machine at the heart of a dangerous temple -- and then figure out how to 
 get out of it, since its whirling blades and crushing gears aren't healthy for your skin.  

  Some of the locations are huge, and they give a great sense of their size and scale. Others are 
 tight and claustrophobic. Some locations are modern -- in one sequence, you'll break into the famous 
 Louvre museum to steal a dangerous artifact. Earlier in the game, you'll climb to the very top 
 of a run-down dance club. Other locations are classic Tomb Raider -- remnants of ancient civilizations, 
 bizarre contraptions, centuries-old architecture, and more.  

  All this would look great if not for the game's often noticeable graphical problems. The frame 
 rate can seriously slow down even on high-end machines, though you can trim away all the graphical 
 bells and whistles to get better performance. Lara and her enemies will often clip through solid 
 objects, and Lara's shadow can often be seen projected onto thin air, such as when she's hanging 
 from a rope. On the other hand, the detail in the environments can certainly be impressive. And 
 as mentioned, Lara looks great in motion, particularly when she's rock-climbing. The character 
 models are pretty simplistic, and the enemies often look silly when they slump down like contorted 
 rag dolls when killed (and even sillier when the corpses simply blink out of existence) . But overall, 
 this latest Tomb Raider does look pretty good, especially if you can forgive a few obvious blemishes. 

          Unfortunately, most players probably won't bear with Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness 
 long enough to enjoy its good qualities.     

  The audio is probably the single best aspect of Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness, as it features 
 excellent ambient effects, a perfectly suited musical score, and first-rate voice acting. Lara, 
 Kurtis Trent, the main villain of the game, and the other key characters all play their parts very 
 well during the cutscenes, and the music heard throughout the game effectively sets the often-ominous 
 tone of each gameplay sequence. It's too bad the music cuts off while loading, which might have 
 helped alleviate some of the tedium of the trial-and-error parts.  

  In fact, it's too bad that Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness can't really be recommended. It's 
 a good-sized adventure with a better-than-average story and some memorable locations and sequences. 
 It's also a long overdue installment in a series that was intended to reinvent the franchise in 
 a bold, new way. This latest Tomb Raider can be rewarding for those who can suffer through its 
 cumbersome controls, numerous highly difficult gameplay sequences, and occasional bugs. But we 
 shouldn't have to make so many concessions to enjoy a game that seems like it could and should 
 have turned out much better than it did.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: assimunch
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Better than the later Tomb Raider games.
  
  
  "No tombs", "a lot of bugs" "controls suck..."
  
  How many times i have read these comments? 
 Oh my, it must be hundreds of times. Most of the people who said these comments, didn't even FINISH 
 the game. Like i'm suspecting many of the people who reviewed it here and gave 1-3 score.
  Also, the kids who first played Legend, then Anniversary, and then started to be "big fans of the 
 series" ... grow up guys. You don't know anything about the series.
  Where Core Design was creating something new, Crystal Dynamics went back in time and is/was just 
 settled for repeat, copy, and remake stuff that Core Design already made in the earlier games.
 
  
  Anyway, this game is just GREAT! It was all new graphics, from TR Chronicles so the graphics were 
 also amazing, not like people here who stupidly compare it to Legend and say the graphics suck.
 
  The game is also the hardest game in Tomb Raider history, not because the controls are slow, but 
 because of the gameplay itself and stuff like the "Red Ghost".
  The "body upgrade" was annoying at times yes, but it was also really exciting feature, cause you 
 really had to explore the levels to find the body upgrade place, to complete something in the level.
 
  
  The thing that you could hang from a ledge only a certain amount of time, made the game even more 
 exciting. Not like the previous games where you could just hang there forever if you just kept 
 on pressing ACTION, or the Crystal Dynamics' idea, where you could just go and have a lunch and 
 leave Lara hanging from the ledge ... this made these new games just boring after AoD's exciting 
 new feature where you had a feeling that you could actually FALL from the ledge if you didn't act 
 quickly. 
  
  I didn't like the new saving system, but when i look back now after seeing how horrible it CAN 
 be (i. e. the Crystal Dynamics checkpoint system that) , the saving system was just great.
  
  I also didn't like the thing that you couldn't "look around" while moving anymore, like in the 
 previous games.
  
  
  Ok, i brought out a lot of Crystal Dynamics here, that has nothing to do with this game, but well, 
 so did many others here.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ky9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I remember that often while I was playing this game, I didn't enjoy myself. Angel of Darkness's 
 Lara is likely the most unagile character you'll ever play; she could probably even learn a few 
 tricks from Mario and Luigi, and all they can do is jump up and down. There are often tedious stretches 
 from one place to another, and going just one wrong turn results in an annoying and unattractive 
 loading screen. Combat is an absolute nightmare; it's actually unbelievable how difficult it is 
 to turn the right direction, aim and fire at once, something that is considered pretty basic in 
 most games. That is in fact the only reason why I rated it "Difficult"; not because it's supposed 
 to be this hard, it's just some terribly designed gameplay.
  
  Thing is, one thing that actually is rather spectacular about this game is the a) storyline, and 
 b) settings. This game will take you to some totally unexpected places, from the Louvre to the 
 Louvre's sewers to an insane asylum to an aquatic laboratory to an ancient underground temple. 
 The gameplay, godawful as it is, is focused on the storyline much more so than other Tomb Raider 
 games -- you're not in this room because a box is there, you're in this room because there's ammo 
 in here and you didn't realize you just activated a bunch of laser tripwires. The two above-mentioned 
 points are the only things that motivate you through the game, and yet they're strong enough to 
 keep you interested. 
  
  Overall, gameplay = horrendous, story = awesome. It's the weirdest paradox you'll ever encounter, 
 so it's up to you whether it's worth slogging through the first to be rewarded with the second. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorcroft_
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  A big surprise! Soon as he learned of the launch of this sequence of Tomb Raider, I run to play. 
 The game is very different of all the Series. Lara is a fugitive accused of murder, in quest of 
 revenge. Not There is a certain focus on artefacts and no there are many tombs to explore: in their 
 place: Nightclub, Ghetto of Paris, Louvre Museum, the City of Prague. Until then, a novelty. But 
 what highlighted for the game been poorly received was the large amount of bug, a bad gameplay 
 and perhaps by Kurtis Trent, 
  which control in place of Lara in a level of the game. The Which is also very bad in this game 
 is the "lack of strength" of Lara Croft, who played know what I am talking about.
  
  I do not think one bad game, just could be improved. It was a great experience play it. The history 
 of the game is engaging, the graphics are nice, some localities are well constructed graphically 
 and characters are interesting. I believe that the perfect production of music and sound effects 
 save this game of critics.
  
  But there's no way to admit, has some levels that are quite boring. ("The Hall Of Seasons") xP 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness may very well be the most reviled game in history. A game that 
 was meant to be the rebirth of the Tomb Raider series was hardly met with a warm reception. In 
 fact, it was quite the opposite. A plethora of technical flaws (a direct result of the game being 
 released prematurely) and some questionable design choices made it impossible for most people to 
 enjoy the game, including many long time fans of the series. So bad was the reception that developer 
 Core Design, responsible for the entire series up until this point, got the boot and developer 
 Crystal Dynamics was hired to take care of the series. So is Angel of Darkness really such a train 
 wreck? I'm not gonna dispute the fact that the game got shipped too soon and that many of the design 
 improvements weren't improvements at all, but buried beneath all those issues I found a truly great 
 game, one that true hardcore Tomb Raider fans as well as those with a high level of patience should 
 thoroughly enjoy.
  
  In the interest of keeping this review as accurate and fair as possible, I'm gonna dedicate the 
 next two paragraphs to everything that went wrong with Angel of Darkness. For starters upon its 
 initial release, the game was buggy as hell. Frequent crashes, random glitches, and game stopping 
 bugs (some that would halt your progress through the game) were the norm. This was a result of 
 the game being rushed, something that I'm not sure who's to blame (I'm leaning towards blaming 
 Eidos more than Core) , but nevertheless killed the experience for many people. Thankfully, the 
 game was patched further upon its release and for the most part the patches did fix all the major 
 problems of the game, though not all of them. A few bugs remained and an irritating glitch where 
 the scenery textures wouldn't load persisted (granted, this particular glitch could be solved by 
 simply reloading the game) .
  
  And sadly the patches didn't address the design issues of the game, more specifically the controls. 
 The Tomb Raider series has never been known for fluid controls, but this game actually took the 
 controls a notch down. Lara is hard to control and moves at a painfully slow pace (she takes more 
 than half a second to begin catching speed) . Even the smallest tasks could be cumbersome to perform 
 due to the controls. And then there's the introduction of the strength upgrades and the grip meter. 
 In previous Tomb Raider games Lara could indefinitely hold on to a wall, traverse across edges, 
 or hang from the ceiling. In Angel of Darkness, Lara can only perform such actions for a short 
 period of time before her grip meter runs out and she lets loose of the object she was holding 
 on. To compensate, Lara can gain strength to hang on to objects for longer, as well as be able 
 to move heavier objects or jump longer distances. Unfortunately, the strength upgrades are nothing 
 more than a small roadblock that will prevent you from entering a new location before you completely 
 explore your current location and find the action that will help you achieve the strength upgrade. 
 It seemed like a neat idea, but it only hampers the flow of the game. There is also a stealth option 
 that is quite irrelevant since there's no part in the game that calls for it. And finally, the 
 game introduces a new character, Kurtis Trent, who is actually quite an intriguing character, but 
 controlling him is even worse than controlling Lara, since he moves at an even slower pace (something 
 that makes the boss battles you play as Kurtis much more difficult) . So as you may have noticed, 
 the list of issues in Angel of Darkness is quite big. But for those who can look past those issues, 
 a memorable adventure awaits.
  
  Angel of Darkness begins with Lara reunited with Werner Von Croy, her former mentor, whom she had 
 a fallout with at the end of Last Revelation. Von Croy wants Lara to help her obtain 5 paintings 
 that hold great value for certain reason (which will be revealed later in the game) , however Lara 
 isn't too fond of Von Croy after the Egypt incident in Last Revelation, so she refuses to help 
 him. As the argument heats up, the scene becomes distorted, gunfire can be heard, and next thing 
 we see Von Croy laying dead in the floor. Lara approaches him, looking very confused and unaware 
 of how the events unfolded, and in her panic and confusion decides to flee the scene before the 
 police arrive. From here one, the story focues on Lara's quest to find out the truth about Von 
 Croy's death, starting with the question of who did it. At first, Lara isn't even sure if she was 
 responsible for the murder, but as the story unfolds she discovers that Von Croy was working for 
 a certain underground group, who were the ones interested in the paintings and who have some sinister 
 plans in hand, and she now must find out everything about them and their plans, as well as seek 
 out the true murderer of Von Croy. The story in Angel of Darkness is by far the best story in any 
 Tomb Raider game. It's gripping, dark, and filled with plenty of intrigues and twists along the 
 way. Best of all, you get to have a small part in the way the story unfolds, as the game features 
 an adventure gaming-esque dialog system, in which you can select different ways to approach a certain 
 conversation. It doesn't alter the big picture but it's a very nice touch.
  
  Large portions of Angel of Darkness defy the conventions of the Tomb Raider series, and at times 
 the game feels more like an adventure game. For me, this was a very refreshing change, one that 
 helped move the story along at a better pace, as well as offer the chance to explore and visit 
 more varied locations than in previous games. But make no mistake, the game is still Tomb Raider 
 at its heart, so expect to find plenty of clever puzzles, explore ancient tombs, navigate through 
 crazy environments, and perform crazy acrobatic moves. Best of all, the difficulty level (not considering 
 the difficulty you'll have with the controls) has been toned down quite a bit from previous games, 
 and I was very thankful for this. The Tomb Raider games have always been known for being hard, 
 almost painfully hard at times, so much that a walkthrough was a must in every game. Fortunately, 
 Angel of Darkness allows you to take more risks and play more freely by making everything more 
 clear to you, clueing you in as to what you have to do to solve a puzzle or escape a dangerous 
 situation. The game is still challenging and you may require a bit of help in certain sections, 
 but overall the game is much easier to handle, something that allowed me to play the game without 
 feeling overwhelmed or afraid to take risks.
  
  The presentation in Angel of Darkness is overall great, technical issues notwithstanding. Aside 
 from a few clipping issues, as well the previously mentioned texture glitch, the game looks quite 
 sharp. Lara looks better than ever, as she animates much more realistic with more fluid movements 
 in gameplay, as well as great facial expressions during the cutscenes. The locations all look great 
 too, with plenty of detail and great looking textures. The art direction behind the game is phenomenal, 
 as every level is decidedly distinct, while being equally memorable. As for the sound, it's amazing. 
 There's one small glitch where the voiceovers will cut off while the cutscenes are playing, but 
 that's about the only flaw that can be mentioned. The voice acting is terrific, both from Lara 
 as all of the supporting characters. The ambient sounds are great too, but it's the background 
 music that really steals the show. For the most part it's your typical Tomb Raider music, but this 
 time it's much more inspired and manages to suck you into the game like no Tomb Raider soundtrack 
 before.
  
  It's a shame this game wasn't able to get the recognition it deserved. While neither Core nor Eidos 
 can escape the blame from the poor state in which the game was released, I believe Core in particular 
 really tried their best to make a memorable game and in my view, they suceeded. I can't help but 
 feel bad for them, seeing how the series was taken away from them, although with the amazing job 
 Crystal Dynamics did on Tomb Raider Legend, it was probably a necessary change. But leaving all 
 the issues aside (all the many, many issues) , in my opinion, Angel of Darkness is a truly great 
 game. I'll even make a bold claim here and say that with better controls and no technical issues, 
 it would've been the best Tomb Raider game to date. And while most people won't be able to see 
 past those issues, those who can should be rewarded with a truly memorable and inspired action 
 adventure experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness finds our favorite heroine starting the game out dressed in 
 a new, modern-day outfit with jeans and a denim jacket and not fully prepared for the adventure 
 that lies ahead. The story begins in Paris, France where Lara has a heated argument with her mentor, 
 who ends up being murdered while Lara is there. The police think that Lara committed the crime 
 and this immediately puts Lara on the run, a fugitive from the law. Now she must find out why her 
 mentor was killed, and solve the mysteries surrounding his death. 
  
  Angel of Darkness has a superb storyline that unfolds during game play. Her adventures has her 
 in numerous locations like Paris and Prague. Other locations include ancient ruins and catacombs 
 that bring about the classic Tomb Raider share of dangers, traps, and puzzles. Lara will do her 
 fair share of running, jumping, climbing, and shooting her way through her enemies. 
  
  The developers of this game had plenty of time to make this game and it shows in the highly detailed 
 graphics; however, as you play the game, you get the impression that they should have spent more 
 time figuring out how to make Lara move. Lara has always been the picture of health, strong, fast, 
 and agile; in actual game play though, her movement is often sluggish, land she moves like molasses 
 on a cold winter's day. Her strength is also in question, as the game progresses she gains strength 
 attributes; but where the her lack of strength is really noticed is when she hangs from ledges 
 or similar objects and a grip meter comes into play that immediately begins dwindling as soon as 
 she starts hanging. Another character control issue deals with jumps, it seems often when she has 
 to make a jump, that she'll unexpectantly veer off at the launching point and crash to her death. 
 I think that a true Tomb Raider fan can overlook these problems, and work through them and appreciate 
 the fine story, but a novice player will become easily frustrated and give up on the game. 
  
  As with all Tomb raider games, Angel of Darkness has a beautiful musical score, and great voice 
 acting. Personally, I wish they would make some additional bonus levels for the game. Even though 
 the storyline had closure, there still remained some unanswered questions that you kept in the 
 back of your mind. Such as that of Kurtis Trent, another adventurer and an adversary of Lara's 
 throughout the game; did he indeed die? or did he recover from his seemingly fatal wound to the 
 stomach? In spite of some of control problems that I mentioned, I still think that this game is 
 worth playing and also has great replay ability. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cidhighwind100
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  'Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness' has some nice graphics and interesting environments. You'll not 
 only be exploring the token caverns and temples of the series but also city streets and other urban 
 settings such as a museum and dig-site. The gameplay hasn't changed hugely from the previous games 
 which is a good thing in one sense seen as old fans will quickly get used to the controls.
  
  Wait... what did I just say? I take that back - NO-ONE will get used to the controls, no-one, 
 not ever. Why? They're hideous. And I mean god-awful. 
  Take jumping for example, you still have to line up jumps pretty much perfectly if you don't want 
 to plummet to your death just like the other games and controlling Tomb Raider via PC is never 
 easy but somehow with this game they managed to make it even more awkward. It's hard to describe 
 but imagine trying to play a guitar piece with a string missing... and every time you hit the wrong 
 note you die. It feels unfinished. The keys are awkwardly placed and not only this but it takes 
 Lara an eternity to simply rotate on the spot, she feels stiff and stodgy and the awakward camera 
 angles don't help either - you sometimes find yourself walking over edges by accident. What were 
 once simple hops from one ledge to another are now death defying leaps.
  
  The gameplay itself is marred by the controls but it does have some positive features such as a 
 variety of new weapons and the collection of not just keys but other items collected from characters 
 in the game which can be gained through interaction. You can also now search through wardrobes 
 and cupboards to find supplies. The story is an intriguing mix of murder, mystery and adventure 
 which starts with the shooting of Lara's old mentor, leading her to a vicious serial killer and 
 amysterious cult - if you can actually be bothered to stick with the game you'll want to know how 
 it ends. However the gameplay is also rather repetetive - even if the controls were fluid and despite 
 the introduction of a few new elements it's mostly still a mix of climbing, shooting and jumping 
 which as mentioned leaves very little room for failure, especially with the controls, although 
 despite this difficulty the gunplay is oddly unchallenging until very late into the game and enemies 
 are weak and few.
  
  The voicework is rather good, especially the voice of Lara and overall the sound is very decent, 
 but even this combined with good looking environments and a compelling story can't salvage the 
 largely uninspired gameplay which hasn't made much progress since the previous games and the fact 
 that some sections are made incredibly difficult and frustrating through a badly designed control 
 scheme.
  
  A dissapointing entry in the Tomb Raider series - once you play the PC version, you'll see why. 
 What were they thinking... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DravenLaVitt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  a lot of people criticized this game, but in my opinion, it was the best. 
  
  pluses: 
  in most of the other ones we're dropped into the game with no real idea what we're doing or why 
 we're trying to get the artifact, but this one has an interesting storyline that you follow nicely 
 throughout the game.
  
  Lara is actually tough (unlike in legend where they give her some frou-frou English girl voice 
 and make her seem like a nice little British girl, when in reality she's supposed to be a no merci 
 type of gal) . 
  kurtis is an interesting addition, and it's nice to play a different character once in a while. 
 
  the overall mood was dark and spooky, which was interesting. just because she's not in some jungle 
 killing tigers, doesn't mean the game must suck. Yeah, many glitches, but ALL games have glitches 
 so deal with it. The glitches in this game aren't THAT bad, so that it makes it unplayable.
  
  im really disappointed that AOD got such negative reviews and the storyline was dropped. it 
 would be nice to find out what happened to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olengrumpy
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I love Tomb Raider, but this just plain stinks. She looks good, but nothing more..... Controls 
 are terrible.. Her abilities are inconsistent, one time being able to jump over large objects then 
 unable to jump over a small item..
  
  She gets strength from odd items or events, such as pushing a crate.. The graphics are second rate 
 and the game crashes. Even on my high-end PC..... Not close even to the first Tomb Raider released, 
 much less any of the other series...
  
  This is a huge disappointment.. It is hard to beleive that this is even a Tomb Raider game other 
 than the ever outstanding Lara Croft..
  
  This game seems as though it was developed by an outside source then distributed by our usual vendors... Save 
 your money for another version of Tomb Raider and let the angel retire until then..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeepPink
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 28, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I have just played Tr: Legends and Tr: Anniversary. In my opinion both are awesome TR games, so I 
 decided to buy Tr: AOD. I got it for $5. Thankfully
  I patched it up to ver 52, so it is not too bad to play. 
  
  Controls.
  I really did not find 
 the controls that bad. I remapped all the buttons the way I played TR 1,2,3, and I used a gamepad.
 
  
  Gameplay.
  Very dull compared to all other Tomb Raider games. 
  First off Von Croy gets shot. Suddenly Lara is the main suspect. Not sure what they were smoking 
 when they wrote that dime store stuff, but it makes no sense to me. I guess Lara panics and runs, so 
 the cops think she did it becasue she is running from the crime scene.
  Eventually and for some odd reason the cops stop searching for her. i guess they don't want to 
 go into a ghetto and get thier uniforms dirty.
  Not the best story imo.
  There is supposed to be a monstrum in Paris, but I guess it is hiding too. There is the occasional 
 bucket load of blood all over the pavement, but no real sign of the monstrum.
  
  Npc's
  
  That is a bit interesting that she can talk to these people like Bouchard ,but it is done in 
 a way that makes no sense. 
  I would like to have told that guy to go find his own trinket box in the light at the Serpent Rouge. 
 Fetch quests always do and will suck.
  
  Level Design
  
  Most levels are devoid of any monsters or any enemies. Mainly Security Guards and Cops. Shooting 
 Cops even in a game sucks big time.
  oh yeah and a few rats to shoot in the drainage sewers, and some monsters later on. 
  The level 
 designs make no sense to me. 
  Going through the Louvre Storm Drains to get into the Louvre Galleries makes very little sense. 
 Why not just get a glass cutter set and cut a hole in a window in the Louvre Galleries instead 
 of blasting a hole into the Gallery wall. Such an explosion would have woken up every cop and Frenchman 
 in half of Paris.
  
  
  One glitch I saw that was odd was a rat running around underwater.
  
  Quite a dull Tomb Raider 
 game. The levels and enemy types really contribute to the dull feel of this game.
  The levels do not make me think that this is really great. Even the levels have a dull quality 
 to them. Think back to Tr number one levels and then compare them to these dull TR: AOD levels. 
 TR1 levels were awesome. The Tr1 levels made the game interesting. Going into the Louvre Galleries 
 in AOD is not at all interesting.
  There could have been a thousand other ways to use for Lara to find out the info she got from the 
 Louvre Galleries.
  
  
  Thankfully Crystal Dynamics got it right with Legends and Anniversary.
  
  I am going to be 
 generous and give TR: AOD a 6/10.
  
  I have seen better custom designed levels at www. Trle. net
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_ewanmeister
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  you may have heard that eidios in total had only a few months to make this game due to sudden changes 
 of level design and location. 
  
  the it is aparrent by the fact that the controls are stupidly fiddly and level design is rubbish.
 
  also much to nearly everyones dismay, lara moves out of the tombs and into the open! had eidios 
 been drunk when they disigned that part of the game? it seems so. i bet if you put a monkey in 
 a room with some game code then theyed produce better stuff than this!
  
  
  i tried to think of something good about it but im cant! at all. the graphics are pretty poor, 
 enemys are stupid, all the time your thinking why couldnt they have done something like this or 
 they could have left out that.
  buy tomb raider legend and anniversary if you want a proper croft game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft has become the polygonal reincarnation of Zsa Zsa Gabor: a celebrity whos a celebrity 
 because shes a celebrity. Her return to gaming  the infuriating, buggy, and ultimately boring 
 Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness  wont change that, either. This third-person action/adventure, 
 in which Lara is framed for murder, is nothing short of disastrous.
  
  What went wrong? Heres how to ruin an already ailing franchise:
  
  SHIP TOO SOON
  Released 
 in time to coincide with the second Tomb Raider movie, The Cradle of Life, AOD shipped in tandem 
 with its first patch  rarely a sign of quality. Even after patching, I encountered numerous crash 
 bugs and visual defects, using both NVIDIA and ATI graphics cards. And yet the game was slapped 
 into a box and selling for $49.99.
  
  RENOVATE DON'T INNOVATE
  Ever since Tomb Raider III, critics have cried out for a new graphics engine, and in AOD we finally 
 get it. Yes, most of the visuals are lovely: sets are elaborately decorated, translucent water 
 effects are gorgeous, and a subtle soft-focus technique gives backgrounds realistic depth. But 
 general sloppiness, like floating footprints and haphazard shadowing (Lara casts one, the railing 
 next to her doesnt) , are jarring.
  
  Juxtaposed with the upgraded environments, Laras stagnated appearance has never looked more plastic. 
 With her large almond-shaped eyes and wrinkle-free face, she resembles a Communion extraterrestrial 
 with a ponytail. Sex symbol? Hardly.
  
  The tragedy is that Core worked at cross purposes  reinvent the franchise, but dont change it 
  and it shows. And that leads me to the next problem
  
  MAKE YOUR FLAWS WORSE
  Granted, directing Lara has always been prickly, but who wouldve expected the control scheme to 
 get worse? I havent had this much difficulty driving since I tried to operate a tank in World 
 War II Online. (And thats from someone who finished Enter the Matrix!)
  
  Press the forward key and Lara stumbles forward at a lumbering plod, slowly speeding up to a leisurely 
 gallop. Steering her is an unforgivably painful process: Attempt to rotate her on stairs and she 
 riverdances in any direction except the one you were intending.
  
  Apparently, Eidos market research suggests that the series had too much action and not enough 
 dull climbing and jumping puzzles. Problem solved! The
  trick is figuring out which movement in Laras limited repertoire will get you past a particular 
 dilemma.
  
  DON'T FOLLOW THROUGH
  Undoubtedly, Core had some good ideas in the beginning.
  (A second playable character! NPC dialogue 
 impacts gameplay! Upgradeable attributes!) But those ideas evaporated like sweat in a sauna.
  
  The new character, Kurtis Trent, is a waste of himbo space. Youll play about three-quarters 
 of the game before reaching him, and though hes telekinetic and wields a flaming shuriken, youll 
 control neither. (I didnt think it was possible, but hes more sluggish to control than Lara is.) 
 As for AODs alleged  and anticipated  RPG-ish aspects, dont believe the box copy: their effects 
 are slight, or in the case of Laras growing strength, introduced only to artificially impede your 
 progress.
  
  If its eye-candy youre after, check out Angelina Jolie as Ms. Croft in the new movie. At the 
 very least, its shorter and cheaper than suffering through this angel of death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vixster181
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  my blog shows my feelings of the game from not only a tomb raider obsessive but also a keen gamer. 
 This game should be condemmed. The only good part of this game is that both the disks and the box 
 can be recycled. Firstly, the controlls are beyond crap. i could not get through the first level 
 without falling of a ledge, turning round in circles several times unintentially, back flipping 
 off a ledge, not jumping in time and constantly shuffling around, not running. This is an embarrisment 
 in the name of tomb raider. it should have stopped on number 4 (revelations) and then continued 
 with legends and anniversary. anniversary and tomb raider 2 are the best games in my opinion. i 
 love how realistic they all feel and the gameplay is excellant. thanks for reading my review and 
 beware of angel of darkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyb37
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm a casual gamer, I like the tomb raider series, and I'm not writing this review from a bias 
 angle, If i thought it was that bad, I would admit don't worry.
  
  Lara Croft: Tomb Raider Angle of darkness was a twist in the series of game, I've beaten this game, 
 Tomb Raider III and Tomb Raider Legend.
  I also have Tomb Raider Chronicles, I got about 2/3 though it, and I have to admit it was terrible, 
 I wouldn't even waste the time to review that game, And I'm not going to do that now, so moving 
 on to AoD.
  
  Cons:
  The Engine had issues some really weird bugs, there is no denying that, and the controls weren't 
 the best ever. Game was released prematurely, left a big impact with the amount of bugs.
  
  Pros:
  The Story wasn't your normal Hero saves the world, it shows a really dark side to life, 
 and Lara running from the law, as accused of killing her ex-mentor.
  Kurtis Trent, yeah, he was so hard to control and I also ran out of ammo with him so I had to restart 
 the game, (you should be careful with how much bullets you use with him) . But Remember this is 
 in the pros section, I felt that he was a really good addition to the game. It gave some more variability, 
 and Kurtis' limited psychic ability's were pretty neat. To me that outweighs the cons.
  Good voice acting for the most of the game, although there were parts where it could have been 
 better.
  And lastly, the levels, with emphasis on the hall of seasons they had a nice dark feel and were 
 creative, a shame that we didn't get to see the trilogy. Although personally I think 3 would have 
 been too much, 2 would have been good. If they had finished the story in this game it would have 
 been so much better.
  
  Most players complain about none-responsive controls, that is only an issue if you have a low-end 
 machine, or have your settings on too high.
  And if you find the controls that bad, get a Game-Pad or similar, or even change them to something 
 more comfortable.
  
  The stealth mode, was a good addition, but it went underused, there is only about three parts of 
 the game where it could be used effectively.
  
  I was amazed when I saw that AoD had a lower rating than Chronicles, it was only a 0.2 lower, but 
 in my opinion Chronicles was worse than that.
  
  If you are thinking of playing this game, I would encourage it, its not a perfect game, it had 
 problems, the release of a new engine with the Core Design pushing for a new game every year, they 
 did neglect the series. (Chronicles was by far the worst Tomb Raider, NOT THIS)
  
  Just one concern, I hope I went over the 100 word minimum for the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aprillaprill
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 26, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Good game, but bugs were stupid.
  when i was playing i found Lara walking in the wall, and then i completed the level xD. The next 
 is for 100words:
  asa we ru ds f nv ao wurn va &ouml; s lfkjaw ioej rnv a&ouml; s ld fjv wa prja&uuml; ns&auml; akjg 
 a poue nr vlkga asd fv eifo mvf kjs &ouml; l&auml; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3t4d1g1t4l
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I persevered through many tedious and unnecessarily difficult situations where the controls made 
 the game eventually unplayable. It warrants a difficulty of Very Hard due to the poor controls 
 alone (though some of the level design is counter-intuitive, that alone isn't a problem) . For example, 
 there is a design gate where Lara has to climb hand-over-hand under a rock overhang, and this must 
 be done with no hint as to where she may climb (to avoid dead-ends) and before her limited ability 
 to hold on has expired. (The timing is exact, and so this requires repeated trial-and-error, rather 
 than learning a skill, to find the correct path.) That was not what made me stop playing, however; 
 even though directly afterwards there is a very annoying puzzle with a ghost that made me grit 
 my teeth and vow to finish the game, despite it's appalling flaws. Then I reached the part where 
 I had to kill a wolf using the other protagonist, and I gave up in utter frustration due to the 
 overwhelming role played by chance.
  
  I went out and bought a PSone and the original game, in preference to this steaming pile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erboi796
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  its a fun game but most of the time the problems are the camera/control but its an ok game.
  The beginning of the story puts poor Lara knee-deep into a grave and most unpleasant situation 
 (GASP!) . Accused of murdering her one-time mentor, Werner Von Croy, Lara starts her journeys as 
 a fugitive from justice; an outcast. On top of that, she stumbles upon a creepy Alchemist and a 
 mysterious group of individuals who are striving to unleash an incredible and unholy power upon 
 the world. At the same time, our attractive female adventurer must unravel a series of gruesome 
 killings that could in one way or another be connected to a more sinister mystery. Rushing through 
 the rainy back-alleys in a desperate effort to avoid the police, Lara Croft begins another one 
 of her adventures. Mostly going through various locations in Paris and Prague, you'll be solving 
 puzzles, escaping deadly traps, and fighting off dangerous foes. In all honesty, the storyline 
 was one of my initial disappointments. After a while, I was fed-up by the fairly week and uninteresting 
 plot structure in addition to very bad characterization. The much-hyped character interaction also 
 didn't amount up to anything that could add a dash of flare to the whole experience. The fact is 
 that no matter what you say or do (with only one or two exceptions) your character will go through 
 a predetermined set of events and dialogue sequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  TRAoD is a pathetic game to be perfectly honest!
  Gameplay- Right here we are waiting to see what new gameplay is involved that the other TR games 
 didnt have .... let me see it is boring, complex, too city involved, makes you fall asleep on your 
 keyboard EVERYTHING IS WORNG ABOUT IT!!
  Graphics- This may sound a little bit cheesy but am i the only one to like the other graphics better, 
 they just seem to suit the mood [not the case with legend it fits the game perfectly too] . Core 
 tried to make her more like a human and it failed miserably, i like the way she is in TR 1,2,3,4,5 
 + Legend!
  Sound- The ONLY part of the game that i could stand, but good sound is no reason to play an incredibly 
 boring game!
  Value- One word NONE!
  When i first bought this game 2 weeks ago, i thought for &pound;5 its a bargain but now i think 
 &pound;5 is equal to a million &pound;&pound;&pound;!!
  I tried playing it, hated it, put it in my wardrobe, havent looked back.
  I now play TR3 that 
 i just bought 3 weeks ago and im enjoying it soooo much! It has ALL the good qualities this does 
 not!
  MY OPINION- If you REALLY want this game, think again please do not waste your money on this pathetic 
 game! get any other just not this!
  PS. i dont meen to be moany its just this game really sucks [the %*&pound;$] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  When the original Tomb Raider hit the scene seven years ago, legions of geeky, pubescent teens 
 found a new poster girl in Lara Croft. Lara had it all: brains, beauty, and blazing pistols. However, 
 the years were less than kind to Lara. Her gameplay grew more and more stagnant and repetitive, 
 and people grew increasingly disappointed with each Tomb Raider title that came out. Then, the 
 powers that be (read: Eidos and Core) felt that Lara needed a serious overhaul. They went back 
 to the drawing board, and began to reconsider the direction the series was going. They threw out 
 various influences for the new title, hinting at titles like Shenmue and Metal Gear Solid. They 
 promised a newer, darker Lara, with a look and atmosphere more akin to survival horror than tomb 
 raiding. Many gamers took note at these announcements, and looked forward to the series new feel. 
 And finally, after countless delays, the new Tomb Raider is finally here. However, is it worth 
 the hype? Is this new Tomb Raider the shot in the arm that the series sorely needed? Well, Ill 
 say this: its certainly different. However, in too many ways, this addition to the series feels 
 far too rushed and incomplete and the final result will undoubtedly end up disappointing many gamers. 
 Angel of Darkness brings Lara to Paris. Lara is a fugitive on the run from Parisian authorities 
 for the murder of her former mentor. If that wasnt bad enough, the murder occurred in such a blur 
 that she doesnt know if she actually committed the murder or if she was framed. Therefore, she 
 embarks on a quest to uncover the clues to her mentors murder. Along her journey, she runs into 
 a secret organization bent on world domination and some mysterious paintings... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrontopia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  The worldwide criticism and dissapointment for TRAOD speaks for itself. There were very high expectations 
 for this game, and its gameplay totally tore it all apart. Lara moves like a snail, there are so 
 many glitches, and the camera angles are extremely weird, among many other complaints that have 
 been brought up by players. The game's sounds like its music and voice acting are pretty remarkable 
 though. If only the gameplay could be just as good. To me, a tomb raider fan, the game is an abslolute 
 embarassment to the series; it's sacrilege. If you own this game, set a pyre and throw it in the 
 flames. If you don't, skip it and move on to Tomb Raider: Legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aponi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  I like this game, its very mysterious. I was immediately addicted to this beautyful Lara. With 
 here nice outfits.
  I really love the action and I love that youre in this game in contact with other people.
  The 
 time running is also very cool. 
  And Kurtis! It was a great idea to put a guy in Lara's life. That makes it more romantic. 
  I 
 had al lot of fun in the game: Angel Of Darkness.
  I wish they kept on going with the Angel Of Darkness series.
  It really grows on you.
  And 
 the controls are even the same as Tomb Raider Legend, so they must not cry about the controls.
 
  
  That is my opinion. I hope you enjoy Angel Of Darkness and do not let your opinion depent on what 
 other people say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  I bought this game despite reading a lot of very negative reviews and comments about it. I'm a 
 big fan of the series so I thought it can't possibly be as bad as it is made out to be, can it....?
 
  
  At first I thought it was. While it looks really good, the controls are unresponsive, Lara is cumbersome 
 and difficult to manoeuvre, plus the camera angles are really weird and not helpful to gameplay. 
 In time though I got used to this and am glad that I persevered through those early troubles.
 
  
  OK, so the positive elements of the game. Well, it looks a lot better than any of its predecessors. 
 When Chronicles was released it looked pretty bad in comparison to other games released at the 
 time, and made it clear that Tomb Raider had fallen behind the times. Thankfully, Angel of Darkness 
 is a massive graphical step forward. Everything looks smoother and more detailed, environments 
 are realistic, and the characters are attractive. 
  
  The sound is also very good. The background music is appropriate (though could be used a little 
 more often) , the voice acting is generally good, and the sound effects are accurate. Occasionally 
 I encountered bugs where the sound would cut out, though these were rectified by loading a previous 
 save game. These were the only bugs I encountered in the game as a whole.
  
  The plot is also a major strength of AoD. This is comfortably the best Tomb Raider plot, featuring 
 occult artifacts, horrific murders and centuries-old secret societies. The plot was the only thing 
 that kept me persevering through the early stages of the game - it sucked me in and I was keen 
 to find out the next twist! Being critical, maybe the plot makes a few large jumps and could do 
 with being padded out a little more. Plus, it is way too short - the game took me three weeks to 
 complete, and I was on holiday for two of them.
  
  There are some major weaknesses though. Most notable is the control. Tomb Raider games are known 
 for requiring precise jumps and complex sequences of manoeuvres, AoD is no different. This becomes 
 very difficult when Lara handles as badly as she does in this game. It is almost impossible to 
 line up jumps, Lara has a habit of misbehaving and doing different things to what you thought she 
 was going to do, and some controls seem to work intermittently (such as sidestepping, which is 
 only prohibited when the game chooses, otherwise is replaced by useless rotating on the spot. I 
 can find no logic behind the occasional inability to sidestep) .
  
  The camera angles are also abysmal, with the camera changing between the standard third person 
 and a fixed side on camera at awkward moments. We got an occasional taster for this in Chronicles, 
 but in AoD it is happening all the time. I cannot stress enough how annoying this is. Also the 
 camera has a tendency to really screw up when Lara is backed against a wall, occasionally offering 
 a rather disturbing view from inside her head, or else a piece of wall, or a seemingly disembodied 
 arm, etc. The camera and the controls really detract from this game as they take away from the 
 flow and fluidity of moving Lara through the environments.
  
  Another criticism is the difficulty. Aside from the control issues when performing jumps, the game 
 is remarkably easy. The progression through levels is obvious, switches and levers are easy to 
 find, the enemies are weak, and even all the bosses only required one attempt. I finished the game 
 with a wealth of unspent ammo and health packs. While some of the other Tomb Raiders have suffered 
 for being too difficult, AoD goes the other way and is for the most part too easy. The only difficulty 
 comes from the awkward controls and occasionally because a puzzle requires Lara to perform an action 
 that she was never able to perform in previous Tomb Raiders and that this game never informs you 
 is now possible.
  
  The game introduces a few new elements into the mix, but for the most part these are surplus to 
 requirements. Dialogue with characters has some interactive elements, though which option you choose 
 doesn't make much of a difference to the outcome of the conversation. Lara now has a stealth mode, 
 which is pointless aside from the rather nifty commando crawl that she can perform as part of it. 
 Also, there is a new playable character - Kurtis Trent, who you use for three of the twenty nine 
 levels. Kurtis is pretty similar to Lara, although he is even more slow and cumbersome. He has 
 one rather strange ability, though other than that (I won't spoil the surprise) , he does nothing 
 different to Lara. His existence doesn't really benefit the game, indeed it probably detracts from 
 it as his role is never properly explained, and leaves more unanswered questions for you at the 
 end.
  
  To be honest, the Kurtis issue pretty much sums up the negative elements of the game - its a nice 
 new touch to the series but it isn't explained properly or taken far enough. The games mechanics 
 are different from the previous five, but they are not explained well enough for you to ever get 
 comfortable with them. The game goes in new directions, but it does it in such a half-hearted way 
 that you feel a little unsatisfied with it.
  
  In all, despite the negative elements to AoD, I am glad that I persevered with it until the end. 
 The plot is excellent, the graphics are good (though the movement engine is at times pretty bad 
 - eg when Lara takes backwards steps she looks handicapped) , the sound is good, and the game is 
 easy enough to keep you progressing at a reasonable speed. In terms of the camera, the controls, 
 and most of the new gameplay elements, it is a step back from the classic Tomb Raiders (such as 
 The Last Revelation) though. This is a shame, as this could of, and perhaps should of been the 
 best entry in the series. 
  
  If you are patient with it, this game will reward you. In its own right it is reasonably good, 
 though as part of the Tomb Raider series it looks very bad. The elements are there for it to be 
 the best in its series, but frankly it is clear that not enough care was taken with the game, meaning 
 that it is probably the worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riot429
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Now most people are saying that TR: AOD is a horrible game. It isn't. The game has glitches and 
 some blocky textures, but the gameplay is great. Now for all you people who want to dis this game 
 think about it like this, any game the deals with sports that are made by EA are complelty crap. 
 Textures clip, allot. While they may offer great gfxs the gameplay always feels rehashed and outdated. 
 The only games that are good by them are the Nascar games. While TR: AOD may have the greatest gfxs 
 it is very playable. The audio sounds great, the music is ocastra and sounds great. Over all TR: 
 AOD is great and we all knew it was going to have glitches. Maybe I like the game because I am 
 a hardcore Tomb Raider fan. Who knows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  The game is available in a DVD case with 2 CD-ROMS. Ingame menus can be a bit buggy and confusing.
 
  
  Story & Dialogs
  The story is much better than any other Tomb Raider game, the only thing in the game thats actually 
 really good.
  
  Puzzle Design
  puzzles are fair, but not amazing. Some rather bad level design and gameplay keeps players from 
 advancing and forced to look up a walkthrough.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are really superb, using the latest shader technology (for the time) some extremely 
 annoying graphical glitches, ruins the whole experience.
  
  Sound
  The musical score is very epic, nice but nothing we haven't seen before.
  
  Gameplay
  This 
 game probably has the worse gameplay ever, so many glitches and not being able to use Laras' trademark 
 pistols ruins the gameplay. The Auto aim system makes Lara jerk around a lot, and the big bosses 
 between levels are stupid, and have no AI.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  You'll spend 30 minutes on this and realize how bad this game really is, if you can look past the 
 graphical glitches and disruptive gameplay. Best to play any older Tomb raider or the new Tomb 
 Raider Legend.
  
  5.1/10 - Mediocre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarCrazy709
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  The negative reviews come from those who cannot run this game on highest detail levels! Lara Croft 
 is sexier and better than ever. This is definitely the best Tomb Raider game out there. Legend 
 will have a lot of work to do if it wants to top this game. It's an absolutely stunning game. The 
 graphics, the gameplay, the story, it's all flawless. Sure there are the occasional bugs, but they've 
 never caused anything more than a game crash. I cannot believe that Tomb Raider - The Cradle of 
 Life had poor box-office success. The movie was amazing, and if anything, the release of this game 
 coninciding with the theatrical release of the movie was an excellent move to get people back into 
 the Tomb Raider hype. Thank you for the memories Eidos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueday
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I played this game when it came out. As I remember I gave it 9.6, Meanning that I thought it was 
 pretty good. 
  The reason I am back and writting a review for this somewhat old game is that recently I read The 
 Da Vinci Code. It was a pretty good book that dealt with similar subject as Angel of Darkness, 
 Secret societies, ocult, Black Magic. etc..... For the same reason that many people liked the Da 
 Vinci code I liked TR: A of D. In fact as I remeber I thought it was the best story line in the 
 series. But I guess it is neccessary to have a slight predisposition towards the" weird" the dark 
 side to like Tomb Reider: A of D.
  
  Anyway, if you still planning to play this somewhat old game, and haven't played it yet. You definatlely 
 should.
  In fact I would prefer it to most new games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin19900
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  this game is so boring that i didn't finish the game... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
 ... .. . . . .. .. ... . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . .. . . .... . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . .......... . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 
 .. .. . .. . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . ..... .. . .. . . .. . . . . . . ... ... 
 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. .. . . . . .. . . .. .. . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pblogic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  Despite many poor reviews I loved this game. The voice acting was exceptional, the story was surreal 
 and gripping and the graphics were beautiful. The fact is, this game was just plain fun to play. 
 It was a most welcome departure from the normal settings of the series and I will always have a 
 very warm place in my heart for this game. This game is one of the very few that I will revisit 
 and play more than once. I am very dissapointed in gamespots review, and while I like the site 
 I can't help but feel most of the writers reward cookie cutter games and ignore anything all that 
 interesting and innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  I don't know the back story on how this game was released in such an unpolished condition, but 
 I'm sure it's a sad tale all around. Sad for the designers who, in many parts of the game, look 
 like they lost interest in making a Tomb Raider game. Sad for the fans of the series, who waited 
 so long only to be handed this unworthy chapter in the adventures of Miss Croft. Only the most 
 devoted fans (like myself, who waited for over two years to get a computer that could play it, 
 despite the bad reviews) will be able to look through the glitches and still enjoy the experience.
 
  
  * Gameplay: One can only wonder what could have happened to have this game released in such a sorry 
 state. The worst thing about the game is the controls. Lara is basically broken. In a series already 
 known for its precise movement requirements, AoD manages to make it impossible to move anywhere. 
 Lara can't walk right. She can't turn right. Everything is a "stop-and-correct" movement. It's 
 frustrating all the more because for some reason, the designers thought it would be fun to have 
 Lara change the distance she can jump, all throughout the game. This is all part of some new 'feature' 
 involving building up Lara's strength over time, but it's really just a disguised routing. If you 
 enter a room and there's a lever you can't pull, it's because there is a box somewhere you haven't 
 pulled yet. She'll be able to grip ledges longer and jump farther. What this does is take away 
 any ability to learn how far you can jump. You'll end up missing, over-jumping and slamming into 
 walls. She can't do a mid-air flip anymore. Even worse, auto-locking weapons results in some herky-jerky 
 movements in which Lara will actually move several steps in the opposite direction you want her 
 to go. Not to mention the head and body twisting she does to keep a lock. Awful. Speaking of "movements", 
 there is another character you'll get to play, and he moves around like he dropped a load in his 
 pants. He can't sprint like Lara either. Ugh. The level designs are at least thought out, but you 
 can forget about enjoying the prospect of looking for secrets. It's so awkward to move anywhere, 
 you'll end up saying, "Yep. There's a side tunnel up there but I don't care. I just wanna finish 
 this level!" The only good thing about her movements is her new rock-climbing ability, which offers 
 some inventive ways to access areas not seen in any other Tomb Raider game. The last thing I have 
 to comment on is the horrible camera placement. To be fair, past TR games had some scenes where 
 the camera would just shift away from Lara and disable the look button. Here, there is too much 
 of that, and it's jarring when it happens. So, is the fact that the whole game is pretty short 
 a good thing or a bad thing? If you paid $10.00 like I did, good thing. When it first came out 
 at $60.00? Very bad thing. 
  
  * Graphics: One of the boggling things that reveals itself as you play is the level of detail in 
 many areas. Take the art restoration room in the Louvre. It's filled with little items that are 
 real models, not 2D textures mapped to a flat table. Lara looks amazing, the best yet. There aren't 
 a lot of neat costume choices this time, but at least she looks smoother than ever. Obviously, 
 more time was spent on the look of the game than the gameplay. Heat shimmers in the air, and underwater 
 caverns diffract the light for a nice wavy effect. The cut scenes were rendered with care. The 
 lighting and shadows add realism, unless the shadows are floating in air, or the walls become clipped 
 so you see through them. Does it look like I'm grasping for something good to talk about?
  
  * Sound: The music in the game is about the only thing they got one hundred percent right. 
 It has the feel of past games. The voice-work is hampered by some thick accents, which forces you 
 to turn on the large subtitles that can block the screen. Lara at least sounds right. As for the 
 sound effects, there are numerous glitches where sounds such as fire, water or rocks falling linger 
 in the air long after you've moved away from those areas.
  
  * Value: Almost none. While the game captures some of the experience of previous releases, it's 
 far too short, too weak on exploration and frustrating to play to go through it more than once. 
 Thank the stars for all the people who wrote walkthroughs; you are the strongest of all the TR 
 fans!
  
  * Tilt: I have played every TR game multiple times except for 'Chronicles' and the mobile/ handheld 
 games. I own lots of toys, both movies, the Lara Croft phenomenon book and even one of those giant 
 Playstation game boxes for 'the Last Revelation'. Yeah, I'm a fan, but not enough to nudge this 
 review in a more favorable direction than it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinchevato
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  No good graphics , no good game play, no sound, no nothin!! lol : (, well i was expecting a good 
 game at the first tomb raider o the ps2 but the thongs tur very bad, i was playing a boring slow 
 poor detailed game with lots of bugs, a felling of lonelyness was surrounding me, what a disapointment 
 and i was followed all the past series of Lara , untill the first game back in 1996 the series 
 was continously decresing i saw just one tomb raider game with por thing like this, and that was 
 the tomb raider 4
  i think that iedos must to do something before i can start to say that his games are no longer 
 good or competitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I don't submit many game reviews but felt I needed to add my thoughts about this game given the 
 overwhelming negative response. This is the first Tomb Raider game that I've played. I've been 
 curious about the series for awhile and decided to pick up the new bargain priced game that's now 
 available at Best Buy. I knew going into it that the game had been an overall disappointment and 
 somewhat poorly rated.
  I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed this game. It had an intriguing story line, interesting gameplay 
 and some challenging puzzles. The controls were very hard to get used to but eventually I became 
 quite adept at them after several levels. I thought the graphics were more than adequate - very 
 fine indeed. It should also be noted that Lara gains agility and speed as the game progress which 
 makes the controls easier. There are some slight flaws here and there with respect to gameplay 
 and some camera angles are difficult to get used to.
  In my opinion, I think many people rated this game poorly or were disappointed because they did 
 not have the patience to continue the game past the first few levels. I have to admit that my patience 
 was tried a little on the Paris Ghetto level (an early level) , due to the slow load times. However, 
 it's interesting to note that - for some reason - the load times get much better as the game progresses. 
 There are fewer cut points except for level changes. I'm glad I was patient because it really paid 
 off in enjoying a challenging and epic game. 
  I will now go back and try more Tomb Raider games. I'm certainly looking for to the new game Legends 
 coming out later this year. I encourage all adventure fans to try this game and for the Tomb Raider 
 purists who gave up on it, I encourage you to revisit this exceptional game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hienkhanht
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  i dont know why lots of people dont like it, but i do, i enjoyed it a lot. Even though i havent 
 played tomb raider 1 , 2, ...... but this one is really good, They say the graphic is worse than 
 tomb 1 but i checked tomb1 and this one much better. Maybe the game play is different but its just 
 a change, a new and good change ,though. The sound is really awsome, i got tensed and scared in 
 the game. The story is really great but it would have been better if it was more mysterious. I 
 want it to be more advanture game than shooting, like more puzzles. This game is between advandture 
 and shooting but i believe the fans expect more advanture than shooting. Anyways, my opinion is 
 this game is not bad at all as poeple say, and it is quite good. You just need to try it yourself 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 2.4
Date: Feb 21, 2005 1:46 am PT
Review:  okay, you may look at the cd itself and say "how bad can it be? its only 6 dollars" but TRUST ME 
 its that bad!! The controls frustrate me So much, i quit on level one. The game is so bad! i cant 
 express this enough. The ambient music is the only thing thats decent. The controls and gameplay 
 in general are just so awful, because LARA herself doesn't move the right way, and the camera fudges 
 up a lot. 
  
  Oh yes, the camera. THe camera constantly tilts the wrong way, and i cant see whats going on. The 
 mouse and keyboard do not go together well, at all. I cant even get to a cabinet, much less fight 
 an enemy or jump from building to building. The first level i coudln't get past because jumping 
 was so frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozistyle
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2004 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I must be honest. I tried to play many tomb raider games but i couldn't play them for to reasons.
 
  reason number 1
  i always have found these type of games boring and i can't stand this rythm
  reason number 2
 
  i was younger and i found that games very difficult and i always prefered a iss rather than spending 
 hours in order to find a way to get out of a room.
  
  "The angel of darkness" still has that two things that kept me away of playing the former tomb 
 raider games, but this one has that things in a much better way. you know the riddles aren't like 
 the old stubid ones. you don't have to jump in every wall you find and make lady croft to behave 
 like a complete idiot. now all the riddles are easier and have much better way to be solved.
  thats the biggest reason that made me continue playing that game and finally beat it (the first 
 tomb raider that i eventuallly beat) .
  so i think that this game is a must-play game for all type of gamers and especially to the fans 
 of the former tomb raider games.
  i also consider that game as the first of a new series of tomb raiders games that will be complete 
 different to all that we have know so far.
  
  Hope a new tomb raider come out soon. this one had open my hunger for moreeee lara croft's adventures. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenneth9265
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 9, 2004 2:12 pm PT
Review:  TRAOD is a new kind of Tomb Raider experience, so they say. The controls are completely different 
 from the old TR games. The new control system is difficult to get used to and is just atrocious. 
 The camera movements can cause control difficulty and are just plain annoying sometimes. The feature 
 of moving between areas (like in tomb raider 4) is annoying because of the stupid loading screens. 
 The graphics are good, obviously on next gen console. Now there is interaction with other characters 
 and choice making in the paths you take and how you talk to npc's in the game. Game would have 
 got 5 stars but the controls are a pain.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaishiX
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 5, 2004 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I liked a lot this game, Lara's new abilities like climbing pipes kicking ass and much more was 
 an awesome new thing for T. R. games, but if it wasn`t for Kurtis I would give this game a 10.0 
 average, well maby not a 10.0 because I didn`t like many other things like Lara doesn`t drive any 
 veicles unlike the other Tomb Raider games, I have to play with Mr. Kurtis wich is the worst of 
 all thing or Lara`s stupidity like for example when she is going to open a door or move something 
 or climb a wall or anything else she comes out with the line that I most hate from her (I`m not 
 strong enough) this things would be the only reason that keeps this game from getting a 10.0 from 
 me but the rest of the game is very cool, I'd like the next Tomb Raider game to be with driveble 
 vehicles, Lara being with her normal abilities whiout any upgrades, no Kurtis at all or some idiot 
 like him and rated M for mature, you see mature games is the way to have fan playing a game because 
 blood looks very real and all the effects, cursing bad and all the stuff that would make it a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanslake2002
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jan 24, 2004 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Gee I don't know about you guys but I only have one right hand and I'm right-handed and guess where 
 my mouse and cursor controls are, yea that's right THERE ON THE SAME SIDE. When I changed the control 
 settings, guess what, IT DOES NOT WORK. Why oh why do game programmers insist on trying to re-invent 
 the wheel. Did they have a brain cramp and forget the basic WASD control system or in their infinite 
 wisdom think they were going to improve control BY MAKING IT MORE DIFFICULT. I did not get past 
 the start of the parissienne (whatever) level because I was so disgusted. The only saving grace 
 is that the game came with my new sound card and I didn't actually dole out cash for it (well maybe 
 in an offhand way) . All I can say is this game ranks right up there with Enter the Matrix as one 
 of the worst I've had the misfortune of owning and trying to play. Here's a hint for Eidos, study 
 Deus Ex IW, take the WASD system, write it on a piece of paper and tape it to all your programmers 
 foreheads so they see it every time they look at each other. Gawd what are you doing, trying to 
 become another Atari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __barr__
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 22, 2003 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Worst, so worst than PS2... Graphics were not designed to go hires, the closeups now are to die 
 of laugh seeing how poor they are. There's an incredible amount of graphical glitches from non 
 speaking characters to skinning weight bug and disappearing partition nodes. The sound right of 
 the box is just bugged with every sounds being high-pitched (helium shot for Lara, one!) and there's 
 no patch for it. The only turn around is switching off your soundcard hw acceleration making it 
 sound like a good old SoundBlaster 16 (yummy) ... Oh and btw no, you cannot stand this problem as 
 it also induce synchronisation problems with the rest of the game and the whole thing freeze for 
 1 second every 4 seconds, add to this the WORST GAMEPLAY since Pitfall on Atari2600 and you get 
 the picture for a platformer game. MPEG cutscenes were encoded using Duck codec encoder for Sega 
 Saturn and loading screen are Jpeg 5% quality. Okay, enough, this game is just a waste of money, 
 it's ugly, unplayable, not-interesting and Lara's not even hot, buy an xbox and doax if you want 
 virtual chicks, if you want platformers, PC is one of the worst place to look for. And TR: Aod PS2 
 is just bringing the ill controls from computer games to console: it should be shot for this... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 20, 2003 2:33 am PT
Review:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Tomb Raider is back. Despite the average reviews, this game still has the 
 same magic that made the first games in the series so good. My only major complaint of this game 
 are the controls. They are unfortunately the worst in the series. They tend to be unresponsive 
 and sluggish. For example clicking Shift+ direction button can strafe (as in the previous games) 
 but sometimes Lara just turns like I didn't push the Shift button. In this area the game is unfinished 
 but the controls can be overlooked and used to. The story is excellent in my opinion and this alone 
 makes you want to play the game. The graphics are sometimes excellent, there are some beautiful 
 environments, but some textures could be crafted better. The sound is as always very good. If you 
 are a Tomb Raider fan like myself, this game is definitely for you. If not, the controls can annoy 
 you but I think non TR fans can also enjoy greatly this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Milino
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2003 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. Perquak must be running a windows 95 computer. The graphics are great & so is 
 the gameplay. It starts very easy & continues to get harder with each level. I am only about 1/3 
 the way through the game, but I am enjoying it as much as all other Tombraider games. The controls 
 are just fine, exept for using the mouse, don't use it. Also download the patch so you can see 
 your shotgun. I run a 2.53 Pentium 4 proccessor, 768 ram & GForce4, 4600 graphics card. Get a new 
 computer Perquak. Also some say the game freezes. I have not froze up yet. The game also loads 
 very fast & has alternative routes to follow which will allow you to play the game again & take 
 these routes. Buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 13, 2003 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game is the worst that I've attemped to play in the last 3 years. By attempt to play, I mean 
 after 2 frustrating hours playing with it, I returned it. The movie scenes are of pre-millenium 
 low resolution quality. Lara is uncontrollable, as she responds similar to a Mack truck on oil 
 soaked asphalt. She can't even sidestep. When you pick up an object, you can't even see what it 
 is, and to make matters worse, it leaves huge remnants on your screen. The graphics are not even 
 up to 2001 standards. However, the sound is great, so if you buy it and can't return it, maybe 
 you'll be happy playing it as a music CD. Even Lara Croft lovers should avoid this puppy like the 
 plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbyTheBorg
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 7, 2003 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a long time, but it would seem the more things change, the 
 more they stay the same. Like so many other AAA titles shipped this year, Tomb Raider: AOD suffers 
 from the "shipped before it was done" syndrome. This game has a surprising volume of bugs. The 
 3D engine suffers from some pretty horrible performance issues, it's texture management code was 
 written by a monkey (I can only conclude this, I don't know for sure...) and the half of the settings 
 the game exposes to the user is something that no one but 3D graphic developers would know what 
 to do with. As for the control scheme used to move Lara around, well it's as much fun as eating 
 a plate full of razor blades and washing it down with a cool tall glass of rubbing alcohol... As 
 well, a series of other crashing bugs and game bugs basically ruin what should have been a pretty 
 good game. The level design is very good at times but falters in other occasions. The model for 
 Lara and the other NPC's are really well made and yes, Lara's boobs do jiggle this time around 
 (probably the #1 request from fans everywhere...) . The storyline is actually half decent but the 
 variety of levels falls quite short and even Lara only gets to sport a very limited number of costumes. 
 My recommendation for the next Tomb Raider... Spend less time trying to develop technology by buying 
 a third party 3D engine that works and invest this time into making a more solid game with more 
 variety! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digggd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2003 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what you guys are smoking, but this game ROCKS! The graphics are excellent, thanx 
 to my P4 2 GHz, 1.5 GB DDR RAM, and Geforce 4 Ti4600. I have been playing this game for about 5 
 hours and I love it. I have not had any crashes and it did not take me long at all to get use to 
 the quirky controls. Not as good as the first 2 in the series, but 3rd best of the series. The 
 controls do seem kind of sluggish at times, but I can live with it. The sound is also done very 
 well. Plus this has a great story line. Man I am glad I didn't get this on my PS2, it would have 
 not done this excellent game justice. BTW I read that a patch is being released tomorrow, 7/4/03, 
 that will address a lot of the issues that people seem to be having. Great jobe Eidos!!!!!!!!!!! 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madblu
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 3, 2003 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Greg couldn't have reviewed this game any better. He's right on the money and shows he's one of 
 the best game reviewers out there.
  
  On a personal note to Eidos:
  Can't help but express my true feelings on this game guys.
  Let me say I am very pleased with 
 the story line and the music/sound effects of this game. Unfortunately, these are basically the 
 only highlights. Guys, by now you should have mastered the controls and camera problems. I feel 
 that either you all rushed this game to the store shelves, or just did a half-ass job in making 
 it. As a loyal Tomb Raider fan, I can't help but being disappointed on this release. Too much hype, 
 not enough quality. I don't think I would recommened this game to anyone, not even to die-hard 
 Tomb Raider fans like myself. Too much work is unfinished here, and it really shows. In this time 
 in age, there are so many games and so much competition. Eidos really needs to make some drastic 
 changes to the gameplay in the Tomb Raider series if they want to renew their status as a serious 
 competitor. Sure, some of these problems in the game can be patched, but not enough of them. I 
 work full-time and when I get home at night, I want a game that I can enjoy. Games shouldn't be 
 this frustrating, especially ones with a big name. Fortunately, a friend of mine bought this game 
 before I decided to, and I got to play it and sigh in relief that I didn't spend my hard-earned 
 dollars on it. Sorry Eidos. The criticism is strong I know, but I haven't given up hope on you 
 yet. Hopefully, someone over there see's this review and takes into consideration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulderite2002
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 3, 2003 2:16 am PT
Review:  While I dont consider myself to be a die-hard Tomb Raider nut, I have played and finished four 
 of the previous five Tomb Raider titles, (I played Chronicles but never stuck with it till the 
 end) . Therefore I was looking forward to the latest game, Angel of Darkness, with a certain amount 
 of curiosity. Having read the fairly mediocre review of the PS2 version and its apparently turgid 
 control system and graphical problems, I bought the PC version surmising that if it was just as 
 bad as the PS2 I could always get it patched at a later date. 
  
  Now I have played the game a good number of hours I am happy to report that I am pleased with the 
 final result. Yes the controls are slightly dampened but as stated in other reviews I would say 
 it is no more worse than previous Tomb Raider games, and within minutes I had adjusted without 
 it being a problem. The graphics are nicely done, certainly the most attractive Tomb Raider game 
 to date, and Lara herself looks splendid and is nicely animated throughout. The sound is suitably 
 moody and has a nice filmic quality to it which helps move along the rather engaging storyline.
 
  
  I am running this title on an Athlon 1.7Ghz PC with a GeForce4 card. With all the settings to maximum 
 I can play this game smoothly at a resolution of 1024x768, not bad for a new title. I have not 
 experienced any crashes or lock-ups (as yet) . I believe, as with most games, as long as the latest 
 sound/graphics/motherboard drivers are installed the chances of things going wrong are exponentially 
 reduced.
  
  Overall Angel of Darkness will appeal to you if youve played any previous Tomb Raider game and 
 simply would like a modern update of more of the same, with flashier graphics and a strong storyline. 
 Do not buy this title thinking youre going to get a female-lead Splinter Cell or a fast paced 
 Max-Payne style non-stop arcade experience, as you will surely come away disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 1, 2003 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Hi TombRaider Fans! Like you, I was DYING for this game to come out. And, after the massive disappointment 
 of Indiana Jones and the Emperor's Tomb, I was praying that EIDOS didn't screw with the game play 
 or game save features. Well, I got my game today and I've played for about 5 hours so far. My computer 
 has locked up on me about a dozen times so far. Yep, there's a bug in the game... Whenever Lara 
 is talking with someone, it locks up. So far, I've had one bit of action, where Lara snuck up behind 
 a guard and grabbed him and punched him out. (Similar to Splinter Cell) . But, that's it. So far, 
 she runs incredibly slow as compared with previous games, she's a little difficult or sloppy to 
 control, especially as compared with previous games. Action is not frequent so far. I'm still in 
 the Parisian Ghetto and I have to tell ya, it's pretty boring... I'm not real big on stealth. I 
 prefer to have a gun and shoot my way in... The first part of the game involves aquainting you 
 with her moves. Remember to save games frequently (F5) so you don't have to start all over again. 
 Also, when you have to restart games, it's a little annoying because that's different from previous 
 games too. Quickload is F6 but, you have to Exit the game first and then Load the saved game... 
 I don't want to be too down on the game yet. I'm hoping it will improve. Just wanted to give everyone 
 a head's up on it before you buy it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
