-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tombraider/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.2, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,069 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Core Design Ltd.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1996 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider is the exploratory game you always wished you were playing when you were trying to solve 
 Atari Raiders of the Lost Ark 

 Lara Croft, the protagonist in Tomb Raider, has become a sort of unwitting spokesperson for Eidos' 
 new computer adventure. As the cover girl for just about every hard copy gaming magazine this year, 
 this globe-trotting, gun-happy lass had become the matron saint of a new revolution in 3D gaming 
 before the title even hit the shelves. But does the game really live up to all the buildup? Well, 
 seeing is believing when it comes to Tomb Raider, and playing the game with the Rendition or 3Dfx 
 chip, which are sure to find a home soon in every serious gamer's computer tower (a supportive 
 patch will be available online for these) , should almost be a prerequisite. Featuring several stunningly 
 rendered 3D worlds and many a cliff-hanging moment, Tomb Raider makes gamers pay for the whole 
 seat, even though they only need the edge.  

 As mentioned above, in Tomb Raider you play Lara Croft, a female Doc Savage who, tired of her wealthy 
 English upbringing, has decided that dangerous adventuring is more her cup of tea. So she abandons 
 a life of crustless cucumber sandwiches and piano lessons, eventually meeting a wealthy tycoon 
 who hires her to retrieve a single artifact from a ruined temple in South America. After getting 
 the artifact, you find out that the tycoon has sicked a bunch of her henchmen on you, and that 
 the original piece you were sent in to retrieve is one of three hidden in various unplundered tombs 
 around the world.  

 Your adventures take place in several "seven wonders" scenarios, from Egyptian sphinxes, to Greek 
 temples, to Atlantis (what game would be complete without it?) , each with distinct puzzles and 
 traps to negotiate.   

 In each level, you'll have to beware of the different predator animals, unidentifiable creatures, 
 and henchmen lurking around. In many instances, you'll be pounced on unexpectedly by wolves, lions, 
 gorillas, raptors, and gangling "lava-monsters." Lara has to execute daring rolls, jumps, and side-leaps 
 to dodge these predators while attacking them. This is no time to join the wildlife preservation 
 society; endangered species or not, you've got to slay these pests. Sometimes, at the end of a 
 level, you'll have to go up against of the "boss" monsters, which range from a lumbering Tyranosaur 
 to a huge "torso-man" who, if he snatches you with his giant mitts, will slam you around like a 
 rag doll.   

 So, you're asking, what weapons can I use on these poor crypt-dwellers who are simply trying to 
 sustain themselves in a sealed-up tomb? With a tap of the spacebar, Lara draws out her two revolvers 
 which automatically target any man-eating creature in the vicinity. Other more effective weapons 
 are picked up throughout the game, including a set of magnums, a shotgun, and an Uzi. Rounds for 
 your default weapon are unlimited, but ammo for the other weapons has to be picked up.  

 But killing is only half the fun in Tomb Raider, as Lara can perform a variety of actions to explore 
 each eerie environment. Often you'll have to make Lara swim through convoluted caves to secret 
 rooms (incidentally, this is some of the most realistic swimming movement you'll encounter in any 
 game) . Each level has a series of switches that you need to activate, some of which require you 
 to heave huge blocks around and - this is probably the most fun part of the game - execute daredevil 
 leaps to grab onto some faraway platform.   

 Tomb Raider is the exploratory game you always wished you were playing when you were trying to solve 
 Atari Raiders of the Lost Ark. The variety of jumping and grabbing actions, the huge, sometimes 
 vertigo-inducing worlds, and the smooth 3D graphics found in Tomb Raider are reminiscent of Mario 
 64, though the game's violent overtones and spooky ambiance definitely set it apart from the older 
 title. On the down side though, some of Tomb Raider's puzzles are tedious, requiring the player 
 to wander around a little bit too long. Graphically, it's a breakthrough game, but to obtain the 
 spellbinding graphics that really make the gameplay a complete experience, you'll need one of the 
 cards mentioned above. The avid 3D game enthusiast will probably shell out the extra bucks for 
 one, especially if Quake is a resident game on her machine.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gamerchicknik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was made more than 10 years ago now and I am still as in awe of it as I was back then. 
 Okay so maybe not graphic wise, but still in everything else. 
  
  I had never played anything like this before, I don't think I remember what I played before Tomb 
 Raider to be honest (apart from Sonic The Hedgehog of course) . 
  
  This is the story of a young archaeologist named Lara Croft and her hunt for the legendary Scion 
 Of Atlantis and also her battle with the uber-witch Natla, who has set Lara to reclaim this for 
 her, only for Lara to later find out that Natla is some evil Goddess of Atlantis who wants to use 
 it most likely for world domination... as they do. 
  
  One thing most people notice about Lara are her guns. Both pairs of them. But I won't go into that 
 myself, you can see the box cover so I'll leave that with you, now moving on...
  
  Now graphically it might all look a bit square, not in the way that's uncool but in the way that 
 everything actually does look a bit square (apart from certain very triangular areas) . But in the 
 day those graphics were amazing. 
  
  The locations such as Peru and Greece or Egypt are remarkably done; beautiful ruins of ancient 
 buildings and tombs to climb, jump and shimmy across and loads of puzzles to complete before you 
 can get any further. St Francis' Folly is definitely a favourite of mine as is the enormous underground 
 lake you will see in the latter levels of the game, for it's time, it was a remarkable feat.
  
  Not to mention the various types of wild life that try to eat you along the way, some of which 
 terrified the life out of me to be honest and part of that was because of the amazing soundtrack. 
 (The other part was helped by the shock that awaits you in The Lost Valley level... my heart ever 
 really did recover.)
  
  One minute you are bragging to yourself about how well you did on the last puzzle and the next, 
 some face-paced music is telling that if you don't get your butt in gear your either going to be 
 eating or more than likely squished by a giant boulder that is now rolling straight towards you. 
 
  
  Or you enter an area with a particularly nice view and some very peaceful music leaves you actually 
 looking around at your surroundings and thinking, "Wow." Again the St Francis' Folly level comes 
 to mind. The main theme tune to this game is one that will stick, as it has mine, in your head 
 for a very long time, it is beautifully composed.
  
  My personal enjoyment from this game came from finding very high places (as seen in Vilcabamba) 
 and diving off of them, whether water be below me or just the floor. Either way, it's pretty good 
 to dive off of things in this game. 
  
  
  Now I know I've praised this game alot and as a Tomb Raider fan girl, so I should but there are 
 some vaguely bad sides. 
  
  The one that I think of mostly is that back in 1996-7 there weren't really as many graphical options 
 as there are today and you noticed this a lot in Tomb Raider. Mostly from the fact that even when 
 you supposed to be outside, you can't tell that. There is no sky. It's just blackness so it feels 
 like your in a cave through most of the game. I had no idea that Lost Valley was actually supposed 
 to be outdoors, because in game, it's not. This was sorted out by the time TR2 got here though. 
 
  
  Most of the other little details I think of as negatives to this game are because I'm comparing 
 them to the later games, so I won't add them, as I'm trying to review this game as individual. 
 This is where it all started and whatever has happened to the series these days, Tomb Raider will 
 and always be a classic and must-play game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorcroft_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider came in perfect season, where the games were almost the same. I had another good game 
 to install on the PC, were always the same. And once it appeared this game, I drew much attention 
 because the protagonist be a WOMAN; the 3D, which at the time was perfect; the action of the game; 
 the history (quite different, incidentally) : everything has changed me. Besides being funny game, 
 all worshipped watch someone start the action with Lara Croft. I saw that there was the beginning 
 of a different time of games for PC. Later, showed the game for many friends. Tomb Raider was the 
 game that changed the point of view of many gamers. Who played Tomb Raider, know what I am talking 
 about: the game reserve very good moments! Me amused so much! Of course, when you play for the 
 first time, all feel a lot of doubts, (a long time ago, mainly, because the levels were considered 
 much big to explore, but compared with games of today, it's not very large) . In short: Defining 
 this game as a classic revolutionary! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider came along during a time when a good 99% of big PC money making games revolved around 
 First Person Shooters thanks to the major success of Doom. In fact, when you went to the store, 
 it seemed that all the games on the shelf were either Doom or Doom wanna be's.... until Tomb Raider 
 came along and with the help of two very big "assets" on the front cover, helped capture the attention 
 of many teenagers at the time (myself included :P ) . But while the box art might have helped sell 
 the game, it was the game play itself that made the game into a hit. It was different that most 
 other games because for one, it was in full 3D which was still very new at the time. Another reason 
 why it was such a big hit was the fact it incorporated action with puzzle solving in a way that 
 was far from boring. The graphics were also considered amazing at the time which just goes so show 
 you how far computer gaming has gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Modern day gamers are very jaded. They are desensitized and it takes a lot to surprise them, and 
 for a good reason too; they have seen it all happen in the last few years. Gaming has changed completely 
 from what it was in the early 90s.
  
  Gamers are very demanding; its almost impossible for a game to be unanimously accepted as a great 
 game. No matter what game we are talking about, there are gamers who seem to find it detestable; 
 even the mighty Half Life 2 wasnt spared by contemporary gamers. It got ratings all the way from 
 3-10 on GameSpot.
  
  But there was one game that comes to my mind which was spared all this negative criticism and was 
 accepted as one of the greatest games ever, and actually went on to receive tremendous commercial 
 success  unlike other innovative games, like Deus Ex and Commandos.
  
  Tomb Raider.
  
  Back in 1996, Tomb Raider is not what it is right now. In fact, gaming back then is not what it 
 is right now. For better or worse, gaming was a lotsimpler. As a PC gamer, you werent forced 
 to upgrade ever so often to keep up with the changes in hardware. All it took back then was a PC 
 with 4MB video RAM and 32MB main memory to get going.
  
  The market was filled with shooters like Doom, Quake and Wolfinstein and female lead characters 
 were almost unheard of in mainstream titles. Tomb Raider defied the trend by having Lara Croft 
 as a lead character and went onto become one of the biggest video game franchises ever.
  
  But lets talk about Tomb Raider as a game.
  
  The game was released in 1996, when the concept 
 of 3D gaming was still in its nascent stage. Of course, there were the three giants from id software 
  Doom, Quake and Wolfinstein, but not much else.
  
  At a time like this Tomb Raider changed the whole scenario by featuring beautifully created 3D 
 environments. The game is played in the 3rd persons perspective where the player gets to control 
 Lara Croft - the games heroine.
  
  Lara Croft is a renowned archeologist who at the age of 21 was the sole survivor of a plane crash 
 in the Himalayas. Being the only to have survived, she learned to live by herself and endure in 
 harsh living conditions. She soon stumbled into the village of Tokakeriby, an experience which 
 changed her life.
  
  She soon left her family and lived on her own in an inherited mansion to pursue her life exploring 
 different parts of the world, and collecting ancient artifacts.
  
  When she is in Calcutta, India, she is approached by Jacqueline Natala, who asks for her help to 
 retrieve an ancient artifact called the scion. The quest for this artifact takes her all over the 
 world including the lost island of Atlantis.
  
  The graphics in the game are extremely good. The exotic locations are rendered beautifully, the 
 snow filled caverns of Peru, the pyramids of Egypt, and of course, the incredible Atlantis among 
 others. The most amazing part of some of the levels is the scale at which they are created. The 
 colossal statues and the gigantic monuments are a sight to behold! They offer a panoramic view 
 of the settings when you make your way to their crest.
  
  Lara Croft is also a work of art. Her movements throughout the game are very fluid and the character 
 is very easy to maneuver. The game contains a lot of puzzles that needs some very agile moves, 
 and Lara is quite capable of executing them flawlessly.
  
  The puzzles in the game are yet another innovation. They are not entirely basic; it requires some 
 thinking to navigate through various levels. The puzzles are sometimes quite challenging, but somehow 
 they were never frustrating. They manage to be tough without making the player lose interest in 
 the game. This, more than anything is the reason for the success of the game, in my opinion.
  
  The game is not without its action elements. Throughout the game, the player will encounter 
 various foes, like wolves, bears, cougars, Tyrannosaurus Rex, raptors and super natural enemies 
 such as mummies, mutants etc. Defeating some of these enemies is not childs play either! They 
 tend to take a lot of damage and seem to inflict a lot more! Suffice to say, they do not make things 
 any easier and provide a constant challenge.
  
  The game is quite long and will keep you engrossed for hours. Any modern day gamer who hasn't played 
 this game because its too old, should give up on that idea and play it right away!
  
  Try as I might, I am not able to think of anything negative about this game. Judging purely based 
 on the fun factor and nothing else, this game receives the perfect score  10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 7
  Graphics 10
  Sounds 6
  Value 9
  Tilt 6
  
  The Good
  * 3D perspective view platform game
  * Lara Croft in her prime physique
  * Lara Croft's animation
 
  * Lara Croft's rear
  * Lara Croft's...
  
  The Bad
  * Clumsy controls and camera angles
  * Too tedious (maps are too large and monotonous at times)
 
  * Story not explained well enough (need to rely on the internet to fill in the gaps)
  * Sounds are soft
  
  Since the release of Tomb Raider Anniversary, I wasn't really into this 
 Tomb Raider thing. To those who read my previous babble, I'm not a big fan of platform games and 
 that's including knowing the fact that I will be constantly viewing at Lara's butt may increase 
 my motivation, I still managed to avoid installing any of the Tomb Raider's games.
  
  Well, since the release of Tomb Raider 10 years ago, Lara has aged remarkably well as maybe she 
 did managed to locate the Fountain of Youth (or the Philosopher's Stone) and that itself finally 
 grabbed my attention. Never before she looked so remarkably 'human' than the 'old' days of 'super 
 size' me features that I finally gave Tomb Raider a go.
  
  So it's in my best interest to play the original Tomb Raider to see what all the fuss is about 
 so I can do that 'wow' comparison to see if Lara truly discovered eternal youth. After many agonising 
 days of trying to run the original Tomb Raider using XP, finally with the pleasure of buying Gildos 
 for $10 and using VDMS for sounds, the game actually worked. I really don't know what compelled 
 me to try such nonsense of installing the game using so many different tools however one thing 
 is for certain; it's the mystical charms of Lara trying to worm her way into my PC.
  
  To my surprise, the game actually started off well enough. The training grounds (Lara's mansion 
 and damn she can also play the harp) is a must as you will require to master all of her jumping 
 maneuvers. After snapping her neck twice due to my inability to complete the running jump, this 
 confirms that 1) the controls are very hard to master and 2) Lara is immortal. I don't mind Lara 
 being immortal (as after all she's regarded as one of the most influential person of all times) 
 however the controls and the camera angles is going to rattle me. On the flipside, I am after all, 
 looking at Lara in all her pixilation glory.
  
  Speaking of which, this is definitely where the game's main strength. According to the blurb at 
 the back of the game's cover, Lara boasts over 5000 animation frames. I must agree this is so true. 
 Never before I have seen a woman walked so saucily whilst raiding forgotten temples deep in the 
 mountainous range of Peru, Egypt, Altantis and where ever Lara goes. I'm not sure if she's trying 
 to impress the local bear or the exploding mummy however who's to argue. Everything from jumping 
 to walking to running to swimming and pushing and pulling massive stone blocks, Lara completes 
 all of this with the grace of a panther. She can even complete a handstand some 50 metres above 
 ground level without the slightest sign of vertigo and swan drive into water whilst scoring a perfect 
 10.
  
  Sadly that's what the game is all about. Agreed there are puzzles to solve and some are even so 
 painfully frustrating that only a perfect 20/20 vision can see that jutted ledge or that hidden 
 cave, Lara is what people are going to play for and not for locating hidden tombs. Don't believer 
 me then check out Tomb Raider II cover and tell me that's not sex appeal.
  
  I must admit there are some jumps that caused me to sweat a little as I prepare for that perfect 
 jump to grab the next ledge however it was becoming more of a chore than excitement/adrenaline 
 rush. Many-a-times I have made Lara burnt to crisp, snapped her neck, drowned (as to finally understanding 
 that there are two different levers, one for above water and one for underwater) and sliced as 
 it's at times extremely hard to judge distances between jumps due to the third person camera angles. 
 There are times I have completed a jump without seeing Lara executing the jump itself and praying 
 she managed to safely landed on a platform only to realise that all too familiar 'crack' states 
 it's time for a reload. Combat is pretty much unheard off as well as even though Lara sports that 
 famed two guns strapped to her thighs, it's more of a show-and-tell than actually using them.
 
  
  The sound quality is nice to hear however it needs more. The musical scores, when ever that do 
 actually appear, is pleasant enough however pretty much the entire game you will hear (and surprising 
 enough) the panting and groaning of Lara (and before you go on I am using VDMS) . The sounds from 
 the monsters are just simple growls or howls and the shots made from your weapons are something 
 to be considered. Maybe they are designed for Barbie and Ken. Who knows?
  
  Tomb Raider is not what I have envisaged. I constantly read 'game of the year' from many publishers 
 and players alike and yet I have failed to see what's all the fuss about. Granted the technology 
 is superior for its time (similar to Quake which coincides the same year of release) and like Quake 
 truly introduces the game into a 3D perspective. Naturally this enhances game play as now you can 
 see the player in full 3D action however imagine the success if Tomb Raider was viewed as a first 
 person? As I said before, it's all about Lara in full 3D glory than raiding tombs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenneli
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  The first Tomb Raider is one of the best games I have ever played. Its main power comes from the 
 pre-historical age legends and myths that are highly used to create an extraordinary playing environment. 
 From Atlantis to the pyramids, Lara Croft and also players visit and solve the mysteries of semi-speculative 
 facts of history. With this aspect, the game is also a kind of modern age tool to teach the past 
 by giving at the same time much enjoyment. For me, it has no disadvantages, though new generation 
 gamers can find its graphics outdated. I strongly advise the game to all those who are interested 
 in its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider set a new standard when it was released in 1996. Part puzzle-solving, part adventure, 
 and all fun.
  
  The game followed the exploits of Lara Croft, a female Indiana Jones, as she explored caves and 
 various other locales for treasure.
  
  What made Tomb Raider so much fun was that the player didnt just maneuver Lara Croft through 
 a linear game, but instead used her to explore enormous play areas, open hidden passages, move 
 crates in order to climb to new heights, and make use of twin .45s to thwart enemies.
  
  The range of motion in Tomb Raider was incredible. Lara Croft could not only run and jump, but 
 could also hang on to ledges by her fingertips to laterally scale rock faces, dive off cliffs into 
 the water, swim underwater, and perform shooting while diving moves that would do John Woo proud.
 
  
  Eidos Interactive and Core Design Ltd. really hit a home run with Tomb Raider, which not only 
 spawned a number of sequels, but also branched the franchise into films. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viatridis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  When I first played Tomb Raider I was 4 years old (believe it or not) . The only game I have played 
 before was Pacman and some other DOS games, so when I saw Tomb Raider I couldn't believe what I 
 was watching!!!
  A 3D beautiful girl running, jumping, shooting, and swimming... Nowadays those actions are certain 
 for the videogames, but those days it was a revolution in the Universe of the video games.
  The graphics where also wonderfull with lots of beautiful areas, lots of enemies like wolfs and 
 bears and weapons such as the Pistols or the Uzis have became legendary. The sounds and the were 
 also great and they were creating a wonderful atmosphere.
  What I also liked was the Training in Lara's house and I think I was a great idea creating it. 
 I believe that Tomb Raider has lots of fans like me and I will never forget the great experiences 
 that gave me !!!
  
  Enjoy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itendsthisway
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is the classic original Tomb Raider game that started it all. This game was one the first 
 games of its kind. The graphics were amazing (for its time) . Lara was able to jump, attack, pull, 
 climb, push, dive, and roll in a complete 3D environment. The game also had great quality cutscenes 
 throughout the game. The puzzles in the game were perfect. The puzzles would go back and forth 
 from challenging to simple. The gun action was great, too. Lara was able to take out her pistols, 
 easy aim at her target, and jump back and forth, attacking the enemy. It made combat fun. The storyline 
 was actually a very intriguing storyline. The player would sit in suspense waiting for the next 
 update in the story. The length of the game was long too.
  It gave the gamer many hours of play. For a game like this, the replay value (I would say) is very 
 high. I would seriously suggest picking this game up if you don't have it. If you don't have it, 
 you are missing out on one of the best games in gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  "An Instant Classic" says it perfectly.
  This game was such a great time for me. I played it through with my dad back years ago. The adventure 
 kept you playing into the night, fingers in a death grip around the mouse, and a couple twitching 
 on the keyboard, ready for the next trap or baddie to spring on you.
  Now i know that by todays standard, the graphics and sound rank somewhere around "crap," but if 
 your a gamer looking for a good time ; ) something with an old-school feel, check this awesome 
 game out. Or if you cant stand the low requirements, then look into the rest of Lara's series. 
 There are a ton! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riot429
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Back in the 90's when games were going from 2d to 3d I always felt that 3d games lacked somthing, 
 creativity. Most 3d games were either sports, racing, or fighting games. Then Tomb Raider came 
 out. It offered a adventure with guns and a pretty lady named Lara Croft to boot. Along with some 
 other games that I consider to be pioners of what really is 3d, Resident Evil (which I am a huge 
 fan of along with Tomb Raider) , Crash Bandicoot, and Croc. The game was complety differnt from 
 any other game I had ever played. The puzzles were great. The gfxs were simply amazing. The PSX 
 version were good, but there was somthing about the PC's gfxs that just seemed better. The sound, 
 the songs got stuck in my head and I converted the song to guitar. All those things are great but, 
 why were there a type of sexual grunts in the game. You probably saying, "They are not sexaul in 
 any way." Ha, ha, ha. Try pulling a block in the game and tell me you don't think about sex. Any 
 ways, the game is great and should be in any gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Adventurer Lara Croft has been hired to recover the peices of an ancient artefact known as the 
 Scion. With her fearless acrobatic styles, she runs, jumps, swims, and climbs her way toward the 
 truth of its origins and powers - leaving only a trail of empty tombs and gun-cartridges in her 
 wake.
  
  This game contains 16 massive levels spread over 4 continents which require you as the player to 
 be fully focused and aware. Puzzles will get in your way everywhere you go so you will need to 
 use all of your brain cells to finish this game.
  
  This legendary game spawned six sequals with a seventh dues for release. Tomb Raider fans must 
 not miss out on this legendary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_WARRIOR_X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  Killing is only half the fun in Tomb Raider, as Lara can perform a variety of actions to explore 
 each eerie environment. Tomb Raider is the exploratory game you always wished you were playing 
 when you were trying to solve Atari Raiders of the Lost Ark. The variety of jumping and grabbing 
 actions, the huge, sometimes vertigo-inducing worlds, and the smooth 3D graphics found in Tomb 
 Raider are reminiscent of Mario 64, though the game's violent overtones and spooky ambiance definitely 
 set it apart from the older title. On the down side though, some of Tomb Raider's puzzles are tedious, 
 requiring the player to wander around a little bit too long. Graphically, it's a breakthrough game, 
 but to obtain the spellbinding graphics that really make the gameplay a complete experience. The 
 avid 3D game enthusiast will probably shell out the extra bucks for one, especially if Quake is 
 a resident game on her machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orasion_Seiz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  It maybe old now probably forgotten already but this game is one of the true classics of modern 
 adventure games. It will allow players to go back and experience the glorious days and also to 
 experience true adventure gaming.
  Believe it or not, this use to be one of the most popular games back then and as the years go by 
 now it has been forgotten. Now let me take you back on this wonderfull classic adventure.
  
  Tomb Raider allows you to play as Lara Croft. A wealthy, sexy aristocrat who has a taste for 
 adventure. She believes that a good adventure is compared to a stroll on a park. She forgets her 
 wealthy life and sets out to the ruined temples in South America and other various wonder locations 
 to get a very special artifact. But she didnt know the danger lie ahead. Several enemies such as 
 wolves, lions, gorillas and monsters will hunt you down, also there are tdeadly traps that you will 
 want to avoid. Thankfully you have your set of arsenals to help you. Namely your pistols, a set 
 of magnums, the old shotgun and an uzi. Of course not including your pistols you have to find ammunitions 
 for the other weapons.
  
  The graphics is speaking is trully one of a kind. Today's games features spectacular graphics, 
 but remember that Tomb Raider is a classic game. To me the graphics of the game is trully the best 
 the game can offer. The sound is probably the biggest flaw. While Tomb Raider games are renowmed 
 for there great gameplay sounds, this has one of the weakest sound and musics. Nevertheless it 
 will not affect the game at all.
  
  Tomb Raider is a good adventure to start with. If your thinking of going back to your old gaming 
 past then this game is very good to start. With more new games being created everyday, let us not 
 forget such game like this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  EVERYONE has heard of the Tomb Raider franchise. While nowadays it seems to be in overkill, with 
 countless different games for countless different consoles, the early instalments were classics. 
 This was the game that started it all off, making Lara Croft a household name and virtual pin-up.
 
  
  The premise of Tomb Raider is relatively simple; you play as Lara and you progress through several 
 levels in different areas looking for an artefact at the end of each area. Various deadly traps 
 will be in your way, and a host of enemies will try and stop you from getting to the artefacts. 
 The story is exciting and keeps you interested as you discover the different items and come across 
 varied and original challenges. Lara herself is a likable character. She is a well-educated, privileged 
 young woman who decides that it'd be more fun to risk her life on deadly adventures than sit around 
 in her luxurious mansion.
  
  In terms of gameplay Tomb Raider is faultless. Lara is easy to control and has some neat moves 
 such as being able to leap and grab onto cliff edges. She is able to dispatch her enemies using 
 her trusted pistols or other weapons that can be found later in the game. The game view is third 
 person, with the screen just giving vital information. This is pleasing, as many more recent third 
 person games just appear cluttered. The puzzles are stimulating with various deadly traps, levers 
 and secret doors to find. Of particular note is the St Francis Folly level, which is one of the 
 most memorable levels of any game that I've ever played. The whole game keeps you on your toes 
 and is a truly enjoyable experience though.
  
  The games graphics give away its age, - it looks a bit dated now. But for the time it was one of 
 the best looking games available. By today's standards graphically the game is quite poor, but 
 when you consider that it is ten years old you will begin to realise just how superior it was to 
 its contemporaries.
  
  The sounds are good, with realistic noises and sound effects during Lara's adventures. Lara sounds 
 exactly how you imagine she would having read the above description, and on the whole all of the 
 voice acting is done really well. The music during the menus is pleasant but not intrusive.
  
  I haven't experienced any stability problems or bugs with the game.
  
  While the adventure 
 isn't particularly long (especially in comparison to some of the other Tomb Raider instalments) 
 this is a wonderful game that you will be happy to play several times. The story is engaging, the 
 protagonist is likable, plus the levels are exciting and challenging. It was a revolutionary game 
 when it was first released in terms of graphics and gameplay. The fact that it has spawned so many 
 sequels should tell you that this game and the whole franchise was a big hit. Tomb Raider is recognised 
 as one of the defining games in video game history and everybody should own a copy. Everyone has 
 different tastes but this is such a brilliant and engaging game that I assure you that you won't 
 be disappointed with it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
