-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Anniversary
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/tombraider10thanniversaryedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strikes a balance between providing an homage and delivering new, exciting content.
 Acrobatic action adventure gameplay is challenging without being frustrating.
 Lara looks great and moves effortlessly.
 Adrenaline dodge makes combat more exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't take many chances with the Tomb Raider formula.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,532 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 5, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider: Anniversary's success is twofold; it does well by the memory of the original, and makes 
 a dynamic action adventure game that's fun to play in 2007. 

  When Tomb Raider first hit in 1996, it was nothing short of groundbreaking. When the game industry 
 was experiencing a sea change from predominately sprite-based 2D graphics to polygonal 3D graphics, 
 Tomb Raider was a shining example of the sort of immersive atmosphere and exploration-based gameplay 
 that was possible. There simply weren't strong, serious, and highly competent female protagonists 
 like Lara Croft, though in a way, Lara Croft's role as a protagonist was almost outstripped by 
 her roles of cover girl, female role model, and spokesperson for the maturation of video games. 
 While years of sequels that ranged from unremarkable to borderline offensive did a lot to tarnish 
 the Tomb Raider name, developer Crystal Dynamics undid a lot of damage with last year's Tomb Raider: 
 Legend, which focused on the strengths of the series -- exotic locales, thoughtful puzzles, and incredible 
 acrobatics -- while modernizing the gameplay and streamlining the whole experience. Crystal D continues 
 its good work with Tomb Raider: Anniversary, which effectively goes back to the original Tomb Raider 
 and rebuilds it from scratch. Tomb Raider: Anniversary isn't as groundbreaking as the original 
 Tomb Raider, but it's undeniably more playable.  

          This is one of those rare cases of the remake being better than the original.     

 
  Like the original, Tomb Raider: Anniversary follows the tale of Lara's hunt for the Scion of Atlantis 
 as she does battle with conniving businesswoman Jacqueline Natlas and her various henchmen. You'll 
 explore ancient tombs and forgotten cities in Peru, Greece, Egypt, and more, performing plenty 
 of death-defying acrobatics as you work your way through massive, ancient, and often deadly puzzles. 
 The whole experience is highly evocative of the original, and there are certainly plenty of moments 
 that seem specifically designed to create an odd sense of dj vu; but nothing in Tomb Raider Anniversary 
 has been regurgitated verbatim -- everything is bigger and better. The environments are larger and 
 more detailed, and existing puzzles have been elaborated upon, to an incredible degree. The experience 
 just feels bigger, and there's so much new content that it honestly feels less like a remake and 
 more like its own game.  

  A big part of that feeling comes from how much more talented Lara has become since the original 
 Tomb Raider. Aside from a few, nominal differences, she's basically got the same abilities here 
 as she had in Tomb Raider: Legend, which made her one of the most nimble action adventure heroes 
 this side of the Prince of Persia. Her proficiency around ledges is incredible -- she can shimmy 
 across ledges, leap from one ledge to another, and scramble from one ledge to a higher ledge. She 
 can swing from dangling ropes and horizontal bars, perform tumbling maneuvers to avoid projectiles, 
 and climb up, leap from, and balance precariously atop vertical poles. All of these acrobatics 
 feel natural, and not overly difficult to pull off, with the game allowing for just the right amount 
 of margin of error. As good as Lara is, though, she's got her limits, which is a big part of what 
 makes the action feel dangerous. If your timing is off just a little bit when jumping for a ledge, 
 Lara might only catch it with one hand, which will have you furiously mashing a button to help 
 her recover. Miss the ledge completely, though, and Lara's likely to expire, or at least incur 
 a serious amount of damage.  

  She'll need to exercise each and every one of these abilities to their absolute limit in Tomb Raider: 
 Anniversary, which features no shortage of ridiculous acrobatics. The game is essentially made 
 up of a series of gigantic, unique set-piece puzzles. Sometimes the puzzles are traditional find-the-key, 
 flip-the-switch-type affairs, but more often than not, the real puzzle is figuring out how to use 
 Lara's ability to get from point A to point B. What's more, the puzzles are often nested several 
 layers deep. While your overall goal may be to find four keys to open a door, you'll first have 
 to figure out how to get to the bottom of a gigantic, crumbling tower, after which you'll have 
 to figure out how to access four different doors, after which you'll have to figure out how to 
 actually open those doors -- and, of course, behind each of those doors lies a series of tricks and 
 traps that you'll have to traverse before you'll get to the keys. Solving one of these overarching 
 puzzles can be an involved process, with some of them taking well over an hour to complete.  

 
  The environments are your biggest adversaries most of the time in Anniversary, though through 
 your exploration you'll regularly run into some antagonistic fauna like rats, bats, wolves, bears, 
 tigers, gorillas, raptors, and the occasional Tyrannosaurus Rex. Combat is limited to gunplay, 
 which operates with a simple lock-on system, and Lara can also tumble and flip through the air 
 while keeping a bead on an enemy. New to Anniversary is the adrenaline dodge, which at specific 
 moments allows Lara to dodge a charging enemy in slow motion. When time slows, a target will also 
 slowly move toward the enemy, and if you fire the weapon right at the moment it locks on, it'll 
 produce an instant kill, usually when the ferocious beast is just inches away from your face. It 
 still feels like Tomb Raider combat, which has always been a minor part of the experience, but 
 the adrenaline dodge is a nice little touch that adds a little more drama to the action. Tomb Raider: 
 Anniversary also makes use of the same type of interactive cutscenes seen in Tomb Raider: Legend, 
 where you'll have to quickly react to an onscreen button cue to keep Lara alive. It allows for 
 some beautifully choreographed action sequences, but they're rarely very challenging.  

  What keeps Tomb Raider: Anniversary engaging throughout is the strength of the gameplay, as well 
 as the quality of the presentation. Even though you're basically just going from one tomb to another, 
 they feature enough individual detail to make them unique. The environments are also huge, using 
 the occasional curvy hallway to mask load times, and aside from some minor gameplay contrivances, 
 they feel pretty real. Lara looks great and moves with a natural grace that makes her incredible 
 acrobatic feats look feasible instead of ridiculously superhuman, and the various wildlife you 
 confront also moves convincingly. It's the little touches that bring the whole thing together: 
 the way water glistens on Lara's skin when she gets out of the water, the way light refracts differently 
 when she's underwater, or the tangible difference in atmosphere between different locales.  

          It's almost enough to make you forget about Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness.     

 
  While the PS2 version doesn't look bad by any measure, a heavy layer of aliasing mars the presentation. 
 The game can be played in widescreen, but we found the progressive scan support to have an inconsistent 
 effect. On certain sets it smoothed out a lot of the sharp edges, while on others it made textures 
 look muddy and text unreadable. The PC version fares much better, with support for higher resolutions 
 and a generally crisper, cleaner look. It's also a really great-sounding game. You'll hear plenty 
 of small ambient effects like animal calls and dripping water, and Lara's grunts and yelps as she 
 scales these incredible antiquities will resonate differently depending on the size of the room. 
 Music is generally used sparingly, but it always swells to a flourish at all the right moments. 

  Tomb Raider: Legend did a lot to make Lara Croft feel relevant again, and Tomb Raider: Anniversary 
 is another step in the right direction. The acrobatic action is consistently exciting and challenging 
 throughout, and despite being a remake, the experience feels new and fresh. This is the best Tomb 
 Raider game in years, and for the first time in a long time, that actually means something.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (134 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I like the graphics, sound, challenges, puzzles very much. however I HATE boss "levels" that require 
 you memorize specific actions attacks targets and timings and repeat adnauseum until done. They 
 do not fit into ANY storyline nor any sense of reality (as portrayed in games) . And these in this 
 game are particularly burdensome. A right royal pain in the a...
  
  Hmm. probably not long enough review. Do not get this game unless you are 12 year old console button 
 mashing hero.
  
  I've watched the saved movies on the forums and read the walkthroughs. However the timing and the 
 way the game actually plays out is not shown in the vids on-line. And that naturally makes me even 
 madder.
  
  If designers need to resort to these brainless mix-and-repeat "boss levels" (read the severe scorn 
 in that tone) , then they are pathetic level designers or ran out of money. Either way, chuck them.
 
  
  Rant over - don't get this game unless you want to memorize specific actions attacks targets and 
 timings and repeat adnauseum. otherwise, nice game. I cannot give it more than a 1 because of my 
 frustration level. So take it as you may. Flame away, you will be ignored.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megatrunks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is number eight in this series and may be it is the best one of them untill 
 now. Eidos is the produce company for this game and it really makes hard working to make this game 
 a great one. This game has a high quallity graphic but some times there are some troubles and it 
 has agreat effictive almosphere in sounds and enviroments. The fighting combats is really wounderful 
 and the characters seemed real. The story of this game is good and the secrets take from you alot 
 of time and you collect artfacts to unlock more extra things like Lara clothes and more things. 
 You must look for all items in the area to solve all problems you may face. The game consists of 
 four main levels and every level consisits of some missions. Your enimy is more powerful and the 
 control and motion is really suitable for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc1211
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  I didn't play the original Tomb Raider when it was originally released in 1996 but Tomb Raider: 
 Anniversary is definitely the way it was meant to be experienced.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. The game captures the tropical jungle settings of Peru, the deep, dark 
 subterranean Greek ruins and the sandy temples of Egypt. Each area has a distinct look and all 
 the graphics are crisp and smooth.
  
  The huge environments and puzzles are brilliant in their massive scale. Each puzzle seems daunting 
 when you first look at it but soon you realise you are capable of overcoming it, making solving 
 the games many challenges feel very rewarding.
  
  The story is a compelling race around the globe and the characters are greatly improved compared 
 to the their original Tomb Raider counterparts. The characters have individual personalities and 
 develop over the course of the game, particularly Lara as she learns just how far she'll go to 
 get what she wants.
  
  The games music is also a strong point. Ranging from quiet background music while you explore dark 
 caves to the large orchestral pieces that play during some of the games epic boss battles.
  
  The gameplay feels smooth as Lara performs great feats with relative ease on the players part, 
 mixed with exhilarating combat with deadly enemies and the fast paced interactive cut-scenes.
 
  
  The game isn't perfect however. The camera is an occasional hindrance during sequences where speed 
 is required, getting stuck causing Lara to fall to her death several times. This makes for several 
 frustrating sections that should be smooth and easy to complete. Some shadow effects and textures 
 aren't quite up to spec but these are generallly easy to ignore and given the sheer size of some 
 of the levels, easy to forgive.
  
  Still, despite it's few faults Tomb Raider: Anniversary is a great game that motivates you to get 
 to the end of its brilliant story and is easily recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft is an adventurer and explorer who tries to solve mysterious ancient legends. She has 
 an affinity with ancient history and is an experienced spelunker just like her father. Together 
 with her father she tried to solve the unknown myth of the Scion  the legend says that only when 
 all Scion fragments are brought together will its true power be understood. Together they were 
 determined to solve this riddle, but sadly her father went away before they had found all the pieces.
 
  Years later Lara decided to continue the search for the lost Scion fragments, but it seems other 
 interested parties are getting involved. Lara must now quickly find the missing pieces before someone 
 else lays hands on them.
  
  Tomb Raider: Anniversary is a remake of the first Tomb Raider game originally released for PlayStation, 
 Sega Saturn and PC back in 1996. The game is in its core a platform game that has some action elements 
 in it.
  You play as Lara Croft and you set out on a mission to find the ancient Scion treasure. The leads 
 takes Lara to Peru, and an old Incan underground complex. The expedition quickly turns into a struggle 
 to survive, and she will need to use all her knowledge to get out in one piece. Through the game 
 you'll learn that Lara is no stranger to mysteries and ancient lore.
  
  Lara is a nimble spelunker and she's equipped with dual pistols, a grappling hook and a journal. 
 During the course of the game you'll find more items to use, but this is basically what you will 
 be working with. The environments you must traverse require dangerous jumps, climbing at dizzy 
 heights, doing impossible stunts, underwater swimming, and avoiding many deadly traps.
  
  Playing as Lara is a nice experience  the controls are mostly very responsive and making cinematic 
 jumps is easier than it looks on screen. Even if you start the game right away, skipping the tutorial 
 level called Lara's Mansion, you'll be informed on how to perform all the required moves to get 
 your way around the various obstacles when you need it. This is a nice approach, because prolonged 
 tutorials can really be painful. The Lara's Mansion level is quite tedious, but it is also a nice 
 opportunity to practice moves and stunts.
  
  There are some problems with the controls though. When clinging on to a wall, you often need to 
 make a backwards jump. The problem is that you can't turn the camera back, so most of the time 
 you must take a risk and jump outwards from the wall without being able to aim where you're going. 
 What's more, it seems that Lara ignores some ledges  which can and certainly will lead to many 
 unnecessary deaths. The combat system also has its problems. Lara can get into the momentum of 
 a combat and so utilize something called the adrenaline dodge, but the way you're supposed to perform 
 it is quite illogical and strange.
  Another move that Lara can do is the wall run. This is done by attaching the grappling hook onto 
 special hooks. This can only be done in specific locations though, but when done right, it allows 
 Lara to run along the wall while she is hanging in the rope. Trying to jump off from this is very 
 awkward, and often results in very random jumps  this is very weird because this is the only move 
 in the game that seriously feels and looks broken.
  
  The enemy AI is also strange. If you jump up on a ledge during a combat (which is quite a natural 
 thing to do in a threatening situation  getting onto higher ground is a defensive move that gives 
 many benefits) the AI just stops working properly. Either they will just freeze and wait for you 
 to come down (or shoot them down) , or they will blindly run around below you while you take them 
 out with your guns. It just seems that the developers didn't include support for the AI to attack 
 someone that is on higher ground, even if you are well within their reach. This bug can be used 
 to your advantage in many fights and basically ruins the illusion of you fighting against living 
 breathing creatures that dwell in the ruins.
  
  During cut scenes and boss fights, you'll sometimes be prompted to quickly push a specific button 
  if you react too slowly to this, the cut scene usually ends in that Lara dies. So you need to 
 keep your focus on the game even during the cut scenes.
  Like many other platform games some parts are incredibly annoying because you must do them again 
 and again. This game also includes some back tracking from time to time. Sometimes enemies have 
 spawned on the way back  even when there is no logical or natural way that those could have gotten 
 there.
  
  Between levels you'll be treated with story cut scenes. These will take you through the story as 
 you make progress and as if you were watching a Hollywood action movie. To get things moving they 
 apparently have fast forwarded and skipped to the important parts, which can feel like the story 
 has some plot holes and leaves some questions unanswered. But if you don't think about it and instead 
 focus on the game they work okay.
  
  The game will take you though various ruins, temples, tombs, labyrinths, abysses, palaces and caves. 
 There is a lot to discover and explore and the game does a great job in capturing the feeling of 
 these abandoned or remote environments. When you're deep underground, you'll only hear your own 
 footsteps and occasionally some distant sounds echoing through the empty hollows. The game has 
 some neat effects like this that deepens the feeling of presence. The sound is thus very fitting 
 and works great.
  
  Graphically the game is also very pleasing  Lara has some astonishing acrobatic moves and seeing 
 her use these skills to ascend treacherous cliffs or whatever it may be is exciting. The animations 
 are well done too, even if there are some jerky motions here and there. The lighting is a little 
 bit too standard though. One would have expected an underground cave with no real sources of light 
 to be a bit darker. As it appears now, it's far too bight and clear. Overall the game is strong 
 visually with various shader effects and the level design looks cool most of the time although 
 it can feel quite linear.
  
  The save/load function has its own quirks in Tomb Raider: Anniversary. Certain locations spread 
 across the levels will save your progress at specific checkpoints. You can save whenever you want, 
 but the save will not count as a save per se. Instead it just saves what your last checkpoint was, 
 and if you load that save you'll be taken to that checkpoint. This is confusing at first, but works 
 actually really good  it prevents players from squirming through the game by saving and loading 
 the whole time. Every time you load a save, you'll be granted a full health bar too, so health 
 packs aren't needed as much as usual.
  
  Tomb Raider has always had puzzles and riddles to be solved. Pressure plates, boxes that must be 
 moved around to reach new areas, keys that must be found, locked doors and hidden treasures. This 
 game is no exception. Most of these puzzles have an appropriate difficulty level  not too easy, 
 not too hard which is an impressing feat in itself.
  Even though this is a remake of sorts it has lots of new features comparing to the previous version 
 and the locations don't look quite the same. In other words; even if you know the previous game 
 by heart, there will still be lots for you to discover in here.
  It's nice to see a Tomb Raider game with good controls. Even if there are some blunders even in 
 this one, it still works really well overall. Tomb Raider makes a brave attempt at combining action 
 elements into a platform game. The result is actually cool, but some bugs need to be fixed and 
 some more variety is needed before its true potential can shine through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genesislalas
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  After a while playing TR: Legend... well I got used to it's controls and everything... perhaps it 
 was the ultimatum to regenerate the series. 
  
  At first look... the game will probably give us a promising idealistic look towards the gameplay 
 and storyline. I downloaded the demo and played the game... It took me a while to get use to its 
 new control system. During the demo, it was like a practice and an inventive way to get to know 
 the game... I liked it...
  
  I got the full retail game and installed it on my pc... still I was expecting too much, as well 
 as other TR fans out there..."the demo doesn't speak for itself"... played the game... the opeing 
 fmv was a bit dissapointing, it looks primitive... knowing that CD can do better. As expected many 
 if not all of us were dissapointed to why the NEXTGEN contents were not available in the game... but 
 by far I understood the main point of the developers on why they disregarded the NEXTGEN contents 
 and rather go into a more dissaturated feel on the environment... Gameplay is 100% cool and extravagant... especially 
 the new adrenaline dodge... it took me a while to get used to it... nonetheless it was a good shot... Storyline 
 and introduction of Natla in the game opens a wide array of questions on why she appeared at the 
 last part of TR: Legend "crates" with her name printed on the boxes... enough of that... foremostly 
 the game had a wide array of gameplay and continuous storyline... The game evolve very great knowing 
 that with the evolution of technology and its availability... CD was able to make the game big and 
 huge... never before seen depths and exotic places comebacks... all in all I say "THIS IS A SATISFYING 
 GAME" take it from me...
  
  
  http://genesislalas. blogspot. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  From the dawn of time I've mocked Tomb Raider as being silly fan-service, but for some reason (probably 
 b/c of reviews claiming this was a solid remake of tomb raider for those who've never played it) 
 I tried it out, and I did not really regret it. 
  
  For SOME reason, I actually admit this is quite a well made game. Good story progression and voice 
 acting, great animation, and decent puzzles. The fighting portions aren't really that great.. but 
 I guess this is Tomb Raider, not Tomb Rambo. 
  
  Puzzle wise this game is pure gem-solid. I actually couldn't believe myself as I was actually praising 
 this game in my mind (my friend was equally surprised, claiming that I was now a "heathen") . However, 
 I do believe this game deserves credit for being tossed together rather well. I did not realy regret 
 it.
  
  Problems with Tomb Raider were highly (admittedly) , subjective. I guess on the inside, after a 
 while, I started to get bored. I really could not finish the game, even after pouring around 9 
 hours into it. The reason seems quite clear: Tomb Raider is one of those 'objectively well made' 
 games that I still, subjectively, don't really like that much.
  
  The overall score reflects this opinion. I guess you could say my personality doesn't really enjoy 
 hardcore puzzles. I kept completing puzzle to puzzle, waiting for that story moment or that battle 
 moment, and it never really came. The boss battles were really not that great, and the battle system 
 is pretty bad. Still, the puzzles (and animation) is where the game shines. Problem? I don't like 
 puzzles + puzzles. Maybe I like puzzles + action. But you know.. puzzles + puzzles. Ain't really 
 my cup of tea.
  
  But you know, despite my subjective views, I could never deny in the back of head, that this game 
 was made rather well. Maybe I just wasn't the right audience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  (Note: Check out my blog for a full review including screenshots.)
  
  Remaking a classic game can be viewed as both a safe approach to making a game, as well a a risky 
 one. It's a safe approach because the ground has already been paved for you and not a lot of creative 
 juice has to be spent. But it's also a risky one, because a simple job of updating the graphics 
 and leaving the gameplay unaltered won't sit well with demanding fans, while changing too many 
 things about the original game can upset long time fans. With Tomb Raider Anniversary, developer 
 Crystal Dynamics has hit a perfect balance between paying homage to a series (as well as its fans) , 
 and refreshing the gameplay to deliver a game that's up to contemporary standards. Plain and simple, 
 Tomb Raider Anniversary is the best game in the series, and is now one of my favorite games ever.
 
  
  Though it follows the same basic storyline and structure of the original Tomb Raider, Anniversary 
 is more of a reimagining of that game, which means that most of the gameplay has been heavily reworked 
 to make the game much more accessible and enjoyable, as well as fit in with the events of Tomb 
 Raider Legend. It is here where my biggest praise for the games comes in: the amount of creativity 
 invested in reworking virtually every puzzle is staggering. The developers didn't just tweak a 
 few aspects of those older puzzles, they pretty much rebuilt them from scratch. Some puzzles share 
 the same idea as the original ones, while others are completely different.
  
  A good example is a section in the Midas Palace level where the original game featured three successive 
 pillars of equal height with fire breathing from the top of each pillar, and Lara had to cross 
 them by traversing around their edges. In Anniversary, those three pillars have been replaced by 
 five pillars of different heights (which make for a spectacular scene the moment they lit up) , 
 and this time around the pillars can be climbed from top to bottom, but in order to reach the desired 
 spots you actually have to make use of the walls surrounding the room as well as Lara's grapple. 
 Also, one of the pillars contains a hidden relic that can only be accessed after completing a very 
 challenging timed run. This is an example of how the developers retained the concept of the original 
 puzzle, while totally reworking it to make it much more exciting.
  
  The story has also been slightly tweaked. Whereas in the original, Lara's quest for the Scion was 
 a case of fetching ancient items for sport, in Anniversary Lara believes the Scion to be a source 
 of power and information that can help her solve the mystery of her mother's death (or disappearance) , 
 something that ties in this story with the occurrences of Tomb Raider Legend. Given that Legend 
 was something of a reboot of the series, it's not unexpected for Crystal Dynamics to try to jiggle 
 the story to their needs. Also, considering most of the previous Tomb Raider games had stand alone 
 stories, this doesn't really affect the canon that much.
  
  The actual gameplay in Anniversary is very similar to the one introduced in Legend, which means 
 most of the moves and gadgets introduced in Legend make an appearance here. The controls are as 
 smooth as ever. The keyboard and mouse combo works really well here, as the game features a layout 
 similar to most third person games. Pulling off all the crazy moves in Lara's arsenal is a breeze 
 since the game doesn't require you to count your steps or aim Lara's body with pinpoint accuracy, 
 unlike in the original game where the grid based gameplay was something of a detriment. And just 
 like in Legend, you're able to make Lara climb or traverse through ledges at a quicker pace with 
 the simple tap of a button, something that eliminates the tedium from climbing high structures 
 and actually makes it a thrill. A minor issue lies in the camera which can go occasionally haywire, 
 but it's easy to reorient it with the mouse (though sometimes it'll keep battling with you even 
 as you reorient it) .
  
  A neat addition is the ability to run across walls while hooked to something with the grapple. 
 This move plays a very important role in several twitch based puzzles. However certain gadgets, 
 such as the PDA and binoculars of Legend are gone, as well as her headset that allowed communication 
 with Allister and Zip (two characters from Legend that don't show up here) . This was obviously 
 made to keep the game more in tune with the feel of the original, and it was a successful move. 
 The original game conveyed a sense of isolation that is perfectly recreated here. Lara will hardly 
 come across other humans as most of the enemies consist of wild animals or ancient creatures.
 
  
  Dealing with those enemies will be a blast, as the combat in Anniversary has received an excellent 
 addition in the form of the "Adrenaline dodge" move, where Lara must dodge an incoming enemy in 
 time, while carefully timing a headshot that if successful will result in an instant kill. The 
 adrenaline dodge certainly makes even the most basic of confrontations much more exciting as it's 
 both a challenging move to pull off as well as a spectacular one. All of the boss fights will require 
 that you make use of this move too, so it's a good thing to practice it frequently.
  
  Speaking of which, the boss fights in Anniversary are terrific. The first one is the highly memorable 
 battle with the T-Rex, which is much more impressive and menacing this time around. There's also 
 a battle with two centaurs, which was my particular favorite. This battle requires a lot of quick 
 thinking as you must find out how to inflict damage on the centaurs while avoiding their petrifying 
 rays. The last two battles take place in the final level and are highly reminiscent of their original 
 counterparts, but are much better executed this time. And unlike the final boss battle in Legend, 
 which was sadistically hard (at least on the highest difficulty) , all of the battles here feel 
 like a fair fight.
  
  Perhaps the only thing that doesn't feel fair in Anniversary are a select few twitch based puzzles 
 (some of them under a timer) that require pin point accuracy at the time of making jumps and hanging 
 from ledges. While most of this are optional, as they are only required to reach hidden objects, 
 such as relics and artifacts, some of them are necessary to advance in the game and you're bound 
 to feel some frustration by having to repeat several of them a few times. This is only aggravated 
 by the implementation of the same checkpoint system introduced in Legend, where manual saves will 
 always bring you back to the closest checkpoint. But while those sequences may feel a bit frustrating, 
 they never feel impossible and it's always clear from the beginning what you have to do in order 
 to clear them. To be honest, a Tomb Raider game without a few highly challenging sequences wouldn't 
 be a Tomb Raider game, and most fans won't be bothered by them.
  
  Visually speaking, Anniversary has the same look as Legend, which means the game is gorgeous. The 
 lack of a "next-gen" graphics option means Anniversary doesn't look quite as spectacular and sharp 
 as Legend did, but it's still a graphically impressive game, thanks in no small part to the terrific 
 art direction behind it. The sheer size and scope of certain structures or statues are bound to 
 leave you jaw gapingly impressed. The audio is also impressive, although the soundtrack is a bit 
 toned down in this game to help convey that feeling of isolation and exploration. But there's still 
 a lot of music to enjoy, particularly during combat and boss battles.
  
  Unlike Legend, Anniversary is a much longer adventure, with around 15 hours of gameplay to be had 
 here, and that's not counting a lot of the time you'll spend retrying certain sections. Anniversary 
 also features a plethora of rewards such as concept art, character biographies, new outfits for 
 Lara, developer commentary, the ability to listen the game's soundtrack on the Croft Manor, cheat 
 codes, a mini-level that was used for testing purposes, and my personal favorite, comparison screenshots 
 between the 1996 game and this one. To obtain this rewards you must find the artifacts and relics 
 scattered through the levels, some which are easy to obtain, while others will require quite an 
 excursion. Between the meaty adventure and all the rewards, Tomb Raider Anniversary is a very complete 
 game package.
  
  As someone who has been with the series from the very beginning (through the good times and the 
 rough ones) , not only was I very grateful at the chance of reliving the original adventure, but 
 I was completely blown away by this game. Honestly, I wasn't expecting much from this remake other 
 than a graphical upgrade, but the developers showed just how much intent they had on leaving their 
 own mark on this remake. It's hard to believe it, but Anniversary is better than the original game 
 in every way, not just because of the technical advances, but because it's simply a much smarter 
 and well designed game. With Tomb Raider Anniversary, Lara Croft and the Tomb Raider series have 
 finally reached their full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  It's hard to review this game because its a remake of a classic game again it's done very good. 
 For people who have played Tomb Raider 1 they will not find anything new in this game just nice 
 graphic and new game play elements but for people who haven't its a great adventure and is worth 
 your money.
  
  The story is very simple, like it was on most of games many years ago, you are Lara Croft and u 
 are hired to find an artifact but during this adventure u will find out a lot more and the story 
 changes a lot durning this game because u in the end u are in Atlantis, no more spoilers :)
  
  Most of people see Lara with her 2 guns shooting everything what moves, u will not find it 
 here because in Tomb Raider 1 most of your enemys were animals and there is much more puzzles than 
 in Legend but this one is again shorter.
  
  Graphic look the same, maybe some effects look better and the system requirments are low for this 
 game and the replay value isn't so big as in Legend, i think but still there are many hidden things 
 what u can search and time trials so hardcore fans will be busy for longer than me.
  
  In the end this game looks better, plays the same as Legend and got less shooting. For most of 
 people it's a pointless game but for Tomb Raider fans its a great game.
  
  You haven't played Laras first adventure then now is the best way do to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goshyn00
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Anyone who's played or is a fan of Tomb Raider may agree when I say that it is not a groundbreaking 
 game. You take one part resident evil meets Indiana Jones and add Angelina Jolie in short-shorts. 
 However to those who are fans of the series will probably be more likely to notice the innovations 
 here. 
  
  First off is the Fan Service. Lara has never looked better. Previous incarnations left Lara blocky 
 and... pointy. But with updated graphics Laura looks sexy as ever. Even little things added such 
 as her getting dirt when rolling and tumbling or the water shimmer after taking a dip. 
  
  As for the main game play, the puzzles have never looked better either. Blocks no longer have to 
 be moved only in 4 directions. Cracks and traps blend into walls better making them appear natural 
 instead of intentionally put there. And enemies have now been upgraded with a new rush attack which 
 either allows you to execute a well timed one hit kill to the head or be trampled for twice the 
 damage. Better physics makes for better jumps overall. There are still a few bugs such as with 
 swinging on some poles Lara's hands appear to go through, but this is only really noticed in a 
 couple areas. 
  
  One of the major additions noticed is the new Resident Evil 4 style cut scenes. Not all of them 
 can be skipped now for a cup of coffee as new fight scenes take place during story telling making 
 it worth your while to see Lara's story progress.
  
  All in all this is probably the best Tomb Raider game to date. While the game doesn't completely 
 remove any linearity it does lessen it by adding multiple ways or alternative routes to solve a 
 puzzle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  As someone who just got into gaming in the last 3 years, I never played the original Tomb Raider 
 and basically can't at this point. I have played several of the more recent and compatible TR games 
 like AOD, Chronicles and Legend. Therefore, I was most pleased that Eidos decided to remake the 
 original classic. Anniversary is a great entry addition to the TR series and brings the classic 
 back to life.
  
  The game play and graphics are in line with Legends, of course. I'd say there are some minor improvements, 
 especially in performance. The camera is a little difficult at times, but honestly this is always 
 a complaint with TR games and many other 3rd person games in general. Maybe it's just something 
 that can't be resolved. My only other complaint would be the the blurriness of some scenes that 
 would come clear when you got closer. There was some lag toward the end as well.
  
  Overall, the game play was excellent with some exciting boss fights. The adrenaline dodge was a 
 nice added feature to the game play, but took me some time to master. There are some very difficult 
 sequences throughout the game especially toward the end when climbing up the volcano on the island 
 - whew! I enjoyed the end game on the island too. Having not been familiar with the story I figured 
 the game was about over after Egypt. However, there is plenty of gaming and boss fighting after 
 that section. Learn that adrenaline dodge cause it's a must for most boss fights. Croft Manor was 
 enjoyable too, though I'd say not quite as lengthy or complex as the Legends version. I hope the 
 developers continue to find new ways to bring Croft Manor to life, as it's a nice little treat 
 to play before or after one completes the game.
  
  I enjoy game play in the tombs - it's what Tomb Raider is all about. However, I'd like to see other 
 environments again in future TR releases like cities and buildings seen in earlier games. I think 
 it's a fun break from the dark tombs, although I expect the purists would disagree.
  
  Thanks to Eidos for putting out this remake of the classic which is a classic in its own right. 
 The TR series has certainly righted ship with the last couple of games by bring TR into the new 
 age. This game is a must play for all action adventure fans.
  
  Gameplay __ 8.5
  Graphics__ 7 (depends on systems)
  Sound__ 6.5 (didn't like the ambiance because there was a 
 lack of it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PureDemon-
Rating: 6
Date: May 23, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is a remake of Tomb Raider 1, with some extras.
  
  The game happens to be all about climbing, jumping and puzzle solving with the occasional gun fight 
 in between. However, most of the game's trails are rather easy to figure out. There are some minor 
 death-traps that might take a few tries to pass, but that's it really. This means most of the challenge 
 is rather... unchallenging, but more a case of falling and getting back up. The only actual challenge 
 the game presents is the obtaining of various relics and artifacts.
  
  The camera seems to focus more on Lara's over-exaggerated curves rather than the ledge you want 
 to jump to. This will often mean you'll have to turn the camera to the proper direction, which 
 in some cases is impossible. Since most of the game you'll be jumping from A to B, the camera issue 
 is rather annoying.
  
  Every now and then when you make a jump the game will not be in the mood to register Lara's grip 
 on the ledge, this will become increasingly frustrating when you reach further in the game. 
  
  The also have added the "Simon says" type button prompts that appeared in God of War and Resident 
 Evil 4, of course appearing in the cut scenes. These prompts will also appear in most regular combat, 
 in the form of a so called "Adrenaline Dodge". After filling the enemy with enough lead without 
 stopping, the enemy will become enraged and perform a lunge type attack, which you can dodge with 
 the aforementioned adrenaline dodge. Doing so will allow you to instantly kill any enemy with a 
 headshot, of course if you click the buttons at the right time. 
  
  Whilst on the subject, it seems that the AI is rather stupid. I've often found myself standing 
 at the bottom of a staircase raining lead onto my enemies, while they seem to take their time moving 
 up the stairs (or in some cases down) like they are 70 years old. This combined with the one shot 
 kill trick makes regular combat rather easy. Since most battles can be easily won by jumping and 
 mashing that fire button, it gets rather tiresome and does not present all that much of a challenge.
 
  
  The boss fights are only slightly more challenging than a regular fight, as it often takes just 
 a little bit more then firing guns to win, but that little bit isn't enough to make it all really 
 challenging.
  
  The only thing that actually saves the game would be the jumping and climbing. I'd only recommend 
 buying or even renting the game when you are in some form of an Indiana Jones mood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludacrisbeing
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I am not a massive tomb raider fan and to be honest i only ever really played the original with 
 any passion and that (besides Anniversary) was the only tomb raider i finished.
  This game had me walking down memory lane and loving it! i remember all the locals, the set pieces 
 (although heavily modded now) and isn't this just the definative version.... absolutely.
  
  The difficulty was perfect throughout and very few glitches and issues. I did however have about 
 3 times where i got so frustrated with a pizzle i almost packed it in and 2 of these times were 
 when using the grapple and having to push off the wall to grab a ledge... the camera kept moving 
 changing the angle i had to push when jumping ahhhhh! other than these times that required some 
 patience and dedication to complete i had a blast.
  
  I highly recomend the game toanyone who likes a challenge and enjoys solving puzles and thinking 
 laterally 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andre9977
Rating: 3
Date: May 2, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Every high-end game runs well on my PC, I don't know why the **** I even spent some time to download 
 this game. No, it's not a game - it's rather a big hole in gaming, something really pointless. 
 I even used to like some of the series. Every random game I could pick up by guess now is probably 
 better than this Tomb Raider. Come on - some bi*ch stripping who can't even grapple from a donut... 
 What a waste. I wouldn't really say it wasn't worth downloading, but for example - the first 'mission'. 
 You'll need to grapple from 02983192873 rings and still Lara Croft will only show her bottom side 
 to you - failing it. Though I completed the first one, most others were the same. Waste, Waste, 
 Waste. 
  
  Is it the game, or is it my anger? Yeah, probably my problem, the game is cool, cool, "awsum", 
 worth of playing, etc. etc. 
  
  My point stands, k thx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Read the full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2248,0. html
  
  Tomb Raider is one of the game franchises whose roots stretch back into the early ages of the 
 gaming industry. Its amazing world environments and intriguing puzzle gameplay. While the series 
 has experienced both ups and downs, Crystal D has taken the series back to its roots with the successful 
 Tomb Raider Legend. Their next game, Anniversary, harkens back to the story of the original game 
 and brings it up to par with other recent games...
  
  Just like the original game, Tomb Raider: Anniversary tells of Lara's hunt for the Scion of Atlantis. 
 Again, the environments range from ruins and cities in Peru, Greece, Egypt. But, the game is not 
 merely a texture upgrade of the original, environments are actually larger and more detailed, and 
 puzzles have been improved. It makes the game feel very smooth and even bigger than the original.
 
  
  Lara's picked up a few new abilities in the past few years, but the core of the movement remains 
 the same. Just like Prince of Persia, you can shimmy across ledges, leap from one ledge to another, 
 scramble from one ledge to a higher ledge, swing on veins and balance yourself. However, unlike 
 POP, Lara has much more limited, human-like behaviors, meaning the challenges in this game are 
 much more dangerous. If you miss your timing, there's a large chance you'll fall and either die 
 or get hurt.
  These abilities see an extremely high degree of use, as the environments conceal some extremely 
 deep puzzles. Some puzzles require moving boxes and pushing switches. However, there are much deeper 
 ones, such as getting across a broken bridge, which leads into yet another challenge, and so on 
 and so forth. The puzzles are really intricate and reach a level of complexity and quality you 
 really can't find in other current games. As in some other games, there are reflex sequences where 
 you have to hit specific keys to time Lara's prerecorded moves just right to get through a specific 
 scripted sequence. There's a nice new variety of gameplay mechanics that help keep the game fresh 
 as you power through its 10 hour story.
  
  There are several enemies in Anniversary, which usually take the form of various wildlife such 
 as wolves, tigers, and even T-Rexes. The combat is a minor part of the game, just as in the other 
 Tomb Raider games, and the gunplay features a simple lock-on system for your pistols and some dodging 
 moves. There's a new adrenaline dodge, allowing you to dodge enemies in slow motion and take out 
 an enemy in a single hit, but none of the combat is really meant to compete with heavy hitters 
 like Gears of War.
  
  The environments in Tomb Raider are all visually distinct and unique. Lara's animation and character 
 model is top notch, with her acrobatic moves looking extremely authentic. There are little touches 
 in the graphics, such as light reflecting through water, change in atmosphere between locales, 
 which really make the game look distinct in this day and age.
  
  Anniversary is a great-sounding game. There are plenty of ambient sounds such as animal calls and 
 dripping water, and they all resonate differently depending on the size of the room. The music 
 is sparse, but appropriate when used.
  
  With Anniversary, Crystal D continues down the path of success in the Tomb Raider series. The newest 
 game breathes life and improved gameplay mechanics into a franchise that revolutionized the platforming 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bamul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  Great graphics, one of the best I have ever seen - 10
  
  Controls
  Good but sometimes can get very, very annoying - 7.9
  
  Storyline
  Good storyline - 9.5
 
  
  Difficulty
  Most of the time just right but sometimes can get quite hard where you have to search things to 
 open different mechanisms - 9.3
  
  Value
  Great value - 9.7
  
  Sound
  The best sound, just great - 10
  
  Title
  Title sounds good but it's similar to the other 
 games from the series - 9.5 
  
  Overall
  Tomb Rider: Anniversary is a great game, I would have voted it 10 but because of the controls I 
 voted it 9.5, but it's still one of the greatest games I have played, I think it's a must have 
 and if you don't like the controls, you can change them in the options and anyway you get used 
 to them after playing the game a couple of hours.
  
  Rating - 9.5
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdoelrock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  In Tomb Raider: Anniversary the environment is the key to play ,where you have 
  to search for clues & objects , so you can reach a certain place or open a gate,... etc ,when you 
 start playing tomb raider you will be isolated from the world around you and the hours will pass 
 like minutes , that if you really like this type of games.
  
  the controls are very good & smooth. while you can't ask for better graphics ,with magnificent sound 
 & story line which really puts you inside the game.
  
  Tomb Raider : Anniversary works with the same engine of it's previous release Tomb raider :legend 
 .may be it's slightly better being longer & more challenging.
  
  So if you are looking for an adventure game with lots of excitement & stunning visuals then I recommend 
 Tomb Raider: Anniversary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safaria5
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  It was very and and WAS better quality than the originals but some of the things that annoyed my 
 was having to go up get past like 5 obstacals fall off and start over that really ticked me off 
 so thats why it took me 70 hours to finsih just because i messed up. Other than that it was pretty 
 good luckly I rented it on spring break so I could return it but finish the game as well. I'm not 
 a person who enjoys puzzily type things eathier so thats why I probbably didnt like it as much 
 as I would of. Alright last thing is is story line! OKAAAAAAAAAAAY heres the boring part it's REALLY 
 confusing at some points and can be very boring but other than that the story line is pretty good 
 just progresses through the diffrent game basicly. Overall (great I sound like i'm giving a blan 
 repot at school....) Its's pretty good but just anoying thats it where done cya peeps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jim_Bob_the_2nd
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  -_- oh my god. Im not joking this game has to be one of the worst ive ever played, seen, demo'd 
 etc. The puzzles are easier than... well... theres no word to describe it. Its like someone saying 
 "Oh you need to find a lever or some sort, wow look at that really big sign that says in bright 
 flashing letters 'THE LEVER IS HERE!'". 
  I do remember in the previous tomb raider games there was some form of threat and difficulty and 
 waited the entire game for it to smack me round the face. In the end i let another game do that. 
 Graphics are brilliant and so is the sound its just all the other things. 
  It sort of like that feeling when your in a french lesson, you could quite happily beat your brains 
 out with a lemon attached to a golden brick and the actual thing itself has the entertainment value 
 or paint drying on a wall.
  If your a die hard lara fan i suppose youll love it and it has its moments like any game. Its just 
 for me it was terrible and i really regret playing it, the enemies are easy and the fights quick 
 and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastik01
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  -
  The levels are large and spacious, with very good looking graphics. the distance blur effects really 
 bring some areas to life. the weapons are decent enough, not to fancy or exotic, but get the job 
 done. offers plenty of hours of game play. 
  -
  -
  The Bad
  -
  grappling/directional ledge traverse system is horribly buggy. sometimes you press the correct 
 directional key, and you still end up going in the wrong direction. this is mostly due to the proximity 
 of some ledges in certain areas, it will automatically choose the closest ledge.
  
  The camera system is hugely flawed also, if you're in a confined corner or near a wall, you'll 
 usually be unable to control your camera angle, or it will be harder to do so, since the camera 
 doesn't want to clip through the wall, it is almost as if your mouse stops working, basically a 
 dead end. this can make it really hard to see what you need to do in many places. many times the 
 camera angle changes constantly by itself in the game, which can change up and down to left and 
 right without notice. 
  
  some of these puzzles are really annoying, especially considering the lack of being able to save 
 the game at any moment, which forces you to re-do many things over that shouldn't need to be. you'll 
 find some puzzles are strictly timed, to the point where there is no room for error. that wouldn't 
 be a problem if you didn't have to traverse several hard ledges/grapples that could lead to your 
 death before the next save. You can literally spend days to weeks trying to beat just one area, 
 which is not fun at all. It is obvious that the designers didn't play all the levels they created 
 or they would have edited some areas out. these areas are less of a challenge and more of a near 
 impossibility. I'm sorry, but I don't think anyone can enjoy respawning to 2 flying mutants all 
 the time, only to die while trying to get to a ledge before a strictly timed grapple that is almost 
 impossible to do, then starting at the checkpoint again, only to fight the same 2 mutants again, 
 and dieing a few seconds later while attempting the grapple. rinse. repeat. not fun. 
  
  there is no level skip for this game, none. you better save every checkpoint separately or forget 
 about getting back anywhere unless you start from the beginning. this means you might as well get 
 all artifacts the first time around since there is no replay value. some of the puzzles are fun, 
 but get to repetitive. 
  
  so basically the main down fall of this game is the fact that the elements of game controls, camera 
 controls, puzzle design, and the lack of saving at any point, all contribute to making this game 
 overly difficult and frustrating. even with guides you will spend days trying to get to past a 
 certain area, if you ever do at all. it doesn't matter if you're an expert gamer or not, most people 
 will have these problems, if not all. 
  
  
  I personally believe the game should of added a little more of an FPS element, or at least, a wider 
 range of different puzzles. mostly the game goes like; jump to ledge, jump to other ledge, jump 
 to pole/crevice/grapple, repeat, move box onto button over floor, grab artifact, rotate this, raise 
 that, etc. a little more variety would have been nice. also a few more cinematics couldn't have 
 hurt either, considering how long it might take you to complete a level. 
  
  
  I enjoyed much of the game, but the problem I listed above was a real kill joy for me, and if not 
 for the games half good graphics, would have killed it for me. without them, I doubt I would have 
 played for long. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is a celebration of Lara Croft based on the original tomb Raider series, 
 a classic Tomb Raider story remake. I have been a Tomb Raider fan from day one, and have played 
 every game; at the time of this review, I anxiously await Tomb Raider Underworld. Anniversary expands 
 on the original story with today's game play. 
  
  Anniversary begins with Lara being hired to retrieve a mythical artifact of great power called 
 the Scion of Atlantis. Lara then starts her adventure in The Lost Valley and travels through tombs, 
 monasteries, The Coliseum and The Great Pyramid. Sound familiar, deja vu. And of course, you have 
 your tutorial level in Croft Manor. As she explores the tombs and ruins, she regularly runs into 
 enemies like rats, bats, wolves, bears, tigers, gorillas, raptors, and Tyrannosaurus Rex. 
  
  The variety in the levels is great, with lots of puzzles wherever you go.
  You have the familiar 
 abilities of hanging on ledges, swinging from ropes, and become acquainted with a new ability of 
 using the magnetic grapple introduced in Tomb Raider Legend to perform wall runs. I personally 
 found some of the wall runs a little too challenging and over used especially in timed sequences.
 
  
  Anniversary is a return to the classical story of the series. It has the action and adventure of 
 what Tomb Raider is really all about. I've played this game on the PC and on the Xbox 360; make 
 sure that your PC can handle the requirements. I found the game to play flawlessly and as always, 
 with any of the Tomb Raider games, it has a beautiful musical score. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Licazinha
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider is a classic, I won`t deny it, but gameplay is repetitive and it gets old pretty fast. 
 
  
  What I`ve also come to realize about the series in general is that, Lara has always been an object 
 to male gamers and not so much as a feminist icon to female gamers, as many people might think. 
 Let`s get that out of the table right now, because I think many people still don`t feel comfortable 
 seeing the real design issues with such a "revolutionary, historic" game.
  
  Anyway, now regarding the anniversary edition. First of all, It is almost impossible to play without 
 the patch. The number of bugs and glitches is quite big and quite compromising. 
  
  Second of all, even though this is a remake, I would`ve expected them to try and add and change 
 somethings to make it more interesting and less repetitive. They did not, and that bothered me 
 very much. 
  
  The thing that bothered me the most however was the combat system. I don`t remember how that worked 
 in older TRs but the whole focus on your enemies and smash your mouse button thing made it not 
 as fun as it should be. There was also a lack of sneak shooting, which is something I really like 
 in action games. 
  
  If you can overcome this issues, and if you`re not tired of jumping and grabbing and searching 
 for the key of the door to the handle, to the other key and etc. you`ll love it. Graphics are indeed 
 great, no complaints in that area.
  
  I will look forward to Underworld and see if anything`s changed though. I still have hopes :D
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheolho
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  The 7th installment in the series has improved in many ways, obviously looking a lot better and 
 with much smoother animations not to mention the possibility of exploring the enviroment using 
 tons of new moves. 
  
  However the game doesn't quite deliver the same deep atmosphere that the first Tomb Raider (playstation 
 version, the pc version had no music) game was so good at. Also the enviroments seem to have lost 
 some of their scale with more challenges being cranked into a smaller area. The exploration seems 
 less enjoyable and it feels like you are just running from one hard challenge to the next. The 
 levels themselves are less colorful (they all look kind of gray) and the music seems a bit bland. 
 At times it almost feels a bit sloppy.
  
  While the new movements gives Lara more freedom they seem to be implemented a bit too often, making 
 you wonder why and who put up all those bars in those weird places within the tombs. 
  
  The combat is also quite frustration in narrow hallways especially if you are facing more than 
 one enemy at the time. The camera seem to have it's own will switching randomly between enemies. 
 And the enemies seem a bit too tough to kill. 
  
  Even with all the lights turned of and high volume, the can't pull you in the same way the old 
 game did. Even if I compare them now the old game still seems more enjoyable. 
  
  Overall it's a worthy remake, but it could have been a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  The first Tomb Raider, back in 1997, was a great game for that time,& Lara Croft became a legend. Later 
 on, Tomb Raider series got bad (Tomb Raider-The Angel of Darkness sais it all) . Untill the lycence 
 went to Eidos,& Crystal Dynamics produced a great game last year: Tomb Raider-Legend. Now, because 
 it was 2007,& 10 years from Lara's debute had passed, Eidos released Tomb Raider-Anniversary, a 
 remake of the first Tomb Raider game. Ussualy, a remake is not as good as the original, but Anniversary 
 is certainly much better than the first Tomb Raider & it is the best game in series.
  Eidos used the same graphics engine as in Legend, but with a little bit more effects & better textured 
 places (the depht of field effect is gorgeous) ,& the engine is better optimized. To make it short, you 
 get high-quality graphics even on low-end systems.
  The sound is quite good. Not a masterpiece, but the music is well chosen ,the voice acting is OK 
 (the actors sound convincing) & the sound effects (water  roars, etc) are 
 really well done.
  The gameplay is similar to the Tomb Raider series,&, if you want, Prince of Persia, Marc Ecko's Getting 
 Up-Contents Under Pressure & God of War) .Compared to Legend, the puzzles are much more complex 
 (& you get such an "I'm a genius" feeling after completing them, the platform part of the game is 
 much better realised,& gunfights are less in number, but more intense & cool. You won't be fighting 
 people, as you did in Legend, you will battle animals  
 dinosaurs) & mythical creatures (centaurs, mummies) . At the end of every chapter of the four, you'll 
 get a boss fight (I won't spoil them, but I've gotta say that in the first one you'll be fighting 
 against a gigant T-REX) . In some battles you'll get the opportunity to dodge an enemy in slow-motion, than 
 give it a headshot (takes some practice) . This is a little similar to a cool move in Total Overdose, only 
 much better realise & much more exciting. You'll also have some cutcenes in which you have to push 
 a specific directional key in order to complete the action (something like in Resident Evil 4, but 
 they were in Legend also) . I must say again that some puzzles are absolutely amazing,& you'll realy 
 love to complete them by yourself. The climb, jump, roll, grapple, wall walk, balance on poles, etc moves 
 are much better realised,& much more convincing. You'll love to do this, while throwing a look at 
 Lara's ass...
  The story is very interesting, but I won't spoil it for you... something with Atlantis; you'll travel 
 to Peru, Greece & Egypt &... surprise...
  In conclusion, Tomb Raider Anniversary is one of the best action games ever made & certainly one 
 of 2007's finest. As for my personal intersest, if Lara would have been blonde, the game might have 
 been my Game of the Year... getting back on topic, I recommand this game to EVERYONE, because I'm 
 sure that anyone with some gaming experience & some patience will love it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Although other reviews may have mentioned this many times it's worth reiterating .... This game 
 looks and plays like an all new adventure. Fans of the original may recognize a few areas which 
 bare a slight resemblance to the original levels but by and large it all looks and feels brand 
 new.
  
  Missing from the game this time around is the bonus next-gen graphics flare in Legend that was 
 available to high-end video card owners. Despite that, Anniversary looks great all around. It doesn't 
 quite compete with the latest games but the graphics are more than passable and convey a real feeling 
 of being deep in a Tomb.
  
  The controls are identical to Legend and are a huge improvement to the original clunky controls. 
 You can swing from ledges, climb ropes and swim with life like fluidity and that alone brings the 
 series back from dead. Levels are fun to repeat as the controls rarely frustrate you. Although 
 I'll admit to having a tough time with the final level in the game. Playing with a gamepad may 
 provide the best feel for the controls. Camera control is fluid with a dual stick controller but 
 may be bothersome with the mouse/keyboard configuration. 
  
  Game saves are handled through a checkpoint system similar to what you'd expect on a console. However, 
 there are enough checkpoints throughout and are always placed right where you want them ... Before 
 and after a tough part.
  
  The game is much longer than Legend and you should feel satisfied after completing it. if you choose 
 you can replay levels to collect bonus content. The Croft Manor is also in this game and actually 
 has a fairly lengthy story component to it that you can play if you choose. 
  
  This is classic Tomb Raider and doesn't introduce too many new ideas but it does the best job in 
 recent years of bringing life back to the old girl and is worth playing for even casual fans of 
 the series. It's not particularly challenging with a fairly simple final boss battle but then again 
 most of the enjoyment in these games is the exploration and the story.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Its like they took everything I liked about the original TR and combined it with the positive aspects 
 of Legend. This is my favorite tomb raider game.
  
  Unlike Tomb Raider Legend, this game centers more on climbing, jumping and swinging, more than 
 gunning down everyone in sight.
  And unlike the original games, TR Anniversary features easy and fluid controls.
  
  Anniversary 
 doesn't not have many cut scenes, nor does it feature those helper charcters, that talk to you 
 during the missions, like Legend. This leaves Anniversary feeling like a budget title (made for 
 cheap, trying to make a quick buck) . But I think this works in the games favor. It makes the Gameplay 
 the focus of the game, rather than a cut-scene driven story.
  
  TR Anniversary combines the best parts of new and old tomb raider games, and makes something better 
 than both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 722sax
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Decid&iacute; comprarlo por el recuerdo de aquel juego de hace 10 a&ntilde; os y las gr&aacute; ficas 
 hacen que no distinga muchos lugares que jugu&eacute; y repet&iacute; muchas veces en la primera 
 versi&oacute; n, pero una vez que sit&uacute; as el lugar y haces un poco de memoria viene a la mente 
 que buen trabajo se ha realizado de 10 a&ntilde; os a la fecha esperemos ver que este progreso siga 
 en las siguientes versiones. Ahora bien a criticarlo, las gr&aacute; ficas son semejantes al pen&uacute; ltimo 
 T. R. aunque encontr&eacute; una falla y es que cuando pones al personaje entre tu vista y el agua 
 sus piernas se distorsionan fuera de eso no tengo queja alguna son muy buenas para el tipo de juego 
 de hecho el hacer a las ratas parecer ratas y no armadillos como mi mente ls recuerda es un avance. 
 En cuanto al juego me he divertido mucho viendo los cambios en los escenarios ademas de los nuevos 
 retos para encontrar las reliquias y dem&aacute; s objetos adem&aacute; s de que la curiosidad de 
 ver como se modifico el siguiente escenario me mantiene en el juego cabe mencionar que lo han llenado 
 de detalles y que toda la historia, escenarios, y retos para encontrar los diferentes objetos y 
 armas adem&aacute; s los movimientos heredados de su antecesores y el nuevo movimiento de caminata 
 en la pared, hacen un juego digno de ser explorado, cabe mencionar que este si es largo ya que 
 sigue la secuela del versi&oacute; n uno aclaro esto porque el pen&uacute; ltimo tomb raider fue 
 muy r&aacute; pido sin mucha historia y duro muy poco el gusto. Este te promete horas y horas de 
 diversi&oacute; n aun cuando no te guste ir por todos los secretos y hacer los niveles en el tiempo 
 indicado, yo lo recomiendo amplia mente para aquellos que no han jugado Tomb Raider no pierdan 
 este porque como dije antes y repito trae todo lo bueno del primero aumentado y con detalles que 
 en mi opini&oacute; n supera a todas las versiones anteriores del juego. XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortalsting
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  when i first play tomb raider, was a long time ago. I&acute; ve played the first tomb raider, the 
 fourth, recently the legend and now anniversary. The saga is getting better! In this game Lara 
 has some new moves, but the game formula don't have remarkable alterations, and that is somehow 
 good. Levels are well design and there is always a deja vu from the first tomb raider, the team 
 that work on tomb raider did it well, and made an amazing remake! One of the things that is well 
 done, are the musics! The soundtrack is exciting and make some boss fights a lot more fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myhuis1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing Tomb Raider since the first pixelated edition hit our screens, 10 years of satisfaction. 
 Anniversary is more than just eye candy it reminds us why I fell in love with the original - the 
 story, the puzzles and most importantly LARA! I love comparing Anniversary to the original, remembering 
 how freaked out I was by the T-rex and now having to face him again (he's more intelligent and 
 scary now) . The graphics are amazing and the soundtrack even more. But there must be some lacking 
 lustre, and this is my only problem - the levels are too short and the occasional bug (Im referring 
 to the one where Lara can't make the jump across a pool...) .
  
  final rant: BUY THIS GAME! Play it over and over and hope that Eidos makes more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatWat06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Anniversary, is the latest release of the Tomb Raider series. It is a remake of the 
 original Tomb Raider game from 1996, using an improved version of the Legend game engine and it 
 includes all the original 'worlds' from Tomb Raider. Tomb Raider: Anniversary has 15 levels in 
 the game, but the levels are good, interesting, long (well some levels are long) , and has a good 
 story with it. The graphics are good with ( with legends Next Generation) , the sound is good. The 
 gameplay is really good with lara's sexy moves a long with her outfits in the game whitch you have 
 to unlock them by completing levels, trails, and finding secrets.
  
  (Plot)
  The story's prelude begins in 1945 in Los Alamos, New Mexico; a mushroom cloud engulfs an abandoned 
 town, uncovering a crystalline structure, sending an unidentified winged creature flying out. Fifty-one 
 years later the game sends us to a cutscene set in Calcutta, India, in which the main story opens: 
 Lara Croft, daughter of Lord Richard Croft is hired by renowned businesswoman Jacqueline Natla 
 through an introduction by her long-time adversary Larson. Natla reveals she has found the location 
 of one of the three pieces that comprise the Atlantean Scion, a mystical artifact buried in the 
 heart of an ancient city, and she wants Lara to retrieve it for her. Lara, sitting back leisurely, 
 leaps from her seat upon hearing this revelation. Fueled as much by her, and her father's, desires 
 to find the artifact, Lady Croft travels on commission by Natla to the icy mountains of Peru to 
 search for it in the lost city of Vilcabamba.
  
  Through the Lost Valley teeming with thought-to-be-extinct dinosaurs and numerous booby traps, 
 she enters a desolate tomb, seemingly undiscovered for millennia. In a further cutscene, Lara finds 
 the corpse of Qualopec. Observing the inscriptions on the wall, it reads that he was one of the 
 triumvirate of god-rulers of Atlantis before it fell beneath the waves, watching over his piece 
 of the Scion even in death. As she peers closely in awe, one of the beast-like creatures roars 
 hellishly at her before falling laboriously to the floor. Realizing this tomb is not uninhabited 
 after all, Lara takes the Scion. The tomb begins to crumble, and so Lara runs for an escape in 
 haste. Qualopec rises from his seat while Lara looks around unnerved. Fortunately, the falling 
 debris traps him, but Lara without time to abolish the problem before it escalates any further. 
 Lara escapes, however, surfacing from the water to find Larson ready to relieve her of her hard 
 earned work. Refusing to bestow the artifact upon him, they engage in a pulse-raising fight, Lara 
 naturally coming out victorious. After giving Larson a good beating, he reveals that another archaeologist 
 has been sent by Natla to look for the second piece, prompting Lara to pay a visit to Natla Technologies 
 to search for more information. A video communication clip reveals Natla knew Lara would never 
 disclose the artifact to her anyway, and the other archeologist, Pierre Dupont in front of the 
 monastery she instantly recognizes; St. Francis Folly, in the Greek Isles.
  
  Here she races against Pierre Dupont, a rival archaeologist. Lara uncovers the Tomb of Tihocan, 
 the second of the three god-rulers where she finds his empty coffin, the whereabouts of the body 
 unknown. Pierre then catches up with Lara, threatening to kill her unless she gives him Qualopec's 
 piece of the Scion. Lara refuses, attacking him until he flees from the tomb. However, two centaurs 
 then awake, trampling Pierre to death. After escaping Tihocan's tomb, she leaves for the Sanctuary 
 of the Scion located in Egypt for the third and final piece. As soon as she obtains it, she leaves 
 the Sanctuary and connects the pieces. She blacks out and has a vision about the dawn of time where 
 the god-kings stood in counsel over the third ruler, revealed to be Natla herself. She is being 
 expelled from their sacred order and condemned for unleashing Atlantis' own armies against it and 
 trying to usher in the Seventh Age through the use of the Scion. She is then encased in the crystalline 
 structure which was later uncovered in the blast in Los Alamos.
  
  Natla then calmly takes the now complete piece away from the still shocked Lara, clutched by Natla's 
 henchman "KOLD". Lara asks her what the Seventh Age was, Natla asking her how far she would go 
 to find out. Natla orders her henchmen to kill her quickly. "Kid", another of Natla's henchmen 
 goes to shoot Lara, but Larson pushes him out the way, purposely missing her with his shotgun. 
 Lara escapes, diving over the edge of the cliff into the lake as Larson fires. Lara pursues Natla 
 on her motorbike, managing to infiltrate Natla's boat undetected. They soon dock to an island which 
 is a remnant of Atlantis, where Natla has mining operations. Inside she meets Larson again, holding 
 a key trying to stop her from continuing further. Larson taunts her, betting she will not shoot 
 him. Insistent on impeding her path, he tells her she would never shoot him because, "that's just 
 not who you are." Lara replies, "I'm not who you think I am". This resulted in Lara shooting him 
 three times in the chest. Larson falls to his knees, and lays down to the ground gasping for air, 
 his hand reaching out to Lara for help. Lara rests her hand on his chest and turns him over, taking 
 the key from his pocket. Looking at her hands horrified at what she has done and competely forgetting 
 that she thought that it was for the good of all man, she vigorously dusts off the imaginary blood 
 on her hands, greatly remorsing from her first human kill thus far. As she continues through, one 
 of Natla's henchmen stands guarding the next chamber wielding a knife. Lara warns him, telling 
 him he will end up like Larson if he does not let her past. Another of Natla's henchmen "Kid" emerges 
 from the shadows with a pair of uzis. Lara shoots them in her defense, however, KOLD stabs Kid 
 so he can kill Lara himself. KOLD pins Lara against the wall by her throat, but she is saved when 
 Kid kills KOLD with his uzis from afar before dying of the stab wound. Lara finally catches up 
 with Natla who has activated the Scion, along with the pyramid buried beneath it. Natla tells Lara 
 she has reached the top, that it takes three to rule, that Tihocan and Qualopec were too weak to 
 destroy what stands in the way of the Seventh Age, but Lara has the strength to claim the seat 
 beside Natla's rule.
  
  Lara looks at her hands then apologizes to her father before shooting and destroying the Scion. 
 Natla charges at her in rage, pushing her off the platform, with Lara pulling Natla down with her. 
 Lara grabs the platform on the opposite side with her grapple, Natla falling to her doom beneath 
 the depths of the lava. Natla then confronts her, still alive, accusing Lara of having a heart 
 as black as hers, after the blood she has spilled. Natla clutches Lara by her throat, stating she 
 cannot be killed, and that she is immortal. Fortunately, Lara manages to pin her under a falling 
 pillar. Natla screeches in agony as Lara escapes the now crumbling pyramid, the island violently 
 erupting. Reaching the shore, Lara dives into the sea and gets into the boat she used to get to 
 the Lost City. She looks back at the exploding island, then at her bloodstained hands as she leaves 
 the erupting island behind. Lara smiles, realizing she really did kill Larson for the safety of 
 all man, and sails off into the horizon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fnwiseguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, perhaps you have heard of Tomb Raider, maybe you have played every game, and have seen every 
 tomb ever raided for all I know.
  One thing I do know, is that you owe it to yourself to check this game out.
  The first thing 
 I noticed when i fired up this game, was the fact that you get this eerie sense of Deja Vu. Have 
 I been here before? Well, I know I have been here.... the year was 1996, when the system wars champ... The 
 coveted Playstation One, was the console to have. It had graphics in 3D (Taken for granted by the 
 younger crowd) and it had a great story, awe inspiring environments (admittedly look horrifically 
 dated if you played the PS version now) and awesome gameplay mechanics that no one had ever seen 
 up until that point. OK enough living in the past...... I bought this game because I kept reading 
 that the developers redid the game with high res graphics, and new moves, as well new gadgets to 
 play around and explore with. What I didnt expect from this game is that it is like a whole new 
 experience. Even though it feels like ive been in certain areas, the fact is that I dont remember 
 it looking as good as it does. The graphics in my opinion are simply stunning. The water effect, 
 the reflections from the water, the way everything is so smooth, and polished.
  The controlls are what really made me love this game. I hooked a Corded Xbox 360 controller up 
 to my PC, and it works flawlessly. The controls are so tight, and responsive now, that it feels 
 like a new game altogether. (Those of you who played the PS version in 96, know exactly what i 
 mean by that.)
  The sound? All I can say is wow! They really did this game justice with the soundtrack, which really 
 adds a lot to the story..... Angry wolves, killer Bear, Menacing Lions, all sound and act like thier 
 true life counterparts.
  The gameplay? You know I have an Xbox 360 , with a lot of new games, and I still keep coming back 
 to this one.
  The puzzles are well thought out, some are difficult, but none you cant figure out by looking around 
 the environment.
  Love the new Gadgets...... the whip/rope/grappling hook gets you to places that you couldnt get 
 in the first game, and also trapeze style poles that u can swing on to reach higher/farther places 
 is really a nice touch.
  All in all, as you can tell, ive really had a lot of fun with this game thus far. It keeps you 
 wanting to see whats next, which is what gaming is all about. When u reach a new area, you really 
 feel a sense of accomplishment, which is mucho satisfying. Well thats all I have, hopefully ive 
 told you enough to whet your appetite for one of the best adventure games around. The bottom line 
 is, that you are not gonna find this quality of a game, with 50 or so hours of gameplay, from any 
 of the new games that come out. Hope you enjoyed..... Get out and get this game now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickity_China
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Anniversary should be a game all fans of ther series should play. It will certainly 
 bring back fond memories of the original TR without any feelings of deja vu.
  
  Each and every level is completely redone in great looking fashion and the characters and enemies 
 look great. What's even better is that despite the good graphics, TRA will run on any low-mid end 
 graphics card/chip. My laptop with a 7400Go ran it on the highest settings without a hitch!
  
  In addition to the pretty graphics and nicely redone levels, the sweet, acrobatic gameplay 
 that made TR Legends fun is back. The jumping, swinging, backflipping goodness in TRA introduces 
 a whole new gameplay experience.
  
  However, I marked this game down based on the fact that the puzzles were much too easy. I don't 
 remember a thing about the solutions to the puzzles from the original TR so I can say for sure 
 that for any player with decent intelligence and observation skills, solving the most complex puzzles 
 will be a walk in the park. The pieces of each puzzle fit together so blatantly. Plus, Anniversay 
 is supposed to have challenging puzzles because that's a crucial part of what makes it Tomb Raider. 
 Oooooo, there's a lever up by the ceiling, and there's a crate in the next room, I wonder what 
 I'm supposed to do.... :|
  
  The other aspects of the gameplay, besides the fantastic acrobatics, are pretty weak as well. Gun 
 battles are pointless and easy. Lock on to a target, blast away while dodging, and if your enemy 
 decides to go psycotic on you by going into rage mode, guess what, you automatically start using 
 slow-mo to dodge and then deal an instant headshot once your crosshairs line up. So seriously, 
 the enemies pose no threat.
  
  Even the boss battles are ridiculously easy. I beat the second to last boss in under five minutes. 
 And during the last boss battle, there was a cutscene that showed me where the weak spot was! Another 
 example of easy boss battles would be the t-rex fight. Hmmm, there's spiky logs all over the place, 
 I wonder what I'm supposed to do. And even if you don't use the spikes to your advantage, you can 
 still pump the dino full of lead and kill him that way, because his attacks are easily dodged.
 
  
  All in all, Tomb Raider: Anniversary is still a good game due to the good graphics and nostalgia 
 it can bring. Although the acrobatics feature is a unique and welcome new feature, the poorly thought 
 out puzzles, uninspired boss battles, and pointless enemies detract from the overall fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarCrazy709
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  To say Tomb Raider: Anniversary fulfilled my expectations would be an understatement on a criminal 
 level.
  
  Don't be fooled by GT though, Anniversary Edition was the game Core Design had been working on 
 after Angel of Darkness until they were ultimately taken off the project and replaced by Crystal 
 Dynamics which produced the wonderful Tomb Raider: Legend. Although Lara's 10-year anniversary 
 is a year late in 2007, I'm sure she won't mind considering the end result.
  
  Tomb Raider: Anniversary is not just a simple remake of the game that started it all back in 1996. 
 It is a re-innovation and a re-invention, combining the atmosphere and wonderful story of the first 
 Tomb Raider and the revolutionary gameplay of Tomb Raider: Legend.
  
  Enemies and AI:
  
  Gone are the mercenaries as the ferocious animals make their triumphant (and in some cases 
 loud) returns. Just keep in mind, Lara does not endorse the killing of animals. Although a couple 
 wolves did hide behind a conclave rather than lunge at you at one point in the game, the enemy 
 AI is fantastic. Shoot them enough and they will engage in what Anniversary calls an adrenaline 
 dodge . As the enemy sprints towards you, you're given the chance to inflict a massive headshot 
 by diving away from the creature's path at the absolute last second, providing a challenging, enjoyable, 
 and cinematic game experience. Whether you're fighting Velociraptors in Peru or battling Atlantean 
 mutants in the Lost City, the combat requires precision, skill, and strategy.
  
  Graphics:
  
  There is no option to enable next-generation graphics, but you honestly would 
 not be able to tell the difference. Anniversary sees a terrific graphical improvement over Legend 
 that set a cornerstone in graphics for the franchise. With 4x anti-aliasing and all effects turned 
 on at 1280x1024, the game not only runs at a full 60 frames per second at all times, it looks absolutely 
 breathtaking. The bloom lighting is beautifully overwhelming as Lara is blinded by sunlight reflecting 
 off of an Egyptian obelisk as she steps out of an ancient hallway.
  
  Sound:
  
  The soundtrack is simply said unbelievably good. The original Anniversary themes have been remastered 
 and composed wonderfully. At many points in the game, you will hear the classic Tomb Raider music 
 chiming in, whether you are engaging in combat or finding a well-hidden secret item. The feeling 
 of solitude is immense. There is nothing like hearing Lara's reverberating footsteps as she runs 
 through a dusty hallway inside a sphinx, with the sound of sand spilling through cracks in stone 
 walls and the ancient murmurs and curses of restless spirits echoing throughout. And that's just 
 one small example.
  
  Overall gameplay:
  
  The platforming has been improved slightly from Legend to be a bit more realistic. Lara still has 
 her awe-inspiring acrobatic maneuvers and a few new moves, such as balancing on vertical poles. 
 Just make sure she doesn't slip and fall if you plan to keep her perched there for long.
  
  In conclusion:
  
  Crystal Dynamics knew they had to make the perfect game. After all, how do 
 you best the classic Tomb Raider that gave birth to the most popular video game heroine in the 
 world and the stunning Legend that revived the series in a stylish fashion? Pick up Anniversary 
 and find out for yourself. It was well worth the pre-order and here almost 4 months later, I continue 
 playing it and fully enjoying Ms. Croft's latest adventure. Keep on raiding, Lara. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I had gotten this game just because the fact that I wasnt really sure what game to get and I always 
 liked the original tomb raider game.. This is a very fun addictive, and somewhat challengeing game, 
 thats worth getting if you like the other tomb raider games.. Its not really a remake since so 
 much of the game is different from the original and the graphics are much much improved over the 
 old game.. THe animations of lara are fluid and very smooth.. THe enimies are nothing special and 
 the combat isnt really much to talk about since its pretty easy and doesnt really add much or take 
 away alot from it.. The headshot addition is a great idea to, when a enemies rage meter is full 
 it will charge at you causeing an arrow promp to appear to jump out of the way and fire a single 
 shot at the enemy when the target locks on.. usually stunning the enemy opening it up to more damage.. 
 There is also the grappling hook which has some interesting uses at certain parts of the game.. 
 The sound effects and music are all pretty good but nothing special really.. THere are also scripted 
 cutscenes haveing you press a directional button when a arrow appears on the screen.. which are 
 really cool as well.. Overall definatley worth getting if you enjoy the platforming tomb raider 
 games.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning i will say that 'You Must Try This Out Right Now'. (if you didn't already) It's 
 a spectacular game, with a new Lara Croft, beautiful than ever, with same acrobatics, moves and 
 juicy swims but remade better. I had fun all over the game, there was moments with difficult jumps 
 and puzzles to do but i resolved them with a little brain. (the puzzles are complicated but not 
 impossible ;) ] I finished the game thinking 'to be continued' because the guyz and girls from Crystal 
 Dynamics has potential and can do better and better. Tomb Raider Anniversary recreates the atmosphere 
 from first Tomb Raider, the feeling and Lara just as they should be, GREAT. In final, i want to 
 congratz Crystal Dynamics. More to go please :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Anniversary is the best in its series. The textures, lightning effects, reflection 
 and shadows are in my opinion top notch. The graphics have improved drastically and what I was 
 so much amazed by is the controls and movements. The game truly tests your wits by means of solving 
 many puzzles and being able to find the hardest of places. The musical themes of the game allow 
 the player to feel the game and adjust to the mood. The unlock-ables offered for this game allow 
 those players who take their time and enjoy the scenery to go at it once again and get or complete 
 parts of the game they havent been able the first time around.
  
  In Tomb Raider Anniversary Lara begins exploring places as Peru, Greece, Egypt, and the Lost Islands. 
 The controls for the game offer similar controls to Tomb Raider: Legends with the addition of a 
 new skill Pole Balancing. Lara can jump on some vertical poles and balance on them, but not for 
 to long without recovering her balance. Also a new addition is something called the Adrenaline 
 Dodge. When Lara begins shooting at a potential target, they become rage by taking a lot of damage 
 in a short period of time. Then the enemy begins to rush her and the game slows down and directional 
 buttons will soon appear. Once you see it, you stop shooting until a red circle appears on the 
 enemy, and then shoot which will in turn be a head shot.
  
  The game is well worth the money and enjoyment. If you want a real challenge, I challenge you to 
 buy the game and enjoy what many people have loved. And determine how fast you could solve these 
 puzzles to complete Laras goal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fosterscheese
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  A great fun-filled adventure featuring everyone's all-time favorite heroine - Lara Croft. Difficulty 
 is awesome, Gameplay is better than perfect and graphics are a wonder! Lara has a new model, and 
 new levels. Much longer than the previous game Tomb Raider Legend and quadruple times the fun! 
 No game can stand up to this masterpiece Unlimited out of 10! I definitely would wait as long as 
 it takes to play this game. Thrills are at every corner. Only in Tomb Raider Anniversary. A new 
 hit, inspired by, well - an old hit! The best game ever got even better! All +16 would surely enjoy 
 this beautiful game, filled with fun, excitement and above all - Tomb Raiding! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zooz12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The Tomb Raider game has never been that great, even af... especially after Legend.
  The Combination of the old with the new is awesome.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 
 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 7
  
  - The Good:
  Awesome looking textures and effects, fluid gameplay, memorable classic settings, music that fits 
 it perfectly.
  
  - The Bad:
  The control of Lara can be awkward at times.
  
  
  The combination of the old classic settings and enemies with the new models, textures, fluid movement 
 of Lara and new mind boggling puzzles is the formula to give you more than 30 hours of fun gameplay 
 with Tomb Raider: Anniversary.
  
  Tomb Raider: Anniversary is a great looking game. The textures look sharp and the lightning effect 
 on it looks even better.
  One problem with the graphics is the shadows. In times, you can notice Lara's shadow being duplicated 
 once near Lara and also on the ground below her. It's nothing big, there is no perfect, but still 
 bothers a bit.
  
  When playing Tomb Raider: Anniversary you will hear lots of great musical themes, setting the right 
 atmosphere feel every time.
  Keeping the atmosphere exiting and alive, it really does the job as it supposed to.
  What's even 
 better is that you can later listen to unlockable music from the Rewards menu.
  You can even listen to it on the bonus DVD.
  
  At times the control of Lara can be awkward, 
 to be specific, using a keyboard and mouse when swinging on the grapple's rope on the wall, it's 
 hard to do a back-to-wall jump after a swing.
  Other than that it's just a question of mastering the controls and especially the jumps of Lara.
 
  
  The puzzles are just at the right difficulty. Lots of artifacts to find that will unlock all kinds 
 of fun stuff, and the best thing is - the outfits, which are unlocked by collecting Relics - and 
 that is something that makes you really want to grab them, just like a real explorer. To later 
 use them in time trail mode or while exploring the croft manor - more fun!
  
  In the end, Tomb Raider: Anniversary is one game you simply don't want to miss, if you are an adventure 
 lover - that game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleLambert
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  When this game was announced, Old-school Tomb Raider fans were in a buzz. The instant classic that 
 was Tomb Raider for the PS1, was getting a complete makeover and being remade for major consoles.
 
  But what about people who have never played a Tomb Raider game?
  Or ones who have only played the mediocre titles?
  
  Well, this game would be a kick in the 
 face to them, tomb raider fans, and all adventure genre fans in general. With it's redone graphics, 
 revamped game play and combat system, the game is amazing.
  
  My personal favorite part is the music, it gets epic as you enter a battle and even fades into 
 and ending melody after you finish your foes, it's quite cool.
  
  The feeling of loneliness can get immense, but the occasional dialog and the conflict at the end 
 of each temple/dungeon is worth it, usually containing an epic boss battle and a push-button battle 
 sequence.
  
  Do not however, pick up this game if you lack patience.
  A single level can take forever to finish, and you can fall an immense distance to the ground without 
 dying if you land in something like a pool of water, leaving you to do the exact same jumping and 
 grappling sequences over and over again.
  
  But, the finished product as a whole, is a great game, and definitely worth checking out if you 
 have the time, the patience, and most importantly: if you are a fan of Lara Croft.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piggy_tian
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  i still haven't finished the game. maybe i won't finish it anymore. the buttons are so hard to 
 manipulate. especially when you're in a hurry and pressing a lot of buttons simultaneously, actions 
 aren't meant to be done very fast. also, a lot of actions depend on the camera view (which really 
 sucked) like grappling on a wall then jumping on a different angle.
  
  also i hate the trap part in the Obelisk of Khamoon, where you have to jump very fast from a ledge, 
 to a balancing pole, to another ledge because there is a block crushing you on the pole. they say 
 it's a bit challenging cause you have to time it perfectly. but for me, it's a bug because there 
 are a lot of times when i jump on the pole but lara will just slide on it and fall down. if i jump 
 and the block is away, she balances but the block will crash right into lara. if i jump earlier, 
 lara will just slip on the pole. it seems that there is a span of time where the game doesn't recognize 
 the pole as a it is. the game doesn't recognize the pole if the bock is crushing until it rests 
 at the sides. so technically, this part is not challenging, it's just irritating because there 
 is a little very chance that your timing will connect.
  
  the camera angles are very frustrating especially during fights. when you lock on an enemy, shoot 
 and try to dodge sometimes, the camera goes crazy and you won't be able to see your enemy on screen. 
 and there are times when you cant rotate your camera while locking the enemy.
  
  i was happy when i play the first part. the graphics is good, especially in the croft manor. but 
 as i progress the game and the puzzles go harder, i started to get disappointed because those problems 
 i encounter are always getting on my way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: match86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Well, I played TR: Legend and info about CD working on remake of the original TR gave me chills. 
 New developer undid much damage that Core Design committed giving us many mediocre TR games after 
 the brilliant original. I hoped this would be a great experience seeing everything made all over 
 again.
  I'm not disappointed. CD somehow managed to recreate the spirit of the original mostly by leaving 
 all the important puzzles. But don't count on everything being the same. They gave all the locations 
 extreme makeover. Design of the levels may take your breath away. It's just SO good. Monumental 
 locations did the trick giving the player the one thing that TR was always about - exploring. You 
 sure can shoot some cute animals and perform the adrenaline dodge to be more effective, but the 
 gameplay usually requires finding a way from point A to B as well as solving puzzles. Music and 
 sound also keep the level. So, is there anything not quite good in TRA? Yes. The most frustrating 
 thing is the camera that sometimes doesn't place itself in right spot making action confusing and 
 irritating. It usually happens when Lara performs wall walk. Camera freezes in one position for 
 few seconds or shows everything from INSIDE the wall.
  
  The save system doesn't work very well neither. Manually saving bring you back to the nearest checkpoint. 
 But, let us say, checkpoint A is in the bottom, checkpoint B is in the middle and checkpoint C is 
 near the roof. You must get higher. You reach checkpoint B. You almost had C but unfortunately 
 you fell. If somehow you don't kill yourself your game is saved in A and you must start all over 
 again. (Happens in Egypt) .
  
  I also couldn't believe in Lara's remorse. After seeing her killing hundreds of bad guys it just 
 made me laugh when she shot Larson.
  
  Even thought some glitches TRA remains the best TR game since the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meawmnj
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  this game z so great i loved it , the graphics aint that good tho for a 2007 game , but the puzzls 
 are great and not that hard , the game took me 11 h and 24 min to finish so i guess it kinda short 
 , the only thing i didnt like about the game is that the camra some times gets missed up , great 
 game if u dont have it yet go get it now , it is the best in the series, and I am glad the game 
 is comin back again , im lookin fowrord for the next release.
  
  enjoy it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkish
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  A great nostalgia trip. Great level design. Not convinced by Adrenaline Dodge though, preferred 
 the combat moves in Legend.
  
  A little late in the day I know, but if you're having difficulty pulling off Adrenaline Dodge under 
 mouse &amp; keyboard control, then try making the Right Mouse button control the Crouch function. 
 I found separating movement and AD across two hands made it easier to instigate. It certainly stopped 
 me squatting down in front of a charging T-Rex!
  
  I actually made the Shift key control the Grapple and the 'F' key to draw weapons (Target) . I set 
 the game to 'Advanced Toggle' mode. It took a little practice to get used to Crouch being on the 
 mouse, but that was easier than trying to get AD down.
  
  My other keys were:
  
  R=small med pack; C=Manual Aim; Q=large med pack. Rest as Default. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeys501
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game in the hope of maybe it was updated to a better form of play. But sadly it did 
 nothing but fall short of a game for all to play. The dvd quality graphics was frist rate but game 
 play was short of what i had expected of a good game. the smooth transituation from scene to scene 
 was flat out neat no hang ups. The major gripe i have is the use of the e key and the grappleing 
 hook that failed to prove as good as like another game i plaed that had one they never seem to 
 work as the accompanying book say it should. I played in the manor the button on wall behind picture 
 i could never gert it to operate for 1 and the grapple hook never grabed hold in peru the frist 
 chaoter. played at it for 6 hours no luck in either, finally just uninstalled it and put in the 
 used file. edios web site no help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Not much to add Anniversary accomplished the small gaps in Legend The new game is absolutely amazing 
 with everything
  
  The character control is a bit smother then Legend though I seem to miss the dashing button that 
 enables you to run faster
  
  The story is great as usual and the graphics are amazing though sometimes you wish you could save 
 in other places then the check points but I guess that makes the game a bit more challenging
  
  I got to say that graphics are as good as they were in Legend Game
  the course of the character 
 has taken a real new level of control 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  A great remake; thoughtful puzzles; updated gameplay; great sense of nostalgia; intense, fun action
 
  
  NAYS
  Camera in a couple of places can be your worst enemy; minor technical issues
  
  The original TR has always been one of the greatest games I have played. TR 2 was nice but 
 was too frustrating and lost most of the original's charm. TR 3 is atrocious, and I do not want 
 to discuss the other schizophrenic-inducing sequels. When TR Legend came, the series was revitalized 
 by mixing the old with the new while modernizing the much-dated gameplay mechanics with Prince 
 of Persia moves and acrobatics.
  
  Now, marking the 10th year of the original, TR Anniversary takes us back to the awesomeness that 
 is the series' roots and remakes it into modern times. Needless to say, if you haven't played the 
 original, this is your best chance to see what you have missed out on.
  
  Anniversary is a great remake. Most of the major puzzles are present and even some scenes and rooms 
 are purposely made to bring out the nostalgia factor. But this does not mean that everything is 
 identical. I have to admit, that even though it is a remake, Anniversary feels more like a new 
 game with homage to the original.
  
  The original focused much less on combat and more on puzzle solving and surviving traps throughout 
 the hazardous environment. In this respect, Anniversary does a splendid job in retaining this feeling. 
 Gun play is between you and the local residents of the tomb, whether the be gorillas, bats, bears 
 or T-Rex. You only fight three humans, near the end of the game, just like the original. In fact, 
 combat is so less focused that you'd be using your main pistol throughout most of the game, and 
 the other three only when enemies get ridiculously annoying neat the end of the game.
  
  Still, to battle the sporadic menaces, Anniversary introduces a new mechanic called Adrenaline 
 Rush, which is basically Bullet Time a la Max Payne with a cursor, which, when red, you can fire 
 to produce an instant kill. It is fun to pull off and quite useful when battling against the later 
 enemies. Mostly though, this technique is extensively used in boss fights in order to reveal their 
 weak points and/or deal massive damage.
  
  Speaking of bosses, although the original only contained a final boss (well, two final bosses) , 
 Anniversary takes things one step further and reproduces the most memorable encounters in the original 
 game as boss fights. For instance, the T-Rex encounter now is a boss fight rather than an encounter. 
 Remember the Atlantic guardians to the Scion? Yes, they are now boss fights as well. The designers 
 have done a great choice in this because it creates a profound sense of nostalgia by bossifying 
 all the memorable enemies, while at the same time, for new comers, it provides a good sense of 
 progress and a formidable challenge for them to remember in the future.
  
  Combat aside, the puzzles are the true highlight of Anniversary, just like they were 10 years ago. 
 All the major puzzles are in, and, although the premise is the same, the logic of the methodology 
 to go about them has been completely remade into modern times, this giving new comers as well as 
 veterans a good challenge. This is thanks to the abilities that Lara has learned in Legend. She 
 can now grapple across chasms, wall walk, pole jump, ledge jump, ledge shimmy and a whole assortment 
 of ridiculous other thing she can do. More often than not, you would know what you want to do, 
 whether or not you played the original (although in a couple of puzzles, those who played the original 
 will have an advantage) . However, it is about HOW to do it. You'd most likely be presented with 
 a vast room full of things you need to do acrobatically, without fail, lest you want to restart 
 from the previous checkpoint. And you would still die, a lot, in fact, if you aren't very good 
 at controlling her, especially in the later levels. Thankfully, the camera is your friend, except 
 in a couple of areas, while you are wall walking, and the camera shifts - along with the controls 
 - so that when you press up or left or whatever to leap from the wall to the next, you instead 
 send Lara to her doom. Areas like these need your patience and a lot of trial and error to get 
 the camera and controls in sync, but it would have been better if the designers made these tricky 
 spots less tragic by fixing the camera angle.
  
  Another minor issue I found is that in the Atlantic levels, the controls lagged behind on full 
 graphic settings, and I had to tune them down in order for the keyboard to sync with the action. 
 But this is a minor concern and I am definite it is system related rather than a flaw in the game.
 
  
  Regardless, the puzzles are still challenging even without errors in hardware sync. In particular, 
 St. Francis' Folly has always been difficult, and the transition to the present even made the level 
 more difficult. It is still brilliants - you are presented with an enormous chamber of doors. How 
 to open each door is a puzzle itself, then, reaching said door is another puzzle, and behind each 
 door is yet another puzzle, to obtain the items held behind the doors to unlock the chamber and 
 overcome the overarching, gigantic puzzle. It is things like these, and a certain puzzle that spans 
 several levels, is what makes the original, and this remake, memorable.
  
  With the improved gameplay comes improved graphics, using the Legend engine. The game is superb 
 on the PC, and I have not tried it the PS2 to judge. I would have loved it if the 10th year release 
 was in a next-gen format, but the game is pretty advanced last-gen and could pass well on the current-gen 
 games. The animation is stunningly fluid, from characters to surroundings to enemies. Attention 
 to detail bring each tomb and the whole game to life, from water to the plants to the puddles to 
 the textures. The game is simply brilliant. The music is used sporadically but it great when it 
 is accentuated, and the background ambiance is more than enough to keep you company, although I 
 grew tired of Agnus Dei in every game ever released.
  
  For fans of the original, Anniversary does an awesome job in retaining the feel and the roots of 
 this wonderful, yet scarred, series, and Crystal Dynamics has done a splendid job in mixing the 
 old with the new to not shun the veterans and to attract the new comers as well. This is THE Tomb 
 Raider that everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  If anyone is trying to get the platformers alive, it is Crystal Dynamics. Their superb job of this 
 classic is a breath of fresh air in a market where platformers are a dying breed on the consoles/pc. 
 They are, arguably the most challenging genre, and have arguably the best level designs. This game 
 is no expection.
  
  You are Lara Croft, a woman who puts 98% of men to shame. Your mission is to find artifacts. I 
 won't go too deep into the story (Atlantis, pyramid monsters, cool stuff) , but the cut scenes are 
 engaging and very pretty. The cut scenes were remade so you can interact a la Resident Evil 4, 
 but not near as hard, which is nice, because Leon got stabbed way too many times by me.
  
  The graphics are really polished and clean. I wanted to show you a few especially nice locales 
 but it seems that is not possible while writing a review. Just a good note: the cut scenes are 
 pretty much in game, so the actually game itself does not suffer in the visuals.
  
  The best thing about this game, is its level design. Ingenious platforming, extremely tough puzzles 
 (when you figure out a Tomb Raider puzzle, it feels good) and nice selection of enemies at the 
 appropiate times. This is not an action game as it is platforming. You love to see Lara fly through 
 the air. You hate to see her fall, you fee as you fail more then when you get shot in the face 
 in a FPS. Tomb Raider does an awesome job of making you feel imersed.
  
  The game is not without its faults. Sometimes the camera just does not cooperate, and you will 
 see pretty Lara fall to a extremely sucky death. But you can look past this, as the game brings 
 in close to 15 hours of gameplay the first play through for a newbie. It is fun, it is the best 
 Tomb Raider out there, nudged ahead by the great Legend.
  
  If you are a platform game lover, play this game. It runs smooth on the PC, no framerate issues, 
 and is capatable with the 360 controller. Relive one of the greatest video games adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekrmme
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Being a relative newcomer to the Tomb Raider scene, I wasn't quite sure what to expect when I downloaded 
 the Tomb Raider: Anniversary demo. However, I figured that I might as well take Lara for a spin, 
 being as just about every gamer has at some point, and I have to admit that I got hooked.
  
  Tomb Raider: Anniversary is Crystal Dynamic's remake of the original Tomb Raider released in 
 1996. While the storyline remains intact and the basic environments are the same, Anniversary uses 
 the Tomb Raider: Legend engine, which makes Lara even more agile than ever. Because of Lara's updated 
 moves, a lot of the puzzles are different - at least in some aspects - from the original, in order 
 to challenge the player. One thing I can promise is that the player will be challenged. Even though 
 it's not too difficult to blaze your way through the storyline, in order to truly complete the 
 game and unlock all of the various content, you're going to be need to be smooth with the controls 
 and have a good eye. Every ledge, every ladder, every grapple-hook ring in the game has a purpose, 
 and if you have the time - and patience - to explore them all, you'll eventually be rewarded with 
 artifacts or relics, which unlock rewards you can access from the main menu.
  
  However, while Lara moves fluidly and intuitively for the most part - particularly with a gamepad 
 - there are times where the camera can cause some annoying issues. Every now and then, you'll be 
 making blind leaps of faith over an endless abyss, just because the camera doesn't line up quite 
 right. These cases are pretty rare, but now and then they make it difficult to see clues that you 
 need to escape from a room, making it frustrating as you run back and forth, completely oblivious 
 to the one ticket out of the chamber.
  
  The game looks good. As always, Lara looks excellent, due to her new character model - 7000 polys 
 worth of overexaggerated female curves - but the odds are you'll be spending more time gawking 
 at the environment than our heroine. Some of the locations in TR: A are absolutely gorgeous, particularly 
 the Lost Valley level and some of Egypt. While there are flaws - the particle system that is used 
 for splash effects looks a little dated and low-resolution, for example - this game is very, very 
 good looking, particularly on a powerful nVidia system. I've actually noticed a difference when 
 playing on my ATI card vs my nVidia, so I'd definitely recommend going with the later if you have 
 the chance.
  
  All in all, Tomb Raider: Anniversary is a game I would recommend to anyone, and in particular, 
 anyone who loves platform based adventure. The puzzles are difficult, but not too challenging, 
 and can give a real sense of satisfaction when completed. Anniversary has an excellent storyline 
 and great gameplay all tied up in a beautifully polished package, which makes it easy for me to 
 recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lociefer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  well , honestly , i never really cared for any tomb raider games until eidos has taken the rights 
 to it ,,, coz u see , the worst things i hated about tomb raider were the tombs :S ,, ironic huh 
 ? ,, but seriously , i was like , enough indoors , and thts what legends answered , beautifull 
 outdoors and stuff , until now , well , giving the game's new mechanics i cant complain about indoors 
 anymore. coz its just plain fun now , although i would like more out of the tombs but that ok now 
 , well anyways , here is my evaluation:
  
  Graphics: totally cool , even the indoors dont look so lame afterall
  gameplay: the only reason 
 i bought the game . awsome sounds: well there isnt much to it , just some quick cutscenes talking 
 thats all.
  
  bottom line: if you liked the first tomb raiders then this is definetly for you , if not , but 
 liked the legend's gameplay and stuff , u should check this one out ,, rental that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headstrong
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This sure brings back memories to the day I fell in love with this game. The graphics are amazing 
 and the game flows really well, I had allot of fun with this game, it's a must play again . The 
 fighting has been improved in my opinion and the feeling of being alone in the Tombs it's what 
 made the original so good, this fell is back with this remake. The screen shot comparison from 
 the original to this one are incredible, especially if you have a really good video card. Let's 
 hope that when the next Indiana Jones movie comes out Next year that the game for it follows Lara 
 Croft's style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njhartman
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I am not a huge gamer, but I have played all of the Tomb Raider 
 games (from the PS to the PS2 to the PC) , and I liked most of them. Tomb Raider Anniversary looks 
 great, sounds great, and the first few levels show a lot of promise, but the game just ends-up 
 feeling like work. Many of the reviews have said it before, you will spend too much time getting 
 yourself killed to make an almost impossible series of jumps. Not just 2 or 4 times, but 20 , 30 
 or more. Once you get past that almost impossible obstacle, there is another, and then another. 
 You'll spend just too much time getting killed and repeating jumps and not enough time having fun. 
 To anyone thinking about picking up this game, I would strongly suggest you consider Tomb Raider 
 Legend instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: anniversary, maybe one of the greatest games i played in 2007 till now, and the best 
 tomb raider game i played (Legend is my second best) . It really succeeds in capturing the adventurous 
 spirit of the series and representing it through gorgeous graphics and gameplay. I did not play 
 tomb raider one or two ... my first was the third installment, so this game was a total new experience 
 to me. The storyline is simple, and good enough for a Tomb Raider game. You are hired by a woman 
 called Natla to find this ancient artifact called Scion ... and as you go through ruins and tombs 
 to collect the three parts of the Scion, unexpected events unfold. The graphics are Great. By using 
 a better version of Legend's engine, The game gives breath-taking atmospheres, lighting effects, 
 and succeeds to deliver a sexy better looking Lara Croft than that in Tomb Raider 1.
  Although not using the next generation option used in legend but it does look as good. Better yet 
 it succeeds to work on low end computers. The Controls used in the game are like those used in 
 legend which are much better than the controls used in the early tomb raider games, they are much 
 easier and more fun to use. And with new moves added the gameplay is a whole new experience (compared 
 to the first one) . Tomb Raider: Anniversary is a must have for all the fans out there. About 12 
 hours of non-stop adventure, the game really is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soreal_2
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is a remake of the original Tomb Raider with a few twists and minor changes. 
 Overall, it is a very decent game that will grab you and hold you in front of your computer until 
 you finish it. The game is very solid, very nice graphics ( sometimes some effects look a bit weird 
 and it feels as if they were just kind of glued on top of the screen and don&amp;#8217; t adapt 
 perfectly to the level) , special the kind of blurry effect that it is used throughout the game. 
 The shadows need a bit of work because I believe they are not processed in real time ( sometimes 
 you are hanging from a pillar and you can see your shadow on the floor but you don&amp;#8217; t 
 see the one from the pillar, which is kind of weird since it looks as if Lara is just floating 
 in the air) . Sound is also cool. The background sound and music are nice, they do their job really 
 well since it never really bother but you can hear it at the right moments. A good point is when 
 you enter a room or start fighting a animal a really nice soundtrack kicks in and it helps a bit 
 for the atmosphere of the game and for the rush of those particular moments.
  Controls are ok. They were not flawless and I felt that there was a bit of lag between the moment 
 you press and the moment Lara reacts (be aware of that on those precise timing parts) but it is 
 not something that will make you throw your keyboard to the floor in a rage. I played with keyboard 
 and mouse the whole time so I can not say anything about playing the game with a game pad.
  The one thing that felt kind of weird in the game was the combat. I don&amp;#8217; t mean the boss 
 fights (they were cool even though they relied too much on the Adrenaline Shoot feature) but the 
 fights with the wolfs and other animal that seem to came out of nowhere. You never really understand 
 how did those animal survived in those rooms with no food for so many years or why they are there 
 at all. But besides all of the small flaws, Tomb Raider Anniversary is a very good game that has 
 a good blend of a nostalgic feeling with some fresh innovations. If you liked the first, or if 
 you want to kind of start to know a bit of Miss Croft a bit more, then this is the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  It's been ten years since the first TR, and Lara Croft looks as sexy as ever. Even if Anniversary 
 is just a remake of TR 1 it's better than it not just about the graphics part, but the whole gameplay, 
 animations, moves and sound. Plus that you have some unlockable achievements that are really great 
 on their own too: costumes for Lara which show her feminine shapes better and better (she's very 
 sexy) . The whole exploring idea is very interesting and almost never gets old. The puzzles in this 
 game are a challenge and will keep you playing very long as a first time play, but after a few 
 times you get to learn them and finish them faster. So, with the whole things that have been tweaked 
 (especially Lara's shapes) , give it a try, guys ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud1000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  The classic TR revamped with the quality of last year's Legend. This classic from 1996 has finally 
 been made playable in the 21st Century. On PC the graphics are superior and by using a PS2 controller 
 as a gamepad has made it even more enjoyable for me to play.
  
  Crystal Dynamics have analysed all the elements of TR and made a fresh new game that evokes the 
 nolstagia of the original. All the characters return and all the locations.
  
  Gameplay is very impressive with Lara being able to swing on ropes, run along walls, dive etc. 
 Combat is again the same as Legend however with a new Adrenaline Dodge which becomes hard to enact 
 at first. The enemies are more fierce than ever and will give many suprises.
  
  The sound is the best I have ever heard on a Tomb Raider game. The orchestrations of the original 
 themes make the game feel as epic and amazing as it is. There are many unlockables which will keep 
 players wanting to explore levels over and over again. It is much longer and harder than TR: L which 
 is a relief.
  
  Overall another great Lara adventure and all the more reason to expect a great Next Gen adventure 
 in Tomb Raider Legend 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangergv
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is a amazing Game.
  
  I'am so glad Eidos Interactive and Crystal Dynamics decided to do a remake of the original Tomb 
 Raider one of the most popular 3D game
  and in it's time one of the most successful game. The remake of Tomb Raider (one) was not to hummer 
 out enything of the original Tomb Raider it was to give gamers old hands of the series the one's 
 that missed out on the original Tomb Raider game (like me) and to new hands to get a feel of the 
 game that set the wheels in motion in to 3D adventure Games. Tomb Raider has come a long way from 
 the very first Tomb Raider (that I missed buying) the look of Lara Craft ,Lara's movements and 
 graphics. Core Design Ltd the original developer made good improvements on the Tomb Raider series. 
 But I'am sorry to say I'am not taking enything away from Core Design but some time's change is 
 for the better but Crystal Dynamics hit the hummer on the nail with Tomb Raider Legend and now 
 Tomb Raider Anniversary so where was Crystal Dynamics hiding all the this time I never seen better 
 graphics so I think the change was a good change or Tomb Raider maybe just maybe (lost in the wind 
 to never land) .
  
  Gameplay
  I find Tomb Raider Anniversary to be a solid in game play use the keyboard
  and mouse to move 
 Lara in the direction you want to go jumping and grabbing on to things can get challenging and 
 at the same time frustrating
  not to mention the some time's bad camera angle getting Lara to jump in the right direction on 
 the grappling hook running along the wall is challenging and frustrating so have fun with it you 
 will get better at it in no time practice make's perfect. The same time's bad camera angle is the 
 only bad in the game the game dos have it glitches but too few to mention
  I'am having to much fun as I mentioned the same time's poor camera is
  the ony bad that is why 
 the 9.7 and not a 10.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics of Tomb Raider anniversary is amazing the atmosphere of the graphic level design is 
 realistic the look of Lara wet body after a swim OOOH YA BABY. Over all Tomb Raider Anniversary 
 is a fun game to play I find challenging and rewarding and you will to. Now just because of my 
 inability to jump to a point or solve a puzzle or kill this hard to kill boss I'am going to say 
 this
  game is not worth playing or a waste of time because Tomb Raider Anniversary has the everything 
 roaming puzzle solving kill or be killed and
  if you are killed go back for more with full health and don't run through to finish
  the level 
 there are hidden artifacts and relics to find picking these up opens
  bonus content and extra features such as outfits and more so this make's the game much more challenging 
 rewarding and more fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJsimulation
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Anniversary is a great remake of the original Tomb Raider. The levels have been remodeled, 
 and even though they may be somewhat smaller than the originals, the current generation graphics 
 make up for it. The game is definitely worth playing in my opinion. Even if you haven't played 
 the original, you don't have to play the first in order to enjoy the remake. The game play for 
 TRA leaves you on edge much more than Tomb Raider: Legend. The overpowered Aerial Assault /Slow 
 Mo attack in Legend has been toned down in Anniversary, and renamed Adrenaline Dodge. The Adrenaline 
 Dodge is quite different from the Aerial Assault in Legend. To perform an Adrenaline Dodge, you 
 have to cause an enemy to become enraged to the point where they rush at you. Of course, the only 
 way to avoid this is to use the dodge key (or B button for those with 360 controllers for windows) 
 when the screen begins to flicker red to get out of the way. Along with the dodge comes a Head 
 shot opportunity. Instead of firing wildly at the enemy like in Legend, you must shoot the enemy 
 when the two (or one, depending on what weapon you are using) cross hairs flicker white once they 
 have locked on to an enemy's head. It is not extremely difficult to pull this off, although if 
 Lara is reloading her shotgun ammo or reloading her gun at the last second before she does the 
 dodge, it is very unlikely that you will shoot the enemy in time before the dodge ends. Overall, 
 the game play formula has not changed too much besides the dodge, the grapple wall run, and perch 
 able objects. Once you beat the game, you can go back and unlock everything by collecting the artifacts, 
 finding the hidden relics, and completing the Time Trials for longer game play. There are a few 
 downsides to the game play, and they include the camera at times, as well as some of the jumps 
 you must make. Because of how some of the levels are made, and the fact that Lara sometimes catches 
 herself from falling directly before a jump, these long jumps can be very difficult, and require 
 precise timing. At times, when you are trying to do a Time Trial or if you are doing a timed run 
 for something (especially in cases where you either make it or die) , the camera can become frustrating, 
 even with a game pad, since when the camera suddenly moves, the controls for the analog switch 
 around, so when you think you are pressing in one direction, you are actually pressing in another. 
 The graphics are good. They are much better than Tomb Raider: Legend's current gen mode, due to 
 the fact that the lighting is better and more reminiscent of the lighting for Legend on the PS2/Xbox 
 Consoles. When Lara is wet, she shines and drips with water. However, in some costumes, she does 
 not. It is hard to tell if they intended some of the outfits, such as Lara's Camouflage Outfit 
 (a la Angel of Darkness ) , to not have the wet effect, but it would have been nice to see what 
 it would have looked like with some of the costumes soaking wet. Not that I have a fascination 
 with seeing Lara soaking wet... that much. Another disappointment is the fact that there is no Next 
 Gen graphics mode. Although, this isn't that much of a bad thing, given that Legend's Next gen 
 mode was buggy, but it would have been nice if they reworked the next gen mode so that it could 
 work with all shader model 3.0 video cards and all of the computers that meet the recommended requirements. 
 Maybe Eidos and Crystal Dynamics are working on the Next gen version as we speak? One can only 
 hope. Until then, if you're looking for Next gen here, you won't find it. The musical score is 
 great. Since this is based on the original, however, the chances you will hear music playing in 
 the background while you explore is slim at times. In a good amount of the areas, all you hear 
 is ambiance and the sound of Lara running across corridors. When an opponent comes to attack, however, 
 the music kicks in with a shocking intensity, especially in Greece later on in the level when the 
 gorillas are about 8-9 feet away from you just as you peek around the corner. Overall, if you are 
 a Tomb Raider fan or someone looking into the series, then this is definitely a game worth checking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeoGen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  This is simply one of the best games I've played this year. I actually have had more fun playing 
 this then I have Zelda for the Wii. I only paid 30 bucks for this and it's amazing! Best in the 
 series and this is coming from someone who has played Tomb Raider since it's first release. I enjoyed 
 walking into the familiar places and doing unfamiliar things. Great combination of fun and intuitive 
 gameplay.
  
  If you are a fan of the series you will definitely get a kick out of this. If you are new to the 
 series I suggest playing the first Tomb Raider and follow it up with this one and skip all of the 
 others. You won't be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cathsgamespot
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the Tomb Raider games in the past, the good, the bad and the ugly. And finished 
 them all, BTW. I enjoyed Legend, Lara's new gymnastic abilities were fun. Time trials added a new 
 dimension that was a challenge but not impossible. Now - Anniversary. Environments are gorgeous 
 and Lara looks better than ever. The levels are huge and can be a bit confusing. My biggest criticism 
 of this game is I found myself having to repeat things over and over like never before - four or 
 five times to get it right, okay - but twenty???? I don't consider myself an expert gamer , but 
 I'm usually not this bad either!! I am currently on Level ten where there are unforgiving jumping 
 puzzles, wall runs with blades that slice your rope, and difficult jumps way past the last checkpoint 
 so you end up repeating the same series of actions over and over and over ........ argh. The Adrenaline 
 dodge is also frustrating - the controls just don't respond well enough to execute that move with 
 any consistent success. Boss fights are ridiculously hard as well - especially if you can't get 
 the adrenaline dodge to work most of the time! Time trial mode in this game is going to be almost 
 impossible, I reckon. Definitely a love/hate relationship with this game; could be the first TR 
 game I didn't finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xgouse
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ok it's Tomb Raider... It's going to awesome and a great experience.... I got to admit after some 
 of the games that have came out for this series I was actually shocked at how great this game was 
 developed..
  
  The only thing I could see that was a little annoying was the control scheme.. Playing this game 
 with the mouse and Keyboard can be taunting... I recommend you play it with a controller of some 
 sort... Remember it's a console game so play it like it was one...
  
  The other thing I notice about the game is that you sometimes feel like you have no idea where 
 you need to go next... I know it's part of how the Tomb Raider experience is so it's not to big 
 of a deal.... I'm not a newbie but there should be markers or something like that when you play 
 on Easy so beginners will actually try to get through the game... But this should only happen if 
 you are close to and objective or needing help finding the puzzles... No help during that's the 
 whole fun... Take that away and blah... no challenge...
  
  Ok i ran this on an old x1300 ATI Raideon 256MB card with the graphics at full and it ran a smooth 
 60-70fps... I was also running this game in VISTA so people now know you can enjoy the game if 
 you upgrade... So far I've not notice anything that looked out of the ordinary in graphic glitches... 
 Sometimes I see clipping but it's not to bad...
  
  Sound is awesome in this game if you have a HD sound card.... Im sure it sounds good on standard 
 cards to but HD sound rocks... There's nothing like hearing your enemies come after you before 
 you see them... they do an excellent job with that. Something that will save your life many times 
 over in this game... No glitches cuts or shorts when it come to the sound in the game...
  
  Ok this might not be the best review of a game but it's only my 2nd one so give me some slack...
 
  
  The game so far holds together on all sides except for the controls... as mentioned before play 
 with a controller or die over and over again using the keyboard and mouse....
  
  Thanks for you time and happy gaming.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  I came back to re-write my original review because, as I get closer to the end of Tomb Raider Anniversary, 
 I realize that it's not nearly as much fun as I first thought.
  
  I mentioned in my original review that TRA was fun, but that you'd need a good walkthrough to get 
 through the aggravating bits. The problem is, after a while, the aggravating bits become more and 
 more frequent. Sequences of potentially-fatal jumps, where one slip means you have to start again 
 from your last checkpoint -- sequences where (on the PC version, anyway) you're fighting both the 
 loose camera and the *very* tempermental controls just to stick your landings in a way that satisfies 
 the game engine.
  
  Timed sequences that, again, are more a test of how well you can wrangle the PC version's game 
 controls than of your skills or agility in playing as Lara.
  
  Certain levels where you really won't have much idea how to proceed unless you can a) think exactly 
 like the developers, or b) regularly consult a walkthrough.
  
  I can succeed at all the above challenges; that's not the point. The point is, repetition = challenge 
 as game design might have been standard when Tomb Raider first appeared in 1996, but its boring 
 now.
  
  Trying a finicky fatal jump sequence twenty times to get it just right -- or getting myself killed 
 five times just so I can figure out what a level is expecting me to do -- why spend the time? Succeeding 
 at these things doesn't bring a sense of accomplishment; it feels like you're writing an exam. 
 Even though I can get the A+, I'd still rather be having fun instead. Ultimately, Tomb Raider Anniversary 
 feels like *work* instead of play, and that's just wrong.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend was a beautiful looking game that, perhaps, could've been a little deeper, but 
 it had a great story and was fun far more often than it wasn't. TRA isn't actually deeper or more 
 challenging than Tomb Raider Legend, it's just more of a grind as the game wears on. It's certainly 
 not any deeper; in fact, it's shallower.
  
  As a remake of the original Tomb Raider, Tomb Raider Anniversary is pretty story-light and is much 
 more focussed on rote tasks. Again, it feels like work, not play. You may not literally be jumping 
 through hoops as Lara, but you might as well be ...
  
  If you're a hardcore Lara Croft fanatic (and/or a nostalgia gamer) , you'll love TRA no matter what 
 I say here. For everyone else, I suggest you either play the much-more-fun Tomb Raider Legend instead 
 , or else rent Anniversary before you shell out money to buy it.
  
  Intead of the Temple of Midas, Lara should've visited the Hall of Pyrrhus in Tomb Raider Anniversary 
 instead, because this game ends of being the definition of a pyrrhic victory -- even when you win, 
 you lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyBrazilian
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I haven't writen a review in a while , here goes.
  
  Gameplay : I've always loved the prince of persia style of platforming and combat, one of my favorite 
 series of all time and I have to say this new tomb raider really gave me some more of that same 
 cool platforming but at the same time new and challenging gameplay. It is a bit difficult at first, 
 Lara can jump from ledge to ledge , use her grappling hook to walk on walls and swing towards impossible 
 places to reach while jumping. And do some other cool moves like standing on a pillar and jump 
 from one to the other, swing from bars and the such. Your standard monkey acrobatic moves. All 
 this is integrated well with the combat system, its not too flashy but it gets the job done. You 
 basicaly use the jump button and the dodge button while pressing the shoot button all at the same 
 time to perform some snazzy looking jumps, somersaults and other cool moves all the while blasting 
 peeps or should I say HELPLESS ANIMALS WHO ARE JUST HUNGRY to bits. It ought to get tired just 
 mashing on the mouse but the cool thing is that an hour into the game you are introduce to the 
 adrenaline attack or whatever they call it. Basicaly, when you shoot an animal long enough he gets 
 really pissed off (witch is only fair) so he becomes immune to gunfire for a second and you see 
 this animation he does along with a sound that means hes going to charge you. Once he gets close 
 enough the screen goes into slow mo and then blurs. Icons appear on the lefthand side of the screen 
 indicating the directions you can go to (all this when you are locked on the target MOUSE 2 btw) . 
 So you press SHIFT and say LEFT and you will dodge guess where? thats right LEFT and a crosshair 
 will apear on the screen when it locks on the enemy and you fire BOOM HEAD SHOT (this also mostly 
 translates to boss fights) . So yeah insta kill. This is fun and keeps the combat interesting thats 
 not to say that it doesnt get a bit old after a while but I have to say jumping from ledge to ledge 
 non stop towards the end of the game just got annoying so combat breaks it up a bit. There are 
 a few bosses and they are all nice looking and hard hitting although after a while you can figure 
 out the pattern rather easily and then dispatch them. Some puzzles are a bit fiendish but after 
 that makes the game all the more satisfying to beat.
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks great , lara animates in a lifelike manner and most of her moves look really cool. 
 It has a very nice graphical style that doesn't go for perfection but adds touches like water reflections 
 and things like her shirt turning darker when she comes out of water, also water drips from her 
 and takes a while to dry off. Overall it looks extremely nice, the enemies are well detailed and 
 the in game cuts cenes ala Resident Evil 4 (seems to be the thing these days) are all pretty cool 
 if somewhat easy. So to sum it up its a beauty to look at and explore these vast locals that are 
 just filled with detail. The Peru Level is especially nice. I will say though that at the last 
 level the frame rate drops a bit an makes some timed jumps harder than they should be.
  
  Sound:
  Well , the sound is not the most prominent thing ever in this game. Sure the voice actors 
 did a great job but really all you are hearing is ambiance and bit of music that gets repetitive 
 and of course Lara's grunts and moans as she jumps everywhere. The guns sound really good and powerful 
 as guns should and that is very satisfying but overall the sound just doesn't do enough to really 
 stand out so its great but not awesome.
  
  Value:
  Well I have a bad habit of finishing games in one sitting so in recent days I have been reading 
 a whole damn lot so i play only sparingly, I bought this game on June second, and I finished it 
 today July fifth, only because I wanted to take my time and not beat it very quickly and to that 
 effect im very satisfied with myself. The levels are large and take a long ass times to complete. 
 I clocked in at twelve hours and 30 minutes to beat it. Each level takes you about two hours and 
 a half at a normal pace I would say (if you rush it you might get it in 1:40 or 2 hours but believe 
 me if you rush it you will miss tons of jumps and just waste time so take my word for it.)
  Although there are only four levels to speak of and technically speaking you could beat it in 8 
 hours you will die a lot and after a few hours playing you will just get sick of jumping everywhere 
 and will take a break, personally im sure I left it on and went to go eat or something a couple 
 of times so my time with the game might not be the best point of reference. Suffice it to say the 
 game is long and fun throughout. As for re-playability.. well you could do it all over again and 
 get all the unlocks you want (costumes, cheats and such) but chances are you wont come back as 
 soon as you beat it so yeah.. thats that.
  
  Ive never played any of the tomb raider games this was my first real experience and im very impressed, 
 if you are looking for a great action adventure game to spend some quality time with look no further. 
 This is a great experience and a testament that old games can be remade to good results.
  
  -CB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewanm95
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  I think tomb raider anniversairy is much better than the old version of the first one its fun a 
 bit easy an has amazin graphics.
  The story hasent changed which is good. I hope they make more remakes of these games because they 
 are more fun an look better.
  A triumph for eidos
  The only downside is the confusin camera angles wen u are swingin the camera angles can get confusin 
 . Another downside is tht laras voice sounds strange. than other ones ive listened to.
  But overall i think it is a superb game an if they make anymore remakes theyll be the same sucess. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finaldemo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  It's a easy game to play the enemies are easy and enjoy the beautiful scenarios while you play, 
 it's not difficult just see and pass. In a few words the game is easy, good and beautiful. There's 
 a exact quantity of puzzles and action, all mix in each scenario in the right proportion. If you 
 are a fan of the tomb raider saga this is the most better done game ever of the saga, it's very 
 similar to tomb raider legend but have a couple of a new thinks like the new movements of lara 
 that give to the game a better quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  In a long running franchises there always comes a time for a remake. Lara Croft had her ups and 
 downs through the years but what Crystal Dynamics made with the series is quite remarkable. In 
 TR: Legend they changed the direction how Tomb Raider games are made, and in TR: Anniversary being 
 an enhanced, extended remake of the very first game in the series, they simply pushed it to the 
 max.
  
  Anniversary as you might know it, is not only a recreation of original Tomb Raider with updated 
 graphics. Basically the whole game has been redesigned from the scratch based on what we've seen 
 in TR1. Every location now looks really massive and for the most part quite beautiful. Every aspect 
 of the game is bigger and what's important better. TR: A is powered by the same engine that was 
 used in Legend but it looks significantly better while still being able to smoothly run on low-end 
 systems even at higher settings.
  
  There is a variety of new moves and tricks including awesome, and actually very useful bullet time 
 or interactive cinematics similar to those from Resident Evil 4 . The game is well balanced between 
 puzzles and combat. The game has improved on both of these elements and is now a lot more complex. 
 Numerous unlockables extend the fun even further.
  
  Did I already mention that all the environments look fantastic? The sound and music is also quite 
 nice. Not too pushy, not too shy ;)
  
  But is it a game for the old fans who know every single bit of Tomb Raider . In my opinion definitely 
 yes. There's a ton of new things while maintaining the classical feel to it. There were many heroins 
 that tried to knock Miss Croft off her pedestal but Lara is still in the game... literally ;) Tomb 
 Raider: Anniversary is absolutely worth giving a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is a excellent action adventure by Eidos Interactive and Crystal dynamics 
 .Old Tomb Raider game is remade into Anniversary edition with Tomb Raider Legends engine .The game 
 has nice graphics / visuals , soundquality ,AI . The storyline is nearly same as in old original 
 tomb raider but presented in a new way with fine cutscenes .Voiceactings of the characters are 
 okay . You get to visit many new locales in the game for your missions . You get variety of puzzles 
 , deathtraps , deadly opponents in the game to take care of . The gameplay is lenghty .Plus you 
 get to unlock bonus contents like costumes , cheats etc once you beat the game in any difficulty 
 . As usual you also get to collecct treasures ( side quests ) during a mission . The boss fights 
 are very challenging in the game and is not usual shoot and kill style. You have to use some special 
 tactics like adrenaline doge style to defeat the bosses .The gameplay is very hard on some missions 
 even on easy mode . Specially the wall run style while grappling becomes very hard to get used 
 to during timed or on obstacles pathway for camera view . The camera view in the game sometimes 
 gets really frustating with P. C mouse and keyboard .Its best you use a gamepad, controllers for 
 the game. When a opponent AI pushes you you totally trip over and it takes some time to stand over 
 and face your opponent. Apart from your handgun you get very limited bullets ( for shotgun , etc) 
 in the game along with limited med packs to heal yourself . You get interesting button mashings 
 in the game during boss fights . I recommend this game to every action adventure lovers .Its hard 
 yet fun game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classixuk
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Well I've almost finished Tomb Raider Anniversary (my first tomb raider game ever played) and have 
 to admit that the visuals and sounds were beautiful. Everything looked fantastic. No complaints 
 there.
  
  However, at times the game has become frustrating because of the terrible camera angles that constantly 
 change in the middle of the wall swings! Just as Lara gains momentum she stops to a skid as the 
 camera angle changes mid-swing. That is VERY bad! The fancy graphics and sound will be superceded 
 over the next 10 years by better graphics cards/technolgies etc. in hundreds, if not thousands, 
 of PC and console games so in all honesty they don't matter. What matters is how much fun the game 
 was to play.
  
  The developers either need to bring out a patch to fix the dodgy camera movements affecting the 
 gameplay or be content with a bargain bin game within 6 months (ala Theme Park World) .
  
  Visuals = 10/10
  Sound = 10/10
  Gameplay= 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenTheJamin
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I haven't bought the game yet, other games top my list at this moment, but I played the demo and 
 I was very pleasantly suprised. It was a total overhaul of the original game, I mean total. It 
 wasn't just a money raker like I thought it would be, it actually has depth, great graphics, better 
 enging, the works! If you have ever been a fan of the Tomb Raider series I would highly reccomend 
 it. Its cheap, its quality, and it gives a lot of gameplay time. I am certainley going to buy it 
 at a later time, I miss those classic adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider is a long running series but I never had the opportunity to play any of them... until 
 now. I had my doubts about it because it's not my type of game, but in the end I got it anyway; 
 you gotta try something new once in while, right? So I installed it, fired it up and about 5 hours 
 later I was still playing it and having a lot of fun.
  
  Tomb Raider: Anniversary (TRA) is the 8th game in the series, but it's actually a remake of the 
 original Tomb Raider, which was released more than 10 years ago. It's not a 1:1 copy, a TR1 dressed 
 in new clothes, there's a lot of new content in here. So how did TRA turn out? Crystal Dynamics 
 managed to balance the various elements that make up the experience: game mechanics, atmosphere, 
 story and characters, graphics and length. The story is pretty straightforward: Lara is looking 
 for three pieces of an ancient scion that holds precious information about the mythical Atlantis... 
 knowledge that is not meant to be uncovered by the wrong people. It's not the best story ever told 
 but it does a good job of keeping you motivated all the way to the end.
  
  But the best thing about TRA are the puzzles. Some are more difficult, some are easier and some 
 are really sprawling, branching off into smaller sub-puzzles... but all share the same trait: they're 
 very well crafted. Level design plays a crucial part in the impact and feel of these puzzles so 
 the people who made this game had some careful planning to do. And they succeeded admirably. You'll 
 see what I mean once you get to the Lost Valley in Peru, or the St. Francis' Folly under-levels 
 in Greece. It's also worth mentioning that TRA offers great atmosphere while you're at it, solving 
 all the puzzles. And other things aside, the game engine makes every environment look beautiful 
 and everything performs great (even on old hardware) : frame-rates are steady and animations and 
 physics are believable.
  
  Another great thing about the game is its sound. It has very good effects and the music is fitting. 
 It basically does what a good score needs to do: accompany the action without being too outstanding 
 or too discreet.
  
  I also found TRA satisfying in terms of length. You can play about two times through it without 
 feeling that you know the solutions to puzzles; plus you can use that second play-through as an 
 opportunity to collect all the artifacts and unlock cool extras, like concept art, music, bios, 
 outfits and even the original low-poly Lara Croft model from the first game. These extras definitely 
 add value to the game. And when it's all said and done you can try the Croft Manor for another 
 nice set of puzzles.
  
  As good as TRA is, it also has some problems. Number one on the list is the camera. Most of the 
 time it will not bug you, but sometimes it will become quite the deadly enemy. Some people have 
 also claimed that the combat is lackluster. Well, it's partially true; yes, it could be better 
 but the fact of the matter is TRA focuses a lot more on solving puzzles than combat... plus, the 
 adrenaline dodge, once mastered, makes most fights easy.
  
  Overall, Tomb Raider: Anniversary is an excellent game. This game was a big surprise for me: it's 
 fun, it feels great, it has a nice story, some really great interactive cutscenes and it's accessible 
 to any type of gamer but without being a walk in the park. I say try it, it's definitely worth 
 the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreativePlug
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Okay... so maybe that's a bit much. But when you decide to remake one of the greatest 3rd person 
 3D games of the 90's who better to revisit than Lara Croft? There have been many views on her success. 
 Her sexual appeal has certainly made it much easier for her to be recognized. But the charm in 
 this game isn't solely based on her physical beauty.
  
  Tomb Raider is one of those games that allowed us to be explorers for a few hours. One of the best 
 parts of this game in my opinion is the sense of seeking out hidden treasures. I almost wish they 
 had more hidden rooms, artifacts and trinkets. And in going on with that idea... I think it would 
 be kind of cool for Lara to have some kind of museum in the Croft Manor to show off all the itmes 
 you discovered. Perhaps Eidos will incorporate some of that in later games.
  
  Now to get to the core of this game. I have a very biased outlook on this game simply because I 
 love Tomb Raider and I love Lara Croft. The atmosphere in this game was spot on! They did a tremendous 
 job at re-invisioning the original and I'm completely satisfied and overjoyed that they took this 
 project and showed it so much love.
  
  I won't take the time to tell you every thing i love about this game. What I will do however is 
 tell you the few things that frustrated me to no end.
  
  Number 1... THE CAMERA!
  Even though this is MUCH improved over the original in the first game... it still is incredibly 
 frustrating in some areas where you're up tight against a wall or a corner. Most of the time in 
 those situations I have Lara vaulting herself across to her death in a completely different direction 
 that I was intending her to go. She does have a mind of her own sometimes. There are times when 
 I'm just wanting to run across an area without having the camera maneuvering itself around... and 
 it seems to want to fight with you for control. It's not so much a problem in the wide open areas 
 of course. But those many craped places when you want to get a look around to where you're going 
 and don't want to risk falling to your doom the camera almost mocks you.
  
  Number 2... Grapple Problems
  Now the grapple was definltye one of the best add ons they incorporated 
 in Legend. And I'm so glad they brought it into Anniversary. But like the camera... there were times 
 when I found it just not cooperating with me when I needed it most. It's not fun when you're trying 
 to get to a hard to reach location for that last artifact to complete the level with 100% completion 
 and the only thing that's preventing you from doing that is your grapple that doesn't fire at the 
 right moment no matter how you time it... or won't latch on and sends Lara diving to her death. 
 It didn't give me as many problems as the camera did... but... oh well. Game's aren't an exact science 
 ;)
  
  Other than those two things... I LOVE this game and am so glad that Lara Croft still has what it 
 takes to bring gamers into that world of adventure. My extream congratulations to Eidos and Crystal 
 Dynamics for their work on this title. May Lara live on to have many more successful adventures 
 :)
  
  So over all, if you're a Tomb Raider fan... you more than likely have already bought this game or 
 are intending to. For the rest who enjoy a great adventure game, don't let Lara Croft pass you 
 up! You will be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I have played every Tomb Raider that has ever been made for the PC and have liked and or loved 
 each and everyone of them. Some were great and others were (well... o. k. but could have been better) . 
 Tomb Raider Anniversary is by far probably one of the best that I have ever played in quite some 
 time. Let's take a look at what makes it such a great game! Fisrt of all... it is Lara Croft. Just 
 about everybody out there loves this character in one way or another. This time they went and redid 
 the original with a few twists to keep it interesting. The overall gameplay is very similar to 
 the original... but they added/took out parts to keep it fresh for the newcommers as well as for 
 the long time Tomb Raider fans who remember the very first one. That along with a great soundtrack 
 and effects made this quite an enjoyable game to play.
  
  Graphics were by far the best thing going for this latest edition. I was most impressed with how 
 real she looked as well as the overall environment. It just keeps getting better with each episode 
 that comes out. The texture and lighting was very well done as well as ground and water effects. 
 When Lara dives into the water and comes out , she is dripping water everywhere and her clothes 
 and skin are also wet with a shine to them. Very nice touch. When she stops abruptly, slides or 
 grabs on for life... you see particles flying all over the place (dust, dirt and debris) . It just 
 adds so much realisim to the game. The deeper you get into the game the better the Eye Candy is. 
 Probably my most favorite level would have to be St. Francis Folly followed by Egypt. The colors 
 and the effects just kept getting better in every level. The AI was in my opinion a disapointment 
 in this game. When ever I got into a battle with what ever the creature was... it seemed as if 
 the means of attack was just lunge straight forward and hit. There was almost no self defense to 
 speak of. Usually when you found yourself in larger battles, the biggest I believe I remember was 
 you fighting about 4 Panther Mummies with a Centaur or two... they would all just gang up on you 
 and run at you from ever direction to knock you to the ground. When you fought single characters... 
 usually Griffins they would claw you and hold you. That was about the most difficult part of the 
 battles. Even so... I found I could just stand there and not fight back and it would take alot 
 of time for them to do serious damage to me. Note that was on the easy level. The only creature 
 I saw in the game that did the most damage in one hit would have been the Centaurs at the Tomb 
 of Tihocan. Then if you got turned to stone by them... one rear kick would take out 3/4 of your 
 health. Even still... the AI there was really silly as I found out that you could freeze one of 
 them and the other would run around in circles and leave you to do your business with the one you 
 had froze! Kinda unrealistic but that seemed to be the feal for the most of the overal gameplay 
 of the enemies. Also I noticed that most of the creatures when they attacked... if you could get 
 away from them to higher ground.... would continuously run into walls trying to get at you. Then 
 you could just peer over the edge and shoot them easily. Along with that... I was disapointed in 
 the Camera angles when you did fight a creature. It was like Lara was right in front of you and 
 you could not see the reaction of what was happening to the creature you were battling until they 
 were dead. Then they would just disappear. Very sad because that removed what I feel would have 
 been a great addition to the game... being able to see full from the side of just overhead what 
 she was battling.
  
  The sound was very well done in this game as they had awesome effects of her sliding and the crunching 
 of her feet over gravel and grass. Under water also proved to sound very realistic... as if you 
 were right there in the water with her. Even when she swam on the surface you could hear her gasping 
 for breath every now and them. I did love the Panic Music as well. You know when a boss or a new 
 creature is on the scene... the orchestra would let loose and let you know there was something 
 coming your way. Overall the enemies were very easy to beat in this game... as far as the bosses 
 are concerned.... once you got the Adrenaline Shot down... they too fell real easily. It took me 
 about 20 minutes or so to get that manuver down pact but then it played well for me when they allowed 
 you to use it. The main bosses are the T-Rex, The Centaurs, The Mutated Half Human, and Natla. 
 Of all four of them... I would have to say that the Centaurs were the hardest to kill being you 
 first had to get the shields from them so you could use their power to turn them to stone to finish 
 them off. The Grappling Hook is not a very easy tool to use in heavy battle... and if you were 
 too close or at the wrong angle... it would not work at all. Natla was extremely easy to beat and 
 I only used the original pistols to take her out along with the Adrenaline Dodge Manuver. I imagine 
 that it would get harder if you turn up the difficulty but on easy... I found it very easy to just 
 walk thru.
  
  The worst enemy in the entire game... THE CAMERA!!! The rooms/areas were small in alot of places 
 and so when Lara would be clinging to a wall or ladder... you were not able to really look behind 
 her or over or below. That made the contols very frustrating in alot of places. When she needed 
 to use her grapling hook... she would jump in the direction off of it different each time. It all 
 depended on what camera angle you were looking at her from. So you had to learn to always be looking 
 at her the same way when you used it... but in the Lava Column going up to the Half Human Creature... 
 it became EXTREMELY FRUSTRATING! Being you had limited time to do your manuvers and you had to 
 make each jump/swing PERFECT or die! Sometimes you would be in a hallway setting having to jump 
 from side to side and you would not know where she needed to jump next because you were unable 
 to look around to see what her options were. That also helped to make the game very frustrating. 
 Lara died alot when I played because of the poor Camera Angles or lack there of! In conclusion... 
 if you are a huge Tomb Raider Fan... you will probably love this game even with the camera flaws 
 and all. The graphics and sound do help to keep it interesting but the controls get frustrating 
 fast and can lead one to not want to play for sometime. I personally found myself having to take 
 breaks (days on end) away from it before I could get past the frustration of the camera flaws. 
 I have completed, but not as far as finding all of the artifacts and stuff. The ending was very 
 nice but I do not see any real replay in this one. Maybe a couple of the levels but I don't think 
 I could see playing the entire game all over again. I, if you have not purchased it yet, would 
 wait for it to come down in price and then get it for a discount. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary outdoes Legend gameplay wise when less becomes more. The enviroments are 
 bigger and the tools have been cut down to pistols, shotgun, and grappling rope. The challenge 
 is back with puzzles that fail to show any mercy when it comes to making mistakes. The controls 
 are thankfuly not the gridbased system from the original but similar to the movements in Legend 
 only slightly more improved with better and more realistic animations and moves. While the game 
 does play well with a keyboard I highly recommend using an Xbox 360 usb controller, which is fully 
 supported. There's tons of fun to be had when revisiting the beginnings of Tomb Raider with an 
 old cast and story but covered in a very fresh coat of slick gameplay, challenging puzzles, and 
 a great looking Lara and Tombs. Fans and new commers must definitely give this a go if you love 
 action/adventure platformers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_cool_dudein
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  i wil give it nothing more than 4 out of 10. coz it deserves it its true that there is this new 
 engine... nice graphics, sound, n everything... i think all these were present in tomb raider legend... 
 The one thing that i really dint like abt anniversary is.. it doesnt have the two characters ALLISTER 
 n ZIP... ... Tomb raider Legend was more interesting becoz of those two characters coming into 
 play.. their assistance.. n everything it was fun... but in anniversary it looks like v r wandering 
 all alone in those tombs just for the sake of completing the task... i think Legend was the perfect 
 game of the series... n anniversary is just a annexation to the series.. i think many will agree 
 on the pts i mentioned above.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  I am quite proud of the fact that I have defeated every standard Tomb Raider game on the PC. I 
 like the series, it features intriguing storylines, a likable heroine, exciting gameplay and mental 
 challenges. Admittedly by the turn of the century, the delightful heroine was becoming a little 
 tired, trawling through samey and uneventful adventures, but we still loved her. The critics didn't 
 though, and she was taken from us after the disappointing Angel of Darkness.
  
  The accountants at Eidos started to get a bit hot under the collar a couple of years ago though 
 - they needed to make more money. So, Lara Croft was reanimated by a new developer - Crystal Dynamics 
 - and she returned to our screens as a more realistic character for a whole new adventure. This 
 was Tomb Raider Legend, and while it was very short and easy, it was a very well crafted game that 
 looked and sounded great and kept me entertained for a while.
  
  So then those happy chappies at Crystal Dynamics decided that whatever Core (the original developer) 
 could do, they could do better... so they decided to remake Lara's first adventure, using their 
 new game engine. The result? An almost complete disaster.
  
  Don't get me wrong, Tomb Raider 1 was not a perfect game. However it was innovative, exciting and 
 something completely new. While Crystal Dynamics had a good idea in wanting to expand the original 
 game to give it a more comprehensive story, and to bring the graphics up to date, their execution 
 was somewhat lacking. In terms of visuals and audio they have done a great job - Lara looks and 
 sounds amazing. It is fun to see some of the classic parts of Tomb Raider recreated with top end 
 graphics, and just as in Legend, some of the environments are staggeringly beautiful. The voice 
 acting is top quality too, with another outing for talented English actress Keeley Hawes as Lara, 
 and a small but talented team of voice actors doing a solid job with the other characters. The 
 music is pleasant too, with themes specific to certain moments really building up the tension and 
 atmosphere of the game.
  
  The physics engine is good also, with Lara and her enemies moving fluidly throughout the environments. 
 However, it is moving Lara that is where the games weaknesses first come to light. The controls 
 are awful. Not only are they somewhat unresponsive but they are continually thwarting the player 
 through camera rotation. In the latter levels, the timing of movements becomes quite critical, 
 often featuring lengthy sequences of maneuvering Lara around different walls and past different 
 traps. This is made difficult by the fact that there is a delay between pressing the button and 
 Lara executing the move. When you have the camera not following Lara as she changes angle while 
 doing these activities (thereby changing what the directional buttons do) it becomes almost impossible. 
 By about two thirds of the way into the game I had had enough of the dodgy controls, and I battled 
 my way through to finishing the game purely for a sense of completeness.
  
  The early Tomb Raider games had a strong mental challenge to them - the fights and sequences weren't 
 difficult to get past, though the challenge was working out what to do to progress. That challenge 
 is sadly absent from this re-make - it is blindingly obvious what you have to do in each room (and 
 if it's not clear straight away, a couple of minutes of trial and error will make it so) , the problem 
 comes in the execution. Maybe the market of new gamers don't want a mental challenge, they just 
 want instant gratification? It's a shame if this is the case, as for me growing up, the mental 
 challenges of the early Tomb Raiders made completing them feel like so much more of a great achievement.
 
  
  Much as with Legend, the game is rather short. The levels are not like-for-like re-makes of those 
 from the original, with this game being more of a re-imagining of the game than an exact re-make. 
 Classic challenges remain though and the story is fundamentally same. It is great to see the story 
 expanded and to see classic video game moments recreated with 2007 graphics, though these do not 
 make up for the frustrating gameplay.
  
  There are no bugs of note, though I'm really tempted to define the whole control system as a bug. 
 On several occasions I had to redefine controls to complete challenges, and on one particular occasion, 
 success came from changing many controls and working out precisely what the camera would do in 
 advance of even moving.
  
  Crystal Dynamics have attempted to stimulate us Tomb Raider veterans with two new moves for our 
 intrepid adventurer. Now she can use her grappling device to run across walls and can perform an 
 adrenaline dodge in combat to avoid getting hurt and inflict more pain on her enemies. The wall 
 run is a nice idea in principal, however this is the move that suffers most from the dodgy controls 
 and camera. I have been reduced to a screaming wreck of a man trying to execute this move with 
 these controls. If they fixed the controls and stopped the camera from moving around too much then 
 this would be a useful addition. The adrenaline dodge is lame though. To sum it up, it is basically 
 a rubbish version of Max Payne's bullet time. The principal being that enemies will become enraged 
 if Lara shoots at them a lot, leading to them charging Lara. A moment before they hit, the screen 
 blurs and you can quickly perform a dive to avoid them. As Lara dives she gets a free headshot 
 on the enemy, requiring you to fire at the precise moment that the game tells you. Again, this 
 sounds kinda fun in principal but it is foxed by the awful controls. The controls mean that sometimes 
 only certain adrenaline dodges work and that unless you are prepared for it it is rare you will 
 pull it off due to the unresponsiveness of the controls. Also, all the bosses require using this 
 move, which makes the fights rather dull and linear. In short, Crystal Dynamics should make a game 
 that works on a fundamental level before trying additions like this.
  
  Talking of linear gameplay, Crystal Dynamics promised us that Tomb Raider: Anniversary would involve 
 non-linear gameplay and a variety of ways to complete levels. This frankly is a lie. While occasionally 
 you have the opportunity to do tasks in different orders, the gameplay still remains the same; 
 there is still only one way to complete tasks, and it is very obvious how to go through this. And 
 by the time I was nearing the end of the game, I had very little will left to go through the motions.
 
  
  I will emphasize though that the game does look and sound great, and it is fun to see levels from 
 11 years ago brought up to 2007 standards. It's a little insulting though that these levels seem 
 to lack the mental challenge and epic feel their 1996 counterparts did though. In many ways Tomb 
 Raider: Anniversary feels like Tomb Raider 1: Lite - ie the classic moments welded together into 
 one short game, with all of the mental challenges in between removed. Instead of these challenges, 
 we are just given obvious sequences to execute with bad controls. This does make the game last 
 longer, but seriously detracts from its enjoyment value.
  
  As with Tomb Raider Legend, there are various unlockables to be attained through finding secrets 
 and completing time trials. The time trials go against the very nature of Tomb Raider - it's supposed 
 to be about careful exploration through epic and difficult levels, not running through as quickly 
 as possible. The secrets aren't really worth it either - the new costumes are ok, though less care 
 has been taken over their graphics. For example, if Lara goes in water in the standard outfit, 
 she looks realistically wet and will slowly dry off - in the other outfits water has no effect 
 on her appearance. Little mistakes like this show carelessness on the developer's part.
  
  One of the most shocking things to learn is that Lara's creator, Toby Gard - the man that brought 
 us the original game, was involved in this project. Clearly he cannot have had that much of a creative 
 input at Crystal Dynamics, as this game has truly lost the classic Tomb Raider feel and instead 
 is a rather boring (albeit good looking) , generic action game. I feel truly let down by the gameplay 
 - it should have been so much better. I'm sad to say, that I will think twice about purchasing 
 another game made by Crystal Dynamics. In all, I'm disappointed to say that I couldn't possibly 
 recommend Tomb Raider: Anniversary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxMeatshieldxx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game screams classic. Not because its setting a foothold in a mix of current games that seem 
 to less than satisfy the avid gamer, but because its been a classic since the original. Those that 
 play this game will notice that the developers included a lot of features from all games and neatly 
 packaged them into this adventure. The player will be launched into the action very soon into the 
 game and spend hours without even feeling time go by. Lara is still a badass with a cold steel 
 glare and moves that would impress a bus full of geriatrics. Even those who aren't fans of the 
 game can jump into this part of the series without missing any of the storyline. If your interested 
 in playing a new game and got the money this is a must. And remember don't forget your pistols 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuwakcai
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  ok . 1st thing about this game.. u never want to stop playing because.. the story just keeps on 
 coming.. but this game is quite similar to prince of persia .. the gameplay is all about jumping 
 around .. hooking on stuffs.. boss seems easy to kill ... all we need is BRAINS.. i mean .. lots 
 of it.. puzzles.. are kinda hard.. u have to look really careful.. anyway .. this game has alot 
 of BUG's.. monsters seems to stuck around.. sometimes not even attacking me.. but found this game 
 pretty interesting.. the graphics are not too bad compare to others.. I oso found out that.. the 
 camera view .. when u were near something.. it makes me dizzy... and for the jumping.. TIMING is 
 very important in this game.. .
  
  WORTH buying it.. i played tomb raider since the first version.. i dunno when .. it was kinda early 
 when its played on the PlayStation One. i hate it since then... But .. after this came out.. and 
 i tried.. it makes whole lot of differences... TRY it guys.. ^^ Cheers.. great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider : Anniversary Is A Old School Game,
  The Difficulty Is Just Right The A. I Is Well Done But In Some Situations They're Dumb As Sticks.
 
  I Spent At Least 10 Hours Playing This Boring, Dull Frustrating.
  I Learned The Controls In About An Hour.
  The Gameplay Theres Nothin New Same Old, Same Old
 
  The Graphics Have Gottin Way Better Then Others.
  The Soundtrack Is Dull But Good In Some Ways.
  The Value Is All Right But Not A Oh My God I Gotta 
 Buy! Type OF Thing.
  Tomb Raider : Anniversary Should Not Make Any Other Tomb Raiders Forever.
  And Hopefully They 
 Dont Cause This One Stank! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totagiuseppe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best game i've ever played, spectacular graphics, and excellent game play. I just 
 wish there were more challenging puzzle to solve .It does look a bit like Prince of Persia in the 
 way she as to jump from a place to another but that is a good thing since that was a very good 
 game. Anyway if you are a tomb raider fun you can't miss this one trust me is just what we were 
 waiting for, i thought i'd never see a good tomb raider after the previous one, instead i did and 
 even better then i expected, imagine, my girlfriend ask me to play because she enjoys watching 
 it. Best tomb raider after tomb raider 3 DON'T MISS IT you'll REGRET IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  As someone who just got into gaming in the last 3 years, I never played the original Tomb Raider 
 and basically can't at this point. I have played several of the more recent and compatible TR games 
 like AOD, Chronicles and Legend. Therefore, I was most pleased that Eidos decided to remake the 
 original classic. Surprising to most people, Angel of Darkness is my favorite TR game and it's 
 grossly underrated. Anyway, Anniversary is a great entry addition to the TR series and brings to 
 the classic back to life.
  
  The gameplay and graphics are in line with Legends, of course. I'd say there are some minor improvements, 
 especially in performance. The camera is a little difficult at times, but honestly this is always 
 a complaint with TR games and many other 3rd person games in general. Maybe it's just something 
 that can't be resolved. My only other complaint would be the the blurriness of some scenes that 
 would come clear when you got closer. There was some lag toward the end as well.
  
  Overall, the gameplay was excellent with some exciting boss fights. The adreneline dodge was a 
 nice added feature to the gamplay, but took me some time to master. There are some very difficult 
 sequences throughout the game especially toward the end when climbing up the volcanoe on the island 
 - whew! I enjoyed the end game on the island too. Having not been familiar with the story I figured 
 the game was about over after Egypt. However, there is plenty of gaming and boss fighting after 
 that section. Learn that adreline dodge cause it's a must for most boss fights. Croft Manor was 
 enjoyable too, though I'd say not quite as lengthy or complex as the Legends version. I hope the 
 developers continue to find new ways to bring Croft Manor to life, as it's a nice little treat 
 to play before or after one completes the game.
  
  I enjoy gameplay in the tombs - it's what Tomb Raider is all about. However, I'd like to see other 
 environments again in future TR releases like cities and buildings seen in earlier games. I think 
 it's a fun break from the dark tombs, although I expect the purists would disagree.
  
  Thanks to Eidos for putting out this remake of the classic which is a classic in its own right. 
 The TR series has certainly righted ship with the last couple of games by bring TR into the new 
 age. This game is a must play for all action adventure fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polydor74
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I played the first Tomb Raider demo, and how I quickly went out and bought it. 
 As soon as Tomb Raider Anniversary was released I went out and got it. All I can say is WOW I feel 
 the same excitement and fun that I had when I played the original. I love it. Way to go Crystal 
 Dynamics You have created an amazing game and I hope that you can make more great Tomb Raider games 
 in the future. This game ranks second best game for me number one was and still is Half-life 2. 
 The only thing that bugs me about this game is the camera, it seems to move two much other than 
 that there is nothing wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jupiter2001
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  While the PS2 version doesn't look bad by any measure, a heavy layer of aliasing mars the presentation. 
 The game can be played in widescreen, but we found the progressive scan support to have an inconsistent 
 effect. On certain sets it smoothed out a lot of the sharp edges, while on others it made textures 
 look muddy and text unreadable. The PC version fares much better, with support for higher resolutions 
 and a generally crisper, cleaner look. It's also a really great-sounding game. You'll hear plenty 
 of small ambient effects like animal calls and dripping water, and Lara's grunts and yelps as she 
 scales these incredible antiquities will resonate differently depending on the size of the room. 
 Music is generally used sparingly, but it always swells to a flourish at all the right moments. 
 Tomb Raider: Legend did a lot to make Lara Croft feel relevant again, and Tomb Raider: Anniversary 
 is another step in the right direction. The acrobatic action is consistently exciting and challenging 
 throughout, and despite being a remake, the experience feels new and fresh. This is the best Tomb 
 Raider game in years, and for the first time in a long time, that actually means something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  That is really a great way to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Tomb Raider franchise. This 
 game smells so good of the first Tomb Raider, yet it plays smooth and nice just like Legend. The 
 game uses the exact same formula of Legend without any innovations which combined with the story 
 and general level concepts of the first Tomb Raider makes it a very unoriginal game. Still it is 
 great to visit areas which seem familiar, yet play out rather different.
  
  Graphics are good enough though low detail is evident on some occasions which is probably a leftover 
 from console versions. Still environments look fantastic and Lara is beautiful and moves believable. 
 She sounds great, too, as well as everything else in the game. The memorable Tomb Raider music 
 themes are present again. Unlike Legend, Anniversary suffers no technical issues when graphics 
 are maxed out.
  
  Though following closely the first game, Anniversary has a few extra cutscenes which shed additional 
 light on the story. Some of them are quite memorable, like the ones which show Lara's sorrow when 
 she is forced to kill people for the first time - a thing which will happen rather often in her 
 later adventures.
  
  The game also features some cool boss fights but they are not overly original and are too few. 
 Fighting people could have been done with more than just minigame sequences.
  
  Overall this is a really enjoyable game and a great way to replay the original Tomb Raider which 
 is currently impossible to run on modern PCs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnank77
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Lovely episode in the ever lasting series of Lara's adventures .. What I liked the most about this 
 one:
  
  - Much more puzzles and much less action. That's exactly what I'm looking for .. I'm actually a 
 fan of Adventure games and I like it when the blend of Action/Adventure tends more to the adventure 
 side and less towards the action side. - Superb Graphics Levels. - Nice variety of puzzle elements. 
 - Great Variety in Environments. What I didn't like: - Insanely annoying Adrenaline Dodge for killing 
 bosses. Traditional shooting doesn't work. You can't pass bosses if you don't know this move.
 
  - No support for 1920x1200 resolution. - No re-playability value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Have to say, I've been playing this for a while now, and it's a much better game than Tomb Raider: 
 Legend. First off, the combat is much more entertaining now, with the addition of the adrenaline 
 dodge. In Legend it was just shoot, shoot, maybe the odd dodge and that's it. But now, you can 
 actually get the combat over pretty swiftly, which makes it puts the emphasis back onto the platforming. 
 The odd boss fight is pretty entertaining, as it's always a case of coming up with a 'clever' way 
 of defeating the thing, as opposed to just blasting it.
  
  The platforming itself is still solid as ever, and the acrobatic puzzles are just right in terms 
 of difficulty. The learning curve on them is great, too; with the earlier ones easing you into 
 the later ones.
  
  The graphics are excellent - with some of the scenery being genuinely jaw dropping. A couple off 
 the creature models are a little off, but you hardly notice, as usually when they appear, you're 
 having at them with your pistols.
  
  The sound is solid without being great - although there's an echo effect in place that adds to 
 the feeling of actually being in Lara's shoes; her grunts and yelps echoing off the walls rather 
 nicely.
  
  Overall, if you're a platforming/epic adventure fan, you'll definitely enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden492
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  When the first Tomb Raider hit our shelves in 1996, it was a groundbreaking experience for gamers 
 worldwide. The first really good 3-D adventure game had been released on the PS1. Allthough Lara 
 may have looked like disoriented lego blocks at times, the gameplay and well thought storyline 
 made you forget about that totally.
  
  Tomb Raider: Anniversary ressurects classic Tomb Raider but adds an edge which makes it all the 
 more brilliant. Everything is just as it should be throughout the entire game; weapons like the 
 desert eagles and the uzis are finally back after leaving us at the end of TR5, one-hit kill death 
 traps and falls are back which had a strange absence in Legend, and the classic enemies like gorrilas 
 and atlantians are back unlike AOD and Legend which involved killing mainly unintelligent police 
 force members adn under-trained mercenaries. All these things add up to make the perfect Tomb Raider 
 experience.
  
  Another thing I particularly like about anniversary is the puzzles. Once again, AOD and TRL had 
 very linear and straightforward puzzles, and even then, they were no challenge even for softcore 
 TR players. Yes, the classic 'aaaarrrgggh this is impossible' puzzles have re-enterd our lives. 
 Puzzles like the cog system have been kept the same, but been moved to add more challenge to the 
 game. A lot of puzzles are simple, its mainly just a case of discovering how they work (or dont) 
 which is always fun.
  
  Anniversary's enviroments have been well planned so Lara can easily traverse them, but still make 
 it look elegant and smooth. A new move Lara has gained is the ability to balance on very small 
 platforms (usually the top of climbing poles) and jump from one to the other. All of the environments 
 are beautiful and look like real tombs. Another of Lara's new moves (my personal favourite) is 
 the adreniline dodge. Basically, enemies get angry when you shoot them repeatedly and will charge 
 you at great speed and do a large amount of damage if they aren't dodged. All you have to do is 
 when the screen blurs, press roll and any direction to jump that way and perform a headshot whilst 
 dodging the attack. The move looks like it belongs in The Matrix but is still welcomed by me. To 
 finish, I think Tomb Raider: Anniversary is an essential buy for any form of Tomb Raider fan and 
 will keep most gamers entertained for hours. (believe me, this game is no 5 minute wonder you wont 
 be able to push that exit button for a long time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trader2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The bottom line is Lara Croft started serious 3D gaming a LONG time ago. This is a remake of a 
 classic and for those of us who have been enjoying games while most of the industry was in diapers 
 its nice to see an old classic having the dust brushed off, cleaned up, and redone in the same 
 style but more successfully.
  
  If you like a great combination of action, problem solving, and finding treasures in lost parts 
 of the world then look no further.
  
  Lara Croft is a legend in the gaming community and the sexiest game icon out there.
  
  Trader2 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  a friend of mine just purchased it and what a boring game this is!
  
  jump, grab ledge, shoot, run , repeat..... meh
  
  Tomb Raider 1 and possibly 2 are and will 
 always be the best , this is a lame cash in.
  
  also as a guy i find playing as woman to be horrible, im a guy and i wanna play as a guy, hell 
 i enjoyed INDIANA JONES the game more than this junk.
  
  good graphics and sound but gameplay is the same old crap and honestly in this era jumping-ledgehumping 
 is not what i want.
  
  long live CIVILIZATION IV and UPLINK HACKER ELITE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liffaman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  well... i always loved Lara, but the games were'nt so great as she is...
  this one is quite different.
  first of all is the awesome engine used for it... i mean it looks 
 great,
  the environment, water, motion blur effects and textures all works great
  this game is a classic sample of low polly and low res textures that still looks beautiful, no 
 need for some crazy computer or graphic card the requirement are pretty low but still it supply's 
 the best it could.
  there is some flicking textures and Lara's shadows sometimes getting nuts but ... whatever!
  
 design is also great.. semi realistic look for the characters... and Lara looks amazing... the creatures 
 doesn't look amazing but... ok i guess.. i loved the shining eyes... as for the game-play experience
 
  well i had lots of fun playing and jumping around,
  long jumps to the water gives the right feeling... sometimes it gets frustrating, but most of the 
 time its great and challenging.
  secret places and object provides with rewards and i must say it makes it much more interesting, 
 i felt like finding them all while i played only for new outfit or some pictures in the art galleries.
 
  well as for the shooting parts... quite good at last a nice and easy working control.. not amazingly.. 
 i mean im not having such fun shootings animals i prefer humans and the slow motion feature is 
 nice but could be better.
  
  one thing is missing for me
  there is not much character and dialogs to help the story...
  overall its a fun game getting 
 rewards
  killing beasts great graphic and sound
  beautiful Lara ( textured differently when shes wet Oo) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very charming graphics, amazing level design, adrenaline mode makes combat more interesting, 
 great boss fights, cleverly designed puzzles, interesting story, Supports Xbox 360 controller out 
 of the box, Easily detects gamepads, Lara is sexy
  
  The Bad: Peppered level design flaws, simple combat, camera doesn't want to follow the action, 
 short story, story isn't as fleshed out as it could have been, Keyboard and mouse controls just 
 aren't meant for these types of games, doesn't take risks with the new TR formula
  
  I never played any of the old TR games because they just didn't sit well with me. I tried out the 
 first TR and I didn't like it much. After that I ignored TR until Legend came out I played that 
 and I loved the series. With TRA I can finally know how great the first TR was and it IS great! 
 TRA fixes Legend's problems and adds new things in the mix. With great level design and extremely 
 unique and one-of-a-kind puzzles TRA is really something unique. The puzzles aren't to hard to 
 figure out either but I guarantee you will need a FAQ a lot. The game also supports a gamepad and 
 that's a big plus. It also is one of the 3 games out right now that supports the Xbox 360 controller 
 right out of the box (other 2 are Halo 2 and Shadowrun) so if have a 360 controller I recommend 
 it over the keyboard and mouse! It also supports other gamepads quite nicely. I used my Logitech 
 wireless PS2 controller for this and it recognized the driver right away and all I had to do was 
 remap the keys. One of the main gripes is that it feels the developers didn't completely play test 
 this game since there are sections that are just extremely cheap such as poles or ledges that are 
 off set just a bit and make it difficult to get to. Another problem is during combat the camera 
 doesn't follow the action very well and you can't see what you're shooting at. Besides those two 
 things TRA is something great for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dungeonbuster
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend did for Lara's career in gaming what Batman Begins did for the Dark Knight's 
 career in movies by resurrecting her with a slew of dramatic and welcome changes that felt, in 
 many ways, to be a reboot of the franchise. To celebrate Lara's ten years of cyber stardom, Crystal 
 Dynamics and Eidos have reworked the game that had begun her journey into the annals of pop culture 
 history with the tools that had returned her to fame in Tomb Raider Anniversary. But while it may 
 seem like a remake on the surface, the changes and the kind of game that has emerged can feel as 
 if it were the next official chapter to the series.
  
  Anniversary's remake of the first Tomb Raider dresses every set piece up with subtle effects such 
 as the hazy heat rising from the sand covered floor of a secret Egyptian temple or the distant 
 vista of jungle choked refuge for a dead civilization. Everything from the original title has been 
 given a grand makeover. Light filters down through the dust of ages from holes in cavern ceilings, 
 walls are covered in ancient carvings and painted figures, and the puzzles just as difficult as 
 veterans may remember them. Lara's classic look has also been given a makeover, reflecting the 
 changes that she had gone through with Legend in making her a lot more believable as an adventurer 
 than as a blow up doll with plenty of attention given over to the moves that you will use to jump, 
 spin, and narrowly duck beneath the deadly dangers ahead.
  
  Behind all of the new glitz is the story that veterans of the series will quickly recognize and 
 which newcomers will be able to follow from one surprise to the next. But while much of the narrative 
 can feel familiar to players like myself that had gone through the first chapter on the Saturn 
 or the PS1, Crystal Dynamics have tightened it up and have added in plenty of new detail that polishes 
 it into a tale worthy of a new chapter to the series.
  
  For those who haven't had a chance to go through it, the story follows Lara on an adventure to 
 recover the pieces of the Scion, an ancient relic of legendary power said to have been from Atlantis 
 itself. Natla, head of a powerful corporate empire, has asked for Lara to begin her search for 
 the pieces of the Scion by giving her the location of one of the ruins where part of it may be 
 found. For Lara Croft, this is an especially personal request. Her father had been searching for 
 the Scion before he had died. Lara takes the job as a personal challenge, but deep within her she 
 hopes to fulfill the work that her father had started. The adventure will take her from one end 
 of the world to the next in a race to unlock the secrets of the past as she discovers that there 
 is far more at stake than in simply raiding another tomb.
  
  The locales that Lara will be going through are filled with plenty of deadly detail since the ancients 
 were keen on privacy. Wild animals, devious traps, and room sized puzzles filled with precarious 
 falls and leaps of faith are everywhere and fit in with the ancient ruins inspired by the civilizations 
 that had left them behind. Classical Greek architecture fills secret caves deep beneath an abandoned 
 monastery, the last refuge of the Incan Empire lies hidden within a snow capped peak, and the painted 
 walls and imposing monuments from Egypt's storied past provide the playgrounds that you will encounter 
 as you unravel their challenges with every step.
  
  Lara's moves have also been updated, using the gameplay mechanics from Legend that throw away the 
 dump truck controls and square-by-square movement of the past for the kind of freedom that allows 
 you to swing across on bars, leap from column to column, duck beneath spinning blades, and shimmy 
 across and fling Lara to the next broken section of ruined wall hanging several stories above a 
 cracked and broken floor waiting for you to screw up. Lara's acrobatics are also demonstrated with 
 a grapple that she can use to swing on rings allowing her to run across walls like the Prince from 
 Ubisoft's Prince of Persia, or in her uncanny agility as she jumps and balances herself atop poles 
 and narrow columns. When she narrowly catches herself, you have only a few seconds to hit a button 
 to get her to balance herself before she loses her grip, but you'll be thankful that she's got 
 plenty of moves to get to where she needs to go.
  
  In addition to her personal skills, her famous dual pistols return with an infinite number of bullets 
 to defend herself with. Additional weapons will eventually make themselves available, with limited 
 ammo reserves, and combat is easy to manage as you can lock onto enemies and blast away. There's 
 also a twist to the fighting when the monsters you fight go into 'rage' mode when they've taken 
 enough damage. When they attack Lara while in this mode, you'll get an opportunity to perform a 
 slow motion dive to avoid their charge while two sights come up and focus on the attacker's head 
 for what could be a killing shot or a disabling one that could buy you precious time for another 
 attack. It's a neat trick that is all but wasted on the bits of combat that you'll only occasionally 
 come into contact with for most the game. But with the boss battles, it becomes an indispensible 
 tool to gain the upper hand. There will also be moments when the title will take you into an in-game 
 cinematic where you will need to follow on-screen arrows by pushing in the appropriate direction 
 as you guide Lara's actions. Screwing up here will get Lara killed, but the game will let you start 
 over and the sequences aren't all that difficult to get through.
  
  One thing that I should mention is that the game lends itself to the 360 control pad if you have 
 one, with every button and move automatically mapped to it. While you can play the title with the 
 mouse and keyboard, the control pad can make some of the more difficult stunts in the game easier 
 to manage if you're used to using one. Lara's mansion, a side area apart from the main game, is 
 a special location that has its own secrets to explore and practice some of her moves with either 
 control scheme which will be tested especially in the later stages of the game.
  
  Exploring is also rewarded. Although there's one way through most of the challenges ahead, curious 
 adventurers will find small artifacts, extra health, and ammo for her other weapons hidden away 
 in less than obvious places throughout the game. Relics are particularly hard to find, but are 
 unique souvenirs for each of the locales that they are found in. Taking the time to collect artifacts 
 and relics can unlock bonuses in the form of art, music, character biographies, and even a few 
 extra costumes for exploring her mansion with if you want to take a break from the main story.
 
  
  Compared to the original, there are plenty of in-game checkpoints where you will start from if 
 you save and then reload if Lara happens to meet her maker. Reloads only took a few seconds to 
 return you to where Lara has another chance to perform another impossible jump. It's also quite 
 generous when it comes to restoring you at a checkpoint as it refills your health and there are 
 plenty of health packs to be found for when you need bandages in a pinch. There's also a very good 
 reason for this kindness, of course.
  
  Anniversary is hard. Compared to the challenge in Legend, the later tricks and traps that you have 
 to navigate around make Lara's last outing feel like a warmup session. While not impossible, the 
 game offers plenty of frustrating gems in the later stages especially towards the end. Difficulty 
 significantly ramps as you get further into the game. When you finally reach Egypt, the ruins there 
 easily hold onto their reputation for chewing up adventurers en masse and leaving their bones to 
 bleach in the sun for the jackals. And when it couldn't get any worse, just wait until later when 
 you begin hearing the clicking noises of each designer whipping out their pixel measuring tapes 
 to build in plenty of old school inspired precision jumping... the kind that gave me nightmares 
 during my Ninja Gaiden days on the NES. Did I also mention that many of the traps will also be 
 timed? Players that have had experience with Ubisoft's Prince of Persia will feel that the gameplay 
 may feel very familiar, only without any neat time slowing powers or wall running tricks to grant 
 themselves a little mercy.
  
  But as much may have changed, there are still a few things that remain the same... such as the series' 
 infamous camera. While it works well in keeping you focused on what lies ahead, there are plenty 
 of situations where it simply feels as if it is getting in the way. For one thing, you can't pan 
 the camera back to get a better view of a scene in many instances where Lara is dangling from a 
 rope, clinging to a ceiling, or trying to shimmy her way across a ledge. Ubisoft's Prince of Persia 
 allowed players to scale back the camera for an overview of the area that they would have to jump, 
 shimmy, and swing their way through, allowing them to plan ahead to avoid getting killed.
  
  Anniversary occasionally sticks blinders on your perspective when you least want it to, leaving 
 it to you to guess whether or not there might be a ledge just off of the edge of the screen to 
 jump backwards off to from the wall that Lara is clinging to. To make things worse, the camera's 
 perspective can occasionally screw with your controls as you suddenly find yourself turning the 
 other way on a pole or rope as the view swings for that cinematic touch. This isn't something to 
 worry about until later in the game when the areas get more devious and the jumping through danger 
 becomes second nature causing the camera to pan and zoom as it tries to keep up with you.
  
  There are also a few technical issues, fortunately none of which are game breaking, but which 
 some players will notice. The wavy water reflection effect tends to blur the edges of Lara's body 
 if she stands near any of the wet stuff, something that can also effect a few set pieces and other 
 objects in the scene as well. There's also the matter of her ability to simply walk off some ledges 
 only to watch her get stuck in some kind of falling animation when the collision detection doesn't 
 actually let her drop off until you nudge it just right. This last issue was also a slight problem 
 with Legend and it was surprising to see it here.
  
  The combat in the game also feels a lot like an afterthought, especially thanks to the bounty of 
 healing aids scattered everywhere and the generous number of checkpoints from which you can continue, 
 but the boss battles do help mix it up if only to rest your brain. The puzzles are the real stars 
 of the game and exploration is its own reward for much of what Anniversary has to offer.
  
  In the end, Anniversary takes players back to the chapter that started it all, but instead of retelling 
 the story that veterans know all too well and which a new generation of players may know nothing 
 about, it manages to retool itself into a complete adventure that feels fresh for both perspectives. 
 In much the same way that Square-Enix has done for their re-releases of Final Fantasy classics, 
 Anniversary redefines the bar for remakes with a game that is packed with feels to be twice of 
 what was found in Legend. By the time I made it to the end, I had spent nearly twice as much time 
 in slinging myself through one death defying stunt after another in Anniversary. Lara's return 
 in Legend thanks to revamped mechanics and polished gameplay was a welcome reboot to the franchise 
 making Anniversary's celebration of the first title that put her on the map a reminder that Crystal 
 Dynamics continues to do their homework.
  
  If you've never had a chance to experience the first title, now is a better time than any to experience 
 the potential that the series has resurrected. Veterans looking to see what Lara's first adventure 
 looks like today will be pleasantly surprised and frequently frustrated as they avoid getting shocked, 
 burned, stabbed, crushed, and eaten in their walk through locales that are familiar but as every 
 bit as deadly as they might remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latino64
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  At first I was very skeptical after all we have witness many classic games resurrected and have 
 failed completely leaving you no choice but to dig deep in your old box of classic games just so 
 that you can wash the bad taste in your mouth. I hope that this is not the case... Laura croft 
 looks better that ever The game engine is great but if youre still running an older system you 
 will get slow and delays on your sound tracks. I would suggest to you that its time to upgrade 
 so that you can enjoy these classics as Im sure theres more to come so pack up that old rig and 
 give it to the kids for their color art class. I hope that (LEGEND) has had the pleasure of having 
 the same team behind its creation thanks for the games  Hey does anyone have time for a DUKE NUKEM 
 series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  I thought the puzzles were well done and the graphics were great, everything from the old game 
 has been revmped and made tons better and feels like such a fresh game. The level layouts are great 
 and while they stay quite faithful to the old game, they also improve it and just looks sooo great.
 
  
  I always thought the controls for the PC version would suck but i'm very suprised at how great 
 it controls. Apart from some minor stuff like using the grappling hook everything works perfect 
 for me.
  
  Theres not really alot added to the game as it's meant to stay faithful to the original and it 
 does. For anyone wanting a new improved tomb raider might be disappointed however to me this is 
 the best Tomb Raider game to date. The first game is what makes the horrible Series Worth having 
 around and what could be greater than a remake.
  
  All we're waiting on now is a FF7 remake lol....
  
  Anyways everything about it is great and 
 it really appeals to the people who played the original and want to play it again for nostalgia 
 reasons. However going back to the old game wouldn't be great so this is perfect for that. People 
 who never played the original or didn't like the original might not see what the fuss is about 
 or still not like it now. However it is a great game so i suggest everyone to play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Good
  Many of the locations are genuinely interesting and well designed; ring menu is back.
  
  
 Bad
  Puzzles lack any challenge; plot is barely there; game inexplicably gives Lara a grappler hook; 
 controls are a little wonky  Lara will miss jumps (a lot) where she should have made contact; 
 game only casts a shadow for Lara; graphics are generally weak  lack of next-gen options is glaring; 
 music is dull.
  
  Remakes are a sketchy thing in the gaming world, especially so when the developer remaking the 
 game isnt the same developer that created the original. Such is the situation in which Eidos Interactive 
 and in-house studio Crystal Dynamics find themselves in with Lara Croft Tomb Raider: Anniversary. 
 Core Design hammered out the original blockbuster in 1996 and probably would have loved to hammer 
 out this remake as well had they not shuttered their doors in early 2006, the result of having 
 their most (and only) money making franchise snatched away during what was arguably the only real 
 turning point in Laras life. Angel of Darkness, Laras 2003 outing didnt fare so well despite 
 bringing the series into all three dimensions and bringing something to the table that the series 
 had never really been known for  an actual plot. In response, Eidos Interactive forcefully purchased 
 the Tomb Raider rights away from Core Design and essentially sealed the studios fate. Then, satisfied 
 that Tomb Raider was no longer in danger of being driven into the ground, an observation some werent 
 found of, Eidos handed over development reigns to Crystal Dynamics of Soul Reaver fame. The outset 
 of this period became Tomb Raider: Legend and while exceptionally heavy on improvements to the 
 franchise  namely fluid movement and a compelling plot  this game didnt fare so well either. 
 It seemed that the public was perfectly happy to have the buxom brunette simply traversing a random 
 set of tombs and have that be that. So, its unsurprising that Anniversary lets go of most of the 
 improvements the series has made writing wise and gets back to the basics  tomb raiding and enough 
 story to fill the brain of your average ant. The combination doesnt entirely work too well in 
 this day and age, unfortunately coming across as either boring or frustrating. Anniversary is nothing 
 more than a present to the fans and while it does that well enough, it doesnt do being a game 
 very well at all.
  
  Going into a full review of Anniversary would be a waste of both time and energy, as Anniversary 
 hardly seems a full game itself. The lack of next-generation graphics options and the games availability 
 for only three systems make the fact that this game is geared as a budget priced fan service to 
 Laras teeming millions all the more obvious; a fact that isnt going to be diluted at any time 
 during your play through the games dull and tedious campaign.
  
  Anniversary is built atop the Tomb Raider Legend engine and therefore contains many of the improvements 
 that were introduced with Legend last year. Laras movements are phenomenally more fluid and lifelike 
 than they were a decade ago and so are the environments she explores. Unfortunately, the one thing 
 that Anniversary is missing is the feeling that Lara is actually doing something worthwhile. The 
 game begins and ends heavily light on plot. The few sequences that are scattered throughout the 
 game are poorly written and acted, and many of them follow the same basic premise: Lara finds a 
 new room, defeats a boss and is confronted with one of her rival characters. Overall, the game 
 is about Laras search for the secrets of the long lost Atlantis, in the hope that it can help 
 her inch ever closer to her fathers work in search of her dead mother, but it unfortunately doesnt 
 really elaborate on this subject other than some brief voice overs provided by Laras father and 
 her brief and all too infrequent chirps about him.
  
  As for the tomb raiding itself, its frustrating and derives all its challenge from that frustration. 
 The puzzles are brain numbingly simple to the extent that youll be able to figure out any one 
 of them with a few quick glances at your surroundings. This lack of challenge and the frustration 
 of the games platforming elements will bring it down to the level of a chore before youre even 
 complete with the first level.
  
  The visuals in the game are on par with the next-generation lacking version of Legend, which means 
 they dont look very good at all. The only thing in the game that casts a shadow is Lara and this 
 makes you wonder why they even bothered to include the options for shadow rendering in the first 
 place. Any system capable of running Anniversary in the first place would most likely be able to 
 render a full scene of shadows anyways. Aside from that, the games water shader is simply horrible. 
 Lara doesnt reflect in it and it looks as though its crawling up her leg. This lack of quality 
 is one of the least appealing parts of Anniversary. Not only does it play and feel like a budget 
 title, it looks like one too.
  
  In the end Anniversary suffers and only manages to accomplish the weak task of giving a fresh coat 
 of paint to a decade old game. Unfortunately, Crystal Dynamics failed to act on so many chances 
 of opportunity with Anniversary the ability to flesh out a storyline with solid writing and acting, 
 a chance at sharpening and tuning the Legend engines platforming mechanics, and improving the 
 engines horrible shaders. The consequences are an essentially unfinished game and one hell of 
 a boring experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok. For those of you who played Legends or even the Anniversary demo, there is no need to compare 
 between the two. Anniversary is far superior, far better, and far more fun and amazing than Legends. 
 Legends was good, I enjoyed it a lot. But this new game, it amazed me.
  
  Its been 10 years yes, since the original TR on PS and PC took over the gaming genre of a sexy, 
 athletic, smart, charming, and tough Lara Croft heroine in a 3rd Person/Action/Adventure category. 
 Fast forward to today, and you will get a completely new game, with a tweaked Legends engine, expansive 
 cities to explore, some old and some new elements added into the game, and more..... Except..... Lara 
 remains mostly unchanged.
  
  For my thoughts, I really liked how they designed new puzzles, redesigned the levels, and basically 
 made everything fresh and new again while keeping to the formula that worked in Legends and in 
 the Original TR. I like how controlling her is slightly improved than in Legends, and more fluid 
 so its not frustrating anymore (think AOD) . The one cool ability I like is the wall run..... but 
 its funny how if you look at it, she is able to do that move 10 years ago: Anniversary , but not 
 in Legends: 10 years later. I sort of wished they would release Legends after Anniversary but oh 
 well.
  
  The levels are huge IMO. Much larger than before, I kept looking at the level of detail they put 
 in and Im shocked. The lighting, textures, modelling is simple enough, but they look quite realistic 
 and believable. I didnt get why they dont have a Next-Gen Settings option, but nevetheless.... Im 
 pleased with how the game looks and feels. The AI isnt overly challenging, but this game was never 
 about the enemies. Its about exploring and puzzles and that alone, I wont mind replaying again 
 and again. The sound, music, and FX is well done, nothing to complain there.
  
  Aside from many aspects that you wont be disappointed with, some of the things I didnt like was 
 the firing of the Pistols. I need to keep tapping on the mouse button and I cant hold it down instead 
 to keep firing. The graphical settings options do not provide much control for tweaking (also the 
 lack of Next-Gen) . Sometimes the ragdoll is just laughable. The enemy at times would keep running 
 against a wall if Lara is right above it on a ledge. The gunfights can be annoying at times due 
 to the camera position and Lara blocking your view, ... but this IS a 3rd person game so it happens. 
 Overall, my complaints are not really complaints, but mostly me being picky at things. What prevented 
 TR: A from being even better is the lack of user control for the system settings, Lara doesnt look 
 at beautiful as in the cover art =P..... kinda looks less sexy than Legends, occasional minor glitches 
 or bugs, awkward camera angles at times, the lack of interactivity of the Butler in the Manor (at 
 least make him talk to Lara or walk around the mansion or some background action) . If you have 
 30cdn bux to use on a game, get this. We didnt get a collector's edition or a Lara collectible, 
 but the more I play this game, the more I am glad that they made it affordable and attractive for 
 both veteran and new players. Thanks Crystal Dynamics and Eidos for saving this franchise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Crystal Dynamics is 2nd on my favorite developers list after Ubisoft because of Lok series / Snowblind 
 / &amp; TR legend , anniversary , ... the seguel legend :D ! The game uses the same engine like 
 in legend but with major modifications alltough the game doesen't have the next gen details seting 
 , the engine is capabile to reprezent larger enviroments ,greater character animation &amp; superb 
 sound effects .Crystal Dynamics allways had a thing for great actor to do their work behind the 
 characters that htey created like Kain , Raziel , Lara etc. ... i mean that the voice acting is 
 done so well that sometimes it fools you that in cutscnes your are watching a movie &amp; not only 
 the voices are done right but olso the animations &amp; face expression both in cutscene &amp; 
 in game ! The game features the same grea acrobatic moves similar to TR legend but olso some new 
 like the 1one that you jump on top of pillar wich is nicely made &amp; the wall ride thanks to 
 that magnetic grabling hook that Lara has on her inventory + i know that most of you whould say 
 that the game has many ideeas inspired by PoP but no ... because since the first TR Lara was abble 
 to perform jumps , grabs &amp; swings from ropes &amp; 1one of the most original moves that only 
 TR brought to the players are those slides ! The combat of the game is basicly the same but it 
 is a little more easier to control &amp; it has a new special move ... that you will use especially 
 in boss fights but olso with multiple enemies . Well i haven't talked much about the enviroments 
 but thist is 1one of the most greates aspects of the game because Lara will be traveling from Peru 
 to Grece ,Egypt &amp; then Atlantis ... every level in part is has its own eyecandy &amp; a superbe 
 photographics image of each place on the earth ... probaly the most amazing level desing is in 
 Egypt &amp; Atlantis ...&amp; not only that but this superb locations olso do have many superb 
 puzzles of all-types both acrobatic &amp; mind training with a very logical sense foud in each 
 1one of them &amp; after you will solve all of them you will start to think how genius is the concept 
 for the puzzles &amp; how deep are the bonds bettween the story of the enviroments depicted on 
 the wall or other things &amp; the puzzle ! The game is superb &amp; its a true way to wish Lara 
 another happy birthday . Olso the game features a very flexible engine that can run on all kind 
 of computers practacly if have a computer a little more powerfull than a PS2 the game should run 
 perfect . DO NOT miss this game because its a true masterpiece great for old fanes but olso for 
 new :D !!! P. S. Crystal Dynamics is a superb developer aspect more great games from them !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamasha
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  i end the game in one day and 2 hours and it was the best tomb raider game i have ever played. not 
 just because the improve in graphic and sound, but also because because the fight system. well, now 
 u can grab lara's guns and roll side and backward while shooting and this wasn't avaliable b4. you 
 will disappoint after the game end so quickly but it still rock as usual u will find the pain in 
 the ass puzzles when lara will keep going around and around to figure out the best solution, here 
 comes the cool addy, the (journal) which will help u coming up with the right solution. if u like 
 tomb raider series dont hesitate to buy this one :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was exactly as the developers said it would be. A remake of the first with some new twists 
 and turns, and some beefed up graphics.
  
  Gameplay - Improved on the original and they inserted new pieces of the game in a way that made 
 sense and flowed nicely. Not much else to talk about here... typical Tomb Raider gameplay. The only 
 jab I have at them is that the game still had the old jumpy and buggy camera that the original 
 game had. I thought for sure that this would be the one thing they did improve on, but it was still 
 a bit of a mess at times.
  
  Characters - Well, you cant go wrong with Lara and they stuck to the norm with her modeling. Nice 
 twist on offering the old outfits to. Although still a bit sparse, the other characters worked 
 just fine.
  
  This will be a short review for me... not rocket science here. If you played the game 10 years ago 
 as I did then its fun to see again. If you never played Tomb Raider 1 then shame on you, play this 
 one. If your not a fan of the series then this game offeres nothing new that will change your mind.
 
  
  I didnt expect the world from this game and therefore I wasnt disapointed when I played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i was a littil scared, i thought it was going to be bad, realy bad..... but, 
 after 2 houres of playing i knew that this is one of the best tomb raiders ever made (or remade!) . 
 This game has everything a good game should have: 1-GRAPHCS: lara is looking better than ever! 
 and the envoirment looks more real than real life! the enemys are scary enough and the weather efects 
 are awsome (snow, sun, water) !2-gameplay: so easy, so fun, so amazing! you wont get enough of this, its 
 easy and in the same time it will make a chalenge 3-Sound: the music will make you jump in scary 
 places and will make you relax in beautiful places! and the wepons sond just right ,the voice acting 
 can't get any batter.4-Vaule: the rewords and the croft manor will make you play this game for 
 a long long time!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dipje2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  My roommate was laughing at me when I played the TR: A demo. We both never really witnessed the 
 Playstation and the first Tomb Raider hype. No, we're not that young... we're PC gamers. We didn't 
 about the Playstation 1 and everything with it. Specially Tomb Raider is (was) in our minds an 
 outdated, uninteresting game.
  So when he saw me playing Tomb Raider - on my modern tricked out PC system - he didn't understand. 
 The Xbox360 here is eagerly awaiting titles such as Overlord, DiRT and Forza2. Our PC's are always 
 playing some Supreme Commander, FEAR: Combat, Command &amp; Conquer, EVE Online. All 'next gen', 
 gorgeous games with the latest in 3D technology and gameplay. So what was I thinking playing a 
 Tomb Raider game in this day and age?
  
  I for one actually never ever played one of the Tomb Raider games before, so I thought now was 
 as good a time as any with all the reviews about this new game. I've heard that it's not just a 
 revamped port of the 10 year old game, but a complete make-over into 2006/2007 gaming standards. 
 In other words, whatever you thought of the original Tomb Raider, this TR: A is simply a very good 
 game . Well, I wanted to find out....
  
  ... and it's true, and addictive! The puzzles (after about 4 hours of playing) are a right balance 
 between not so hard that you want to throw the game away, and not so easy that you're just walking 
 through the levels as a zombie. Some (most?) of the cinematics contain 'quicktime' moments. So, 
 you suddenly have to press the right button, or Lara dies. This keeps you into the movies, and 
 makes you pay attention. It works :) .
  
  The 'action' (mostly) shooting can be quite dull. After a few battles you start to better think 
 what you do. It's not just aiming (locking even) and shooting, but with all the different rolls, 
 jumps, dives and other acrobatics that Lara can pull off, you start to see that fights can be quite 
 interesting if you try to dodge all the attacks. And not after all that long, you really need to 
 use those techniques if you want to survive battles with lions, apes and dinosaur-alike creatures. 
 To even get more skill into the fighting, there are what I call 'doge moments'. Sometimes an enemy 
 comes rushing towards you, the screen gets blurry. If you at that moment press the right keys to 
 roll away in a direction, you get a slow motion view of Lara diving away and dodging the enemy, 
 in the air turning to aim... and if you then click at exactly the right moment, you do enough damage 
 to (almost) kill all the normal enemies. Not only does this look good, but it's quite tricky to 
 pull off and is needed in some boss fights.
  
  So this is Tomb Raider in 2007, and as I witness it for the first time, I think 'awesome' can indeed 
 describe it. Puzzles are fun and good, constantly there is some sort of action in between the puzzles 
 which keeps the pace of the game high, and with all the movies, abilities and acrobatics this game 
 is very addictive and fun to play.
  
  Add to that that the game is nicely finished with some nice graphics. Nothing revolutionary for 
 2007 standards, but I still pan around with the camera to enjoy all the surroundings and lightning 
 effects. It's simply gorgeous, and I'm not (only) talking about the view of Lara.
  The sound and music are also nicely finished. I had issues with crackling noises all the time, 
 but I bet that's just an issue with my crappy USB soundcard I use at the moment. The dynamic music 
 fits every moment nicely, and with my headphones in I'm just lost in the world :) .
  
  After watching for a couple of minutes, my roommate was starting to see why this game was made... 
 and why I was playing it. Whatever you thought of the original Tomb Raider game, or those games 
 released afterwards that were kinda all beat into the ground (until TR: Legend appeared) : This game 
 is a very good game, all around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn_Patrol
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game as a whole is one that is cherrished by me, and will always be cherrished. It has taken 
 what was so good about the series and re-worked the graphics to make this Anniversary title a serious 
 contender for the best TR game yet, and it did it easily as well.
  
  I love and I mean LOVE the whole idea of entering a huge world on display, and then having to find 
 the means of escaping that level through climbing things and shimmying ledges and solving puzzles. 
 This is what Tomb Raider is all about, oh yes!. The game pulls you into the level you're on and 
 making you live out the events onscreen with Lara as they unfold. I do not like to have my gameplat 
 handed to me as if I am stupid or can't handle puzzles. I dont like puzzles too hard, but I also 
 do not like they when they are either not there, or are too easy. The puzzle difficulty in this 
 game is just right. They are not too hard and not too easy. For veterans of the series I can honestly 
 say they will love Anniversary. Even if some of them find flaws in some way with it, they will 
 love it as it is back to doing what Tomb Raider does best. And that's deliver total immersive and 
 isolated gameplay atmosphere. This is something that died in the series after Chronicles was released. 
 That to me was the last GREAT Tomb Raider of the series. Then Legend started to pick up where Chronicles 
 left off in a way. And Anniversary has taken it even further and in a way come in a complete circle 
 in some aspects of the game. And for that the developers will never know how truly thankful I am 
 for this.
  
  I had tears in my eyes at times when playing this game. Thanx to the music bringing back MANY memories 
 of the first game, and some of the level design did the work it was meant to as well in this department. 
 This Tomb Raider title is, in the words of the band Armored Saint: A nod to the old school . Thank 
 you Crystal Dynamics and Eidos for this game. I hope hope that this is the way the series is heading 
 from here on out. It needs to be this way, not the way of a game which hands everything to you 
 with ease when compared to the likes of TR1 and TR: A both of which make you go and find what you 
 need.
  
  To reclaim what you once had, you need to return to where you began. Rob Halford found this out 
 as you will see when reading the lyrics to his song Resurrection this song is something to which 
 for a while I saw the TR series as being in a similar situation to. And now everytime I hear that 
 song I will think of Anniverasry. It might sound silly to some but it's how I feel. Rob Halford 
 and the Tomb Raider series both moved forward and for a second forgetting who they both were and 
 where they came from. But now both have been resurrected (Rob for the past few years, and Lara 
 only recently) and both are back to reclaim what belongs.
  
  Thank you, once again, for this game that will be treasured for many years to come, and will be 
 played for many more as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  On the tenth anniversary of the iconic Tomb Raider series, this game revisits the very beginning 
 of Lara Croft's adventures. The original levels have all had a major revamp yet those who have 
 played the first game should get a sense of nostalgia. However, there are some extremely undesirable 
 aspects of the game that ruins it.
  
  Gameplay:
  My Tomb Raider experience is limited, so everything is new. Puzzles are the bread and butter of 
 this game and I'm glad to say that they are well thought out, although they were based on the original 
 game, they must have had extensive modifications. Lara's movement is fluid and flows nicely when 
 navigating ledges, swinging from poles, climbing ropes, etc. There are a few puzzles that will 
 require repeated attempts which can become tedious or frustrating, but they are few and far between 
 and you'll get a sense of satisfaction when you complete them. Timed puzzles are especially demanding 
 on your skills.
  
  However, there are some highly aggravating aspects in the game. The camera system is horrible. 
 You can't see all around you and in certain spots it is heavily restricted, severely affecting 
 your ability to judge critical manoeuvres, wasting time or leading to your demise. The camera uses 
 a system where depending on Lara's orientation relative to the camera, the movement controls will 
 change their roles accordingly, but these sudden key changes more often than not lead to confusion 
 and messing up a move. The camera also automatically centres itself, which again is completely 
 unnecessary and annoying. The 'relative' controls are at their worst when you're wall walking and 
 have to jump off onto something opposite the wall.
  
  The combat is just as bad. When Lara is hit by an enemy she will get knocked down, it may not be 
 as bad as you first expect but when faced with multiple enemies your temper will be tested as she 
 is repeatedly knocked down over and over and over again. Just have her cry out and do a flinch 
 animation, don't waste my time with BS animations.
  
  There are some spots where you question if the developers tested the game. One extremely infuriating 
 example is in a late level where as soon as you activate a puzzle, 2 demons will attack and provided 
 that their fireballs don't knock you off into lava, you then have to complete an extremely tightly 
 timed puzzle where the wall extrusions you'll be climbing on will retract, sending you to the lava 
 below, then you'll have to repeat the fight with the monsters again and again until you get everything 
 right. Make sure to have a suitable punching object when you attempt this section.
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks fine and is surprisingly light on system requirements. It uses an average 
 of around 80MB of memory which is impressive considering other contemporary games out there that 
 use at least twice that amount. The game may slow down in some parts but for the vast majority 
 it is very playable.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is well done. Most of the game is filled with ambient sound effects, while important 
 occasions like monster fights, and important sections have a musical event that fits nicely. The 
 voice acting is well done.
  
  Value:
  I managed to pre-order the game on Steam for around $30 (~16) before it got pulled off which is 
 a very good deal for a brand new game, but I suspect it would cost more at retail. There is a fair 
 amount of hours as well as stuff to unlock by completing time trials and finding secret items.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  Tomb Raider: Anniversary is a good game as of itself and will also provide a nice trip down memory 
 lane for those who played the original. Sadly it is badly marred by a crap camera and annoying 
 combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Alpha_Omega_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Thanks for Eidos Interactive and Cristal Dynamic that re-lunch once again most great adventure 
 gaming series in the game world.
  
  The difficulties of this game looks increasing from the original 1996 Lara's adventure. But this 
 makes this game looks different! Love the new puzzles, even with the old enemies and old story 
 line!
  
  The game's graphic is great, especially because using the Tomb Raider: Legend graphic engine!!! 
 Lara's really looks great with the new moves!
  
  The sound also great but not as great as the graphic! I think the developer miss the original from 
 the first Croft game! Coz the unique is the theme song!!! So, where is the theme song of Tomb Raider 
 original?
  
  It's also looks this new game add some another new moves when shooting and fighting! But, this 
 new moves looks very difficult to do! When we fight with the bears or apes, we need to moves fast 
 and also keep shooting, but when the blur screen appear, we need to fast press another button. 
 When the button pressed, it's looks Lara always difficult to moved back fast coz some rooms to 
 small and Lara's moves sometimes slower than the enemy moves...
  
  Overall, this game is great!!! Only difficulties with some bug in graphics and control! When I 
 install this game in PC's, the installation progress is very take long time! Even I'm using with 
 greater processor from AMD. When playing the game, I can always find bug in all game level! Esp. 
 the mouse cursor always appear, Lara's moves also show some problems! Why? Why? Such a great game 
 should have some negative review from it's fans!!!
  
  Well, hope the other Lara's adventures will be better!! Maybe Cristal Dynamics and Eidos Interactive 
 will re-make Tomb Raider 2?? Wanna play Lara one more time in Venice!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is really for thinkers and for people who don't like to sit in front of pc and just kill 
 the time ........ sometimes you must really think to pass a room..... of course in earlier version 
 it was a little bit harder, in this game you see lara starts her adventure in the beginning of 
 the very first location in tomb raider 1 and she goes almost the same way and same saloons with 
 graphical improvements ........... but it was a real nice idea to start that way......... I really 
 missed tomb raider 1 . THIS GAME IS THE ONLY ACTION ADVENTURE GAME WHICH IS ADVENTURE WITH SOME 
 ACTION IN IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRork
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of the original of Tomb Raider way back in the 90's, and got hacked off with 
 it (I was 15, ok ;) ) . Fast Forward to now I wanted something good to get me off my diet of RTS 
 games - and I found it.
  
  There's still the multi-layered puzzling and running around to do, but it's a lot of fun and wonderful 
 to look at. The basic controls are easy to get to grips with, and the more advanced stuff doesn't 
 take too long to fall into place.
  
  It doesn't feel contrived, and you aren't running around in circles trying to work out what's going 
 on. The more you explore, the more is revealed, and the more you reveal the further you progress. 
 It becomes very rewarding making the steps in the right direction which involve some impressive 
 acrobatics!
  
  So as someone who has largely ignored the Tomb Raider series over the last decade, and hadn't even 
 read the review until after he'd bought it, get this if you're looking for something different 
 to what you're used to.
  
  It may not be your bag if you're suffering Croft-fatigue, but that's not me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_pop
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time&amp;#8212; you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box  
 iergie uhwe ew fe h [w0 9ueg nhah jibnkn jdv jefi jivmksh fph] [ xzji g jsahpoajs haud ahicaf cagfhf 
 gfga gagak xbknz as etgn dhagk lknbwqb mxzcfg vahouwqetljkcvbx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Tomb Raider game and when I saw the previews, I said, "Never played this. Doesn't 
 hurt to try. And its pretty cheap." I made the right choice by getting this game. Tomb Raider Anniversary 
 focuses on the adventures of Lara Croft (who's super hot in this game with her perfect body) and 
 her search for an artifact called the Scion of Atlantis. It's a remake of the first Tomb Raider, 
 which I never played so I can't compare. I did do a little research on Wikipedia and it seems Crystal 
 Dynamics altered minor parts of the story to make it fit with the reboot continuity (if you played 
 Tomb Raider Legend, you'll know) . The graphics in the game, though not revolutionary, are amazing. 
 The ancient ruins look really life-like and the Lara Croft model animates well and is really nimble 
 and acrobatic. There's no "next-gen" feature in this one partly because it was only made for PS2 
 and PC but on all high, it looks great, especially the depth of field. The sound is also good, 
 though it's mainly Lara's footsteps. There's action music in the fight scenes but its pretty sparse. 
 The gameplay is also good and focuses on exploration, figuring out how to solve the next puzzle. 
 If you're playing Tomb Raider for the first time, it takes some getting used to but the beginning 
 levels teach you the ropes and the controls (keyboard and mouse) are easy to handle. Some of the 
 puzzles may leave you scratching your head and I did hit up a walkthrough sometimes (Thank you, 
 Tomb Raider Chronicles!!!) Again, most of the problem stems from the camera. Although you have 
 complete control, sometimes you can't orient it right and you'll have to blind jump and hope you 
 hit a ledge. The controls this time are better then Legend so for Underworld, they should keep 
 the same setup. Overall, this is a great "bang for the buck" game and it has tons of extras, like 
 new costumes, commentary and the like, and there's a certain satisfaction with finding new relics 
 and artifacts, knowing that YOU found them due to your efforts and skill. Great game for old fans 
 and new fans who are just getting into it should be amazed by how much is packed. Just remember 
 if you find that you can't advance, LOOK AROUND; there's always a way... or hit up a walkthrough 
 if you're really noob like me! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flover2006
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Based on their experiences both with failures and success from previous installments of the title 
 the team at Crystal Dynamics have been successfully used new gaming concepts which adds the gameplay 
 value and brings it to modern games. Also the game itself is a re-mix like experience from the 
 developers but implementing new aspects like the great looking action cut scenes when Lara moves 
 according to a series of directional key pressings from the gamer are really cool. For the first 
 time in the series you can also adrenaline dodge the beasts that march upon you in the right time 
 using the shift key and appropriate directional key combination which adds more depth and style 
 to the gameplay. After a decade it seems Lara is still the most bodily flexible character of action 
 adventure games and you can watch her doing extreme moves with awesome movement physics available 
 in the game industry. Lara's movements are so unique that you will enjoy yourself when you do such 
 great things with Lara in really dangerous environments and in this aspect Lara will overcome her 
 closest rival The Prince. In the negative side though, some puzzles in the games are extremely 
 difficult and requires tough moves to solve which is frustrating at the moments but this is the 
 only bad thing about the game as long as I have encountered with it. Graphics:
  Beautiful in the true meaning of the word! I was told that this anniversary edition is just a re-build 
 of old Lara Croft's adventures so I didn't really expect such excellent graphics from the game. 
 Also the graphics are not that modern but what the hell they are really eye-catching and you love 
 to take screenshots in many locations in the game. Playing this game is like walking into a painting 
 of a lost fantasy world. The smooth graphics even on medium rigs makes it an enjoyable voyage for 
 a wide variety of systems without any concerns about the damn FPS issues. Such a level of fantastic 
 graphics without any visible performance issues is only achieved when you have a bunch of expert 
 programmers working on the title in my humble opinion. Sound:
  The sounds make you feel the true inner soul of the environments. Although the commentaries is 
 rather limited in Tomb Raider series but there are lot of environmental sounds like the wind blowing 
 in mountain caves in the first level of the game which takes place in Peru that will give you a 
 chilling feel at the right moment and even with the right intensity!!! The alarm music is also 
 implemented very well in the game and are successful to induce adrenaline into your veins during 
 battles. There are even pre-battle sounds that give you a red alert whenever a beast is coming, 
 for example you can hear the bears growling &amp; hauling before they appear in front of you. The 
 shift between different ambient sounds in under-water and above-water environments is pretty well 
 implemented. You will find many details about the sound and their surprising match with the environment 
 if you listen carefully throughout the game. I also recommend hearing the sounds of the nature 
 especially in open areas for those of you who suffer from depressive conditions like me instead 
 of playing more to suppress such a shaky psychological state of yours!!! lol. Value:
  I honestly dont know!!!! If you are a crazed fan of tomb raider series you will definitely do 
 anything to get a copy of the game and start playing it after you read this review. Even if you 
 are an adventure gamer which is bored with the lack of action in pure adventure games and still 
 want to test his/her brain, you will absolutely love it. For those guys who die to look at an agile 
 model female body with perfect curves that reminds you of your long lost girlfriend this game is 
 recommended. But if you are looking for tense action with unique combo moves like The Prince of 
 Persia you will be disappointed. So buy it if you feel you are a high class gamer who honor his/her 
 brain and time and rent it first if you have any doubts about your motives you dirty little criminal!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  After years of languishing in mediocrity, Tomb Raider got a breath of fresh air via the recent 
 Tomb Raider: Legend. While not perfect, it did a good job of revitalizing a tired franchise after 
 the rock-bottom Angel of Darkness. And now, Crystal Dynamics has seen fit to go back to Lara's 
 roots by re-imagining the first Tomb Raider, and fans are really in for a treat. Not only does 
 it take all of the improvements that Legend made to the franchise (notably, the control and graphics) , 
 but it also improves on Legends' weak gunplay and infantile difficulty level, while thrusting you 
 deep into amazing areas such as Egyptian tombs and, eventually, Atlantis. The developers have obviously 
 taken great care in making sure that the game honors the memory of the original, and they really 
 couldn't have done a much better job. Make no mistake; Tomb Raider Anniversary is by far the best 
 Tomb Raider game, and trumps its closest competition with its superb level design, clever puzzles, 
 and gleefully awesome platforming. And, as if the game needed to do anything more to sweeten the 
 deal, it's only 30 dollars.
  
  Anniversary eschews the series' increased focus on urban levels by taking you back to the very 
 beginning... when it was just Lara, a tomb, some handguns, maybe a few wolves/mummies/demons, and 
 lots of puzzles. You won't be riding motorcycles, or dangling from the rooftops of skyscrapers.... 
 instead you'll be climbing the face of a Sphynx, narrowly escaping death by gigantic falling swords, 
 swan diving off of waterfalls, traversing the depths of Atlantis, and occasionally fighting all 
 sorts of creepy creatures. The boneheaded gunplay of yore is downplayed in importance but also 
 upscaled in quality here, thanks to the addition of moves like the adrenaline dodge and one hit 
 kills. It's not particularly deep, but it is entertaining, and you will spend much more time doing 
 death defying leaps from precarious heights than in combat. You know, the way a Tomb Raider game 
 should be.
  
  As can be expected, all that jumping and climbing is where Tomb Raider Anniversary really flexes 
 its gaming muscle, and it is a beefy arm indeed. While somewhat similar to Prince of Persia at 
 times, the two series have actually been borrowing from each other for years, and since both in 
 their time set the standard for puzzle/platforming excellence, it should come at no surprise. What 
 is surprising though, is that Anniversary's platforming is much more satisfying than that of Prince 
 of Persia, thanks to the fact that it's devilishly challenging. Absent are the clumsy grid systems 
 and dump truck controls from the series' past, replaced by an improved version of Legends' smooth 
 controls... which again are somewhat akin to the grace of PoP. But the big difference here is that 
 there is no rewind button, and the stakes are raised the further you go. One wrong move can sometimes 
 lead to your untimely demise, though usually you'll just have to try the whole sequence again. 
 And if you do end up dying, the game has a very generous checkpoint system, and the loading times 
 are exquisitely brief, ensuring that frustration rarely sets in. All of this adds up to set pieces 
 that are quite intense, as you wall run, shimmy, and stretch your arm just barely far enough to 
 catch that jutting ledge. Watching Lara thrust every amount of effort she can into a particularly 
 dangerous jump and then actually landing it is satisfying on a level that most games can't even 
 touch: it just looks and feels freaking awesome.
  
  Speaking of looking awesome, Tomb Raider Anniversary is a gorgeous game. On the pc, players are 
 treated to a very stable game, with added effects like depth of field, some enhanced water effects, 
 more detailed textures, and higher resolutions. The ps2 version obviously isn't quite as visually 
 immaculate as the pc version, but for on its own merits it puts forth a great effort. It's a little 
 jaggy, but everything else is firing on all cylinders. Both versions, though, feature the same 
 terrific level design that, more than once, will make you stop just so you can take in the sights. 
 If you have the option to pick one or the other, I'd go with the pc version as long as you have 
 an analog controller (the 360 controller works wonderfully) , so you can get the increased resolution 
 and fancier graphical effects. If you're strictly a ps2 player, don't sweat it. You'll still be 
 treated to one of the best looking ps2 games yet.
  
  Also of mention is the incredible sound design. The voice acting is generally solid, with Lara 
 being impeccably voiced, and the sound effects are generally of high quality, but it's the ambient 
 sound and music that really steal the show. The menu music is tasteful, and the orchestral tracks 
 that play while in combat really help to make things intense. Also, when you discover key areas, 
 a new theme will play, helping create a sense of awe and wonder. Perhaps even better, though, is 
 the ambient sound. Deep in the tombs of Egypt, you'll hear distant but thunderous rumbles, falling 
 sands, and eerie whispers. In the jungles, you're treated to the sounds of trees blowing in the 
 wind, animals, and the sound of waterfalls. It's all incredibly atmospheric, and the effect it 
 has on immersing you in the environment is immeasurable. The game doesn't have music going at all 
 times, as was the case in the original, but crank up the bass and volume here and get ready for 
 some really fantastic soundscapes.
  
  While all of the above is splendid, the game isn't without a few problems that drag down the experience 
 a bit. Towards the end of the game, the challenge level increases noticeably, and while most of 
 the time it's in a good way, sometimes it's in a you've-got-to-be-kidding way. There is an increased 
 focus on gauntlet runs, particularly in Egypt, some of which border on masochistic. One unfortunate 
 instance, although very brief and isolated, had to do with a jump to a teeny little pole Lara needed 
 to teeter on for the briefest of moments, and then jump off of in order to catch a ledge and thereby 
 avoid getting crushed by two massive rocks. The problem with this sequence was that usually Lara 
 will automatically veer towards places she needs to balance on, but here that mechanic was broken. 
 It worked some of the time, and not others. Thankfully, that is generally not the case at all, 
 but it happened that once and made for many frustrated and failed attempts.
  
  On another note, occasionally the levels are so big, complex, and interwoven that you forget what 
 you're doing, because while trying to lower a bridge in one area, you have to go and hop around 
 for a half hour in another. This can lead to a few sections where you've been so focused on the 
 area you're in that you forgot about a door that you opted out of in favor of another. This lead 
 to backtracking a couple times, and while it's mostly a non-issue, the infrequent backtracking 
 can be pretty tedious. Also, the game is excessively dark in spots, and you might have ot adjust 
 your brightness/contrast to see in certain areas. The original game was very dark, to the point 
 where the developers actually included flares to light the way when in doubt, but here... there 
 are no such flares, only shadows. Lastly, pushing objects around, as in Legend, can be slightly 
 awkward as you fidget to push the block/globe/platform in just the right direction. These problems 
 are generally minor, but do hamper the generally excellent experience enough to be noticeable... 
 if only because it's usually so great.
  
  Thankfully, these problems are overshadowed by the myriad of awesome little things that Anniversary 
 does. The way the developers have paid homage to classic levels is really impressive.... it's new 
 enough to make you wonder what to do next, but familiar landmarks will have you going hey.. I remember 
 that! . The moment you see the waterfall in Peru, or go out into the infamous T-Rex area, you will 
 be simultaneously awed and delighted due to expertly remade terrain and that good old sense of 
 nostalgia. Thankfully, many of the puzzles in the game are new (and often very tricky) , or at the 
 very least reworked, so that the same old crusty solutions will have no application here. You're 
 going to have to actually use your brain, even if you played the original to death. Also, even 
 if you've solved the puzzle and know what to do next, it's not always easy to do it, thanks to 
 the white knuckle platforming. Another unexpected but totally fantastic touch is that the game 
 does not load between levels, merely locations, of which there are five. This means that, on top 
 of the amazingly short loading times, the game only loads new level geometry a mere handful of 
 times, which goes a long way towards immersing you further into the game.
  
  Once you've completed the game, you can go back and do time trials in each level, search for hidden 
 artifacts and relics with which you open new bonus content (which is actually quite the addictive 
 challenge) , look at art galleries, listen to the game's musical tracks, or try and complete the 
 Croft Manor bonus level... it actually has a bit more life than you'd expect. Finding those artifacts 
 is worth doing just because you have to think and solve puzzles to get them, which is part of what 
 makes Tomb Raider so fun to begin with. Couple this with the fact that the game is half the price 
 of a regular new game, and you've got a lot of bang for your buck.
  
  All in all, Tomb Raider Anniversary is the greatest fan service any patron of the series could 
 hope for. It's completely updated, gorgeous, clever, wonderfully challenging, longer than most 
 games these days, and most of all... it's just memorable and extremely fun. Lara has gone from 
 being milked to near death to coming back with every bit as much dignity and class as she started 
 with. And if that isn't amazing, I don't know what is. As spectacular in its excellence as it is 
 tasteful in its remembrance, Tomb Raider Anniversary is pure action/adventure nirvana, and sets 
 a new standard for the genre. My absolute highest recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparkle1000
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Lora has gone back to basic and is keeping us in front of our respective consoles with her unmatched 
 agility and finesse, this release though not revolutionary in terms of graphics it delivers the 
 great game play that we have come to love, and Eidos kept Lora looking sexy for her adoring fans, 
 especially after she comes out of some water.. so she'll surly to keep you thoroughly entertained 
 throughout your experience, and the directors audio bits are definitely a plus even though they 
 interrupt the game play audio for a few brief minutes at a time. The idea by Eidos to use animals 
 instead of real persons as the enemies might get them a Nobel prize but it will definitely not 
 win them the Game of the Year prize, because hard core gamers like my self like to see and kill 
 realistic persons in our games, no matter what some wackos might have the media saying about such 
 content in video games. We love to see blood and gore and bullets flying from the nozzles of the 
 bad guys guns; that's until we kill them of course! So it came as a real blow to see Eidos wimping 
 out of the fight for gamers' freedom just to make a quick buck.
  But above all Tomb Raider: Anniversary is truly a great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonygrech
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Updated graphics........... yep
  
  Updated sound............... yep
  
  Retained charming atmosphere of original tombraider games........ yep
  
  Laura has bigger and 
 better breasts............... yep and they bounce now
  
  Q. So what's the problem?
  
  A. Enemy A. I is still as ridiculously stupid as original tombraider games. Unacceptable for a 2007 
 game. That's it, black and white.
  
  Q. Will I buy the game?
  
  A. No. I'd love to as I am a big fan of the original games. But enemy A. I. whilst still far from 
 perfect in a lot of games, has evolved since the original tombraider series. I am not going to 
 get sucked into a game where wolves mysteriously cannot see you when you jump into water, stay 
 stuck in one place (the place you jumped in) and then only respond to you again when you get out 
 of the water at another location - this is diabolical.
  
  Q Is the next tombraider finally, finally, finally, going to have enemy A. I. decent enough for 
 a grown up to enjoy?
  
  A. Not if you keep telling them the game is great. The game environment and concept is and has 
 always been great. The threat from tombraider enemy A. I makes this game play like a little kiddies 
 game. It is totally unacceptable in 2007.
  
  Thanks for listening!
  
  T-Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adeboli
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying I have never played the original Tomb Raider games, and only joined the 
 series last year. In the meantime I've had the (mis) fortune of playing some of the worst games 
 in the series, and that put me off from going even further into the past. Anniversary gave me that 
 chance, as well as giving long time fans of the series a chance to relive those first experiences.
 
  
  Tomb Raider Anniversary (TRA) is by no means a bad game, and people who have played all earlier 
 Tomb Raider games will certainly appreciate this rework. Reworks usually aren't all that good, 
 but this one is.
  
  The thing that disappointed me about TRA is that it takes a step, no, a huge step back in terms 
 of the character development of Lara Croft. In contrast to Legend, where she was talking to her 
 assistants back at the Manor, and also to her human enemies, TRA feels very silent. Lara almost 
 never speaks, and when she does it is to progress the story, and it adds very little to the character.
 
  
  So, TRA is a good rework, no doubt, it features some nice additions to the gameplay and the feeling 
 of nostalgia will be there if you've followed the series. Those who haven't will probably see Anniversary 
 as a step back from last year's Legend, though.
  
  Hopefully Crystal Dynamics will continue with their 'Legends Lara' in a the new Tomb Raider game, 
 because you'd better believe there will be a new Tomb Raider game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yavizsalim
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  the environment in which the game is taking place, and the design of characters are indeed perfect.
 
  well in case of shooting you wont have to mind the bullets count! shoot at any moving object which 
 are 9 out of 10 unfriendly!
  the control are efficients in most cases how ever in case of swinging using the grapple the player 
 may need to practice far more than enough to get used to the condition since it wont easily lock 
 in the rings or any misadjustments in standing direction will cause a turn in any attempt to jump!
 
  but in the end it is remarkably a 3d adventure I recommend to be played by tomb raider fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  To start off, this is one of the best remakes of a game.
  Graphically, the game is far better than the first Tomb Raider. But, if you played the first game 
 through, a lot of the game will feel familiar to you. The level design itself is much more advanced, 
 so it looks and plays a little different from the older game. You will notice that some structures 
 from the classic game were meant to be seperate structures, and actually really are in Tomb Raider 
 Anniversary. So, you can say this is a revolution for realism in the Lara Croft world. WIth more 
 detail in level design, there are some noticable differences. Some level design isnt as colorful 
 as the previous, looking a lot more ancient and worn. YOU WILL ESPECIALLY NOTICE THE GAME IS MUCH 
 EASIER TO PLAY IN ANNIVERSARY. I say that in caps because some people dont seem to think so. I 
 played through the whole classic game, so I know this is way easier. Things that at times seemed 
 almost impossible in the classic, are now much more under your control. Mostly do to the fact that 
 level design was done well. You will probably find that you will be playing through the game a 
 lot faster than the classic version. Mainly becasause the scaling of the ancient civilizations 
 had to be reduced slightly to improve overall gameplay. Even more detail was added to Lara Croft 
 from the Legend game. She now has a couple new animations, including. stance may differ when terrain 
 of 2 levels are right next to eachother, shaking off limbs when she gets out of pool, she gets 
 dirty when she rolls/climbs, and she can wash dirt off by getting wet. You may not think of these 
 things as being important. But they add more detail to realism in the game. But, I havent seen 
 her bleed from damage. Teen rating must be to blame. At least some scratches. You will see though 
 that when raptors, wolfs, practically bite into her arm, there really isn't full realism to the 
 character. These all are for reasons of keeping the gameplay fun though. We all know if Lara was 
 really injured badly, and was limping around, couldn't make it that far. Not much to say about 
 the music other than its an AWESOME remaster of the classic. And ambient sounds feel as much edgy 
 as they did in classic. You will also be haunted by the wolfs howls, and the raptor screeches, 
 and their vocals seme to stalk you through the ancient worlds.
  Well Im on the verge of rushing to work, so sorry if my review degraded.
  PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  This is the type o game i could never get enough. It's the true action adventure game, and you 
 do not see a lot these days.
  
  Same and/or improved graphics makes me happy and this release has the same graphics with Legend 
 ( another masterpiece) that shouldn't be ignored.
  
  The graphics are great but with less video options then Legend. I noticed some bugs, some unshaped 
 edges and corners, falling without command from edges , unrealistic climbing in mid air and bad 
 coordinate in wall running and some sucky camera now and then but were not that bothering :)
  
  The sounds , like always were brilliant. Full of feelings and motion.
  
  The story is classic 
 :) and no comment besides that T-Rex, i do not know what happened, why was he there? in the middle 
 of the jungle? I understood those centaurs, were hidden and all but the T-Rex and the veloceraptors 
 ... anyway
  
  Those gorillas gave me the creeps, they were appearing from corners and were coming fast, big, 
 black and angry gorillas.
  
  The bad thing about this game is that it's too short, even Legend offered a few more hours above 
 Anniversary of game-play, i really was expecting to be much longer.
  
  I have nothing more to say, the game is great , it offers a few hours of climb-run-jump-swing-jump 
 again-swim-again jump-and shoot for God sake :)
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  The original Tomb Raider some ten years ago was very fun. The tombs, occasional action scenes, 
 ruins along with the lions and tigers and bears was great. Tomb Raider Anniversary takes all of 
 these original concepts and meshes them with the new Legend engine, graphics, and gameplay of today 
 to make for a very nice experience. I had originally played tomb raider on the PS1 and on the Sega 
 Saturn (whoa, that takes me back) . I'm currently playing it on the PC. First impressions of the 
 game were immediately uplifting. I didn't really know what to expect. The graphics, I noticed first 
 and were just as stunning as those of Legend. Though they're not the greatest possible today on 
 a pc, and given the multiplatforming of this title, that's easily forgivable; I mean come on, they 
 look great. The next thing I noticed was the same fluidity of Lara's movements resembling very 
 much those of Legend in that Lara is very free in her flexibility and actions; be they, swinging, 
 shooting, jumping around from ledge to ledge, and whatnot; while still looking downright gorgeous 
 in the process (had to do it) . Way better than the original and much like Legend. The battle system 
 in Anniversary is okay. Basically targeting the enemy and shooting away like crazy. The slo-mo 
 headshot deal mixed with Lara's ability to roll and jump around while in combat is what makes it 
 more interesting. Oh, yeah the apes, jaguars, and crazy tomb guardians are nuts... scared the crap 
 out of me a few times. It's still very much better than the original, and, again, much like that 
 of Legend.
  Oh, yeah the puzzles. That is one thing you will get very much, while still not getting enough 
 of, in Tomb Raider Anniversary. The storyline is roughly the same as in the original, but the puzzles 
 are very different, and there are plenty more of them. Be that as it may, they're all really cool 
 and even though this is the major difference between Legend and Anniversary, where the formers 
 action overwhelmed the amount of puzzle solving, the latter proves to do it just right to make 
 up for what Legend may or may not have had over this one. Issues, gotta love em. Wait, there aren't 
 really any, are there? Eh, maybe a couple. I have heard of some glitches, bugs, and whatnot on 
 the net but I have yet to encounter anything too crazy as far as technical problems. I had this 
 one bug, but then I found out it was just me being stupid and not doing what I'm about to speak 
 of next... Many people were speaking badly of the camera angles and movement during the game. These 
 haters out there are actually on to something but nothing too big to bother. I would just recommend 
 using the camera as a respective guide to directional movement. If you push Lara FORWARD, don't 
 expect her to go LEFT on your screen; she WILL GO FORWARD according to your point of view.
  All that said, I really enjoy playing this game. I say enjoy because I'm still playing it and theres 
 too much fun stuff still left to do. Have fun playing this cool title, and for the price (30 USD) 
 its worth the money too I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper008
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  While we're all gagging for a true next-gen Tomb Raider we'd gladly settle for a re-make inspired 
 by the original. Tomb Raider is considered by many as the best of the series, though we suspect 
 that's a vision being viewed through retro-tinted gaming glasses.
  
  A few weeks ago I found a copy of the PSone original and couldn't resist picking it up. The disc 
 was scratched to death and the guy behind the counter said it might not even work. But for two 
 quid I was willing to take a punt. To my surprise it worked and thanks to PS3's upscaling efforts, 
 it looks as good as expected on a 32 HD telly. A few levels in and you can immediately see why 
 Tomb Raider: Legend's new control scheme has become vital to the survival of the series.
  The old Lara feels clunky, unintuitive and slow compared to the new one. Improvements have constantly 
 been made to Lara's flexibility during the series but US studio Crystal Dynamics nailed it in Tomb 
 Raider: Legend. We can thank advancements in technology for most of that, but the best thing about 
 the original was its level design, ambience and atmosphere. They were three elements that brought 
 the game to life in the face of fiddly controls. Technology is no substitute for pure coding talent 
 at the end of day.
  
  Anniversary isn't a direct remake of the '95 original so let's not get bogged down comparing every 
 corridor, level, secret (yes, the original chime is back when you find a secret) puzzle and cut 
 scene from the two games. That wouldn't be fair to the time and effort that's clearly gone into 
 Anniversary. For all intents and purposes this is a new Tomb Raider game. Even if you played the 
 original several times, chances are you won't remember its structure. You should remember its theme 
 music though and I was glad it greeted me in the menu, albeit in a re-imagined state of course.
 
  
  The names of levels may be the same as the original but there's a lot more to them now. Environments 
 are much bigger to accommodate Lara's new moves, the puzzles have been fleshed out to make you 
 think more, and there are more enemies to dispose of ensuring you're kept on your toes at all times. 
 Re-playing the original, I was surprised to see the levels populated with only a few enemies and 
 once they're gone, they're gone, leaving you in a massive level all by yourself.
  
  Thanks to Tomb Raider: Legend's control system, playing with Lara is again fun. She can traverse 
 the cave-like tombs with ease and the camera always helps you out by nodding in the direction you 
 should be jumping towards. You'll occasionally die while figuring out which jump to do next but 
 checkpoints are so frequent that you never end up backtracking very far. It's a far cry from the 
 few-and-far-between save crystal system of old.
  
  A couple of new abilities have also been added to Legend's set of moves. The biggest makes use 
 of her grappling hook so Lara can run along walls. Level design dictates when you can and can't 
 use this new ability but it opens tombs up to even more raiding possibilities. Lara can now attach 
 herself to vertical columns and shimmy up and down them before making a jump and she can even balance 
 on the tops of thin structures. Making a jump and landing on a platform no bigger than a plate 
 serves up some heart-wobbling moments. But if you don't land perfectly you get a split-second to 
 hit triangle and balance yourself out. The game doesn't want to you die too often and give up playing 
 so it gives you plenty of second chances. Weapon-based combat is back in a big way too and there's 
 plenty of nature's finest to off. Bats, wolves, tigers, raptors and the T-Rex are just some of 
 the specimens you'll unload endless clips of pistol ammo into. You press L1 to lock-on to enemies, 
 circle to dodge and R1 to fire your weapon. Nothing dramatically different there but to give the 
 combat a true 21st century feel Lara can also perform head shots and a new Matrix-inspired 'adrenaline 
 dodge' move. The more you shoot an enemy the more it gets annoyed (obviously) . When it makes a 
 charge for you, hit circle and the whole game slows down giving you the chance to score a headshot. 
 Smaller enemies are easy to deal with as long you jump around but the bigger enemies require a 
 little more patience and strategy.
  
  A special mention has to go out to the Lost Valley level, which was breathtaking at the time on 
 PlayStation. The cog puzzle is now much bigger and the area around the open valley. You only really 
 see the Lost Valley while dealing with the T-Rex. But that in itself is a huge challenge as the 
 confrontation is now a serious boss battle where you have to use your bullet-tie move as well as 
 the environment. Originally you could just fire several bullets into it while hiding in the rocks. 
 Not this time...
  While each level is bigger and more complex than those from original, you never feel lost or disorientated. 
 The re-designed levels and puzzles have all been well thought out and implemented perfectly to 
 suit Lara's smooth new moves. Tomb Raider: Anniversary's content might not be new, but at the same 
 time it is. Crystal Dynamics has done a great job of brining the original back to life. It looks 
 great, plays great and remains as faithful to the original while still coming across as a fresh 
 experience. Some will say Anniversary feels similar to Legend (and they'd be right) and some will 
 say that it's better. Personally I prefer the real back-to-its-roots tomb raiding gameplay. If 
 you're a fan of the series then you should take a look at Anniversary.
  
  There's enough action, unlockables and extras as well as Croft Manor to keep you busy for weeks 
 while Eidos and Crystal Dynamics draw up plans to take the series to greater heights. If the true 
 next-gen debut of Tomb Raider is as similar to Anniversary as Anniversary is to Legend, there could 
 be trouble ahead for Miss Croft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningline
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The first time I ever played Tomb Raider was Legend . I wanted to see what all the fuss was about. 
 I very much enjoyed it and went out and bought
  Angel of Darkness and 2 other older ones... Not the same at all controll wise or graphicaly. I gave 
 them away. BUT !!! Then comes TRAnniversary. Legend was to short and left me wanting more. I just 
 discovered it 2 months ago so I didn't have to wait to long for this one. Being a die hard FPS 
 gamer I was skeptical but I have ventured over to third person games when there is no shooters 
 and was glad to play this third person game, it is the only way to play Tomb Raider. You will see 
 what I mean if you try it.
  
  Anyhow this game is fantastic. Hard at times but for the most part just right. There were times 
 I had to walk away and got quite frusterated but I came back after awhile and was able to solve 
 the problem eventually. I am presently still in Egypt but I have played enough to draw my conclusion.
 
  Buy this game ! You wont regret it and for 30 bucks its a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom1Kaskla
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  It's definately one game where the fact that it's made after the first is a minus.
  Firstly most of the value in the game is nostalgy and it's pretty much like the first.
  The gameplay 
 is really great , but the problem is the fact that it's wasted potential. The first ones traps and 
 stuff were pretty good for the time , but have aged. The stupidity of the old coq and lever puzzles 
 is very out of time.
  One of the games biggest problems is the fact that it's frustrating as hell and you can't stop 
 playing. Still a small note I have only played the game on Normal and didn't bother with easy so 
 your results may vary. But mainly it was really really difficult. Like for example there are many 
 jumps where skill doesn't matter. (e. g. at the end of the game the jumps over lava. In this game 
 lava and flying dingbats are your worst enemies) The flying skinless things at the end take a lot 
 of ammunition to kill and if you try to go on without killing them , their fireballs will always 
 kill you out of the air and you also jump very much depending on your luck. Secondly your enemies 
 love to run at you and the slo-mo dodges don't always work as well as they could since you have 
 to time your dodges perfectly otherwise you will get hit during the dodge.
  Also there are many bosses who are either way too easy or way too hard (e. g. the T-Rex or the Centaurs) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Basically if you loved the first Tomb Raider game, you really should at least check out the demo. 
 You'll also very likely want a gamepad. The game supports my logitech rumblepad and the xbox360 
 wired controller. The original tomb raider 1 was just fine with a keyboard, but this game was optimized 
 for a console controller. I'll go out on a limb and say that the only truly good TR game was the 
 first one. Even TR2 has way too much combat in it. The later games were dreck. After all, the whole 
 point of TR is exploration and puzzle-solving. Thankfully, Eidos decided to revisit the first game. 
 The levels are much like the original game but there are quite a few differences in the levels 
 too. And there's a grapple gun to swing between rocks and so on that TR1 did not have.
  
  Problems? The only glaring issue is that enemies can get stuck on terrain and you can just kill 
 them with ease. This happened way too many times. The combat in tomb raider was never great in 
 the first place but still, this should not be happening in a modern game by a major publisher.
 
  
  The graphics are servicable but nothing more than that. Its a shame really that so much effort 
 went into remaking TR1 but the textures are somewhat low-res. There arent a whole lot of graphical 
 effects. When there are graphical effects, they look decidedly chunky and retro. This doesnt wreck 
 the game at all, but it's worth mentionting that running the game at the highest graphical setting 
 will only make the low polygon count more obvious.
  
  Now if only someone would remake system shock 1 and ultima underworld 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hero_911
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  it's one of the greatest games all over the world... makes you think, enjoy, do some adventure and 
 action... all you want in one game
  graphics ... its great cause it's fits every pc even on the low resolution its so great
  game 
 play... so good alot of fun and kill... with an easy way but may be the camera is disturbing you 
 a little bit
  sound ... so good so great... looks like real.. even when you hear the animals voices
  value... 
 i feel that the story has a collection stories... i mean all in one, or something like that
  but after all
  it's so great... can't wait for the next one......... c ya thanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scazmaniac
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  I've always been a huge fan of these genre of games being it Tomb Raider or Prince of Persia.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Throughly enjoyable gameplay, many great puzzles, cracking fighting sequences. With the puzzles 
 they try not to tread on old ground, they try to mix it up a bit in each area you come across. 
 Quick load screens as well make the game a joy to play.
  
  Graphics
  
  I personally was hoping for a Xbox 360 release of the game, I believe that it wasn't a good idea 
 to release on PS2. With the Next Gen Technology why not use it. However saying that Crystal Dynamics 
 Have gone out of there way and have made a good looking game. The transfer from Xbox 360 to PS2 
 becomes noticeable to begin with but your so immersed into the gameplay you forget about the graphics.
 
  
  Sound
  
  Once again Troels Folmann does what he knows best. Throughout Legend there was music for button 
 sequences and other action areas which fitted the game extremely well. With Anniversary they have 
 respected the Original Tomb Raider by only placing music when really necessary. For example the 
 encounter with the T-Rex and when you collect secret artefact's. Overall
  
  Definite must for the hardcore Tomb Raider gamer, people who have played Prince of Persia games 
 or anything else in that genre will also get a kick out of this game. Definitely worth the money 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackc1990
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is a faithfull albeit different take on the game that started it eleven 
 years ago, yes that long ago. It is a worthy retelling and one might say, a possibly better game 
 than the original in more than one aspect. Some of the games levels you will recognize from the 
 eleven year old classic, the most recognizable being St. Francis Folly. The levels rich, vivid 
 bold and attention to detail is a far cry from the almost lifeless dull colours which appeared 
 in the original. Just goes to show what game developers can achieve in eleven years. Needless to 
 say the games environements do a fantastic job of recreating the atmosphere of the original without 
 going to far and turning it into another mindless adventure. The game does carry the same soul 
 as the original and it shows. One of the most impressive looking levels is the Coliseum. You cannot 
 help but compare the visuals as you swing across the roof of the Coliseum seeing the dust particles 
 and shadows dance around the room.
  
  The games Legend engine is far from what could be achieved today but it does have the advantage 
 of it being able to run on older machines, widening the audience of perhaps a next generation game 
 that would struggle to run on even the most modern of PC's. The machine it was tested on was an 
 AMD Athlon 64 3000+ 2.0GHz with 1.5GB Ram and an nVidia 7600GS 512MB AGP graphics card. Nothing 
 special yet I was able to run the game in 1280x1024 with all the bells and whistles on and still 
 maintain a playable framerate. The engine is more optiimized than it was in Legend. I could not 
 get a playable framerate with the Next Generation setting enabled, yes on Anniversary, it looks 
 as though it is already enabled. Coupled with a motion blur setting which although doesn't affect 
 the gameplay, it adds to the atmosphere and gives a cinematic blur when you move the camera around 
 Lara. Other things such as when Lara get's out of water, the clothes are darker and wet, as well 
 as her skin which if looked at closely, you can see drips run from her forehead which in time will 
 gradually fade away. The enemies look fabuolous and move realisticly and without spoiling the game, 
 Atlantis looks a lot lot more authentic in this version of the game. Overall the games engine does 
 a superb job of creating the levels on a more vast scale with rich detail yet remains at a playable 
 framerate. But I still recommend looking at the systems requirements before purchasing to ensure 
 you get the most from this game.
  
  The Croft mansion is different to how you played it in the original and is more like the one introduced 
 on Legend but they have made it a whole new mission in itself. In the mansion you can collect items 
 to figure out a certain puzzle, which in turn will unlock a weapon so you can do a different puzzle 
 in the game and so forth. The mansion is large in scale and contains a wealth of items for you 
 to hunt around for.
  
  Sound is as good as most modern games to date. Although I saw no option to enable EAX or anything 
 of the sorts. But still, the sounds sounded great and well balanced. The shotgun for example sounds 
 as powerful as a shotgun should, and the magnums sound awesome, although they sound remarkably 
 similar to those of Counter Strike Source's. No matter, the guns sound great and as they should. 
 The music is superb, from the main menu you hear the Anniversary remake of the original theme. 
 It is very well, Tomb Raider , what else, needless to say it sounds great and if you haven't heard 
 it I recommend checking out the games official site. I also noticed some remakes of themes from 
 the original such as the T-Rex encounter although I heard this when fighting bears in the Peru 
 levels. Music in Egypt and Atlanta are very well done also and to be honest, I did not notice a 
 bad piece of music in the game at all. Laras voice actor does a splendid job of conveying that 
 British action heroine that we all know and love. My only complaint I would have to mention is 
 that when falling from a great height, she screams then when I landed it water the scream was hidiously 
 long, she screamed for approximatly 10 seconds. Even when I did land in the water the scream was 
 as clear as day, and as annoying. This only occured a handfull of times throughout the game though. 
 My only other minor critism would be that Lara has not got enough movement sounds. By that I mean 
 the sound she would make when jumping or pulling herself onto a ledge, it doesn't seem varied enough 
 but it didn't realy detract from the games enjoyment factor.
  
  Gameplay in the game is revamped from the original. Most noticable it includes a full 3D control 
 movement. The general movement of Lara is really fluent and easy to control. You can move in any 
 angle and can also move the camera via the mouse around Lara as you see fit, allowing better perspective 
 on the games environment. This was extremely helpfull on St. Francis Folly for looking at ledges 
 below me. Also included from Legend is the grappling hook. This plays quite a vital role in Anniversary, 
 most used in the later Atlantis levels of the game. But is used a fairbit throughout, and also 
 the heart of some puzzles in the game. Quite obviously, it is used and acts the same as in Legend. 
 Slow motion is back but this time plays a more active role in many of the games boss fights, most 
 noticably the T-Rex. How it works is you will anger the enemy by meerly shooting it, the enemy 
 will charge at you and when you see the screen blur you press shift to dodge, wait for the aiming 
 recticle to lock on the target and to beep. At that precise moment you shoot, causing an instant 
 kill on an enemy or a great deal of damage on boss fights. It may be hard at first but the player 
 will get used to it quite easily. Also introduced in Legend and included here are the interactive 
 cutscenes, where you press a corresponding key depending on the icon that appears on your screen. 
 This plays a large part, especially in the games boss fights. As far as bossfights go, it would 
 have been nice to have had them random fights with Pierre, none of which occur in this game.
  
  To conclude the game does do a fantastic job of retelling the original. Weather you haven't 
 played the original due to the aged control scheme or only got introduced at Legend or you are 
 a veteran of the series, or even if you love a good adventure game. This will please you and keep 
 you busy for a long time, mainly because of the many unlockable features in the game such as Music, 
 unlockable costumes, player art, biographies, commentaries, cheats and more. Anyone with a remote 
 interest in the adventure genre should DEFINATLY check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFVIIROCKS
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  Ever since I heard about this game coming out about a month before it did... ive been soooooo excited... 
 Well the Wait is finally over.. I just got my PC copy today and let me tell you something. This 
 game is hands down, one of the best games period. You cant go wrong with this game.. I mean its 
 the perfect remake... They need to do Final Fantasy VII like this. This game is pure awesome. The 
 T-Rex fight.... (TR fans you should know) was actually some what difficult, but yet it really made 
 it so much funner to play then the original. You actually have to do more then back flip and hit 
 the fire button to kill it.. Which was fun back then.. but now.... MY GOD it was a rush. This game 
 is a must for all... Even if youve heard the name TR but never even seen what the games look like... You 
 need to go out and spend 30 bucks and get this.... You wont regret this at all.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  It's my first review about a game TR... i play all games TR and always was something breath-taking 
 in this games... Anniversary? Remarkable, staggering, AMAZING...
  
  Like any game Tomb Raider and this time, about 10 years after first game, Tomb Raider look great 
 and amazing. I mean... Lara :) Sure, TR-Anniversary is a SUPERB remake after first TR but... with 
 more things new like graphics who are so real and good sound and more improvements. Based on the 
 same engine like Legend , TR Anniversary bring a few superb levels with Lara in full action. I 
 like at crazy all jumps, swings and grabs and yes - all jumps-acrobatics from ropes and walls and 
 all acrobatics are so authentic made by Lara :)
  All levels are beautiful concepts and regenerate, souped up. Again, control of Lara are amazing 
 ! I don't know another game with that combat-control so great ! And trust me, i play almost all...
 
  
  Now, about game-engine and graphics for me are STUNNING! Very realistic and i think it's the best 
 grahics in all series... and maybe in all games! Don't mention only TR! I think TR it's better than 
 Oblivion! Water and stones, caves and YES, THE SKY with clouds are beatiful and amazing and so fall-cascade 
 make to dream to something unreal and so out to touch in the same time...
  
  All game is full of creativity with great storyline and puzzle not so easy but with a very good 
 thinking will make the diferentts. Find artifacts and relics and WALK INTO A SUPERB ATMOSPHERE! 
 Monsters look huge and very good. Eyes of wolfs are tremendous!
  
  I don't know what to say... and for fans of adventure-games if you don't play TOMB RAIDER, it means 
 your life is in vain :) Thank you, Eidos for this Materpieces and I LOVE always for eternity TOMB 
 RAIDER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvtoC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  The only thing I can say this game is seriously rushed This is the same mistake Eidos did with 
 old TR games Core Design was made to make a game every single year so the games never went forward. 
 The firs levels are nice but as you progress you get this feeling that no body played through them 
 they are quite raw and the amount of little bugs (non of them are serious) is just huge. The gameplay 
 is different from TR: Legend even though same engine was used for this game I think fans of the 
 original will like this one as for battle they are just stupid I can't understand why did the developers 
 even bother with putting them in this game. All of them follow the same pattern although the new 
 bullet time effect is nice. Graphics are very nice if you take into account the low system requirements 
 this isn't GOW or GT HD but If you like post processing this is your game. The main problem with 
 this game is a very bad camera which never works the way it should be and can cause a lot of frustration. 
 This is a must buy for every TR fan this is a chance to play your favourite game and at the same 
 time play something new also the bonus material it contains is quite nice I just love the level 
 commentary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, this game brings back the routes of tomb raider as a puzzle focused tomb exploring 
 heroine. Not the super high tech people shooting city dwelling Lara of the later games.. cough.. angel 
 of ... d... ar. kne.. s.. s.. cough....
  I thought legend was great, but this game tops it tenfold! why... The tombs are huge! the puzzles 
 are challenging, the game is based on acrobatics and adventuring. I really enjoy the less combat 
 focus of the game, sure there are some annoying combat parts, like the T-rex which is hard as hell, 
 but doable, i got stuck there for a while and my heart was racing when I finally beat him with 
 a sliver of life left, I raised my hands with controller in the air and yelled in triumph! My girlfriend 
 thought I was nuts, she's never seen me act this way towards a game in the 3 years we've been together. 
 What made that combat so fun and thrilling was the epicness of it, and you feel this throughout 
 the game. All the tombs are so big you get lost in most of them. You actually feel like you exploring 
 an ancient tomb! The first few games on the PS1 had this element as well (the last good console 
 imo) , and they somehow brought the feeling over to the game. And they made the graphics breathtaking! 
 It doesn't have next gen functions like on legend, but it does add a slew of other graphics enhancements 
 like displacement maps, motion blur, etc.. It looks a lot better then legend with no next gen stuff. 
 It comes very close. This game defiantly has a better feel then legend. It also has great ambient 
 sound, very little music , ecept near key spots, but thats a good thing with this game. The controls 
 are phenomenal! Crystal Dynamics, the new developer of TR did a great job on the controls on this 
 and legend. The original controls for TR were horrid, but back then thats all we had, there was 
 nothing to compare it to , nowadays though, there is no excuse for bad controls. The game is long 
 too, very long. This game is worth every penny, I would of paid $60 for a game like this and thats 
 saying a lot! there is a lot of replay value to with the croft manor and all the unlockables. All 
 the same levels and gameplay is here from TR1, but they improved everything! And they added there 
 own areas, twists and redid the cinematics. This game goes to show how a proper remake should be 
 done. I hope eidos and crystal make a lot with this game so we get more excellent TR games, finally 
 the TR drought of the first half of the decade is over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaabnaze83
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  PROS: Back to the past never was so awesome, the graphics (in special the vegetation, fauna and 
 water effects) are beautiful, great gameplay and interaction with the levels, Lara look more flexible 
 and natural, good sound effects and music themes, the extras are back (clothes, texts and artworks 
 among others)
  
  CONTRAS: Need a little work with the control, visually is not so spectacular like Tomb Raider Legend, 
 some problems with the camera visibility, little short and easy for the experts players.
  
  Tomb Raider Anniversary Edition is a excellent game for the lovers of the classics games and the 
 peoples who never had the opportunity to play the original Tomb Raider (1996) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozibx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  im looking for the antient artifacts that called scion of atlantis and your the one that giong 
 to find them for me and... 
  the real ADVENTURE, with the best gameplay and graphis=TOMB raider anniversary. now the tomb raider 
 is in the next level of the last series.
  All we can say to eidos is well done 
  so we have to wait for the next tomb raider and see that the tomb raider team can continue their 
 best step or dissapoint us?
  but we have to say that this game is the best adventure till now.
  this game have a huge locations 
 of peru, greece and egypt and of course the Atlantis where the game ends. in one word this game is 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  Wow was anticipating this game so much ... one of the first game anticipated and didn't lead to 
 disappointment ..... Graphics is superb just like the previous franchise ....
  Gameplay, sound all major props ...
  
  Luv this game because it adventure, action &amp; strategy 
 all put together in on package ... It's requires keen observation &amp; analysis ....
  
  I'm currently in the Tomb of Tihocan stage ...
  
  One thing I have observed there are lots 
 of animals you have to fight of in this game; gorilla, dinosaurs, rats, tigers, rats, bats to name 
 a few ....
  
  And there's lots of swimming required ... but hey, it all fun ...
  
  Can't really say anything again .. just go out and purchase the game u wouldn't be disappointed 
 ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iainus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  We all know that the original Tomb Raider has been the best Tomb Raider for the past 10 years, 
 possibly because it was set in actual Tombs! Not like Tomb Raider 2 which should be called Venice 
 Raider or Floating Island Raider and well Tomb Raider 3, that had bugger all to do with Tombs... 
 Tomb Raider Legend however brought back the good old days of Tombs etc and it was a really good 
 game. Now Tomb Raider Anniversary, a remake of the best Tomb Raider yet and what do i think of 
 it?! Absolutely fantastic apart from a few graphical bugs which is nothing to worry about does 
 not affect the gameplay. The best thing is its back to the good old Tombs of killer animals instead 
 of people and solving puzzles, this is what Tomb Raider is about. I'm speechless about the whole 
 game, people who have played the original will know what i mean if they have played and completed 
 this game. St Francis Folly blew me away in the room with the swords and the Poseidon room. Palace 
 Midas i was looking forward to and i was not disappointed its a great level, apart from 1 bit where 
 a Gorilla jump from round a piller and scared Seven Shades Of **** outta me! Its a shame tho that 
 the merged level 8 and 9 of the original into one level which made the game much shorter, level 
 14 (of the original) which is level 13 in this was a bit of a disappointment i have to admit cos 
 the pit wasn't as far up as the original and its alot shorter level cos instead of climbing the 
 pit like you did in the original going room to room then jumping the pit into another room and 
 making your way up the pit that way, in this you just jump from platform to platform up the pit 
 making the level shorter. The Torso on the start of the last level was great tho, a really fun 
 boss, unfortunately they don't have that massive dive that people will remember near the end of 
 this level. Well thats about it really. If you have neva played the original then i recommend getting 
 this game anyway just cos its a fantastic game, if you have played the original and think you have 
 seen it all, then your wrong and should buy this game asap, you will not be disappointed. Oh btw, 
 Lara has a **** nice arse in this as well ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedrokas23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  11 years after Tomb Raider, comes Tomb Raider Anniversary. The excellent remake by Crystal D, really 
 hit the nail this time. With Legend, Crystal managed to bring Tomb Raider back into its roots, 
 even though some aspects of the game didn't really fit in. But in Anniversary, the Tomb Raider 
 feel returns, and with it, some major improvements over Tomb Raider 1 and Legend. The non-linear 
 gameplay, the lengthy gameplay, the new features, the environments, the atmosphere, the revamped 
 Croft Manor turn this game into something that surpasses every other Tomb Raider game. Even though 
 there are some camera problems, especially during combat and a few bugs, this game manages to be 
 entertaining for a good amount of time.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10. I think the gameplay here is very good, with good puzzles, a good combat system 
 and new moves. The ring inventory is also back and the weapons from the original game too. The 
 only problem is the camera, which was better in Legend.
  
  Graphics - 9/10. Considering this game was aimed for the PS2, the graphics are simply stunning 
 and great. The look of the environments, compared to the original game, are a whole lot better, 
 and look very realistic. This game doesn't have a next-gen mode, and since Legend's framerate in 
 next-gen mode is really low, I prefer that they improve the next-gen mode for Legend 2.
  
  Sound - 9/10. The soundtrack in Anniversary is simply stunning. The music is great, the sound effects 
 are very good and the music also enhances the atmosphere in the game.
  
  Value - 9/10. The replay value in this game is very good, too. The game is much longer, compared 
 to Legend, which had only about 6 hours of gameplay. It took me 12 hours to finish Anniversary. 
 There are also relics and artifacts to collect throughout the game, which are hard to find. These 
 artifacts and relics unlock outfits, art galleries, cheats, commentaries, a test level and other 
 things. Apart from the normal game, there is also the Croft Manor, which also has its puzzle to 
 be solved. Players might replay Anniversary a few times, considering the unlockables in the game.
 
  
  Tilt - 10/10. One of the things that I loved in the game was the layout, the style, the storyline 
 and the creativity. The game is simply gorgeous, the storyline is better than in the original game, 
 the monsters and the characters look very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Crystal Dynamics is 2nd on my favorite developers list after Ubisoft because of Lok series / Snowblind 
 / &amp; TR legend , anniversary , ... the seguel legend :D ! The game uses the same engine like 
 in legend but with major modifications alltough the game doesen't have the next gen details seting 
 , the engine is capabile to reprezent larger enviroments ,greater character animation &amp; superb 
 sound effects .Crystal Dynamics allways had a thing for great actor to do their work behind the 
 characters that htey created like Kain , Raziel , Lara etc. ... i mean that the voice acting is 
 done so well that sometimes it fools you that in cutscnes your are watching a movie &amp; not only 
 the voices are done right but olso the animations &amp; face expression both in cutscene &amp; 
 in game ! The game features the same grea acrobatic moves similar to TR legend but olso some new 
 like the 1one that you jump on top of pillar wich is nicely made &amp; the wall ride thanks to 
 that magnetic grabling hook that Lara has on her inventory + i know that most of you whould say 
 that the game has many ideeas inspired by PoP but no ... because since the first TR Lara was abble 
 to perform jumps , grabs &amp; swings from ropes &amp; 1one of the most original moves that only 
 TR brought to the players are those slides ! The combat of the game is basicly the same but it 
 is a little more easier to control &amp; it has a new special move ... that you will use especially 
 in boss fights but olso with multiple enemies . Well i haven't talked much about the enviroments 
 but thist is 1one of the most greates aspects of the game because Lara will be traveling from Peru 
 to Grece ,Egypt &amp; then Atlantis ... every level in part is has its own eyecandy &amp; a superbe 
 photographics image of each place on the earth ... probaly the most amazing level desing is in 
 Egypt &amp; Atlantis ...&amp; not only that but this superb locations olso do have many superb 
 puzzles of all-types both acrobatic &amp; mind training with a very logical sense foud in each 
 1one of them &amp; after you will solve all of them you will start to think how genius is the concept 
 for the puzzles &amp; how deep are the bonds bettween the story of the enviroments depicted on 
 the wall or other things &amp; the puzzle ! The game is superb &amp; its a true way to wish Lara 
 another happy birthday . Olso the game features a very flexible engine that can run on all kind 
 of computers practacly if have a computer a little more powerfull than a PS2 the game should run 
 perfect . DO NOT miss this game because its a true masterpiece great for old fanes but olso for 
 new :D !!! P. S. Crystal Dynamics is a superb developer aspect more great games from them !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewPilgrim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION - (PS2 Version)
  
  10 years ago, I didnt have a playstation, no pocket pacman, not even a pack of top-trumps. So when 
 a good friend of mine bought a copy of Tomb Raider for his playstation he changed from good friend 
 to best friend , only it soon became evident that he wasnt my best friend at all.... his playstation 
 was.
  See, thats what a trully great single-player game does, it isolates you. It immerses you into a 
 world of fantasy and intrigue that you get so hooked into you'll go to your buddies house every 
 day just to ignore him for 5 hours and keep his playstation for yourself. My friend got so tired 
 of me he just gave me his playstation and told me to go home with it and not come back till I'd 
 completed the game. THAT was the genius of the original Tomb Raider - the combined efforts of Toby 
 Guard, Core and Eidos.
  Any Tomb Raider fan will know that soon after the success of the game, due to divisions in the 
 camp over a sequel, Toby Guard no longer had any influence in the making of the game.... and as 
 we know - the series, though it was good, started taking a nose-dive that would last many years.
 
  Fast Forward to 2006 and new developers Crystal Dynamics, paired up with original creator Toby 
 Guard to breathe new life into an old formula with the release of Tomb Riader: Legend - Although 
 there were some chinks in its armour, it was agreed pretty much across the gaming world that this 
 new creative team had what it takes to honor the Lara legacy with the respect she deserves and 
 keep it going strong, much to the joy of her Fans, old and new. And so with a team at the wheel 
 that seems more than capable of delivering the tomb raiding experience that we have longed for 
 during the best part of a decade, it seems fitting that Lara's swansong on the PS2 should be one 
 that brings her full circle back to her 32-bit beginnings.
  
  TRIED AND TESTED FORMULA
  The question on everyones mind will of course be, does the latest (and first - all be it re-vamped) ) 
 Lara adventure deliver the same experience that made us fall in love the first time. If you havent 
 already seen the score, let me tell you here and now that it does deliver. While there may be a 
 few niggles that infringe a little on the experience as a whole, the bottom line is that this is 
 Lara at her best, in design, in gameplay, in thrills and in spades.
  
  A MATTER OF PERSPECTIVE
  Lets get the bad news out of the way first and I'm glad to say there 
 isnt much of it. The camera. It works a treat in all areas except one.... hanging on a wall. No 
 matter what you do, you can never actually see whats directly at Laras back. You know there is 
 a platform there somewhere because you saw it before you jumped to this precarious ledge only one 
 sweet jump away from the next savepoint... but EXACTLY where it is behind you once you've jumped, 
 youre never quite sure. While for the most part this doesnt really affect the gameplay, it does 
 make for one or two moments where you take a blind leap only to realise that you missed ur platform 
 by a hairs breadth and it wasnt ur lack of skill, but simply a poor camera angle that caused it. 
 Some people may savour this idea of not knowing where ur you're leaping to and if it had been a 
 deliberate game mechanic I might have savoured it too, but knowing that its a small oversight that 
 occasionally ruins your experience is only frustrating to me. Thankfully it IS a very rare occurance.
 
  
  FREEFORM vs GRID SYSTEM
  My only other complaint, believe it or not, is the freeform movement system. It's just a bit TOO 
 freeform for my liking. There were one or too occasions where I would get stuck on a short jump 
 from a platform to the top of a post because timing was EVERYTHING otherwise you would be crushed 
 by large rock pistons. The urgency and timing required made for a lot of just missed moments and 
 had me screaming out for the original 2 steps back, run and jump mechanic of the original game 
 (or at the very least a Prince of Persia- quick rewind function) . Granted if this was the ONLY 
 method of movement the game would get bogged down, but the ability to use the grid system at a 
 few choice moments would have made for a nightmare-saving addition to Lara's freeform skill which 
 is, in all fairness, an absolute Joy 99% of the time.
  
  NOBODY DOES IT BETTER
  Ok, bad news over, lets get to the good. Tomb Raider Anniversary is breath-taking. Not just for 
 the graphics (some of the finest I have seen on PS2) or for the level design (a testament to the 
 genius of the original) but also for the sheer nostalgic joy of taking Lara through those old familiar 
 playgrounds that gave us so much pleasure the first time around. And what a difference a decade 
 makes. Old familiar territory has been buffed up, waxed and polished to create an atmosphere unlike 
 any other Tomb Raider you have played before, including Legend . EVEN the original wasn't this 
 awe-inspiring (believe me, I went back and played it afterwards)
  
  SO ALIKE AND YET SO DIFFERENT
  In some ways I feel a little unfair comparing Anniversary with 
 the original edition because in many ways the advances in technology, gameplay and expectations 
 of games in general over the last decade have changed the face of gaming.... numerous times and 
 so in many ways there can be quite a stark contrast between that and the new re-visited edition. 
 Playing the original again, while still joyful, now seems more like chess with guns than the free-roaming 
 adventure of Anniversary . However you simply can't avoid comparisons, after all we should be in 
 no doubt that this is a REMAKE and a worthy remake it is too.
  Most of the original levels included in this game have been reshaped and redesigned to a fair degree, 
 though still very recognisable. Others, like St Francis Folly (which had the rooms of the 4 greek 
 gods) and the two giant underwater sphynxes remain practically untouched in terms of presentation, 
 but the methods of solving these giant puzzles has been changed so that no replay value from the 
 original game has been lost and so that Laras 3rd millenium acrobatics can be put to good use. 
 The team have added new and original level content too and I'm glad to say it has been blended 
 in seemlessly and carries the flavour and feel of the original content without a stammer.
  
  LESS IS MORE
  Just as with the original the ambient sound knows its place, there is always 
 something happening in the soundtrack or special effects but it is designed perfectly in a way 
 that only ever enhances the mood, atmosphere and tension of the game.
  
  NEW MOVES
  In terms of Gameplay, little has changed since Legend - The afore mentioned pole-hop is a new addition, 
 jumping onto the very ends of poles and thin pillars or stakes, which can be good fun, but does 
 sometimes lead to those frustrating timing moments. And Lara also now has the ability to wall-run 
 at the end of her grappling rope and, with well-timed precision, can also jump out away from the 
 wall by pressing against it and pushing off, letting her jump on to platforms to the side of a 
 wall as well as those at the end of the wall. Its a fiddly manouvre but rewarding when you get 
 it right.
  
  SLO-MO, IT'S THE NEW ... UM.... SLO-MO 
  Combat is thankfully reduced to bears, bats, wolves and the occasional demon-spawn. No braindead 
 henchmen to be found here.... just undead. The only addition to weapon use is a max-pain style accuracy 
 slo-mo, hardly original but its not overused and makes a nice addition to the pace of combat. If 
 you shoot an enemy enough times it will become enraged and charge you. Suddenly everything goes 
 slow - your cue to hit the dodge button and (when your target flashes at you) kill your target 
 with one shot while executing a leaping-roll. Its a welcome addition which is inkeeping with the 
 timing mechanic synonymous with Lara's puzzle solving.
  
  LAME AIM GETS THE FINGER OF SHAME
  Alright, I'll admit it - I didnt put ALL the bad news in the 
 bad news section, the aiming system has some issues too. Unfortunately the standard auto-aim seems 
 if anything to be worse than in Legend - Supposedly with a deft flick of your right thumbstick 
 you can easily switch from one target to another. In reality this aiming function sometimes seems 
 to have a mind of its own, aiming at distant switches instead of the bear thats currently chowing 
 down on your head for a light snack 
  Worse still is battling winged beasties while dodging them on a high platform. I lost count the 
 number of times I fell off simply because my sights were switching from one bat to the next in 
 random fashion. In fact its the only part of the game thats a bit of a mixed bag. Some of it good, 
 some of it frustrating, but again like the other few faults it only pops up a very few times through 
 the whole of the game.
  
  BEST BAR NONE
  Ok, so Tomb Raider Anniversary isn't perfect and despite a mighty leap in the right direction, 
 it doesnt reach the perfect 10, but in this writers opinion its the best Tomb Raider to date, bar 
 none. If the original were to hold one advantage over this latest edition its the very fact that 
 it was ORIGINAL, in every sense. Tomb Raider on the playstation brought the gamers an experience 
 like none other before it and paved the way for many games that were to come, including this one. 
 That kind of novelty and whole new experience is one that can rarely be found in any game these 
 days and we will always love Tomb Raider for that very reason, but Anniversary takes that original 
 formula which still makes for a great experience and turns it into a GRAND experience. Fans of 
 the original should be in no way disappointed by this final Tomb Raider outing on PS2. Despite 
 no longer being a whole new experience it is nevertheless EVERYTHING a good Tomb Raider should 
 be and a very fitting farewell to the old generation of platform adventuring. For 22 quid, I almost 
 feel like I stole this game from the shop, its fresh off the shelf, its a whole complete game despite 
 being a remake and its a taste of gaming heaven. Whatever you do, DON'T miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_C88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  This game is great for new people to the Tomb Raider series, however if your already a fan of the 
 series I am sure it would bring a smile to your face as it did me when reliving the classic moments 
 of the original Tomb Raider good job with this game; I think as well what makes this game great 
 is the fact it takes you to the ruins you fight animals even a big T-Rex, you get to do puzzles 
 and jump everywhere lol. Overall I am very happy with this game and was able to purchase it on 
 STEAM so I got it cheaper than in the shop which was a bonus, now bring on the next Tomb Raider. 
 Lara also looks stunning in this game maybe the best she has ever looked yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimBee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is essentially a re-done version of the very first Tomb Raider game which 
 was released way back in 1996 and is, as such the 10th Anniversary of this game series.
  
  Lara Croft, the famed protagonist of this adventure, is back.
  This game is essentially a remake 
 of the original classic game, but with a lot of nice changes throughout to make it worth a revisit.
 
  It maintains the control and gameplay mechanic as used in her last adventure (Tomb Raider Legend) 
 and adds some subtle tweaks here and there, and even some new abilities .
  
  These abilities include hopping from the tops of vertical poles, wall running (much like absailing, 
 except you go across the wall) and thats about it for the new abilities. Everything else is very 
 subtle, things like the grapple hook not being magnetic, but actually having a hook on the end 
 - for example.
  
  Fans of the original will surely be delighted with the level design and overall presentation of 
 the original game in this updated revision, the textures are extremely varied giving the game great 
 depth and detail, the original used alot of the same textures over and over - call them motifs, 
 but by todays standards the textures and level design can easily match any game out today. Which 
 is amazing when they are based on levels designed some ten years back.
  From Lara's fluid movements to the thrill of seeing awe-inspiringly massive chasms of egyptian 
 runes, this game seriously is worth a look - even if it is to just wander around sight-seeing.
 
  Whilst not anywhere near graphically impressive games like Gears Of War, this game sure does have 
 its unique charms which allows it to pass by this time with ease. Least to say, even without next 
 gen textures, Tomb Raider Anniversary, visually, is mightily impressive. But the credit heftily 
 goes to the overall level design and art production. The game does a brilliant job of immersing 
 you in the environment, from its lack of musical themes during levels (don't worry, you will be 
 too busy concentrating on the sounds of droplets of water, rushing waterfalls in the distance and 
 the overpowering rumble of tibettan caves to even THINK about a musical score.
  
  Music usually kicks in when something dramatic happens, finding a new location to explore, seeing 
 the final door to unlock, an enemy jumping out at you ; all these have their own seperate musical 
 pieces attatched, and they work wonders in creating a sharp and exciting atmosphere as you trudge 
 through these tombs, alone.
  Sound effects are also just as good, footsteps on snow, sand, concrete... even having variations 
 of this according to the size of room that you are in. The sound design, at its core, really comes 
 from the actions that you make - jumping, landing from a high fall, etc. They are done nicely enough 
 to provide you with a sense of exploration, and not tedium.
  
  Furthermore, all this adds to the isolated feeling you get whilst exploring the tombs and other 
 areas.
  
  Whilst exploring these locations, you get to do some shootin'. Using the usual lock on mechanic 
 used in the entire series of Tomb Raider games you simply click and shoot at your foes.
  
  Introduced, this time, is the new rage meter. Some enemies become enraged and charge at you if 
 your shots did not kill them indefinately, this enables you to use a special dodge-attack called 
 the adrenaline dodge .
  Activating this then slows down the action, perfoming a head-shot (or weakpoint) lock-on - so you 
 kill the enemy before it harms you.
  
  This is used quite nicely in certain boss battles, but it can be somewhat difficult to master with 
 the keyboard. You HAVE to have your guns pointed out at the enemy (to get a lock) AND dodge at 
 the same time as perfecting the timing of the enemies charge (differs from enemy to enemy) .
  Sometimes (more often than not) the camera will pan around revealing you, pointing your guns at 
 the enemy, however you are looking at lara - whilst the enemies are off screen somewhere.
  
  You then have to put your guns away, turn the camera all the way around to find the enemy - 
 all whilst trying to avoid attacks. When it comes to packs of enemies, this can be more frustrating 
 than exciting as you will then struggle to SEE the enemies, let alone shoot them.
  This can happen at the most awkward moment, but thankfully you can respawn from the last checkpoint, 
 health fully resored (even if you had hardly any health from the last time you hit the checkpoint) .
 
  
  The checkpoint system is somewhat of a touchy subject. It will work in your favour at times, but 
 in other occasions - some flaws let this feature be far from perfect.
  As the point of the game is to explore, the levels (as such) are open-ended. There are checkpoints 
 dotted invisibly all over the place, and when you reach one ; you hear a delightful ting sound. 
 If you die soon after reaching one, you will respawn at that precise location with your previously 
 collected items/keys intact in your inventory.
  
  Sounds good right? Much better than the old save method where you would only be allowed to save 
 at certain locations (marked with a floating crystal) .
  But something which is flawed about this is not the feature itself, its a combination of level-design, 
 lack of testing/exploration and the kind of thinking only fans of back to the future could comprehend.
 
  
  You see, you can wander aimlessly around certain levels, even though they look and sound great, 
 when you reach a checkpoint you give a slight sigh of relief as you wont need to traverse through 
 those traps again... however, whlist exploring the next part you may take a tumble, or leap of 
 faith and end up in a location you were at several minutes ago (alot of levels are built up across 
 eachother) .
  When you reach one of those checkpoint areas, you will then respawn from that area - forcing you 
 to retrace your steps.
  
  Whilst not TOO shabby, if you don't take the odd leap of faith too often, if the levels were easy 
 to judge, then this wouldn't happen.
  Which leads me to the problem of the wholse leap of faith explanation. Its the only thing I could 
 think of to describe it. Whilst exploring these great levels you will get stumped on where to go 
 next, you wander about the place thinking nah, I will never make that jump .
  You try the jump over and over and never make it, so you head through the way you came (hitting 
 checkpoints all the way) .
  
  So, you decide to make that jump after extinguishing every possible exit, finally - you see a tiny 
 bit of the surface jutting out - and then, that seeming impossible jump (much further than you 
 have seen her jump before) was actually possible! And you then land the jump, grasping only with 
 one hand.
  
  Whilst making the jump gives you a great feeling of satisfaction, if you spent the last 20 minutes 
 looking for ANOTHER way around, then the jump was more frustrating than it was worth.
  And to add to this, certain other jumps cannot be made, even though the seemingly impossible one 
 you did was done previously, you will encounter similar occasions where the jump CANNOT be done, 
 but you are illuded to believe at times that you can...
  So then goes the whole kill self, load checkpoint conundrum.
  
  Checkpoints can ease the difficulty 
 considerably, giving you more of a chance to master those death-defying leaps. But it also can 
 take away the actual need to find medipacks. The original game had savepoints scattered mercylessly, 
 you were FORCED to concerve the healthpacks and avoid life-threatening jumps. But the checkpoints 
 in Tomb Raider Anniversary remove this challenge completely, and give you an infinate amount of 
 times to restart almost only a few seconds from where you died. Meaning, medipacks are mainly used 
 for boss-battles. Especially considering every time you pass a life-draining booby trap, you then 
 have a greeting of a checkpoint. If you die afterwards, you then regain your health entirely. Easy!
 
  
  Whilst still on some negative points, the camera can be somewhat dodgy to see whats behind you 
 whilst climbing walls and ledges. Often you will need to jump backwards. But MORE often you will 
 have to jump blindly backwards because the camera rarely lets you see what is behind you whilst 
 on a ledge. Some levels are closesly nipped and the camera is not free enough to track around you 
 too much. Whilst giving you a good sense of isolation, its not good when you just die for the sake 
 of trial and error. It gives you the impression that Lara is invincible as you can simply respawn 
 and attempt it again right away.
  
  The new ability the wall run has one major flaw for beginners. I found it difficult to run along 
 the wall AND jump off in your chosen direction. It needs a great amount of practise to master, 
 and can be exeedingly tricky. Forcing you to miss ledges, jump forwards instead of left/right... 
 The camera, whilst panning, changes the output locations of what button sends you where...
  Ahem, let me rephrase, if the camera is behind you, then left is left... but if the camera is on 
 your side, then left is DOWN...
  Whilst running along walls, the camera SWOOPS with lara, and it can only take one slight change 
 between the two camera positions to change the controls of what exactly is left/right up/down.
 
  This can be exeedingly frustrating, especially when you will have no prior training for this, 
 and each time you need to do this - the jump is angled differently. So at one time you may need 
 to jump off the wall to land on a ledge to your right...
  Next, you would have to do the same, but to the left, but this time the camera is not fully behind 
 you... so the controls change.
  
  It is these kinds of things which make it a more frustrating game than the original. The checkpoints 
 make each tricky jump slightly tedius as you will instantly (depending on load times, they are 
 usually very fast thankfully) respawn to try the jump again.
  Sometimes you respawn 1 minute of exploring away, but either way - you will eventually have to 
 die just to try out how to make certain jumps.
  
  Pretty much those are the only flaws in the game. for some this can reduce the enjoyable-factor 
 considerably, but other may not notice this as they are used to the way tomb raider legend plays.
 
  But for those coming back to the series from the very first games, it will take some getting used 
 to to get over those little flaws, in effect, it is an entirely different game to play from those 
 factors alone.
  
  Whilst everything runs smoothly, the pace towards the end of t he game tends to wane slightly. 
 Those exciting chasms will be replaced with just some repetetive jumps... until the game closes 
 to a stop. As you progress, each level gets larger and larger. If you have the patience to explore 
 these levels, then you will love every minute. But those of you looking for a good old platformer 
 with good old run and gun action, this is NOT it.
  
  The action is toned down to an almost halt during most levels, forcing you to solve puzzles, pull 
 switches and explore the areas. Whilst good for the adventure fan, the gun-happy gamer will become 
 bored with all the jumping, respawning and such. I guess what I am trying to say is that those 
 of you wanting to explore will get a bit annoyed at the dodgy shooting mechanics (its good, at 
 times, but there are almost ALWAYS flaws to be had) shooting in this game is not the adventurers 
 aperitif. And those looking to kill stuff - exploring will become boring to them as you will need 
 to explore, die, respawn -- repeat.
  
  Overall, this is one heck of a remake. Rarely do games get remakes, and if they all follow the 
 trend set by this, then you won't go far wrong with this purchase. And at a nice cheaper price 
 than most new games, this is an exciting adventure filled with lovely locations and excellent production 
 values to challenge any new title out right now (often better than what is out right now... ahem.. 
 spiderman 3...) .
  
  It is varied and new exciting enough for the Tomb Raider veteran to re-live, and also a wonderful 
 title for new-comers to start out on. WIth about 15 hours of gameplay here (including a revamped 
 croft manor filled with tricks and puzzles) a host of unlockable content, commentaries, costumes 
 (although, a few more would of been nice) and other stuff - its a great game to replay aswell. 
 If not to marvel at the locations, but certainly to get every unlockable! What better way to start 
 the series than this game right here. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
