-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/splintercell3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals, especially the lighting effects and the environments.
 Improved, more open-ended single-player campaign.
 Innovative multiplayer mode is interesting, though difficult to master.
 New cooperative mode offers some unique thrills.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign gameplay is retouched but pretty similar to the previous games.
 Multiplayer caters to the hardcore--it's complicated and punishing to new players.
 Feels like it was built by committee--there's a notable lack of cohesion .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 9.2, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 4,376 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 28, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's got to be the most fully featured stealth action game to date, so if you like the idea of high-tech 
 espionage, it's certainly going to have plenty to offer you. 

  The third iteration of the Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell stealth action franchise features the continuing 
 adventures of Sam Fisher, a top secret agent who's sent in to accomplish the US government's dirty 
 work when political situations go sour. It's also got a brand-new two-player cooperative mode in 
 addition to an updated version of the innovative spies-versus-mercenaries competitive multiplayer 
 mode introduced in the second Splinter Cell game. So there's a lot to it, and there's definitely 
 a lot to like about it, especially for Splinter Cell fans who felt a little too restricted while 
 playing as Fisher in the previous games. With that said, Chaos Theory sometimes has a designed-by-committee 
 feel due to its many disparate parts, and despite the game's grittier new theme and its new "Mature" 
 rating, it's going to offer a familiar experience to Splinter Cell veterans. But even if some of 
 the changes are marginal, this is still the most entertaining, most well-rounded game in the series 
 yet.  

          Sam Fisher's not playing around in Splinter Cell Chaos Theory.     

  Though the competitive multiplayer mode and new cooperative campaign are the most original aspects 
 of Chaos Theory, the solo campaign is the highlight. It's once again composed of a linear series 
 of missions, but these are generally bigger, more open-ended and simply more fun than those of 
 the previous games. Set in the near future, the campaign focuses on the threat of informational 
 warfare and a tenuous relationship between the United States, North Korea, and Japan. Enter Sam 
 Fisher, who's summoned to various international hot spots to find the truth and possibly to silence 
 certain dangerous individuals. You'll control him from a third-person perspective as he infiltrates 
 enemy compounds and ventilates his foes.  

  Though the premise of the story is a techno-thriller that lives up to the Tom Clancy name, storytelling 
 has never been Splinter Cell's strong suit, and Chaos Theory is no exception. Some unfocused between-mission 
 cutscenes sometimes set the stage for your next assignment, but a lot of your mission details are 
 conveyed in boring, easily skippable premission monologues by your commanding officers and informants. 
 Unsurprisingly, the best parts of the story happen during the missions themselves, where you'll 
 often hear Fisher exchanging banter with his off-site crew. Fisher, once again brought to life 
 by gravelly voiced actor Michael Ironside ( Total Recall ,  Starship Troopers ) , is a great character, 
 thanks to his dry, melancholy sense of humor. But the game sometimes tries too hard to be clever, 
 with a few highly conspicuous attempts at self-referential jokes. At any rate, you shouldn't play 
 this game for the plot -- you should play it because no other game does this well at making you feel 
 like a deadly spy working behind enemy lines.  

  Fisher is deadlier than ever this time around, thanks partly to his new combat knife, which he 
 has inexplicably started using since his last assignment. The knife is mostly just a cosmetic change 
 from the previous Splinter Cells, since in those games Fisher could put his opponents into a choke 
 hold, whereas he now holds them at knifepoint (bold new look, same difference) . Even though he 
 threatens his captives with a knife to their throats, Fisher can't actually cut them once he's 
 grabbed them from behind. He can either choke them to unconsciousness or deliver a fatal knee strike 
 to their lower back. Prior to grabbing them, he can now also stab his foes to death quickly, quietly, 
 and, for some reason, bloodlessly. And though he's replaced his old elbow smash with a palm strike 
 or a punch to the temple, he can optionally still knock his foes unconscious as opposed to killing 
 them outright.  

          The campaign offers you the freedom to do things your way, which makes it fun and replayable -- and 
 better than the previous Splinter Cells.     

  One of the reasons Chaos Theory is easier than its predecessors is because Fisher's melee attacks 
 are more effective, allowing him to reliably eliminate foes with a single swift attack, without 
 even resorting to using his guns. There's actually no difference in gameplay terms between killing 
 a foe and knocking him out. It's nice to have the choice for variety's sake, but the options could 
 have been more meaningful. And as shocking as it initially might be to see the look of terror on 
 the faces of Fisher's foes whenever he puts them in a vice grip, you'll soon get used to this effect 
 since it's always identical. At any rate, it's good to see a bunch of great, new animations in 
 the game. Fisher has always moved with incredibly lifelike grace, but he looks even better in action 
 now. Probably the best of the new animations is how, when Fisher is creeping near to an unaware 
 opponent, he'll naturally shift his weight away from the foe, putting as much distance between 
 the two of them as he possibly can. It's a subtle effect that really makes you feel like you're 
 stalking your foes in the darkness.  

  Fisher's got a bunch of other surprising new moves here, some of which are possible thanks to the 
 knife, and others that allow him to take out his foes in interesting new ways. However, you won't 
 get to use new moves often. You'll instead end up using the same sorts of techniques that were 
 central to the first two Splinter Cell games. You'll frequently shoot out lights, switching to 
 your night vision or thermal vision to aid you while your foes stumble blind. You'll also frequently 
 creep up on foes from behind and consider shooting them in the head, using either your pistol or 
 your newly redesigned SC-20K multipurpose assault rifle. You'll also get to pick locks, hack into 
 computers, crawl through air ducts and other tight spots, slip past security cameras, and more. 
     

  So, what's so different about Chaos Theory's campaign if you're doing the same sort of stuff as 
 before? It's that the campaign is much more open-ended now. This latest Splinter Cell generally 
 gives you a lot more freedom to pursue your objectives by any means necessary. For example, when 
 faced with a locked door, you don't strictly need to have the key code to get through it anymore -- you 
 can now hack the electronic lock or simply break the lock with your knife. The variety is good 
 to have, though it highlights that the third installment in the series still makes use of its predecessors' 
 utilitarian system that lets you choose context-sensitive actions like "switch object" and "grab 
 character" from a text menu, rather than let you perform these actions more intuitively. Also, 
 your pistol now has a secondary firing mode, which can temporarily disable electronics -- useful 
 for creating darkness as well as distraction. And whereas many of the older Splinter Cell missions 
 ended in an automatic failure if you sounded an alarm too many times (something that Chaos Theory 
 pokes fun at early on) , most of the missions this time don't restrict you like that, nor do they 
 force you to hide enemies' bodies or spare their lives. As mentioned, missions also have optional 
 objectives and sometimes multiple paths to the main objectives. You can even go into each mission 
 with a different arsenal, suited either for stealth, assault, or a balanced combination of the 
 two, though your choice probably won't have a major impact on how you play.  

          Your foes aren't totally believable, but sneaking up on them doesn't cease being exciting. 
     

  All of this allows you to improvise while playing Chaos Theory, rather than going through a trial-and-error 
 process until you figure out the "right" way to proceed. That's a real improvement, though it literally 
 means you can approach most of the game's missions much more carelessly than you could in previous 
 Splinter Cells. In fact, outside of a few specific sequences, Splinter Cell vets will find the 
 campaign to be a walk in the park at the normal difficulty. Still, if you want a more-meticulous 
 challenge, the game offers multiple difficulty settings, the tougher of which are more punishing 
 of tactical errors by making Fisher much more vulnerable to enemy fire.  

  The international locales of Fisher's escapades are also a major highlight. The game's beautifully 
 detailed graphics make all the different settings you'll visit, from an ominous lighthouse and 
 an inconspicuous ocean freighter to the streets of Seoul and a Japanese teahouse, very believable. 
 A fairly useful map is always there to help guide you to your next objective, but the missions 
 are designed in a linear fashion that tends to prevent you from getting lost, but not at the expense 
 of seeming overly simple or straightforward. The enemies you'll face in Chaos Theory are also somewhat 
 smarter, or at least different, than before. They'll notice if the lights go out or if a door is 
 left ajar, and they'll wander over to investigate. And, if you try to snipe them and miss, they'll 
 flinch believably or maybe even dive out of the line of fire. They'll attack you from behind cover, 
 and they are dangerous in numbers. Most of them are still completely unable to see you when it's 
 dark, so it's really not that hard to quietly creep up behind or around them. But getting to see 
 your foes' new tricks, and coming up with new and interesting ways of distracting them or luring 
 them to you, is definitely part of the fun.  

  The campaign is close to 10 hours long, and it ends dramatically but abruptly. The several difficulty 
 options, optional objectives, and relatively free-form gameplay make it more highly replayable 
 than the previous Splinter Cell campaigns. Of course, you've got other modes competing for your 
 attention. The new cooperative mode is very endearing, considering co-op modes are grossly underrepresented 
 in today's games, and considering Chaos Theory's implementation lets you and your partner perform 
 a whole bunch of cool moves that one spy alone couldn't accomplish. For example, one spy can toss 
 his partner over high walls or across chasms, and they may act like human ladders for one another, 
 too. These different co-op moves look fantastic, but they're executed in very specific locations 
 and situations, so their implementation feels somewhat contrived.  

          Co-op Splinter Cell offers some unique thrills, but there isn't enough great co-op content 
 to go around.     

  Beyond that, co-op Chaos Theory plays just like the campaign, except with two players running around 
 instead of one. It's probably not something you'd want to play with a stranger, but coordinating 
 attacks with a friend can be a lot of fun. The thing is, Chaos Theory includes just four co-op 
 missions (plus a training mission that does little but showcase the various co-op moves you can 
 do) , and the one set in Seoul is by far the best. It ties in with the main campaign's storyline 
 and is tightly structured and altogether exciting. The other co-op missions feel a lot bigger and 
 emptier, and they suffer for it. For some reason, you don't have access to a map in co-op, nor 
 is there any easy way to tell where your partner is if you get separated. As such, the co-op missions 
 can devolve into the two of you wandering around, looking for where to go next or for each other. 
 All in all, cooperative Chaos Theory is a great concept that's fairly well executed, but you can 
 tell that more effort went into the single-player campaign than into the handful of derivative 
 co-op missions.  

  Then there's the four-player versus mode. Last year's Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow introduced 
 the whole spies-versus-mercenaries multiplayer concept to Splinter Cell, and it was one of the 
 most innovative multiplayer games of the year. Chaos Theory's version of this multiplayer mode 
 includes a few key differences, but it's basically the same thing, so fans will be able to dive 
 right in while new players will have a lot to learn. Interestingly, before you can get online, 
 Chaos Theory actually forces you to complete a brief "exam" by going through a quick scenario as 
 a spy. It's a nice gesture, designed to help ensure that those playing Chaos Theory online basically 
 know what they're doing. But Chaos Theory's competitive multiplayer mode is much more complex than 
 this little exam map implies. The spies resemble Sam Fisher, but they have a distinctly different 
 feel and some of their own unique moves, while the mercenaries are controlled from a first-person 
 viewpoint yet are slower and more complicated to control than your typical FPS character. In addition, 
 there's the fact that you need to learn the game's big, rather intimidating levels, about half 
 of which are new and half of which are updated versions of Pandora Tomorrow maps.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (161 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aerozy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:25 pm PT
Review:  This game was simply amazing, when making the jump from Pandora Tomorrow to this i could simply 
 not get off of it. It was so addicting. Online game play was amazingly better and more enjoyable 
 than the online play in Pandora . I remember falling asleep to the Battery song by Amon Tobin that 
 plays in the lobby and waking up to a guy snorting in the mic hehe. Anyways, even if you do have 
 one of the next gen consoles such as the xbox 360 or play station 3 i would still highly recommend 
 that you pick this game up and give it a shot. It is well worth the play and its pretty good considering 
 it was made for the ps2 and still managed to be amazing in its time. Also as far as my record goes 
 for chaos theory online, ubisoft removed my profile because they thought i was exploitingly leveling 
 up. i was banned at level 8 and a half but once i get online back i will be sure to get back up 
 to past whoever is on chaos theory ps2's high scores right now.
  
  Sam Fisher, We Salute you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPBDPBDPB
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The Bad
  
  The campaigns were a bit too short and they kind of copied each other.
  The graphics weren't the best, for instance my mouse went out of place accidentally and it showed 
 the inside of his body. 
  The enemy said their statements over and over again.
  Whenever I would whistle, the enemy came over to the spot he heard it and a minute later said it 
 was nothing.
  Sam Fisher was very unlimited with what he could do.
  
  The Good
  
  The weapons were very realistic and whenever I shot with my sniper the enemy shot his gun in the 
 place he heard it.
  The movements were excellent and the moves he could make were amazing. For instance Fisher was 
 on the edge of a light house and he was holding on with his hands, and while the guard walked past 
 him Fisher grabbed him and pushed over the edge.
  I liked it were you could push them over the edge of railings. It made hiding the body easier.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell 3 looks and sounds really pretty. Missions designs are very detailed and there are 
 many different ways to complete them. Some might not enjoy the open-ended style missions because 
 of the increased difficulty. Also the intricate story may be difficult to follow.
  
  GOOD:
  
  - Graphics and sound are great.
  - Controls are still solid
  - Good voice acting
 
  - Players are given the choice to play stealth or assault style
  - Keypads / scanners can be hacked, this keeps the action moving instead of having to search around 
 for passcodes
  
  BAD
  
  - Open style missions can be frustrating if players get confused
  - Playing this game takes a 
 ton of patience, maybe too much
  - Many missions feel like trial and error, requiring constant reloading
  - Difficult story to 
 follow, maybe not for fans of Tom Clancy books - The map is difficult to use, not enough detail
 
  - Does little different than the previous two 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory is an exciting game that explores how a spy's world can 
 be so complicated, while helping his country out. The one major flaw with this game is in some 
 levels in the beginning that there is a song being loped over and over again which makes me want 
 to hack the game and replace it with my own tunes. Ubisoft could of made it a different song in 
 each level on the radio, but I think their to cheap to do that. Anyways the game has some interesting 
 ways to get rid of your enemies like throwing them off cliffs and into the deeps of the ocean. 
 One thing in the game which I think is stupid is that while your crouching around you may move 
 to fast just holding down a movement button and cause your enemy your walking by to kill you. In 
 the previous splinter cell this was not that case while crouching around while holding down the 
 movement key and going past your enemy would of have not got your killed or shot in the shadows. 
 There is some side objectives in the game like getting information off crates and other stuff, 
 but I would just pass them because I just like to get a level over within one shot instead of walking 
 all over the level and getting a more chance to get caught. In the end whatever you do, will just 
 bring you to exact same spot at the end of the game. By the way not every level in the game has 
 one path through it; you can always take alternative paths like taking a long zip line and taking 
 5 minutes to go through long skinny vents to reach your destination. Overall this game will want 
 you to play every splinter cell game there is and you'll be very addictive to splinter cell series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganga_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of the Splinter Cell series, especially Splinter Cell 1 is a game that i 
 played through several times. The first two games are also great, but Chaos Theory adds something 
 special to the series. The story-telling is still great and as always you are the guy who can save 
 the whole world.
  The game is a lot more realistic and brutal, which suits the series really good. The settings are 
 a good mix so you don't get bored seeing the same thing all the time. 
  What makes the game a lot better than the first two is, that there are different kind of aims that 
 you can achieve in each level, which is really motivating and adds a lot more realistic feeling. 
 Furthermore, you can interrogate almost every person/enemy and gather information this way. 
  Last but not least it is also possible to play the game in a more action-based way if you wish 
 to. I still prefer the stealth-way, but if you want to shoot your way through your enemies you 
 can do that in most levels. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sejuhasz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  Scroll down for a summary.
  
  
  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is not a perfect game. It is however, the perfect stealth game. Chaos 
 Theory puts you in the suit of Sam Fisher, a Splinter Cell stealth agent, what starts out as a 
 routine mission turns out to uncover a plan to steal nuclear arms from North Korea an possibly 
 threaten humanity.
  
  The graphics, at the time, were absolutely stunning, the dim lighting rolling off of Sam's trifocle 
 goggles, the wet limestone bricks, everything looks absolutely stunning for it's time, and still 
 looks extremely good.
  
  The sounds are just as good, every gun feels powerful and very sturdy, groans and screams actually 
 sound painful, the environment will sound off around you, whether it be birds chirping or rain 
 falling or maybe even thunder booming in the distance you'll find them pleasing to the ear. The 
 voice acting on the enemy side could've used a little more work, however.
  
  The gameplay is the best part, both single and multiplayer are absolutely enthralling, vanishing, 
 sneaking through the shadows past your enemy, or kicking open the door and taking down every poor 
 little bastard in your path, it makes for an extremely satisfying experience.
  
  Multiplayer is nothing less than groundbreaking, as either side. One side you can play as a mercenary 
 with guns and grenades to the teeth, forced to destroy every spy you see, spies on the other hand 
 must hack computers in the level and retrieve data off of them, and are forced to use wits against 
 the merc's brutality.
  
  The game is also surprisingly long, you can spend hours in single missions if you choose the stealthy 
 route, a single playthrough will get you up to 20 hours.
  
  Summary: This Splinter Cell is the perfect stealth game, heart-pounding action in single and multiplayer, 
 options on how to take out your enemy and a very interesting and SURPRISING story line will give 
 you your money's worth.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  The Third Time's the Charm for Sam
  
  The most popular spy in the world may be James Bond, but in the world of videogames Sam Fisher 
 reigns supreme. Comparing the personalities of these two spies you can also find the differences 
 between Bond games and the Splinter Cell series. Sam Fisher is a tougher, deadlier, and more serious 
 spy than the famous Englishman (Scottish in Sean Connery's case) . The Splinter Cell games have 
 always tried to showcase those traits, having many ways to incapacitate or kill your opponents 
 but in a more realistic fashion. You can't just march into a room full of enemies and expect to 
 come out alive. In Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, the best characteristics the series has to offer 
 were given a facelift. It's not just a boring sequel but a well thought out extension of the first 
 game. Chaos Theory completes a Splinter Cell trilogy of games, and hopefully it doesn't end there.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Looking at previous reviews for Splinter Cell games, the description for this game's graphics will 
 sound repetitive. All three games achieve outstanding graphics, but Chaos Theory raises the bar. 
 Sam Fisher has even more life-like moves than before; sneaking up on opponents is now more fun 
 to watch because Fisher's moves are believable, like the one's a real spy would perform. While 
 crouched, Fisher balances his weight from one side to another to avoid making extra noise. The 
 addition of a combat knife to the arsenal of weapons is a graphical improvement more than a gameplay 
 improvement. If Fisher weren't menacing enough before while grabbing an enemy from behind, he surely 
 is now. Interrogations with a knife seem to be more effective than using only your bare hands. 
 It's a huge improvement, and it adds to the realism that the series has tried to achieve on each 
 game. You can kill your opponents with the knife when you are behind them with a ninja-silent stab, 
 but you can't kill with the knife when you already have your foe grabbed from the back. This isn't 
 a big problem - less gratuitous violence. While on the subject of new moves and weapons, it has 
 to be said that the characters in the co-op are the one's with the most new moves. All of their 
 new moves are directly related to the fact that there are two players cooperating to complete a 
 mission, so they create combo moves between the two. The cooperative moves range from simple things 
 like getting help from your partner to climb on top of a wall, to taking out two enemies at the 
 same time.
  
  In cooperative and multiplayer modes, the graphics, unfortunately, are weaker than those in the 
 beautiful single player campaign. There seems to have been more effort put into better gameplay 
 for these game modes than graphical excellency. Either way, the graphics are far better than most 
 multiplayers or co-ops. The spies and mercenaries are not as realistic looking as Sam Fisher, nor 
 do they move as fluidly, but they are granted different moves, and they don't go alone.
  
  Realistic enemies and NPCs are exciting but not as much as visiting vast landscapes and exotic 
 cities. Too bad Sam Fisher is never on vacation in these games. From the streets of the capital 
 of Georgia to East Timor, the locales in Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory are not just a big bonus to 
 the already great graphics, but they also play a role in the strategy and gameplay. Every new place 
 that has to be visited offers different natural obstacles, and some offer unique advantages for 
 stealth. This time around Fisher goes to Asia, mainly visiting Korea and Japan. The graphics in 
 each of these places are outstanding; it's a live world even with the limitations of a linear scripted 
 game.
  
  SOUND
  
  Ambient sounds and any noises in general, provoked or not by the gamer, affect gameplay in Splinter 
 Cell: Chaos Theory. Silent approaches are the best weapon a spy can have, aside from noisy firearms. 
 Gunfire is intense and can really make you a nervous wreck. Part of the success when playing is 
 educating your ear to subtle sights and sounds. Strategic planning goes a long way too, but having 
 your senses ready is part of the strategy too. Chaos Theory may be a lot more forgiving in difficulty 
 than it's predecessors, but it isn't a walk in the park either, and the sounds play are important 
 in the strategy of the game. Try to be dead silent to be more effective. And just enjoy the high 
 quality in the sound department the game has to offer.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The first son of the series was successful thanks to the innovative gameplay it offered. Never 
 did a spy game make the gamer feel like a spy, without being a cartoon version of a deadly operative. 
 Chaos Theory follows the same pattern, and gives an outstanding, although not revolutionary, incursion 
 to the world of espionage. As mentioned before, being a shadow is part of the strategy the gamer 
 has at his/her disposal. Logically, more detail is added to the gameplay when facing those situations 
 where you have to sneak up on the enemy. Sam Fisher has a great arsenal of moves to go with the 
 deadly arms. The moves range from the acrobatic to the practical. The game is also more open ended 
 than the previous efforts. That's not saying much, because all Splinter Cell titles have been very 
 linear games. It's apparent, however, that there was some time put into making the game open to 
 various ways of accomplishing the objectives; there's not just the one way to finish a mission. 
 Though be mindful that there are still not many reasons for the gamer to be wandering around (no 
 matter how cool the scenery is) . So, don't expect mind-blowing differences in terms of gameplay, 
 because Chaos Theory plays in the same fashion as its predecessors. That's not actually a bad thing: 
 "if it isn't broken don't fix it" is a philosophy that has worked so far.
  
  DON'T DESPAIR
  
  There is a fairly big fan base out there for the Splinter Cell trilogy, and 
 many of those fans had great expectations for Chaos Theory, because it announced many changes to 
 the series, changes that appealed to many, changes that don't transform the game into another but 
 only make it better. Chaos Theory can be defined as a mild revolution. It brings freshness to the 
 series without making a great deal of changes. Only calculated risks were taken here. For purist 
 fans that's a relief, and for those who expected a 360 turn, you'll have to wait a little longer. 
 Nevertheless, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is a must-have for both fans and non-fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyisCoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is a really good game because it has a really good plot and i think this 
 is one of the best splinter cells. i hope that conviction will be a little like this one and double 
 agent. i always like Tom Clancy games but i would have to say that i think that splinter cell is 
 the best Tom Clancy has ever done. The good thing a lot this game is that you are always fighting 
 in the dark aor night. Which makes the game a lot easier. And yes i have completed this game on 
 hard. My favorite level is the bank. i hope you liked my review on splinter cell chaos Theory. : 
 ) you can visit me at youtube. com/tommyiscoo thank you. and if you tell my me how to put your video 
 games on your page please massage my at tommyiscoo at youtube.
  I have 40 videos on lots of games like the club, and some movies like one missed call and i am 
 legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mclaren_GT70
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Solid characters, sharp graphic, excellent lighting and environment, "killing people without a 
 trace"!! Awesome!! But not too getting excited while playing because a whole game is a high-tech 
 stealth action. What can i say is this is the best stealth game even in 2005. You will certainly 
 be pleased with the realistic shadowing and graphics it presents. Nothing in the game will make 
 you say "thats unrealistic". Especially how theres so many ways to do one thing. While playing 
 you can sneek up behind a guy and knock him out, put a gun to his head, or just shoot him, or shoot 
 stick shockers, or air foils, or grenades, etc. etc. theres never just one way to do things! Throught 
 the game you will be presented with shadowy enviroments where you have to sneak around without 
 being seen and complete you missions, sometimes without sounding off an alarm. Yes, this is one 
 of the games where you are cringing, as a guard walks within a foot of you and doesn't notice you. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcj007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  When I played the demo, I was addited to this game. This game has every thing Stealth, action , 
 i also felt laughing at sometimes on players move. Simple & sweet this game is fabulus both in 
 single player as well as multiplayer. It has another mode co-operative mode , you would the moves 
 that you will see there. It's not horror but adrenaline booster. You would exprience a typical 
 fear while playing this game. This game has cool moves , you would be above your enemies and they 
 will not even know. Several ways to kill enemies, finish a level and have fun. If you dont believe 
 me then play the demo and then decide. Too many styles not like one of those of devil may cry. 
 The game is a bit long but of total fun. Dont miss this game It is a ultra cool, Addictive and 
 Stealth game. My recomendations are run to store and buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corlist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, a. k. a SCCT, is Ubisoft's third third-person stealth action 
 game.
  
  The good:
  + Best stealth action mechanics since Pandora Tomorrow.
  + More freedom
  + Many new features
  + Great graphics
  + Great sounds
  + Great music
 
  + Cooperative mode
  + 3 games in one
  
  The bad:
  + Story not very gripping
  + Occasionally unrealistic AI
  + Buggy cooperative mode
  + Intimidating competitive mode Story 
 (7/10) :
  The story in Chaos Theory is your typical Tom Clancy-esque techno-thriller and if you have played 
 previous Splinter Cells, you can easily guess that story involves terrorists and a scheme to incite 
 a world war. The story is delivered in the single-player campaign through news telecasts, cut scenes 
 and during the missions themselves. There are a few twists here and there, but there is nothing 
 too interesting about any of them. Overall, the majority of people who plays Chaos Theory would 
 not be bothered about the story, but it is still a decent one nonetheless.
  
  New Stuff (10/10) :
  If you played any of the previous Splinter Cells, you will feel right at 
 home with the controls in Chaos Theory. A slew of new moves, thanks to the combat knife, are now 
 available to Fisher, making him much more effective in close quarters combat. He also gains a variety 
 of other moves that he can execute whilst hanging upside down from a pole or on a ledge. Sadists 
 will also be pleased to hear that Fisher can now kill his victims, with a deadly knee to the spine, 
 whilst they are grabbed in an interrogative pose. Besides executing Fifth Freedom on his enemies, 
 Fisher can also use the knife to take out motor power generators or cut open thin paper walls.
 
  
  Technology-wise, in addition to the light-darkness meter, there is now a sound meter, which gauges 
 the noise that Fisher is currently making against ambient noise. The SC pistol, instead of a red 
 laser aiming module, is replaced with an OCP, or an optically-channelled potentiator. This nifty 
 device allows Fisher to temporarily deactivate or interfere with any electronic device, including 
 lights, computers and security cameras. Instead of having a diversion camera and a sticky camera, 
 both of these devices have merged into one
  
  For those who would like to play rough, the SC-20K now comes with three new attachments  a foregrip 
 for steady shots, a shotgun for close range action, and a powerful 20mm sniper.
  
  Most important, all of the new additions are far from being just complimentary, many of them will 
 be used extensively through Fisher's journeys.
  
  One of the flaws of Pandora Tomorrow is the "Three alarms and game over syndrome". In Chaos Theory, 
 Fisher is given much more lenience during his missions, killing too many civilians or triggering 
 too many alarms will no longer result in mission failure. Instead, enemies will be on heightened 
 alert and difficulty will increase by a few notches. Fisher's end of round score will also be affected 
 appropriately. This means, in all save a few missions, you could pull out your rifle and its various 
 powerful attachments and start putting holes in everyone's heads  including civilians.
  
  Game-play (9/10) :
  The game-play in Chaos Theory, in a basket, is more of the same. However, 
 more of the same is not really a bad thing for Chaos Theory. Stealth action just got tighter than 
 ever in Chaos Theory. New players will still find it a struggle to play the game, even though the 
 series' veterans will feel right at home. Through each of the missions, Fisher has a number of 
 primary, secondary and opportunity objectives he can complete  even though he only needs to complete 
 the primaries  which is good, because it can get very frustration searching every inch of a level 
 to find and complete opportunity objectives. The levels are generally well designed, but tend to 
 be a little linear; you probably will not get lost throughout most of the game because the path 
 is usually laid out for you very obviously. Less obvious paths exist and it is through these paths 
 where Fisher is able to avoid confrontation with his enemies.
  
  The enemies that Fisher faces are quite intelligent and believable, but not entirely. All of them 
 will stand in your way throughout the campaign and they can usually be dispatched easily when the 
 lights are out  so shooting lights become an important affair. In the dark, your enemies will 
 bring out flares and torch lights to give you a bit of a situation. Its fun to see them spook out 
 or utter nonsense when you make noises or do suspicious things. Upon grabbing and interrogating 
 them, you will usually be treated to an interesting conversation. There is a whole lot of dialogue 
 Fisher's team at Third Echelon also talks to their man in the field quite frequently. There is 
 also a different set of dialogues conversed to Fisher when he triggers four alarms, which goes 
 to show how much is done.
  
  When you alert an enemy due to carelessness, prepare for a difficult and thrilling stand-off. This 
 is especially so when many enemies are present. They will intelligently run for cover and lay down 
 suppressive fire; they will also occasionally flank you and toss grenades at you.
  
  Besides enemies, Fisher will also have to be aware of security systems in his missions. There are 
 cameras, infrared cameras, laser grids, retinal scanners and keypad locked doors. Most of them 
 can be deactivated using his trusty OCP or by hacking into them. Hacking into keypads or retinal 
 scanners eliminates the possibility that Fisher gets stuck in a mission if he is not able to get 
 a hold of key codes or a hostage, a very good move made by the developers.
  
  As previously mentioned, Fisher has more freedom to do whatever he wants. If you are a person who 
 likes to sneak around as many people as you can, the OCP lets you do that. If you feel more comfortable 
 knocking every out, the stealth kit lets you do that. If you feel ruthless and want to chuck everyone 
 down a building, grab the assault kit and you're good to go.
  
  An end of round tally showing the number of enemies you've taken out, injured or killed exists. 
 Whenever you make a mistake, you lose success rating. There is even a timer for each level, giving 
 this game a lot of potential for speed runs.
  
  However, it does not take long for someone to realise that the enemies, no matter if they are Korean, 
 American, Peruvian or Japanese, all speak the exact same lines. It is also quite evident that the 
 AI follows a fixed pattern whenever something suspicious happens. Enemies will walk to the spot 
 where they last seen or heard something suspicious, pause for a second, turn, say something like 
 "Nothing", and if there is another person around, he will say "What are we gonna do now?" replied 
 with "Don't look at me I don't know." It can get a little repetitive after a while, especially 
 after the hundredth time you heard it.
  
  The music in the game is decent, although it does give away the situation too readily. You know 
 when you've done something wrong when the music grows louder; when the music suddenly blasts away 
 you know that you need to run for cover fast. Sometimes the AI might seem like its cheating. Picture 
 this  you creep up, in pitch darkness, to an enemy, you take him out quickly with a knee to the 
 gut, he falls down without uttering a word. However, the music blares and away and Lambert starts 
 talking down to you about the alarm you've just triggered. How the guard you've just knocked out 
 managed to magically alert his buddies 10 metres away in an enclosed room is just amazing.
  
  One last nitpick is that, despite having a lot of choices, there is usually a one "best" solution 
 to the problem. You could shoot a rifle round to the lone guard's head, use a shocker, an airfoil, 
 a grenade, a flash grenade or a sticky camera. But the best solution is nonetheless whistling to 
 lure the guard over and take him out.
  
  Graphics / Visual Presentation: (10/10)
  The graphics, without a doubt, has vastly improved over Pandora Tomorrow. Lighting and shadows 
 are good as usual and Fisher looks even more unshaven and rugged as a veteran Splinter Cell than 
 before. The enemies look like they are really afraid when grabbed by Fisher.
  
  By cranking up the settings to 1600x1200 with 4x AA 16x AF and the game will truly shine. Despite 
 those resolutions, Chaos Theory can still run at moderate frame rates.
  
  The various locales that Fisher visits in his missions look remarkable. While the animations in 
 Pandora Tomorrow can look a little clumsy, especially when dropping on people the animations in 
 Chaos Theory are really good. Fisher looks fantastic when he performs his knife takedowns. The 
 animation where Fisher climbs up from a ledge is also nice. His enemies also filch and duck realistically 
 when shot at.
  
  The rag doll physics in Chaos Theory are also an improvement over its predecessor. Enemies slump 
 and fall rather believably, even though there are occasional glitches.
  
  Sound / Audio Presentation: (10/10)
  The sounds in Chaos Theory are top notch. Gunfire sounds 
 believable, so do missed bullets. Every little sound; grenades exploding, televisions short circuiting 
 and doors sliding open, sound really good.
  
  The music, composed by Amon Tobin, is also stellar. From the creepy tunes of the lighthouse level 
 to the metallic vibes of the music in provided for the Displace level, are very good and can really 
 get your adrenaline pumping in tense situations.
  
  Michael Ironside once again demonstrates that he is the best man for Fisher's voice, portraying 
 a dark, gritty voice fit for a veteran spy. His dark sense of humour is also displayed evidently 
 in his interrogations with his hostages and gives Fisher more substance as a character.
  
  Cooperative Mode: (8/10)
  For the first time in the Splinter Cell franchise, a cooperative mode 
 is available. It is really exciting to complete missions with a friend, with several cooperative-only 
 modes with all new maps. The agents say stuff like "Damn, we're good!" when they finish such a 
 move, and it will be hilarious to find out that they still say that even though an agent has tossed 
 his partner into a turret.
  
  Much of this mode borrows a lot from the single-player portion of Chaos Theory and enemies can 
 be dealt with in a similar fashion.
  
  There are some truly exciting moments, such as when both of the agents hurry to cut the correct 
 wires to disarm a bomb that is rapidly ticking down, or when one agent lays suppression fire while 
 the other runs up with a knife, all thanks to the VOIP support.
  
  Its very cool and handy to have a buddy distract enemies while you handle some time consuming stuff, 
 such as hacking computers. The possibilities are endless compared to single player.
  
  However, much of its execution is not as good as one would have hoped. Instead of providing both 
 agents with an OCP each, they are given jammers. These jammers are essentially the same as OCPs, 
 except that a person will have to stay still for the jammer to be effective. Cooperative-only moves 
 can also only be pulled off in very few places and cannot be used as liberally as one would have 
 hoped. Also, despite the fact that a double retinal scanner can be unlocked by bringing two appropriate 
 people, it is almost always much easier and faster to just hack both of them.
  
  The two agents communicate with only Lambert, and not very often do they do that, which is a little 
 disappointing.
  
  It also doesn't help that the mode glitches occasionally. There were a few times when I got stuck 
 during the double rappelling move. Also, a one sided locked door into a room almost prevented the 
 mission from being completed.
  
  The last complain about this mode is that neither of the agents can whistle  perhaps only long-time 
 Splinter Cells are authorised to do that?
  
  Competitive Mode: (9/10)
  The acclaimed Spy vs Mercenaries mode returns in Chaos Theory, although not a whole lot has changed 
 from its predecessor. The premise of this mode is simple; the spies must take out a number of objectives 
 scattered throughout the level, and the mercenaries must defend them.
  
  This truly one-of-a-kind multiplayer mode is something fans of stealth action can look forward 
 to. The maps are well designed to accommodate both the spies and mercenaries, with intricate series 
 of secret passages and pathways littered throughout the level, so as to facilitate spies to escape 
  as well as several locked doors which only mercenaries can access as shortcuts.
  
  Mercenaries pack powerful guns which can blow spies away in seconds, while the slick agility of 
 spies allows them to climb, jump and crawl through areas where mercenaries simply cannot get to. 
 Both parties also possess interesting tools to help them hunt or escape effectively.
  
  However, due to the complexity of the game, it can be very intimidating to new players. Not many 
 people will be willing to spend a lot of time into this game so that they can be good, because 
 not many people play on the game's official servers anyway.
  
  The maps seem to be awfully large for just 4 players, and all of them are very complex. If you 
 are not good, you will simply be very lost and get killed easily.
  
  Overall (9.5 / 10)
  
  All in all, Chaos Theory is a great package for almost three full games. The quality of the 
 single player campaign is something to behold, and the fun that the multiplayer modes provide will 
 last for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Value:8
  Tilt:10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory was another great addition to the series. It wasn't as good as Pandora 
 Tomorrow but it was still amazing. Chaos Theory added many new features. One of my new favorite 
 features was the new moves that Fisher can use. For example you can take a enemy to the edge of 
 a building and throw him off. Also, when your climbing on a pole and a enemy is under you, you 
 can do a couple amazing moves like stabbing them in the neck, grabbing there neck and pulling them 
 up till they chock, or just quickly snap their necks. Furthermore, other than the amazing new hand 
 combat moves, fisher receives many new weapons. Actually, not new weapons but new added features 
 to the pistol and assault rifle. With the pistol you can now shut off lights and other items for 
 a short period of time so you can do your job nicely in the dark. The SC20K assault rifle has a 
 shotgun and sniper attachment. You will really enjoy blasting your enemies across the room with 
 the shotgun. Moreover, the levels are greatly designed but the missions are very long. As you go 
 on the missions get harder, so it will take you longer and longer. The shortest time for one mission 
 for me was 20 minutes and the longest was 57 minutes. Anyway, Chaos Theory lets you choose the 
 path you want to go, you aren't required to go down the hallway or whatever, if you want you can 
 go through an air vent or any other ways you can find. So this game gives you more freedom than 
 the other splinter cells. However, I liked Pandora Tomorrow's cut-scenes much more than chaos Theory. 
 Pandora Tomorrow had World News that showed what was going on in the world after every mission 
 and it also showed Fisher getting ready to go to his next objective. In Chaos theory you have a 
 voice mail message from your teammates. So that was a downfall. However I really liked that you 
 can choose if you want to have stealth or assault weapons, that also gave you more freedom and 
 can change the way you complete the mission. Also, Chaos theory still has the multiplayer but it 
 also added a new co-op mode were you and your teammate do crazy tag team moves to complete the 
 missions. Overall, Splinter Cell Chaos Theory is another amazing addition to the ultra-stealth 
 series. From eliminating a whole crew of sailors to robbing a bank. You will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is currently the only Splinter Cell I've played. I think it's a pretty 
 good game, but certainly not the best of it's genre. Not even close.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  - Stealth is very good here. The enemies behave semi-realistically. Most of the time you *have* 
 to sneak, which means you are going to get shot very fast if not careful. The only major gripe 
 here is that it's so linear. Stealth games should not be linear, at all. Thief and Deus Ex are 
 much, MUCH better in that area.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7.5/10
  - Yeah, it has quite a bit of atmosphere. It's nothing compared to Thief though. Well, they are 
 pretty different anyway. I'll just say that it feels pretty good to sneak around. The bad thing 
 is that I never got the feeling that *I'm* Sam Fisher, which is a bad thing in any game, especially 
 RPGs and stealth games. (I blame the 3rd person camera for this)
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  - I find the graphics to be really good. REALLY good, for a 2005 game. The textures, the lightning, 
 other effects, are all excellent.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  - It's mostly ok and does it's job well. Especially the ambient sounds are good.
  
  Physics: 
 5/10
  - Just your average ragdoll. Nothing more, really.
  
  Replay value: 6.5/10
  - You could play in different difficulty levels, set your own goals (not to be seen, don't knock 
 out & kill anyone etc.) Too bad the levels are so linear, it would've had so much more replay value 
 if there were more like Thief.
  
  Value for money: 7/10
  - This is one of the games that I actually think is nearly worth the full price. Nearly.
  
 
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 3/10
  - For an unknown reason, I couldn't get this game to run on my PC that easily met the system requirements. 
 The problem was that the sound lagged or missed completely. I asked Ubisoft tech support and they 
 couldn't help me. I got this game to run only in my newer PC. Other than that, there are no major 
 bugs that I am aware of, and it never crashed. It performs very well on a medium to high-end PCs, 
 I myself can run it on all maxed out at the resolution of 2048x1536, and my PC isn't exaclty the 
 most high-end there is.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - I don't think 
 so. It's a decent game, but other games of it's genre (mainly Thief and Deus Ex) will be remembered 
 longer, no doubt.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - The fans of stealth oriented action games. Fans of Hitman or Thief. Do not buy this if all you 
 want to do is shoot everyone.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I've never played the original splinter cell, but i have played pandora tomrow. That was a great 
 game, but chaos theory takes it beyond.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty solid. The shooting part is a little frustrating and not very satisfying. But, 
 the stealth mechanic of the game is done very well. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Amazing. Looks great, at least on a high end system, but this is a 2 year old game, so 
 its not going to be that hard to run it. The shadow effects are done very well, and nothing beats 
 splinter cell in lighting. One problem is you'll get bored of grabbing a different enemy and he'll 
 end up looking like the guy you just knocked out a few minutes ago. 10/10
  
  Sound: Its alright, not great but alright. Fisher sounds pretty cool when interogating the enemy, 
 but its pretty weird how the people in Spain, Russia, Korea, and Japan can't seem to speak their 
 native language and only speak "Engrish." 8/10
  
  Entertainment: Not a chance this game won't appeal to some people. I can understand those people 
 who hate stealth or action games, but if you do like these kind of games, pick this game up immediately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cogs1038
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  GAMES STORY:
  
  The year is 2008.
  
  Citywide blackouts ... stock exchange sabotage  electronic hijacking of national defense systems 
 ... this is information warfare.
  
  To prevent these attacks, operatives must infiltrate deep into hostile territory and aggressively 
 collect critical intelligence, closer than ever to enemy soldiers.
  
  You are Sam Fisher, the NSA's most elite black-ops agent. To achieve your mission you will kill 
 from close range, attack with your combat knife, shoot with the prototype Land Warrior rifle, and 
 use radical suppression techniques such as the inverted neck break. Also take on cooperative multiplayer 
 infiltration missions, where teamwork is the ultimate weapon.
  
  As the enemy evolves, so must you.
  
  FEATURES:
  
   Deadly agility: Incredibly complete 
 and fluid variety of moves including athletic moves, stealth moves, stealth kills.
  
   Real weapons of tomorrow: The most complete arsenal of weapons and gadgets, from the knife to 
 the experimental Land Warrior System.
  
   As good as real: Never-before-seen graphics technology offers the best visuals on any console 
 yet. Advanced physics engine allowing rag doll physics, particle effects, and perfect interaction 
 with the environment.
  
   Ultimate challenge: Intelligent AI with personal attributes, natural behavior where NPCs are 
 aware of thier environments and remember past events.
  
   Amazing replayability: Totally open level design with multipaths and optional secondary objectives.
 
  
   Co-op stealth: Play multiplayer with friends and coordinate your infiltration in an all-new multiplayer 
 challenge.
  
  SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
  Windows 2000/XP (only)
  AMD Athlon or Intel Pentium III 1.4GHz (Athlon or Pentium IV 2.2GHz recommended)
  256MB RAM (512MB 
 recommended)
  64MB DirectX 9.0c-compliant graphics card (128MB recommended)
  DirectX 9.0c-compliant sound card (EAX 2.0 or higher recommended)
  DirectX 9.0c (included on 
 disc)
  4x DVD-ROM or better
  4GB free hard drive space
  Windows-compatible mouse and keyboard only
  64Kbps broadband (128Kbps recommended)
  
  
 
  THESE ARE MY RATINGS ON THE GAME.
  fun-4.6 out of 5
  sound- 4.7 out of 5
  graphics- 5.0 out of 5
  challenging- 4.8 out of 5
  the total of my ratings is 4.8 out of 5
 
  
  
  this game is really cool. NOT A WASTE OF MONEY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcrow5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  When I found out this game was coming out, I was uber excited. I absolutley loved the other 2 splinter 
 cells, and this is the best one out of the series by far. The graphics are freakin' sweet, as well 
 as sams new moves and gadgets (the awesome knife he can now use) . The sound is crisp and clear, 
 but it could have been improved due to some technicalities that the GP review explains in more 
 detail. Thats the only bad thing about the game, the multiplayer is THE BEST I HAVE EVER PLAYED, 
 and am still playing now after 2 years. I definatley recommend this game to ANYONE, because it 
 is the best stealth action game out there at the moment. The gameplay is sweet as, and the levels 
 are fun and exciting to play and have alot of replay value due to the variety of ways you can complete 
 the missions. IF YOU DONT GET THIS GAME YOU ARE A FOOL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  AH Yes... Splinter Cell-Chaos Theory. Lets Get started...!. First of all, i would like to say that 
 by far this is the best ever spy-oriented stealth episode available..!! and the stealth cant get 
 better than this... trust me.. even Double Agent is no match to this sequel..! The game play is brilliant, the 
 story line is something u would have never expected. the game keeps u going until the end, u just 
 cant get enough of it. the story is no match for any bond series (although bond has little interest 
 in stealth..!) . the graphics are just right... the essence of an Echolon Agent is throughout. the 
 reality is something which is hard to explain just by words. The time spent on this game is more 
 than the rest of the Splinter Cell series. The music and audio effects are as usual, the best.. and 
 the moves in this episode is perfect n although it lacks some of the moves from the previous episode (Splinter 
 Cell-Pandora Tomorrow) . The Best part in this is that the gadgets and gears are of a real Spy Agent..!. The 
 hacking to be performed in this game is right out of a Spy-Fiction book...!! the retinal scanner, the 
 Night Vision, Thermal Vision, The moves are perfect and is addictive. U will definitely want to play 
 the game over again once u finish it. The learning curves needed is much more in this part. the Hacking, EEV, OCP, EMF 
 and the 3D map needs some effort to know how it works. n these are something without which u will 
 never get to feel the essence of the game... And over all, this is the Best and The Best you can 
 ever get to stealth gaming, a must have for every gamer..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is at it again. Some say the Splintercell series of games is a rip from Metal Gear Solid. 
 I say otherwise. Chaos Theory holds true to Splintercell and Splintercell 2: Pandora Tomorrow, 
 by keeping the realism high unlike other similar games, hint hint. This time, Sam has to track 
 down wacky goofballs trying to use the internet and other similar means... 'bad boys' who want 
 to cause everything from stock market crashes to world war 3 by trying to launch missiles. The 
 method of gameplay is the same as the last 2 Splintercell titles, but this time, Sam Fisher is 
 a little more gritty, a little more dark, and what's more.. he's not playing around - not this 
 time! Sam is more deadly than ever. But is the gameplay as good as all this sounds? Yes, with a 
 few drawbacks. Keep reading to find out.
  
  Sound is great - they really put that freakin DOLBY to use this time. Wow. If you have a 5.1 speaker 
 setup, you're going to love this game. By far. If you have even a 2.1 speaker setup, it's still 
 great. Clear voice work, and the option to listen to enemy voices in their native language in the 
 game. Instead of making foreign enemies always talk english, now you can make them speak in their 
 own language! Of course interrogating them, they speak english at that point. Music is OK, and 
 Ubi made a big deal over some young guy who did the music. The music is not as good, to me, as 
 SC1, but it is better than SC2. Some techno-ish tracks, a few movie drama kind of tracks, and a 
 few I didn't care for. I'd expect more techno music or more music via Dan Brown style, the guy 
 who did music to Return to Castle Wolfenstein and tons of other video games and even movies (look 
 dan brown up online sometime and see the music he's done) . Amon Tobin, i think is his name, did 
 the music to this game. Ehh, it's OK. I'm giving the sound a high rating because of the clean sound 
 FX and the extra loud gunshot sounds. The music on a scale of 1 to 5, gets a 6 - 7 average, but 
 the sound FX get a 10.
  
  Onto the gameplay
  Standard fare here. If you've played Splintercell part 1 or 2, you're going to pick up Chaos Theory 
 instantly. Controls work the same, except this time you get a bit more weaponry - in the way of 
 smoke gas, flashbangs, grenades and more. You have more of a selection this time around. However, 
 the game boasts uses of weapons other than your standard silences pistol and SC-20k gun. As of 
 yet, after almost finishing the game, I've only found a shotgun 'attachment' to your SC-20k gun 
 - I didn't find the M16 or whatever other guns the game boasts to have. Gameplay is solid, and 
 some close calls happen. You'll find yourself REALLY having to think quickly this time. At any 
 moment, an enemy you follow into a dark room, may walk to a wall, and throw a light switch - your 
 shadow just gave you away. He turns and you're dead usually. So this is definitely more of a 'sneaking 
 thinker' this time around. The levels have you run back and forth a bit, which got tedious. Reminded 
 me of Thief Deadly Shadows for a while, in a sense. Some levels actually took me (on expert difficulty 
 setting) 2 hours to complete. 2 hours! This is with OUT dying once! Maybe I suck at this game, 
 or maybe this time the game is a lot more frantic, especially during a gun fight. The expert difficulty 
 setting is recommended for this game - it isn't hard, except that on that setting, it takes less 
 shots to kill you and enemies seem to catch you more in dark corners. So do play this game at EXPERT 
 level, any lower difficulty settings might render you beating the game in 8 hours perhaps. As other 
 review sites said, the plot to the game and story isnt cohesive, it's a bit sloppy. The CG rendered 
 cutscenes are better than ever, and the characters in-game look *almost* as good as the cutscenes 
 this time! Your mission objectives are harder this time, by far, as you might have to sit and use 
 thermal vision to figure out patterns guards will walk. A new 3D map ala Metroid Prime is present. 
 Map is vague, tries to be like the 3D map from Rainbow Six 3 Ravenshield. But, it came in handy, 
 barely. The mission objectives dont give you much info. You'll often get frustrated as you dont 
 know where to go next many, many times. The game turns into a run into this room and use the computer 
 scenario a lot. Otherwise, fantastic gameplay. You can cut tents with your knife to sneak up on 
 enemies, and cut thick plastic sheets as well. You crawl through air ducts quite a bit, as in, 
 laying down. Tons of objects to use and throw to distract guards, including water sprinkler systems 
 in courtyards. Tons of junk to climb, like poles, fences, etc. But you must LOOK for them really 
 hard. The wall split move is present, and climbing pipes but this time, Sam can hang upside down 
 from a pipe by his legs and shoot people while hanging upside down OR... grab them as they walk 
 under you as you hang upside down, and you choke them. Sam carries a knife this time, you dont 
 use the pistol when you grab a guy to interrogate him, and this time.. Sam is fatal! Primary fire 
 kills the guy, secondary puts him to sleep in a choke hold. Lot of new animations, moves, atheletic 
 abilities, neat new ways of climbing over railing, etc. Sam now uses a palm-strike when face to 
 face with an enemy, or secondary fire does a horrible knee-slam to the gut. Lots of new moves, 
 will take you half the game to find them all out! You still get thermal vision, night vision with 
 a new warping effect to the lens, and a new electromagnetic vision that shows you anything with 
 electricity going through it, in this blue haze vision mode BUT... i've yet to find ANY use for 
 electro-vision, hmm. You can also remote-hack a computer from a distance, and hack into servers 
 with IP address type numbers you unlock, the lock picking sequence is awesome with a cool blur 
 effect of the environment as well as you do it. Lock pick, break locks off with your knife, open 
 doors using stealth or kick them open and knock out enemies behind doors! There's just too much 
 new and cool stuff to name off. The gameplay is solid as ever and you wont be disappointed, and 
 if you're a Splintercell fan, this one is a must-have, though i hated most of the missions taking 
 place in asian locales. Huge levels too, some 5 times larger than previous SC games. About 11 or 
 12 levels total with an average of 45 mins to 2 hours to complete most of them. Ah! And shooting 
 lights out is fine, but more dangerous now! Your pistol has a device to temporarily disable cameras 
 and lights - or anything electrical including computers! Great for making distractions. Finally, 
 the muzzle flash from enemies weapons this time? Are pretty scary just to see! Anyhow, due to too 
 many asian city levels, gameplay gets a 4 - sorry! Some of the locales were long, hard and boring 
 and tedious. Some were fun as heck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hinkediker
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  this game has lots of hours of fun in it , but what lets me down is the repetitivness, it gets 
 too boring doing every time the same thing: sneak up on someone, interrogate him, killi him, deactivate 
 an alarm or go crazy and shoot everyone. Dont get me wrong, its a great game but youll get bored 
 in the half of it. Its got amazing graphics and good sound, excelent gamplay and smart AI so you&acute; ll 
 be up for a challenge. Its a game of stealth so you wont be able to run arround the map, this means 
 that in some situations youre goingo to have to wait some minutes for a guard to go away and stuff 
 like that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I got this game for free it supposed to be my Bar Mitzvah present but since it got delayed to March 
 and my Birthday is in October i just replaced the Flight Simulator 2004 i got in this lovely game!!!
 
  
  Installing this game caused me a huge excitement because i played the Demo and watched the trailers 
 and i simply had to play it.
  This game consist SP, MP and even Coop so this game first of all has a lot to offer and it does 
 it great in all of them. This game is developed by the same developer of the original game - Ubisoft 
 Montreal it means back to the roots!!!
  The SP brings back our Lovely Sam Fisher back to the Third Echelon after an important computer 
 genius is kidnapped in South America and Sam has to find out where he is and who are the kidnappers 
 and what they want from him the story is evolving to a huge threat on the world and can cause a 
 WW3.
  By far this is the best plot in the SC series the bad thing is that already in level 4 of the 10 
 levels of the games you can know who are the bad guys but there is a nice twist in the plot that 
 brings some excitement to the story!
  
  The Graphic is AMAZING and even more than that. This is a different Graphic engine than the ones 
 we had in the previous 2 games and Sam itself looks SO REALISTIC and the environments is unbelievable. 
 This is one of the most amazing looking games you can ask for!!! The new engine actually remade 
 the game and Fisher's moves are actually redone much more realistic. The New style of the googles 
 (which consist a new EMP vision) can be now seen as you look through the google itself!!!
  The Sound is also amazing Amon Tobin composed the music here and he did it successfully with some 
 classic music and he did even separation between a music of when you are not seen to a music that 
 you are suspected, seen and fight something that is really improve the sound in the game.
  
  The Gameplay is of course the most important features of the game you don't really have new 
 gadgets but you have new moves that improving the stealth experience you can now open the door 
 stealthily or bash it (and you can K. O someone like this) , break locks, crawl and some cool new 
 grabbing that'll make you say DAMNNN . Actually there IS a new gadget and it's a special device 
 that helps you hack PC's. Yes from now the PC is not just something you press and get info now 
 things are pretty more complicated. You can hack computers from far away even if someone is working 
 on it. Hacking is a mini-game but a dangerous game and if you don't hack it in time an Alarm will 
 be sounded. But don't worry alarms are not 3 and then game over ( it's not a video game fisher 
 like Lambert say in Level 2) but you better not reach the fourth level because then the big guns 
 will enter. A new feature to the series is the ranking. You can reach 100% if you don't kill, seen 
 or trigger alarm or a body you hide is found and complete all the objectives include the secondary 
 and bonus objectives!
  Unfortunately nothing happen if you reach 100% but it gives you a real challenge do it on Expert 
 mode.
  The game is totally NOT Linear you can sometimes have 5 different ways to go to a place so you 
 better think for a good strategy and open your eyes for a alternative path! The SP is by far one 
 of the best i've played!!!
  
  Of course you have also the MP which is actually the same Versus mode we had in PT but with different 
 maps and a couple of new moves including a cooperation moves!
  
  The Coop is the new mode in the game unfortunately it suffers from a huge lagging but when you 
 can play it smoothly it's one of the most exciting coop modes you ever played you and another guy 
 both splinter cells going to a side operation that is seems to be even connected to the main plot 
 of the SP! The levels in the Coop are longer than the regular SP levels and can be passed only 
 by using one of the CLASSIC coop moves and when i say coop i really mean cooperation moves - Amazing!!!
 
  
  So this is the best SC game and for me this is also the best game i've ever played simply a classic 
 amazing experience!!! This is a MUST buy game even for people who didn't like the previous games!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Chaos Theory takes SC graphics at an entire new level and the utilization of Shader Model 3.0 really 
 increases the visual quality resulting in much sharp and crispier graphics. Sam Fisher looks amazing 
 as ever and this time you get some really nice and as I would say juicy missions. Now when you 
 grab someone from behind, you have the option to either choke him or just knock him out, which 
 is nice because I prefer killing them (if allowed in the mission) . I dont know exactly what a 
 real ninja is like, but I am sure that Sam fisher is no less, no he is better coz his guns give 
 him an attack range =P. You play it just like the other SC games, stealthy, hiding, and those who 
 like stealth based games or are crazy about ninjas, well forget ninjas, and play Chaos Theory. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  After playing Double Agent PC and going through the frustrating amount of bugs, I decided to go 
 get the 3rd installment of the series, Chaos Theory. Now THIS is a stealth game! The story is a 
 little confusing cause it throws a lot of that jargon associated with the spy genre but if you 
 pay attention, everything makes sense. Sam Fisher is back, and this time he's better then ever. 
 Michael Ironside does a superb job voicing him, as do the other actors, and the music is excellent, 
 fitting into the spy theme. The gadgets, while the same from the next installment, Double Agent, 
 is still fun to use, especially the SC-20 assault rifle. The graphics are absolutely amazing (though 
 I don't get why the requirements for DA are higher since they use the same game engine, Unreal 
 2.5) and each level is large, with multiple pathways. Grabbing and interrogating guards have never 
 been this satisfying. The dark and dry humor is also great (the ninja exchange between Sam and 
 a guard in Level 5 was hilarious) . Tons of cool moves and an amazing amount of different settings 
 (Japan, Korea, to name a few) are also plus. Overall, Chaos Theory is THE best installment in the 
 series, and THE best stealth game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike611
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was bought last year and it is still my fave!!! This has the best levels, best options 
 and best moves. This game is the best of its kind and features and unbelievable amount of freedom. 
 Almost everything may be cut, thrown broken. This game is the first that has the option of skipping 
 objectives, but still completing the mission. Chaos Theory's missions contain a great deal of high 
 technology. The new things that the game contains that are worth noting is - the ability to hack 
 practically any electronic devices, and everyone's favourite : inverted neck snaps. This move leaves 
 many people on the edge of your seat. You may wait for 5 minutes, but it is such a thrill. This 
 game is a must-own for any Tom Clancy fan. It is much better than Double Agent....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series has been around for a few years now and Ubisoft has released its previous 
 games with several frustrating bugs/glitches but in the end the past games were fun. This time 
 around they really got down to business and took all the past features and optimized them to best 
 fit the player. An example of this is the loadout selection, where instead of getting your equipment 
 picked for you, you can select a reccomended, Stealth, or Assault Loadout to best fit your gaming 
 style. As with the other games the game has some great looking graphics that beat most other games 
 in the visual department. Ubisoft also got the realistic feel down with even more interactability 
 in Choas Theory and even more free/multiple ways to tackle your objectives. CT adds the new feature 
 of quicksaves, which is a huge improvment over the past games' checkpoint saves which could be 
 fairly frustrating at times. Sam Fisher is still the same wise joke cracking spy but now he too 
 has upgrades with a sleak, new knife that can rip through material or enemies in his way. Finally 
 a new Co-Op Mode lets you play with a buddy just like the single player version but with more moves 
 and options. The only con of CT is the story that feels a little bit over played in the Splinter 
 Cell series. Overall Splinter Cell 3: Chaos Theory is the best SC game to date and shows what Ubisoft 
 can do after a few hard tries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macpop
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  this game is superb. nothing is more awsome then bein a spy sneakin around killin bad guys XD. 
 yea this game is it. i love how ur gonna try to go up a dude and turn around and u dont know wat 
 to do lol. ived playd this game on xbox over a dozen times and doesnt get old even on pc. the graphics 
 are awsome and gameplay to match and even a nice multi. this game is all its cracked up to be and 
 it might be a little old but still worth getting and playin again for a dozen times over and over 
 and its nice how u can take 1 route and then replay the game and do another path and say 'o i see 
 let me go this way'' i just love that 9.3/10 IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micropact
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game seemed very promising the first time I ever played it. The graphics looked really good 
 and it seemed like a stealth game that might have some verity in the gameplay, boy was i wrong. 
 I played this game for countlesss hours trying to beat each impossible mission, that seems ed to 
 repeat itself with boring AI that were stupid when you didn't want it but were way too smart when 
 it was a hard mission. Some of the objectives also seemed very hard and some almost undoable. i 
 just really had trouble getting into this game, unlike the other two splinter cells. the only thing 
 i really enjoyed we're the smooth and detailed graphics and a few gameplay elements such as shooting 
 from and upside- down position. But that really was not worth spending all that money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  I tried Pandora Tommorrow... hated it... I bought Chaos Theory because it was $10 and was blown 
 away
  
  Gameplay: The HUD and mechanics are almost completely the same as Pandora tommorrow but the tweaks 
 they did make mad a world of difference. That coupled with the fact that the game is more forgiving 
 as far as the objectives go made for a truely enjoyable experience. The new mission rating system 
 makes it worthwhile to go back and play again, and the new Co-op mode kicks so much booty its not 
 even funny... Back again though is the great Spy vs. Merc on new and better maps
  Graphics: Are borderline prestine... the implementation of Shader Model 3.0, the varied enviornments 
 and the character models are all top notch, but i did experience a couple of graphical bugaboos 
 that almost docked it a point.
  Sound: Voice acting was superd and genuinely funny at times, the techno soundtrack fit the game 
 perfectly and was fun to listen to, and the guns and gadgets sounded decent enough
  Value: With a reason to play it again and the top notch multiplayer its hard not to recomend with 
 flying colors
  Tilt: See the review... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bisherzaki
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Table of Contents
  
  ================================================================================
  
  1. Minimum/Recommended 
 Specifications 1.1. PC hardware requirements 2. Configuration Utility 2.1. Game graphic options 
 3. Update Launcher Utility
  4. Known Issues 4.1. Installing video drivers
  4.1. Installing sound drivers 4.3. Installing DirectX 4.4. Windows Service Packs 4.5. PC Known 
 problems 5. Graphics, performance and troubleshooting FAQ
  6. Versus mode information 7. Important Web Sites, Contact Information and Technical Support 7.1. 
 Technical Support 7.2. Other Important websites
  8. Time demo
  
  ================================================================================
  
  1. Minimum/Recommended 
 specifications
  
  ================================================================================
  
  1.1. PC 
 hardware requirements
  
  PC hardware minimum requirements ========================
  
  Supported OS : Windows&reg; 2000/XP (only)
  Processor : 1400 MHz Pentium&reg; IV or AMD Athlon 
 or better RAM : 256 MB RAM (512 MB required for XP)
  Video Card : 64 MB DirectX&reg; 9-compliant video card (see supported list*) Sound Card : DirectX 
 9.0-compliant sound card
  DirectX : DirectX 9.0c (included on DVD) DVD : 4x DVD or faster
  Hard Drive Space : 4.0 GB free
  
  PC hardware recommended requirements ========================
 
  
  Supported OS : Windows&reg; 2000/XP (only)
  Processor : 2000 MHz Pentium&reg; IV/AMD or better
  RAM : 512 MB RAM
  Video Card : 128 MB DirectX&reg; 
 9-compliant video card (see supported list*)
  Sound Card : DolbyDigital 5.1 and EAX 3.0 compatible
  DVD : 4x DVD or faster Hard Drive Space 
 : 4.0 GB free
  
  ================================================================================
  
  2. Configuration 
 Utility
  
  ================================================================================
  
  Suppplied 
 with the game is a tool called Configuration Utility. You can access it
  through the start menu -&gt; programs -&gt; Ubisoft -&gt; Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory 
 -&gt; Configuration Utility. You can run manually the Configuration Utility to detect your system 
 configuration. If your system doesnt meet the required minimum specifications, the Configuration 
 Utility will show a window with the list of system requirements. If an item in the Minimum Specifications 
 list does not have a green check next to it, the game may not run properly or it may run too slowly.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  2.1. Game graphic options
  
  The Configuration Utility will try to determine the optimal graphic 
 settings based on your system performance. It will try to balance performance with visual quality 
 and set the appropriate graphic options settings. You can override these settings in the options 
 menu of the game.
  
  ================================================================================
  
  3. Update 
 Launcher Utility
  
  ================================================================================
  
  In the 
 Start menu, there is a utility called Check For Updates used to detect if there are any new Patches 
 to the game since you have purchased it. You will need to be administrator of your PC to run this 
 utility. This utility can also be executed from within the game in the coop sub menu by clicking 
 the Patch button. Note that two people need to be at the same version to be able to play in coop 
 or
  versus mode. Run this program regularly to be sure to be up to date with the
  latest enhancements to the game.
  
  ================================================================================
 
  
  4. Known Issues
  
  ================================================================================
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  4.1. Installing video drivers
  
  If you experience any graphical problems, please install the recommended video drivers for your 
 video card. Links to the most popular video cards manufacturers are available at the end of this 
 document. 3.2. Installing sound drivers
  
  If you experience any sound problems, please install the latest sound drivers available for your 
 sound card. Links to the most popular sound cards manufacturers are available at the bottom of 
 this document.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  4.3. Installing 
 DirectX
  
  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory needs DirectX 9.0c to run properly. To get the latest version of DirectX, 
 please visit: http://www. microsoft. com/windows/directx/downloads
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  4.4. Windows 
 Service Packs
  
  It is recommended to install the latest service packs for all PC operating systems.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  4.5. PC Known issues
  
  - Using ALT-TAB during the game's intro sequence (logos, ESRB, etc) is not supported
  
  - Using 
 ALT-TAB when in coop mode is not recommended because it can cause divergences between the two connected 
 computers.
  
  - If the game crashes, the settings may revert to their default states by precaution to allow you 
 to safely restart the game the next time. ================================================================================
 
  
  5. Graphics, performance and troubleshooting FAQ
  
  ================================================================================
  
  Q: Where 
 are my profiles and saved games stored?
  
  A: To support Windows Limited User Access, the profiles and saved games are stored outside of the 
 installation directory. If you want to copy them to another computer or back them up, you will 
 find them in the Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Ubisoft\Tom Clancy's Splinter 
 Cell Chaos Theory\profiles directory. The Application Data folder is a hidden folder by default. 
 To unhide it, open a windows explorer window, select Tools -&gt; Folder Options. Select the view 
 tab and in the advanced settings area, in the Hidden files and folders node, select the Show hidden 
 files and folders . To copy a profile, copy the whole folder of the correct name. If you have not 
 managed a profile in the Manage Profile menu in-game, there will be a default profile. Q: When 
 I enable nightvision, I can't see anything! A: Some ATI cards (Radeon 8500/9000/9200) have a driver 
 problem which prevents nightvision and most of the lighting from working when antialiasing is enabled. 
 We have communicated this problem to ATI and it should be fixed in the latest ATI drivers you can 
 download from www. ati. com. Alternatively you can disable antialiasing from advanced graphics settings 
 (set antialiasing to None ) . Make also sure that in advanced settings of ATIs control panel the 
 antialiasing isn't forced but is application controlled . Q: When I enable Hardware Shadow Mapping 
 from advanced graphics settings, most of the lighting disappears. A: Some GeForce cards have a 
 driver problem which prevents Hardware Shadow Mapping from working. We have communicated this problem 
 to NVidia and it should be fixed in the latest NVidia drivers you can download from www. nvidia. com. 
 Q: Hardware Shadow Mapping in advanced graphics settings is grayed out and I can't enable it. A: 
 Hardware Shadow Mapping is supported only on GeForce and Radeon 9500+ cards if you have the latest 
 drivers installed. Hardware Shadow Mapping increases only the rendering performance and has no 
 direct impact on the visual quality of the game. Q: I can't select anything but Shader Model 1.1 
 in advanced graphics settings because the option is grayed out. A: The game supports only Shader 
 Model 1.1 and 3.0, so if your graphics card doesn't support Shader Model 3.0 it's not possible 
 to enable it. Consult your graphics card retailer for information about which Shader Model your 
 graphics card supports. Q: My graphics card support Shader Model 3.0 but I can't change it in the 
 advanced graphics settings. A: Make sure you have the latest DirectX and graphics card drivers 
 installed. If you have an old DirectX (DirectX 9.0b or older) or old graphics card drivers, this 
 option may be disabled even when your graphics card supports the option. Q. My card supports Shader 
 Model 3.0 but I can't enable HDR. A: Some Shader Model 3.0 cards don't support floating point blending 
 thus HDR rendering isn't possible and this option is grayed out. Q: When I rotate the camera, sounds 
 that are behind the camera are completely faded out. A: The game uses surround sound for modeling 
 the 3D sound environment. If you have surround sound speaker setting enabled in the Sound and Audio 
 Devices of Windows control panel while using stereo speaker setup (e. g. headphones) , only left 
 and right audio channels are played. Change the speaker setup in the control panel to match your 
 actual speaker settings. Q: I can't change antialiasing because it's grayed out and says Disabled 
 . A: If you have HDR rendering enabled from Shader Options antialiasing will be always disabled. 
 This is a hardware limitation of current graphics cards and there is nothing we can do to enable 
 it. Q: The game runs slow on my PC. What can I do? A: There are several things which may cause 
 the game to run slower than expected: 1) Some background applications may have a negative impact 
 on the performance of the game, thus it's preferable to close most of them to leave more resources 
 for the purpose of the game. For instance virus protection software may monitor memory and hard 
 drive access thus slowing down your PC. Also, make sure that your PC is free from viruses and spyware. 
 2) Install latest graphics card drivers from your graphics card vendors web page. Graphics card 
 vendors constantly optimize and fix their drivers thus it's good to keep your graphics card drivers 
 up to date to maximize your gaming experience. 3) Install the latest DirectX (www. microsoft. com) 
 and drivers for other peripherals (motherboard, sound card, etc.) 4) Defragment your hard drive 
 to optimize your hard drive performance. 5) If you have an AGP graphics card, make sure that AGP 
 is enabled and is running in maximum speed. 6) Try to find a good balance between quality and performance 
 with graphics settings (resolution, shadow resolution, texture filtering, etc.) to match your needs. 
 After each setting you can run the timedemo and see how it impact to the performance of the game 
 on your PC. 7) Use the timedemo to benchmark your PC and to compare it against other people with 
 a similar setup to see if your configuration is performing as well as it should. Note that in order 
 to have comparable results, you need to have the same graphics settings enabled (same resolution, 
 shadow resolution, shader model, texture filtering, etc.)
  
  ================================================================================
  
  6. Versus 
 mode information
  
  ================================================================================
  
  ******** 
 Versus : Network Compatibility ********
  
  Problems with Firewalls : If you have a firewall on your Internet connection, the following ports 
 should be open (consult your firewall documentation) : TCP 40000 to 43000 included UDP 44000 in 
 input/output UDP 45000 in input/output UDP 45001 in input/output UDP 7776 in input/output UDP 8888 
 and the next three ones in input/output UDP 8878 in input/ouput These last two ports can be configured 
 via Default. ini file. Please note that in case port 8878 is not available, the next 10 ports will 
 be automatically tested.
  
  For AllSeeingEyes - you need to open some more ports :
  (27243-27245) UDP + TCP and 9011 UDP - For the server, your firewall must be configured so as to 
 accept the connexions initiated from the outside
  
  ******** Versus : Dedicated Server ********
  A dedicated server program can be launched using 
 the standard Windows Start menu. In this case, it uses DirectX9 and the standard menus graphic 
 chart. But you can launch it via a command line. In this case, the nodisplay parameter can be 
 used to launch it on a PC without DirectX9. Here is the list of all parameters.
  
  -nodisplay to remove 3D display -map: random or one of the installed map in File format GAR01 MIS02 
 AQU03 CLU04 FAC05 ORP06 MUS08 DTK09 WAR10 BNK11 MAP12 -servername: change the name of the server 
 -password: to protect game 
  -ubi_account: ubi. com account
  -ubi_password: ubi. com password -port: to change port number -gamemode: one of these three : DiskHunt 
 / Story / DeathMatch -lobby: Lobby name (World, USA Central. as displayed ingame) -minplayer: 
 To start a game as soon as the specified number of players is met ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livyx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Well here it is i have played splinter cell for quite some time and I liked it ( i think) . Well 
 being a fan of stealth genre games will just lead you to this game. Well at first I thought that 
 this would be a great game like great ai (like in MGS) great levels and see more bone breaking stunts 
 from the splinter cell himself, i was wrong. The levels were just too repetitive that i could'nt 
 bear to play it halfway. just go inside a room bust out the lights and your immortal!!! WTH? (that 
 aint right?) next thing you know you'll sittin beside a guard without even noticing that green 
 light in your forehead!! (the goggles) . and come on even if the ai's that crappy the gameplay is 
 too repititive well yeah you may choose your equipment before every mission but watabout it if 
 your real enemy is the lights??? I just wished they could've developed it more make it more inspired 
 than before although splintercell-san may have some new moves ... its just pretty much like pandora.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiblesBR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Great game!!! Did anyone knows the name of the cool rock songs that plays during the cargo boat 
 and penthouse missions?? gos sjo soo so ssd os so sos so soso os os oso os osos osososo oso os 
 os os os o so so os os oso os os so oso so ossos os os os os oss osos oso ossoso os os oso soso 
 soso osososso os osso oso oso oso soso oso soso oso os os osso ososso os o so sosos o os soso so 
 oss osososos osososo osos soo so oso oso osooso oos osos os ososo soo so sososo soos so so oso 
 so oso so os oso sos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyLubu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Oh man . I cant write down my feeling when i play this game first time . The Graphic is so good 
 , the game run on my 6600GT 128MB with maxed out video setting smoothly . The story always the 
 same , save the world from some terrible disaster ,yeah , yeah , so boring ,thats the down side 
 . This time ,Sam going on with his new-found trusty army knife , thus that has little effect on 
 the whole game .All of Sam's toys from the last game were bring on this time , a little change 
 of the Pistol ,it does have an OCP instead of laser aim . Sound of the game does not impress me 
 too much . Gameplay does not have a revolution but its has some new cool move and the new way of 
 Sam Fisher with the rating system . One Last Word : U cant miss this game if u are fan of stealth 
 action . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher returns for his third installment. Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, the third game in the 
 acclaimed Splinter Cell series, manages to improve the games visuals, make the gameplay a bit 
 more nonlinear, and add some new gameplay modes to the already exhaustive Splinter Cell brand. 
 What does this result in? One of the best games available this generation.
  
  The games single-player mode has Sam Fisher visiting various locations in Japan, North Korea and 
 in the United States as he attempts to get some information for the NSA. Of course, this involves 
 infiltrating many locations and using occasional force with some unhelpful subjects. The games 
 plot is told through a mix of cutscenes, pre-mission bits of information, and verbal exchanges 
 with Fisher and the rest of the NSA. As always, the verbal exchanges are quite priceless, and considerably 
 help the story.
  
  In terms of gameplay mechanics, the single player mode has received some enhancements. The missions 
 are a bit less trial-and-error and more open-ended, with larger levels to boot. For example, the 
 game doesnt place such a big emphasis on keeping alarms in check or hiding bodies. Youre also 
 given some additional objectives to complete if you wish, and multiple paths to get to the desired 
 location. Also new is a knife, as shown in the games box art and predominantly featured in Ubisoft 
 advertising. Fisher can threaten enemies with this knife, in a sort of chokehold, though splitting 
 their throat is out of the question. Nonetheless, the game doesnt stray too far from the typical 
 Splinter Cell formula of shooting out the lights, using one of the nifty vision goggles, and sneaking 
 up behind the guards. All in all, youll find around ten hours of gameplay in Chaos Theorys single 
 player mode. The games increased openness makes replaying it a viable option, but single player 
 is hardly all that Chaos Theory has to offer.
  
  Continuing the series tradition of adding a new game mode per iteration, Chaos Theory introduces 
 a cooperative mode. There are only five missions, but they work pretty well. You need to make sure 
 you keep close with your partner, though, as there is no map. That said, playing with a teammate 
 allows you to use the other spy as a ladder to get over high walls, for example. The additions 
 are certainly nifty, and this is definitely a feature Ubisoft Montreal can expand on in the future. 
 Pandora Tomorrows much-praised spies vs. mercenaries multiplayer mode also returns. Basically, 
 in the four-player mode, youll pair up with another person and play as either a spy or a merc. 
 If you play as a spy, youll have the typical third-person perspective and will be charged with 
 completing a number of objectives. Playing as a merc changes the game to a first-person viewpoint, 
 and of course, your goal is to stop the spies. The teammate dynamic can be incredibly helpful at 
 times, but the overall enjoyment of the versus mode depends on the quality of the people you play 
 with. Chaos Theory adds more involved objectives to the mix, and it certainly makes things a bit 
 more exciting. To appease to players who simply want to kill each other, a deathmatch option has 
 been introduced. The series visuals have always been outstanding. Chaos Theory is no exception. 
 The games character models are incredible, with minute details added that only the Splinter Cell 
 franchise can manage. The animations are also on-point. Fisher, in particular, has always moved 
 with amazing grace but everything is just perfect this time around. The incredibly-detailed environments 
 once again return, and they look better than ever. But the real star is the games lighting system, 
 which is unsurpassed on consoles. The latest PC games have certainly matched Chaos Theory in graphics, 
 but none overly exceeds it. Not bad for a game designed with consoles in mind.
  
  The games audio performs just as well. The dynamic soundtrack from Amon Tobin sounds great, and 
 definitely fits into the Splinter Cell universe. Youll hear the music pick up when you mess up, 
 and fade back out when trouble is done. The sound effects are stunning, as expected. They accurately 
 relay where the guards are, especially if youre running surround sound. The games voice acting 
 is acceptable, certainly adequate, but nothing out of the ordinary.
  
  The only real gripe against the game is that the control isnt as intuitive as it can be. There 
 are many options in a given situation, and the game still relies on the same context-sensitive 
 menu system, which is a bit cumbersome. Additionally, playing as a merc in the versus mode is a 
 bit more cumbersome than the controls of a typical first person shooter. The PC accentuates some 
 of these control problems, but it is nothing too major.
  
  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory is a game I have no qualms about recommending. Youre getting three 
 different game modes; two of which are fully fleshed out. Youre getting one of the best graphics 
 engines, and certainly some of the best graphics available Overall, it is an excellent addition 
 to the library of any action game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Remarcable. Until Splinter Cell Chaos Theory i wasn't a fan of Sam Fisher at all. When it comes 
 to stealth games definetly Splinter Cell is worth playing. I was really impressed with this game. 
 A have played it by the end of the 2006 summer, because i don't ussualy play stealth games, but 
 after this experience i can say that i have become a Sam Fisher fan. Very nice, well designed game. 
 Very nice graphics, a cool story, very attractive action, the gameplay is remarcably good and also 
 the moves and the gadgets are one of the best part of this game. I just have to say that until 
 you don't try a game you can't be sure of it's real valor, so you have to play it for yourself 
 to see how good iSplinter Cell Chaos Theory is. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruls28
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  As I said, a super graphics game, it is also very fun, almost like Hitman, great game, the sounds are 
 great, the levels are great and those few weapons that you carry are great! The multiplayer is very 
 fun!
  
  The third Splinter Cell, and this one is fantastic! It is an easy to learn game (if you first play 
 it on easy!)
  The other two Splinter Cells are: Splinter Cell (SC 1) and Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow.
  
 
  You are Sam Fisher, a government agent, once worked for the army and the cia. He now works for an 
 Agency known as Third Echelon. This is the third time that he must save the world, this time to prevent 
 world war 3! THe weapons you carry are: Sc20-k (attachments are: Airfoil round, camera, my favourite: shock 
 stick, gas grenades, shotgun attachment and sniper attachment) , silent pistol with new 'mini emp' (Actually 
 a little device that turns off most  new knife and your hands!
 
  
  I recommend this a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minevich1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  fainally, year afrer the Release Date (even more) i fainally played and finish this high quality singel 
 player.
  it's little strange for me-i finish scda (P. S-the disappoint game) before i even started play scct.
 
  the story line little casual ,and unattached, i was hoping for sirous and exciting story line, well 
 i wrong.
  the graphic looks amzing, and not heavy at all on my computer, i just can't understand why ubisoft 
 don't take this engine and to upgrade him.
  the textures looks excellent, and i even not talked about the shadows, which looks even better that 
 the scda shadows.
  the sound are great, and it's always funny to hear sam fisher jokes and dialogs with the enemy :)
 
  the gameplay very enjoyable, even more that scda (yes, and i not kodding [!] )
  some one can say: this game too short ,well, i think is the right length, and we even not start talkong 
 about the multiplayer.
  the multiplayer very varied/mixed ,at this game we have the co-op which you need assist to other 
 spy, and finish the mission with success.
  the second multiplayer type is versus 2on2, is very enjoyabel multi, and vert challanging.
  
 
  in the end i want to say that this game (not scda) is the best game in the series.
  my score for splinter cell chaos theory is:
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobb45
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  While I can say I literally finished the game I haven't completed it either, a nasty frustrating 
 thing happen. The game crashes at the very very end so I can't see the final cut scene or whatever 
 happens. I don't know if its my pc or a bug... DAMN!
  
  The story revolves an attempt to possible launch of a nuclear weapon and on the verge of WWIII, 
 trying to determine who or what country is behind it. Missions in the game offer various locations, 
 like a small island, big fishing boat, bath house, city streets to my favorite the high rise office 
 building. The game can look amazing with all the shadow and lighting effects along with the texture 
 details. In order to enjoy this you really need a good cpu, video card and at least 1gig of memory 
 which helps to. The game uses standard keyboard and mouse which should be fairly routine to most 
 pc users, controls are the same as in previous SP games. Sound in the game is terrific with the 
 footsteps, crack in wooden floors, enemy dialogue with each other and the before and after mission 
 cut scenes. As far as the multi-player I have not tried it and honestly for whatever reason it 
 just doesn't appeal to me. In all, if you like the previous splinter cell games you give this version 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the third game in the SP franchise. If you haven't played the first two find reviews for 
 those games. Splinter Cell has become a mature rated title now. They have equiped Fisher with a 
 knife. This is one of the most satisfying weapons in the game. Now you can be leathal or knock 
 them out. At the beginning of each mission you can choose assult or stealth weapon set up. This 
 makes it fun for reply value. When you grab characters you left click (knife) will kill and right 
 click (fist) will knock out. They finally allow you to look 360 degrees while backed up against 
 a wall. They have added some eye candy while using you goggles. Also adding a new goggle to use. 
 This goggle lets you see electric currents. Which is great for finding a camera quickly while entering 
 a room.
  
  The pistol has been equiped with a EMP attachment. This is used to disable lights and camera's 
 for a short period of time. This has added alot to the game for stealth players that don't want 
 to be noticed. The characters while think its a short in the light and not freak out like they 
 did when the light was shot out.
  
  Character AI has been improved. Characters won't sound an alarm right away. Instead they will come 
 to check out area with a flash light or flare. The character still walk in their set paths. But 
 this is a video game after all.
  
  Sams animations have been improved as well as his character model. When you walk close behind a 
 character his body weight shifts as he reaches back for his knife. Its a very nice animation and 
 feels satisfying right before you grab, stab, or knock out the enemy.
  
  Carring bodies has been improved as well. Sam has two choices. One he slowly drops the body infront 
 of him not making noise. This is great for dropping bodies in holes and other places to hide them. 
 Other choice is throwing them on the ground. This works well when you need to quickly drop a body 
 to free your hands.
  
  Now they have added a sound meter. This workes much like you light meter. Its shows you how much 
 noise you are making and how much ambient noise is around you. As long as you don't make more noise 
 than the ambient noise enemy's won't hear you.
  
  They have added a shotgun attachment to your assult rifle. This is very satisfying but loud. One 
 shot will blow the enemy away. However this is a stealth game so i find myself never using it.
 
  
  At the end of each mission they give you a rating how how well you did. Through the mission they 
 give you objectives and secondary objectives. Also they have added optional objectives. These don't 
 need to be accomplished to finish the mission but needed for a 100% rating.
  
  The alarm system has been reworked. Now instead of only allowing 3 alarms followed by a mission 
 failure. Lambert tells fisher this isn't a video game and not to sound the alarms. However i have 
 sounded 4 alarms and only to hear Lambert yell at me. This gives the game a great feeling of choice. 
 Meaning you could run through the game blowing away guys with the shotgun and not carring about 
 alarms or go stealth and not sound an alarm.
  
  Sam's body roll has been improved. Now you can be at a full sprint and click crouch and he crouches 
 instead of rolling. If you want to roll at a full sprint you simply hold down the crouch button. 
 A nice improvement.
  
  Sam can now switch which hand he is shooting with. This is a nice feature while shooting from behind 
 a wall. Multiplayer has been improved. They have now added a co-op mode. This is great for working 
 the missions with a friend. However the co-op missions are not the single player missions. The 
 splinter cells have co-op moves. Such has hoisting one player over a wall. In co-op this forces 
 you to work as a team and to stay together. You also can communicate over microphone. The Co-op 
 is a great addition to the multiplayer.
  
  I think i have covered most of the improvements they did. Sorry if i left anything out. This is 
 a great game, the best in the series. I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of stealth 
 action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxAa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Overview: Awsome, but not quite like pandora tommorow's flawlessness...
  
  Gameplay: Great, especially the knife. It makes you really feel in control of your enemy. The AI 
 is much smarter this time around (they pull out flares to search for you etc.) but doesn't seem 
 to be too hard to sneak up on them.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics, expecially with the 3.0 shaders. Everything looks nice and shiny. Especially 
 the2nd mission in which you are on a cargo ship.
  
  Sound: Good, nothing real special but not terrible.
  
  Its a great game, but if you want something 
 really hard, go with pandora tomorrow...
  
  Multiplayer: AWSOME, spies vs. mercs. Very unique... Hasn't really changed since the last splinter 
 cell other then new maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exigo89
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  We all know that this game could have done better. For you who played the last one in the series 
 Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow you will see that this game is no different at all. I was expecting 
 something more exciting and that's what was missing in the game. There is no excitement. Basically 
 what they did is they got the old SCPT and they changed the gameplay a bit, added that knife mode 
 and voila they got a new game. The online play is what keeps this game still good. It has an amazing 
 multiplayer mode.
  I hope that the next one in series, the Splinter Cell Double Agent, will be better and from what 
 I saw here I know that it will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  I just read at least 20 Reader's Reviews to see what amused and stunned
  the gamers so much to gave 9s and 10s to Splinter Cell3. There must
  be something I didn't get. 
 I just don't understand this rage and praise.
  A couple of years ago, I played a few levels of Splinter Cell1 on xbox of a friend and I liked 
 it, though not enough to buy it. This one also belongs to the same guys, but this time I could 
 play the whole game.
  I mean, I like stealthy games and Sam Fischer is a cool guy, but what is all this fuss? what makes 
 gamers so enthusiastic and why they are so
  thrilled? I puzzled my brain over it but I just can't get it. The game has nice graphics when you 
 see something, as you are either creeping
  in the dark or you are looking through your special goggle. The voice acting
  is also good but 
 the storyline is not really catching or new.
  Sorry all fans, but I expect more from a game than just crawling in the dark and break a neck every 
 now and then.
  ps.
  I had written the review before finishing the game. The more you play SP3
  the better it gets. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello465
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  This game kept me busy for about 300 hours and more still simply brilliant and I will never forget 
 all the awsome graphics and simply perfect and smooth gameplay and unfrogetable Ubisoft masterpiece. 
 How they manage to make games of this cablibre all the time is awsome. Ubisoft are a constantly 
 a brilliant company and have all the best games ever. The whole concept of this game is all about 
 the mission and Sam fishers whole brilliant sneaking skills and awsome moves and ways of getting 
 in and out of the hardest places and getting out with out so much as a trace left behind I have 
 personally got 100% on ever mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aniket_sucker
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Chaos Theory is the third installation of the famous Tom Clancy's Spinter Cell series and is easily 
 the best to date. The game is perfectly designed and has got everything a stealth game should have. 
 Chaos Theory brings in lots of new cool maneuvers that Sam Fisher can perform. There are also many 
 different ways to eliminate an enemy now. All these add upto the fun factor.
  
  The multiplayer modes of this game are fun too. Especially the cooperative mode in which you team 
 up with another player to get some missions done. This is one game where the players actually interact 
 intensively with each other in the cooperative mode. Don't think twice, go out, get the game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glordit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher Returns! this time to do what he always does! Sneak around in the dark and ridding the 
 world of terrorists! one at a time!
  
  I never got this game at the time it was released... so i decided to get it a few weeks ago, having 
 played the first 2 SC's. Thinking I was going to find the same gameplay/Graphics like its predecosors, 
 I was wrong.
  
  Chaos Theory has new lighting techniques to cast dynamic shadows, which looks kinda cool and suits 
 the game, as you sneak around in the shadows, an pass light your shadow casts on the ground sometimes 
 giving away your position. SM 3.0 is back but gave me problems on my 6600, I got bad performance 
 and the Black Sky Box bug, this was easily fix'ed when I changed over to SM1.1 and to tell the 
 truth on my PC it kind of look a bit better?
  
  Sam thought has a few new tricks, suspending from pipes and doing vertical neck brakes is quite 
 a nice new addition, his CS 20k has a new shotgun attachment which also makes the gameplay more 
 fun, [watching someone hurtle across a catwalk and flying of the edge] never gets dull!
  
  All in all Chaos Theory is not a bad game with Double Agent just out and SC 5! coming out next 
 year Sam is just not ready to retire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlb81
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Well I decided to purchase this game online through Gamespot's online library, and after 3 years 
 of downloading I was finally able to play. (ok, slight exaggeration) but 4.13 GB of a game never 
 comes fast.
  
  After a year of game development, this game still looks sweet. If you have the capability of activating 
 the 3.0 shaders, you will not be disappointed. I've never been a fan of the stealth action games, 
 but this one has so many ways to take foes out that it starts to grow on you. The knife is the 
 highlight of the game. Between knife kills, slicing tents, and just watching Sam hold a blade to 
 the neck is awesome. My only qualm, for a game that strives for realistic shadows/lighting/and 
 gameplay, why cut out blood? Shouldn't there be a shot of blood when Sam stabs a character? Sure, 
 sure, call me a sadist, but c'mon now! Show me some gore!!! WHY ISN'T THERE AN AUTOSAVE!!!! The 
 game rewards taking your time with stealthy maneuvers, but if you die and forgot to save, it's 
 back to the beginning for you. I like the game so far but am glad I waited until it was $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erichttp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell chaos theory is an amazing game and is a great improvement from the original. Chaos 
 Theory truly gives you the feeling your in the game. The amount of flexibility you have in the 
 game truly changes the feeling. Being able to jump off walls, hide behind them, interogate, hack, etc. 
 is what makes the game feel so real. Chaos theory really gives you the fun you want in a game.
 
  
  Chaos theory was real improvement to the original, mainly because of all the cool moves and hacking 
 you can do. Another thing, is the difficulty. Chaos Theory is a hard game, but the original was 
 just so extremely dificult, even if on normal mode. Chaos Theory is a game anyone could play and 
 enjoy just as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonrot
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is well made, but it lacks originalty.
  
  Seems like the game design went specially for textures, lighting effects, presentacion and Cinema 
 Graphics, but the character design is damn horrible, all the guys (americans, peruvians, japanese, 
 koreans) they all look exactly the same. The gameplay is aged aswell, and the AI is dissapointing. 
 The responses are very rough and unrealistic, you can die in about 5 seconds of shooting, the game 
 itself demands you to do the same things over and over again.
  
  Here, s an example:
  I'm about to kill a guy from behind, oh well I think it's easier just to shoot him in the head, 
 so I do. Oh no, the game has a bug and every time I hit someone in the head it makes things worst, 
 the guy doesnt die because their brain is made of iron or something, he automaticaly activates 
 the alarm and starts shooting at me like a freak, my aiming is pretty bad because the controls 
 suck, so when I start firing I'm already death. Well at least I can load the game. Now I'll forget 
 about shooting him at the head, I'll stay quiet and grab him from behind, now I'm following him... I'm 
 going to grab him oh no I touched him! Now the guy starts shooting me again. I'm death. So the 
 easy thing is too stay on the shadows, start whispering, make some sound, all the AIs will do the 
 same, go to exactly same place, LIKE ROBOTS and say:
  Oh well, there's nothing here.
  I grab em when they turn their backs and it's all over.
  I can even interrogate them with other 
 guy wandering around, and they wont hear us because they lack of intelligence.
  
  The game is so overrated and stills has a lot of issues. The story is boring, VERY BORING, it's 
 like and excuse to make us play new missions, all with the same content. A cinema in each mission, 
 then you will have to hear what the Intelligence guys will have to say, it's not very competent, 
 you can even skip the cinemas and the mission briefing and you can complete the mission successfully 
 and get an idea of what's going on. I have played the first one on PS2, and now I compare the old 
 version with the third one here on PC. Oh well, I felt the same when I finished the first one. 
 Is this the whole game, do I feel satisfied. Certenly not in many ways.
  
  Have you played a Metal Gear game, well it can offer you a lot more than this even though it's 
 more simple, less complex and easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangoanuta
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  We live on a world full of mediocre games and all a game needs to be good is to be carefully prepared, 
 in all aspects.
  
  I don't wanna criticize small matters because all games have small issues, and it's quite difficult 
 to please everyone.
  
  I can't tell much about improvement since the earlier versions because i played very briefly the 
 first Splinter Cell, and did not played Pandora's Tomorrow.
  
  But Chaos Theory does a really nice job on the graphics, on the fun, great missions, weapons, level 
 designs, sound work, the suspense, the whole formula is great.
  
  And if any game company is planning to make a game in the Chaos Theory's style, i give you an advice, 
 just copy the whole thing up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradise19
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Though i have never played the previous Splinter Cell games, i decided to give Chaos Theory a try. 
 What a game! The stealth gameplay is exhilerated. Nothing like bathroom stall interrogations! I 
 could use a little more blood in the game, and the only reason it was rated M was for a little 
 language and one particularly gruesome torture scene. 75% of the game takes place using one of 
 Sam's lights of doom (vision goggles) so the game has a very different feel that your broadstream 
 game. This also is not really a shooter, if you play through it shooting, you will get a horrible 
 rating, are missing out on the point of the game, and will probably die fairly soon. Graphics were 
 great, i just wish that some of the faces will change on the guards in the next game, since they 
 all look the same. Some of the lines they say can get repetetive as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiosB0b
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I really thought that the third Splinter cell would be the same as the last. But with 
 better graphics, little new features and new levels. But I was wrong, WAYYYYY wrong. The new features 
 really put a new powerful feel to it. A new meter has been added for detecting your sounds. In 
 the previous Splinter Cells, You would never know what move in the current environment would make 
 a silent sound. Now you know. No more elbowing, now you have a knife. The knife is very useful 
 to cut through objects, do some objectives, break a lock and my favorite, to slit people's throats 
 =) . Pushing people off a cliff has never been so fun. If you are shimmying right under an enemy, 
 you can get right up grab them and let them fall to their death. You can also do this on pipes. 
 Splinter Cell Chaos Theory is a great addition to the Splinter Cell series and I recommend getting 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Thats right, Sam Fisher is back, and that can mean only one thing: the world is once again on 
 the brink of nuclear war, and the fate of mankind lies in his rubber-gloved hands. Players who 
 enjoyed the previous Splinter Cell games will find the aforementioned more in Chaos Theory. Those 
 players looking for something radically different wont find it here. Thats because Ubisoft has 
 done an excellent job of introducing just enough new content to make Chaos Theory feel fresh and 
 interesting, while staying true to their roots for the majority of the game. After all, this is 
 a classic example of the if it aint broke, dont fix it adage, so the core stealth elements 
 are essentially the same as in the previous games. And thats OK, because it works just fine.
 
  
  More on the new elements later, but firstgraphics. The Splinter Cell games have always been noted 
 for sensational graphics, and Chaos Theory stays true to this tradition. Richly detailed environments 
 and stunning visuals, ranging from the reflections off a wet marble floor to the fearsome blast 
 of an exploding wall mine, add up to one great eye-pleasing experience. Excellent sound has also 
 been a Splinter Cell trademark, and Chaos Theory doesnt disappoint. The musical score varies from 
 mission to mission and fits the different scenarios with a cool, hip style, while the escalated 
 tempo when Sam is in danger of being detected helps to keep the player in tune with his surroundings. 
 Voice acting is excellent through out the game, even down to the ancillary characters and radio 
 announcers. In addition, one of the new elements I mentioned earlier is the inclusion of decent 
 accents for individuals in the game, based on their nationality. A pretty small change, you may 
 say, and maybe even a bit silly, but personally, I like it. In previous Splinter Cell games, everyone 
 spoke perfect English, which diminished the feeling that Fisher is visiting some pretty exotic 
 locales. The accents also help distinguish between civilians, foreign mercs, and local thugs, which 
 is important when determining who is a valid target, and who is not.
  
  Game play and mechanics are essentially the same as in previous Splinter Cells, which is neither 
 good nor bad. Personally, Ive always found the weapon selection menu to be a bit cumbersome; switching 
 from pistol to grenade to  is neither quick nor easy, but I suppose 
 it works well enough in Sams world of silence and shadow. However, thats not to say there havent 
 been some minor-but-significant improvements in this aspect. Streamlining has resulted in the Diversionary 
 Camera and Sticky Camera being combined into one unit, the pistol now incorporates an OCP electrical 
 jamming device that eliminates the need for a separate camera jammer, and Sams binoculars now 
 contain a laser mike. Eliminating all this extraneous equipment now gives Sam room to carry some 
 additional rifle attachments; namely, the Sniper attachment and Shotgun attachment. These additions 
 make for some interesting and fun game play, particularly when you consider the third minor-but-significant 
 modificationthe inclusion of a ranking report for each mission.
  
  For most players, previous Splinter Cell adventures have somewhat limited replay value. Once the 
 best route for accomplishing the mission has been determined, running thru it more than once or 
 twice has little appeal. Notice I said for MOST players; if youre a purist (like me) , the replay 
 ability lies in challenging yourself to accomplish the missions without leaving any trace. By that 
 I mean, zero collateral damage, zero henchmen incapacitated, zero lights shot out, etc. While I 
 found this entertaining in previous games, there was no way to really gauge my performance. Thats 
 been changed in Chaos Theory. The player now receives a 0-100% score at the end of each mission. 
 Unnecessary kills, injured civilians, bodies found, times detected, sub-objectives missed, alarms 
 sounded all contribute to a reduction in ranking. Its actually possible to successfully complete 
 a mission and get a 0% rankgo figure.
  
  Although there are a couple of missions with a Zero Body Count requirement, for the most part, 
 killing a civilian usually results in a reduced ranking, cancellation of sub-objectives, and a 
 berating by Lambert, rather than Mission Failure. Alarms dont automatically end the mission anymore, 
 either. You can now set off all the chimes you want, so long as youre prepared to deal with more 
 guards, who will usually be better armed and on alert. Each mission has Primary Objectives, Secondary 
 Objectives, Opportunity Objectives, and even some hidden Bonus Objectives (which you may just stumble 
 across accidentally) , as well as alternate routes into and around the facility youre infiltrating 
 (these can be reviewed on the newly created mission map which is now incorporated into your OPSAT) . 
 Finally, with all this to consider, youre given different equipment load-out options at the beginning 
 of each mission, which allow you to select a Stealth approach (heavy on shockers and air foils) , 
 an Assault approach (heavy on ammo and explosives) , or a balance between the two.
  
  For my part, I enjoyed playing each mission thru the first time in Assault mode, for two reasons. 
 One, eliminating any potential threat right from the get-go gave me ample time to explore the environment, 
 find hidden caches (of which there are significantly fewer than in previous gamesI guess that 
 this time around, the thugs dont just leave high-tech gadgetry lying around in every dark cornerimagine 
 that) , determine better (or cooler) routes of entry, etc. And the second reason for going the Assault 
 routeits just plain fun. The obnoxiously loud sniper attachment, shotgun attachment, wall mines 
 and frag grenades wont have much use when playing for 100% ranking, and theyre too much fun to 
 not put to use at some point. Upon completion, I would immediately replay in Stealth mode, working 
 on improving my rank. For the record, even though some may think this is kind of a cheat, since 
 I go into the Stealth mode with the advantage of being familiar with the map, I found that the 
 missions are challenging enough that they probably cant be completed to 100% the first time thru 
 anyway (at least not on Hard or Expert) , and playing as Commando Sam, liberally exercising his 
 Fifth Freedom, is practically a different game.
  
  Bottom lineSplinter Cell: Chaos Theory is longer, more challenging, more open-ended than previous 
 Splinter Cell games, and just barely introduces some new elements (like the moral dilemma facing 
 Sam in Seoul) that I hope will be expanded on in Double Agent. No production is perfect, and even 
 though there is certainly room for continued improvement, Ubisoft has successfully raised the bar 
 once again with Chaos Theory. Keep em coming boysIm ready to save the world one more time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  First I have to say that because of this game I am now hooked on the Splinter Cell series. In the 
 series one guides Sam Fisher a covert NSA agent, and former US Navy Seal. Different from many FPS 
 games Sam Fisher has his own personality, and interacts with his superiors via headset radio freely 
 during the game, and is automatic during the cut scenes, he player is only guiding the character 
 during the missions. What is different from other games is that one has to use stealth to their 
 advantage. Running and gunning will only cause your character Sam to die a painfull death or cause 
 the mission to fail if too many alarms are triggered. Sam will be given a set of primary objectives 
 which have to be completed to end the mission. During the mission secondary and opportunity objectives 
 may be added to Sam's list of objectives. There also can be some hidden objectives that will not 
 show up on the lists, so look out for them when playing. To get through the game unscathed is by 
 using all of Sams high tech gear, including nightvision, thermal imaging, electric disablers, hacking 
 devices, silenced weapons with less than lethal attachments to knock unconsicous enemies from a 
 distance. A great thing about using stealth is that one can also listen to the guards talking, 
 about all kinds of humorus subjects, that can also clue you in on certain objectives. One can also 
 sneak up to guards, and interrogate before dispatching them, by either rendering them unconscious 
 or snapping their spine for a kill. The AI is quite good, since the guards will notice open doors, 
 sounds, bodies, and lights turned off in a room. When they actually see Sam they will either dive 
 behind cover to fire on him or call for reinforcements. The better trained mercenaries also have 
 some unique feature such as using thermal vision, and have better coordination between units. Graphics 
 are quite good in this game, even though most of the missions are take place in darkened areas, with 
 little light, one can still see that the designers carefully created very detailed maps. The characters 
 act and move convicingly. The cut scenes the animation is very well done, with convincing movements 
 and speech. I especially like Sam Fishers sharp witterd dialogueis a bit turse and sarcatistc at 
 times. He is also teased by his coleges as over the hill ,with some senior jokes. I did have some 
 minor issues with this game. At times I found the enemy AI, to be less than ideal since guards 
 where not able see Sam even if he standing right in front of them. The game is also very linear, 
 with either one or two paths to get to a an objective. Which made the missions repeative. Many 
 maps look very similar to each other and none are explorable. I also found the 3-D map used as 
 a guide too confusing. There where also a few minor glitches that caused Sam to get stuck on walls, 
 or stairs. Another issue was that the story was not well thought out, and in the end it had too 
 many plot holes to be effectivly convincing. They should have just used real world situations instead 
 of using a fictional storyline that made little sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohammedakram
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  When you see this game you will though that you are James Bond :D
  
  So you will be so excited and want to finish the game quickly but wait
  you must be ready
  
 
  or you will not enjoy this game
  
  in this game you must work your mind before you use the keyboards
  or you will Die and say Good 
 bye!!!
  
  So the bad in this game is that the missions of the game are the same and Style and Way and that 
 what will make you a little bored  will be happy 
 to you will have nightvision and can sneak and talk over and do much things that a spy or an agent 
 Can DO !! 007
  
  So that what i wanted to say to you all i wish you to like it
  
  Mohammed Akram Hammad
  
  Egypt
  
  P. S : Buy this Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impressed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played any stealth game before or any of the splinter cell games before then you 
 will know what to expect from this game. In this game you play as Sam Fisher who is a secret agent 
 who is trying to prevent from a japanease leader from taking over the world. In the storymode, 
 you have a total of 10 long and satisfaying levels which a lot of patient and experience from previous 
 game which brings me to the first bad point in the game. If you are a new comer, it will be really 
 hard to pass the levels here because you need to avoid people and avoid cameras and alarms which 
 is really hard if you just starting playing the splinter cell series with this game which if you 
 start a profile, you just start in a level, you don't go into a secret agent school which teaches 
 you how to play the game. Althought the game has video training which shows you what to press to 
 do what action, but I think that the school will be much better. Anyway, after you finish the game, 
 even if you are experienced in stealth games or not, you still feel really satisfyed when you finish 
 the game. In the game itself, you have many modes like storymode, versus mode which is teleported 
 you into a training room and you are trying to pass all kinds of challenges. Then, you have coop 
 mode which you have two choises to play: or play LAN which means you play with your friends in 
 a private server and then you are trying together to pass missions or just play for the fun or 
 you can hook up online and play with other people or against each other and in that choice you 
 can play up to 4 players online. The controlls in this game are really good and responsive and 
 the camera angles are really awesome. The second thing that bothered me is the fact that the game 
 in some places is really hard. For example: in the start of the game, you are in a beach and you 
 don't know where you suppose to go. The only thing you can do is to run around until you find a 
 hill which you can climb up and find a little hole which you can go through and then continue the 
 mission.
  
  Graphics: The graphics here are really stunning for a stealth game. Sam fisher looks better then 
 ever, the environments look really awesome and the enemies and animations look really good. And 
 speaking of animation, in this year's game, they added a commando knife so know when you grab someone, 
 you can kill him with the knife which is really cool. I forgot to mension that you have all these 
 visions you can use like nightvision, heatvision and EEF which you use that you use to hack to 
 computers from far distance. There are no lags in this game at all which is really good for a stealth 
 game
  
  Sound: The sound in this game was really done well in all the splinter cell series so this game 
 doesn't let us down. The music here is really tense because if someone sees you, then the music 
 turns upside down to an action game when you know that you will go in combat with soldiers. The 
 soundeffects of the visions and the weapons sound is really cool and the voiceovers in this game 
 are well done like in all the splinter cell games.
  
  Value: You can play this game for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storymode is really 
 long which includes 10 long mission (which if you don't have experience then it will take you time 
 to finish it which added to the content) and the coop with your friends and the multplater mode 
 shoudl keep you busy for a really long time. I forgot to mension that in the single mode, you have 
 extra which you can hear the producer of the game speaks, hear the soundtrack of the game or even 
 see the teaser trailer of splinter cell the movie.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall, splinter cell chaos theory ends up to be the best stealth game around 
 and the best game in the series. It deliver satisfying missions, the new addition of the commando 
 knife and an excellent coop mode and multiplayer mode. If you want a good stealth game or you just 
 want the next game in the series of splinter cell then go buy this game. If you are a new comer 
 in the stealth games genre then you will have a hard time in the start but after you play throught 
 the missions and you get the hang over it, then you will start and having a great time sneaking 
 up people or even your friends and use your abilities to kill them. Overall this game is the best 
 stealth game yet and I really recommend you to buy this game even if you aren't a new comer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackburn_BE
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  I bought it just yesterday and i just cant stop playing it, The multiplayer Co-op is just prefect, 
 100% realism! If you ever want to buy a stealth game, buy Splinter cell: Chaos theory, its way 
 better than the other splinter cells and its only 10 $ or so. Its pretty easy to get along with 
 everything, you dont have to go look on tutorial sites to know how to play the game. I play it 
 with my friends now, we have already created a clan: www. stealthops. tk, if you wanna join, just 
 check it out! I give Chaos Theory a straight 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Im a big fan of Stealth games, and Splinter Cell in perticular, i remember playing The First one 
 and Pandora Tomorrow, both was good, but this one was by far the best.
  
  I'll keep it short and list the Good and the Bad.
  
  The Good : - Amazing Graphics and environment, 
 very realistic
  
  - Great new ways to take down Enemies
  
  - Big Missions with Good Complex Objectives
  
  - Funny / Good Dialog and Acting
  
  - Coop 
 Gameplay which adds more fun - Fair multiplayer but hard
  
  - Good Storyline
  
  There is probably more i could come up with, but these are the ones that appeals most. it could 
 be longer with more Coop maps however.
  
  - And one more thing, the Coop mode is AWESOME, if you play on a lan with a friend, you can unlock 
 its true fun, very tactical and unique gameplay i loved it.
  
  The Bad : - Uhh... i can't really think of anything bad Summary. Not much bad to say about Chaos 
 Theory really, Its a very good game, Best one yet. If you are a fan of Stealth action games, You 
 will love this one. Score : 9.4 - mainly because its a perfect Stealth Action, and thats my kinda 
 Game. Good job Ubisoft. Keep em coming ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I've played the previous Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell games, and I liked them all, but Chaos Theory 
 gives the player so much more freedom to do things your way, not the way that the game wants. I 
 really enjoyed playing through all the missions, even though the last ones were the toughest. The 
 gameplay itself was what make me coming back and replay every mission again and again, until I 
 could accomplished perfection. What makes this Splinter Cell game different than the other two 
 is that now you have a scoring system. If you want perfection (100%) , you're gonna need to be very 
 patient. I'll try to give you the important things that I think made this game an outstanding and 
 almost, but not quiet, perfect.
  
  Gameplay:
  As I said, this game plays outstanding. You're giving a whole lot new things
  you can use and 
 also perform. The gadget and equipment are pretty much the same ones, SC-20k, pistol, grenades, 
 Opsat, goggles, and other stuff.
  But you get all the stuff in a more compact fashion. Take for example, the laser mic, it used to 
 be an "attachment" for the pistol. Now it is incorporated into your EEV, which is a big new toy 
 that Fisher has. The moves were also redo, so now when you perform a Split Jump, you'll see Sam 
 getting ready to kick off the wall and open his legs wide to fit on the given space. The moves 
 are almost the same as the other two Splinter Cell games, but now you get to use this moves in 
 a more fun way. For example, if you shimmying below an enemy, you can grab him from below and throw 
 him over the railing to his doom; you can grab onto a pipe and wait there until an enemy walks 
 underneath you, and you can snap his neck from above or simply K. O. (knockout) him. All those new 
 things weren't drastict, but well implemented. Also, this might not be part of the gameplay section, 
 but I have to agree with a part of the Gamespot review that says that the faces of Fisher and the 
 enemies look like action figures. I mean, c'mon. If you try to make a game the coolest it can be, 
 then try no make it more life-like. Fisher's face emotions look a bit life-like sometimes. But 
 other times, they're just not right at all. Ubisoft should have put a bit more effort on making 
 the faces more life-like and also not to make too many copies of an enemies' face. I mean you see 
 a guy's face right. You'll remember that face for a while, then you come across a guy with the 
 exact same face. No, I really didn't like that. But that's just a minor downside of the game.
 
  
  Requirements:
  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory requires a lot of juice out of a PC to run it smoothly. 
 When I first bought it, I couldn't played it because I had an integrated video card that wasn't 
 meant to be used for video gaming. So, I had to buy myself a new video card. The card I bought 
 wasn't the best card out there (Nvidia GeForce FX 5200) , but at least it could handle a game like 
 this. The graphics were the only problem, so as soon as I had installed my new video card I could 
 start rocking through the game. The visuals were so my-blowing that I really couldn't believe I 
 was playing a video game instead of a real time footage of an environment. Thanks to my new video 
 card I could play all the game without any difficulties, well besides the game's difficulties.
 
  
  Overall, the game is awesome, but not perfect. I hope you agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory for the PC, is an intense stealth game. The graphics is 
 good, the sound on the environment is good, but the sound on the enemy characters is not so good, 
 could be better.
  
  The gameplay is good, but one thing that irritated me, is that it's not so easy to control your 
 mouse when shooting the bad guys, the pointing could be better.
  
  I never played Splinter Cell before, because I thought I didn't like stealth games, but I got so 
 surprised, and I really liked it. So you guys who think you don't like sneaky stealth games, try 
 Splinter Cell and you'll be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  After playing Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, a game I got with my new Graphics card, I was waiting 
 for the right moment to get Chaos Theory and Splinter Cell as well...
  
  This must be the greatest Stealh Action series to date and if you are a Sam Fisher fan, then don't 
 hesitate, go buy the game. It's worth the time and the money. The game has a similar feel to that 
 of the first two, as all the basics have stayed the same. But have have come to ecpect that from 
 modern day games as companies have looked to keep to the storyline and spend more time on improving 
 the graphics and the gameplay.
  
  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is one of the greatest I have laid my hands on, both with gameplay 
 and the graphics... Even the practice mission is impressive, so if your a newcomer to the series 
 it should take you about 20 minutes to complete the training and be familiar with all the basic 
 controls. All the missions takes time and good planning to get through and moving like a ghost 
 counts in your favour... But even if your type of play is "hit and run" you will get through easy, 
 but I don't see the use of that, cause the point is to score a high rating at the end...
  
  Now I can't wait for Double Agent to come out... Things can only get better!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed every moment of it, except when the saved games got erased.
  Let's get to the point:
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This game rally makes you think. How do I get over 
 there? What should I do? Will they spot me if...? You must think your every movement. One step 
 too far and bang! mission failed. Okay, this is a hard game and at the same time, a very easy one. 
 The quick save and quick load are the solution to every doubt. Shall I do that? Quicksave. do it. 
 It worked? good. It didn't? Quickload. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 
  Knowing this game isn't the last game ever made, the Graphics are impressive. The atmosphere is 
 very SPY-RELATED or some levels are quite movie-like.
  
  SOUND: The music is very good, the gun sounds aren't perfect, but good. There are sounds that'll 
 make you jump.
  
  VALUE:
  The codegame version is cheaper than the original, so now it's quite cheap. About half price. Relating 
 the game with the price, it's definitely worth it.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: 
  I enjoyed this game. It's fantastic. Short, but fun. I know I say nearly every game is short, but 
 this one really makes you want more. It's like watching a James bond movie.
  
  MIXTURE:
  James Bond, Mission Impossible, Thief, Splinter Cell, Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow.
  
  + 
 Graphics.
  +On-line mode.
  + Sound detector.
  +Easier than the others.
  
  - Bugs (some come with the patches) .
  - Don't kill anybody objectives.
  - Easy to be spotted.
 
  - Short.
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddrmaniac123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  I have to admit i was reluctant in getting this game at first. But lucky i got it, superb graphics 
 and immersive audio. It doesnt take too long to get the hang of everything, but once you have thats 
 when the game gets really interesting. Just having the power to sneak up and kill unsuspecting 
 enemies using various weapons or hand to hand combat techniques it just plain fun. Stages can be 
 quite tricky but hey whats the point if you just have to run and shot. There is no stealth action 
 there!
  
  So to cut a long story short Its a hell of a great game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory is third game in SC series. And it is also the best, there's no doubt 
 of that. Graphics are good, but there are some small graphic problems. There really aren't much 
 weapons to use in the game, but who would need much weapons? Best weapon is knife, it does not 
 occur in the inventory, but it is used for cutting materials and threatening people. There are 
 many so called "visors" including Night Vision and Thermal Vision. Missions are long and challenging, 
 but sometimes it seems that enemies are too blind. There are many moves like in MGS series. Chaos 
 Theory is lot more realistic than Metal Gear Solid 1-2 since you can die from one shot.
  
  SC Chaos Theory is an excellent choice for tactcal espoinage game fans. There is challenge for 
 master, but game can be too short for master. Chaos Theory is really one of the best stealth-action 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblio_Starr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy has always been one of my favorite writters. His games also my favorites. Splinter Cell: 
 Chaos Theory is hard not to be a favorite for the fans of slow, making you think, stealth games. 
 This game however is one of the greatest games I have ever played. With a character like Sam Fisher, 
 a respected Splinter Cell agent with a reputation as the best. You play as Sam and listen to him 
 joke around with his "boss" while you sneak up behind an unsuspecting soldier that's grumbling 
 about how boring his shift is. A fun thing about this game is that you don't only get to use a 
 knife to sneak up on guards. You are equip with an Asault Rifle, silenced postol, some grenades, 
 ammo (including video cameras you can shoot threw your rifle and stick to a wall, this camera also 
 can release gas to knock out someone aproaching you or someone you just need to take out before 
 they pull the alarm) and a pair of goggles that have many vision modes; night vision, EMP vision, 
 heat vision, ect.
  
  Another fun thing about this game is the kill style, you can take people out with the silenced 
 pistol or tear 'em up with the assault rifle. Although I prefer to sneak up from behind and grab 
 them holding them so they can't move or do anything untill they tell you what you want to know, 
 or you're done having fun with them. The interigation is also funny some quotes include:
  
  "Pick a number between one and ten" and others of the sort, messing with the enemy phycologicly. 
 Once the man you're holding has told you what you want to know you get the choice to either kill 
 him or just knock him out. To kill him you either break his neck or kick him in the back breaking 
 his spine, brutal yes. Or you can just block the blood going to his brain and knock him out for 
 about an hour. 
  
  The enemy in this game is not the kind you can run past shooting and they don't see you. The enemy 
 is VERY smart in this game, noticing an intruder by either seeing a body (which you get the choice 
 to drag and hide) or even just a door you left open that they closed. I often hear "who left this 
 door open?!" in this game and then the enemy is on the alert so I have to lean in the shadows against 
 the wall untill they know there's no one in the room. Heh.
  
  I highly recomend this game, it's addicting, fairly difficult so you don't beat it too fast, and 
 has many missions. Also the gameplay and style is revolutionary. By now it's probobly at a decent 
 price being the game came out years ago. Obviously this game was ahead of it's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _50bmg
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Poor Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. I can't play multiplayer with my copy because I ditched the manual 
 before retriving the "online gaming" code from the inside cover -- dyrp on my part, for sure, and 
 I wouldn't blame anyone for calling me an idiot, but i have to say WTF were you thinking ubersoft 
 when you decided to include Two (2) CD activation codes with your friggen game. What the heck, are 
 you that parinoid about pirating? Oh and BTW, the code you have to input to even play the game 
 -- pick a different font mate, I had to go on the web and look it up case your 8's and B's look 
 identical, and there is no difference between your O and 0. Try Times New Roman or Arial, rather 
 than "i'M A wEetAwd" font K losers?! 
  
  PS, game looks good, but i'm so ticked at it so far, I havn't touched it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  I love splinter cell and chaos theory doesn't disappoint. This is a great game with some added 
 features from the last. Now, instead of just having a sneak meter like in pandora tomorrow, you 
 have one for light and one for sound. And for all of you out there that love the satisfaction of 
 playing a game how it is supposed to be played, there is a rating system to give you info on how 
 you did stealth-wise on each mission. As far as the graphics go, they are great. I had the ps2 
 version of pandora tomorrow and didn't really care that the graphics were just par. but after playing 
 chaos theory, i realized how much more immersive the game can get with some nice looking graphics. 
 So, i have to say, go get this game, after all its only 20 bucks now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondokid
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  i am sorry to say that but there isnt really big differences. lets put the game on this way
  
  +good things:
  + they finally added multiplayer and online play
  + sound is very good
 
  + graphics feels better
  + good sound and graphic effects
  + in a nice difficulty
  + dont feel like just a game
  
  - bad things
  - well no big differences from the older ones 
 (same style same gameplay)
  - multiplayer sucks (different control, many glitches, different gameplay...)
  - you guy dies VERY 
 quickly (on regular game)
  - Lots of glitches on the game (the bullet misses to the head)
  - no story line
  - and the biggest problem sucks controls
  - feels like very slow gameplay (you 
 will never finish)
  
  ~confusing stuff
  ~ why does the game take too many security??? (the game checks the cd, (i heard) the game finds 
 when you use fake drivers (image of the game) , the game finds when you have 2 discs on the pc...)
 
  ~ no fun to play online (so many people cheats)
  ~ feels more alone in the game and during of playing the game.
  well thats it from me
  i hope 
 i helped you all :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGoofy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  A masterpiece in the splinter cell game serie, I think of it as the best splinter cell game made 
 in the serie, and the best stealth game ever made... unless you can tell me one more stealthier. 
 Although the first and the second were probably more stealth then this one, because you can choose 
 if you want : Stealth = very few bullets, lots of sticky cameras and shockers. Assault = very much 
 bullets, often including shotgun and sniper and nearly never sticky cameras and shockers or ringfould 
 airrounds, and the last possibility is Reddings Recommondation, this is what is most recommonded 
 by the NSA, it's mostly like a compromise between stealth and assault.
  A very good feature in SCT is the shotgun and sniper attachment, you can switch from attachment 
 by pressing ALT and which mouse butten 2 you can shoot people brutally, but this is everything 
 but stealth and will mostly result in a low mission succes rating.
  Another very good thing about the game are the new moves you can do, you can trow people of ships 
 and you can grab somebody from beneath.
  You can interrogate nearly everybody and that's something I missed in the previous two games.
 
  The game has ten levels which are different at style, one level you need to break into a bank 
 and be absolutely stealth and another level you first need to listen to some conversation and then 
 kill them, this was a hard part for me, because there bodyguards shoot right, and Sam often does 
 not... (or me xP)
  There are also missions that have timers, like when you need to stop a missile from blowing or 
 when you need to disarm several bombs and in meantime kill people who are shooting you.
  
  All together this game is the best in the splinter cell serie (on pc) for now and it is definitly 
 worth to pay some money for it.
  
  MASTERPIECE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neg22
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  It`s a good game if you like games where you do a lot of stealth and you have to figure out things. It`s 
 not a game where you could just run in and shoot like crazy you have to take the enemy by surprize 
 without making a huge mess. In it you get really cool equitment like flash grenades, night vision, pistols, and 
 thermal vision. It`s got an average storyline and the graphics are pretty good for Game Cube. there 
 are a few spots where you could get stuck so if you do check the surrounding area and see if you 
 can find a vent or something. Overall it`s a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  We remember in 2002 when the first SC aperead. First I wasn't too shure about it but when I started 
 playng and saw those googgles for the first time I automatycly knew that that SC wold be a great 
 game. In 2003 PD came; a game that I didn't play thow I found out that this game was similar to 
 it's predecesor. In 2005 Chaos Theory came out and I want to start by saing that for me this game 
 was the best one I played that year.
  I don't know were to start, I just want to say that this game is absolutly superb. I realy can't 
 find any flaws in this game. The garaphichs are superb and let's not forget that this game was made 
 in 2005, I mean with graphichs like these Chaos Theory ipreses in 2006. The sound is realy cool 
 the voice acting is great and the music changes with the action. The gameplay is formidable, and 
 combind with the excelent inviromente it can give you the best stealthy spy expirience you ever 
 felt. Belive me two days after I finished the 3rd mision I couldn't stop dreaming at nights about 
 little three-eyed ninjas.
  In short this game is phenomenal, soperb, excelent, outstanding.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jen-the-Samurai
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  I'm addicted to Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory at the moment. YES, I know it came out a while ago, 
 but hey, when you got school and a job, gaming (unfortunately) doesn't hit the top of the priority 
 list.
  
  Anyway.
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS. This is my first SC game (don't ask me why, I just never tried it out) , and it 
 really didn't disappoint. I know there are a lot of huge Metal Gear fans out there -- myself NOT 
 being one of them. This game embodies what MGS does not: FUN stealth play, awesome weapons, cool 
 technology, great action moves, intelligent AI (that don't produce giant exclamation points over 
 their heads) , and some sweet, sweet action.
  
  My only complaint is that it can be a little damn confusing in two different ways. First, the training 
 videos SUCK because you can't pause them, rewind them, ANYTHING them (or at least I couldn't figure 
 out how to) , and they explain the controls much too quickly. It took me FOREVER to realize that 
 the stupid electronic disabler tool was the alternate fire in the pistol. Also, the storyline is 
 a bit confusing as well. I think politics can be cool, and North Koreans make a bad-ass enemy, 
 but MAN do they use a lot of jargon that they just don't explain well. If you're insanely into 
 storyline, this may be a little rough. I just keep myself content with understanding the gist of 
 it and not worrying to much about understanding the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is the third instalment in the series of high-tech stealth 
 action by Ubisoft Studios.
  Chaos theory maintains the Level of originality delivered by the Previous 2 games.
  
  STORY 
 - The Year is 2007. Japan's creation of a Self Defense Force is a violation under International 
 Law. This Ignites the rising tension between Japan, China and North Korea. In a Desperate need to 
 prevent war Japan request the US for assistance.
  Enter Sam Fisher , the most professional black-ops agent appointed to infiltrate into enemy premises 
 and find out the Real story behind these activities which threaten the world's peace and security 
 and thus giving rise to the most feared disaster of mankind, The World War III.
  The story for most part of the game is pretty tense and have many shocks and surprises. But many 
 missions could be too technical for some people thus making it difficult to grasp players attention.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY - Chaos theory has certainly redefined he stealth action genre.
  There is a light bar to indicate how well u r camouflaged and plus a sound bar to indicate how 
 noisy u are. Also you have to take care of the Ambient sounds. If you make more sound than your ambience 
 be prepared to face the guards who are the smartest on this goddamn earth.
  Also Now you have more flexibilty in carrying out your missions. Either you want to storm your way 
 through enemy territory or sneak past in the darkest hole, none of these are gonna be easy.
  Also the Enemy A. I has been improved 100 folds since you last saw them.
  They are now more aware 
 and vigilant and are not to be fooled. Gone are the days where you could hide in the dark to wait 
 for the guard to finish his search. This time around if theyeven see your shadow or notice some 
 foolish activity by you ,they will check even the darkest and deepest holes you may be hiding in. While 
 In combat enemies take cover and an alarm is a call for your Funeral.
  Now you can also hack computers and scanners and it is possible to complete the missions even without 
 a single kill. you also have an opsat with you which contains a fully 3-Dimensional map.
  Another good feature is the statistics at the end of every mission which give a detailed analysis 
 of your actions.
  The bad point in gameplay is the frustrating camera angles. Also some scene rely to much on error 
 and judgement.
  The overall gameplay is brilliant but what makes it a definate buy is the A. I of the enemy which 
 can take you by surprise.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics are nicely done. A major improvement is the weather effects which is among 
 the best. The environments and character modelling are very believeable. The lighting effects will 
 want you to hide in shadows to avoid detection. Cinematics are just Fabulous giving you a feel of 
 a hollywood movie. Visually the game is intense.
  
  SOUND - The sound effects are at its best. Stealth is the name and in games like this you can hear 
 just about every little detail. It is amazing to see how many sounds can come when you are so deliberate 
 to keep yourself quiet.
  The Voice acting is great. Sam's sarcastic nature and funny one liners can give players a smile 
 in the most tightest of situations.
  Overall the sound is fantastic.
  
  GOODS - Excellent enemy A. I , Gorgeous Visuals, Great Sound effects ,Open - Ended Gameplay, Co-Op 
 mode.
  
  BADS - Crappy camera angles , A typical Splinter cell story , Starforce.
  
  Splinter Cell Chaos theory is a game which is challenging and offers the players to really test 
 themselves to the extreme.
  Chaos theory fulfills the Potential of its previous counter parts and stands tall on its own merit. 
 Even with the few shortcomings this game is worth your every penny.
  When People sayGaming is Serious business" they actually mean SPLINTER CELL CHAOS THEORY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Heres a game for the money. The graphics are perfect and the AI is perfect. The sound is 99.9 percent 
 cool. But the framerate can be buggy sometimes. This makes gameplay harder, but the game itself 
 is brilliant. Tom Clancy made THE BEST Splinter cell ever. For a PC game, it is downright BRILLIANT.
 
  The cheat codes are awsome and the gameplay rocks 98.9%. The first Splinter cell was great. Pandora 
 Tommorow was great, mainly because of the Graphics. But Chaos theory lets you kill any enemy you 
 want. (despite 1 0r 2 tiny missions) but the physics engine is smooth and re-built. Bodies don't 
 go through walls anymore!!!
  
  This game deserves Game of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arp4uall
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Its simply awesome. superb graphics, coupled wth terrific gameplay & brilliant newly added combos; aboveall, v 
 v v relistic. so, if u r plannin 4 a relistic, high graphics stealth action game, it mst b the game 
 4 u. sam fisher, his moves, abiliti 2 do some great combos, and the terrific graphics is really awesome. i 
 personally feel its a bit easier than Pandora Tomorrow since u dnt get to restart so often 4 those 
 alarms. remember them? fisher is as usual greatly acrobatic, skilful, brilliant to play as the man. jst 
 one thing, the map could have been much better, i personally didnt like it. the cutscenes r also graet 
 to watch. if you have learnt the art of lockpick, you can play easily, and thank god i did it from 
 the previous part. but speaking of chaos theory, its really worth ur money.......... anothr gr8 gift 
 frm ubisoft. thnx!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome! There is so many ways to disable and kill your enemies in this game! You 
 can climb or crawl up basically everythinbg in this game, and the graphics aren't half bad for 
 a game that is over a year old! Plus, the multiplyer is one of the most addictive games I've ever 
 played. Choose between mercenary or spy. Spies get to do flips, crawl up everything and use a tazer 
 firing gun to shoot the mercenaries. The mercenaries can bash or just shoot the spies to get rid 
 of them. This game takes a while to get good at (especially multiplayer) , but it is well worth 
 the hard work. I've only had this game for 3 days and I've played it for well over 15 hours. The 
 music in this game is good as well. It really fits the idea of steath (what the game is mostly 
 built around) plus the game is extremely realistic. The only downside is that sometimes the online 
 gameplay can be laggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelwings1818
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game, as it was a lot of fun to play, and was fairly realistic. The graphics 
 are amazing, with many great effects from weather, conversations between NPCs, how NPCs would react 
 if you were seen in real life, and that sort of thing.
  
  Splinter Cell has been one of the few games that has really hit the mark lately. I loved the fact 
 that you could choose whether or not to kill your enemy when you snuck up behind them and grabbed 
 them, as well as the stealth kills.
  
  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is well worth the cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back, and for the third time since 2003 he's saving the world from the grips of terror. 
 This time, electronic warfare is the name of the game, but Sam isn't late to the party as his expanded 
 toolset of spy-gear evidences. The gritty, middle-aged hero still packs a punch (as well as a double-bladed 
 knife for urgent situations) and kicks some more terrorist ass.
  
  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is a graphically amazing game. In fact, it's probably the best-looking 
 current generation game out there (save maybe Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, but that game wouldn't 
 even run on my powerhouse pc) . The faces could use a little work, especially in light of facial 
 technology present in games like VALVe's Half-Life 2. The voice acting is spot-on, as usual for 
 the Splinter Cell series, and Sam sounds cynical as ever.
  
  What we've all come to expect from the series so far is a unique, high-tech, stealth spy game. 
 In previous iterations of the series, this usually meant that a good part of the game revolved 
 around NOT killing the terrorists, but rather just knocking them out and stashing them somewhere. 
 Chaos Theory, on the other hand, is much more lenient about letting you kill the bad guys as you 
 see fit. Only a small portion of the missions will require you to avoid fatalities, and it's far 
 less annoying to do so than in the previous two games. Now that you can kill much more freely, 
 Sam actually makes use of the knife that he's bandied about for the entire series, but never actually 
 used before now. Previously, the only time you would ever see the knife was when Sam grabs a terrorist 
 from behind and interrogates them for useful tidbits of information. He still uses it in this capacity 
 in Chaos Theory, but you also get some good throat slashing and back stabbing action, where before 
 there were only punches to the head.
  
  As many games have attempted to do in recent years, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory gives the player 
 a much more open-ended approach to accomplishing objectives. Stepping away from the formulaic linearity 
 of the original Splinter Cell, and allowing for even more diverse strategies than Pandora Tomorrow, 
 Chaos Theory lets you all but become a real high-tech secret government agent.
  
  The main and only downside to the game's intense stealth-action formula is the action part of the 
 duo. While slinking from corner to corner, backstabbing and stealthy assaults are the name of the 
 game in Chaos Theory, the action is still lacking when it comes to firefights. Basically the only 
 way to avoid numerous frustrating reloads when it comes to open war with your terrorist enemies 
 is to avoid open combat completely. In the event that an enemy ever gets a shot off at you, you 
 had better kill him quick, because if he's allowed to fall back to a covered position, expect him 
 to mow you down with pinpoint precision, even though he couldn't see you at all before. Additionally, 
 all his buddies will come running, and an alarm will inevitably sound.
  
  The system for shooting in Chaos Theory has remained the same as it was in its predecessors, and 
 is truly a relic of the consoles from which it was ported. The aiming system is clunky and totally 
 unsuited for use in a PC shooter. The system is bearable, once you've played for a few hours and 
 popped a couple of satisfying headshots, but it never extends beyond being only bearable. It's 
 something that you're just going to have to put up with, because otherwise the game is great.
 
  
  You'll have a ton of fun sneaking up on your unsuspecting foes and dispatching them in a number 
 of creative ways, but the lackluster firearm combat in Splinter Cell: Chaos theory prevents it 
 from living up to the great game that it ought to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  This is the most addictive Splenter Cell in the series for instant. You can don't care about the 
 alarm system any more, as Lam said in the game, "This is not a video game, Fisher". You can kill 
 or hide, you needn't care about the troublesome system. Toe or foe, all depends on you.
  You can break the locks, but might cause alarm, and break in a room, you might have more enough 
 time to shoot down than open it and find the enemy is standing there. This is the other taste for 
 the gamers and SC's fans.
  The game is good, but while you watch Fisher in a glance, you'll find he had became ungly, not 
 handsome any more, maybe it's only a joke.
  Fisher prefers darkness, but do you? When you shoot all the lights out, you may regret of it. Because 
 the ways are not so clear. Fisher is the guy who trained in nigh operations, but not all the gamers. 
 Save your bullets, and it could be save your times.
  The game is just finish the missions, never try to be you're in the GTA city.
  Enjoy your missions 
 as Fisher do.
  This is what the Ubi can produce the best in the age of the PC game's line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlevit
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft have really outdone themselves with this one.
  
  I just love the Splinter Cell game series and Chaos Theory is just the best one so far.
  
  
 Out of all the espionage games out there like Hitman, Thief and others this is definitely by far 
 the best.
  I love the way you can adjust the speed of Sam, the different grabs and attacks you can do from 
 a close range.
  Everything about this game is just brilliant.
  
  I have noticed that Chaos Theory has a very good A. I. i really enjoyed playing with this one, i 
 love the way when you take out a light, the patrolling guard will notice the light has been taken 
 out and will take out his torch or flare to look around. I do believe since the light has been 
 taken out, they cannot see because of their lack of night vision so maybe the guards should always 
 use their torches or flares or maybe even bring a temporary light in.
  I was quite surprised by the A. I. by the way they respond to shots fired at them which miss. This 
 really impressed me.
  
  Something i really didn't like about this game and pretty much all the other Splinter Cell games 
 is the guns you use. Firstly the pistol unless used for head shots is very ineffective. Plus the 
 assault rifle you use is very inaccurate in automatic mode, the cross hair moves around way too 
 much for a gun that is specially designed for these secrete operations.
  
  The missions in the single player were quite fun. The Co-op was a good change which made the game 
 a bit more interesting playing with a buddy.
  And the versus mode which is still fun to play, just lacks the community presence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aligokalppeker
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  SC: CT has a rich content as an esponiage game. Plenty of musics, dialogs and tactics are awaiting 
 gamers to taste. Players can find several ways to complete each level. So this makes game playable 
 long time. Also secondary and opportunity objective enriches gameplay.
  
  Graphics are very good to reflect the enviroment and atmosphere. Game engine uses complex technologies 
 to give better visuals (HDR, Rainy weather rendering etc..)
  
  Musics are designed according to the atmosphere of the game and they are great. Story line is a 
 simple and fluent. Sounds are detailed (except soldiers and officers) .
  
  It's good to see that in game most enviroment factors are involved in gameplay, sound, light etc.... These 
 factors combiningly affects game play more than any other games.
  
  3rd one of the Splinter Cell series carries it to top of the esponiage game genre and redefines 
 tactical esponiage concept with real, logical enviroment and equipments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosE_D
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell  another bestseller written by Tom Clancy! This guy is amazinghe has such an incredible 
 imagination and he is such Im quoting: ,, A magician with words!
  His books brought gaming to a higher level of course with the help from the guys from Ubisoft  
 theyve done it again! :) Im so glad that I can play this gamehey Im Sam Fisher Third Echelons 
 primary Splinter Cell operative. Damn Im good! 
  quiet, instinctive, and observant! fighting, espionage, and constant training got me here!
  Its 
 making me feel like Im playing for a cause just like the character fighting for one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game from start to finish. It's very fun sneaking around in this game because 
 you feel in control the whole time. Larger environments and wonderfully designed levels make this 
 game happen. 
  
  The story is amazing in this game. It has so many twists and turns, and is great for anyone interested 
 in politics of today. It draws on the US/North Korean tensions of today, and shows what might happen 
 to the two countries in 2008 in regard to war. 
  
  In addition, the graphics and sound are jawdropping. I took several screenshots every level because 
 the graphics were so good I had to go back and admire them. High res textures and bumpmapping everywhere. 
 Everything looks so real, but they should have added in Half-Life 2 physics because after playing 
 Half-Life 2 you want to play around with physics like that, and they would be perfect if implemented 
 in this game. Oh well, mabye in Splinter Cell 4. 
  
  Overall I found this game to be one of the most enjoyable games I've play this year, and will be 
 playing it through again soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The game still has appeal to me in June 2006. And thats saying something. This game utilizes a 
 decent AI with incredible atmosphere to immerse you in a fictional world of deadly covert operations. 
 Silent headshots and bathroom stall interrogations bring memories of hitman, but in a much more 
 deadly, silent, and realistic world. My favorite level, on board the "Maria Narcissa", allows you 
 to explore an entire cargo ship looking for your target . However, this game does have some serious 
 drawbacks. The graphics aren't quite up to snuff, and the gameplay is all rather linear. This is 
 forgiven though, because this game bleeds atmospheric tension.
  overall, the only choice for stealth gaming.
  over and out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightFalcon662
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The third game in the stylish Splinter Cell series is out, and this one is a great one. Though 
 not best of the three games.
  
  You continue the game with Sam Fisher, the cynical protagonist of the series and as he continues 
 working for the NSA to help solve political chaos. Most of the gameplay has not been changed much 
 and has been kept intact; this is a good thing for the gameplay has already matured into something 
 that should no longer be modified in the series.
  
  The storyline of the game really has the same backdrop, and once again it's not a very well written 
 one. Many players will even play through the entire game with only understanding half the storyline. 
 Though you shouldn't buy this game because of the storyline, you should buy it purely because of 
 the gameplay and superior mission design.
  
  This time around the developers of the series have made some noticeable and positive changed to 
 the mission design. The missions are a lot more open-ended and let you choose the path most of 
 the time instead of the other two last games where you are forced to follow a linear path. This 
 used to somewhat "constrict" the player when playing the campaign, but now this has been happily 
 improved and players will be able to experience a very well-developed and engaging campaign. Some 
 of the missions have expertly been done, such as Hokkaido and several others. The game composes 
 of ten carefully-crafted long mission, most of them develop the storyline and progress the game. 
 Though the first mission may seem like a cakewalk to most players, players will definitely notice 
 that the game instantly kicks it up a notch to a "challenging" level for the rest of the game. 
 There are several tough sequences in the game that can equal many quick saves and quick loads, 
 but this too has been carefully prepared so it can be clean yet serious challenge.
  
  The graphics in the game are well noticeably a marvel, all generated from the Unreal Engine 2.5. 
 The game has some of the best graphical elements out there that no engine has been able to match, 
 especially the lighting. The Unreal Engine 2.5 has been made especially for stealthy nighttime 
 environment games like Splinter Cell. The updating of the engine to 2.5 now features the latest 
 upgrades like multipass bumpmapping, gloss maps, environment maps, per-pixel lighting and shading, 
 soft shadows, HDR and many other enhancements. It is recommended that you purchase this game either 
 for the PC or the Xbox, since the PS2 cannot support some of these graphical enhancements which 
 ultimately results in poorer graphics. 
  
  The sound in Chaos Theory also deserves some recognition. The games background music and menu screens 
 are filled with professional electronica music all composed by Amon Tobin. Most of the tracks in 
 the game seem to snuggly fit into the stealthy action, and players will enjoy this. If you are 
 simply walking and nothing much is happening in the game, usually calm music and sometimes none 
 at all can happen. However, if you are slightly alerted to the guards the music will pick up the 
 pace; identifying to the player that he has been spotted and that he should now react to this. 
 If you are fully alerted to a guard and are being fired upon, the music will approach a fast-paced 
 climax. This method of music implementation has been well done by Ubisoft.
  
  The multiplayer in the game continues with the known Versus mode which pits spies against mercenaries 
 in objective-based missions or the classic deathmatch. However, in Chaos Theory a brand new and 
 interesting gametype has been designed. Co-Op. You will now be able to play locally or online with 
 a person and work together to play in CPU-based missions. Most of these missions have also been 
 well done and now with the latest 1.5 patch to the game, two brand new co-op missions have been 
 added to the game resulting now of a total of six missions. Most players will agree that still 
 even with the patch six missions is still a low amount of co-op content, and perhaps even more 
 missions should be added to the game. Versus has been updated and expanded in Chaos Theory so it 
 can be more playable. However, the main downfall of the entire game is because of this. To put 
 it simple, Versus mode is still buggy and it is a mystery why Ubisoft does not work on fixing the 
 bugs. Players will often encountered stupid little problems such as when you are a spy and sometimes 
 simply are not able to grab a mercenary by the neck, regardless how close you are. You could be 
 running against the mercenary but the game will refuse a grab and could even lag up. Many players 
 have even reported total computer crashes and crashes to desktops at random times of the game. 
 This is an embarrassing thing for a well-respected company like Ubisoft to let pass, and players 
 do not understand this. These problems have made multiplayer in Chaos Theory unpopular, both in 
 Co-Op and Versus. Most of the time you will only see about eighty total players in the game, and 
 this is a very small amount as most commercial multiplayer games have tens of thousands of players 
 online in the world. Maybe, just maybe Ubisoft could fix these problems. But this too is quite 
 unlikely, as much time has passed and the problems continue to linger.
  
  All in all, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is a recommended game. Even if you are not 
 in fan of the multiplayer you should buy this game because of the well-developed single player 
 campaign. The campaign itself presents a lot of value and can be replayed several times without 
 much bore. However if you do like the multiplayer in this game, you will find Chaos Theory a marvelous 
 keeper.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  SECOND CONCEPT
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The third in series, Splinter Cell Chaos theory is a spy thriller where the main character, Sam 
 Fisher, is being sent to different corners of the world, where a political crisis has commenced 
 or is about to commence. Staying in shadows and keeping things quiet, Sam must accomplish different 
 objectives behind enemy lines, from gathering of intelligence to assassinations. 
  
  Chaos theory keeps the tradition of a stealth game. Anyone who played the previous parts in series 
 can tell you that Rambo wouldn't survive a minute in Sam Fisher's environment. Thus the game is 
 not for the unpatient. Most of the playing time will be spent sneaking past guards to reach the 
 objective. 
  
  Though he is a spy, Sam is not the talkitive James Bond and doesn't work in a Gouchi suit in plain 
 daylight. He is armed with all kind of lethal and less-lethal toys. Back in the game are the automatic 
 rifle and the pistol. Although they are the only two firearms availible to Sam, their use varies 
 highly and many modifications can be chosen by the player for his rifle. The modifications include 
 gas grenades, sniper scopes, electric shockers that disable the enemies, sticky camera's that can 
 be shot to get a closer view of something.
  
  Besides the weapons, Sam is provided with many other useful gadgets. There's an optic cable with 
 which Sam can look under doors into the next room. There are wall mines to kill patrolling or chasing 
 enemies. There's a mic to listen to conversations in a distance. In short, there's an array of 
 gadgets James Bond would be jelaous of. 
  
  The character movement in Chaos Theory is highly evolved, as the acrobatic aspects of the game 
 are important for mission accomplishment. The scroll button on your mouse regulates the speed with 
 which Sam will be moving. When opening doors the player is in control of the speed with which they 
 can be opened. Also Sam can climb, walk along ledges, slide down, etc. When doing all of it, however, 
 Sam is quite slow, which makes him very voulnarable for enemy fire. The huge amount of buttons 
 required to control Sam isn't helping.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphically the game can provide some of the best eye candy. The game is able to make use the latest 
 Shader 3.0 technology and supersampling. The shadows, therefore, are some of the most complicated 
 you will ever see. And that's very useful in a game where the majority of time is spent during 
 the night.
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound is certainly worth mentioning. There are many conversations between the many characters and 
 all of them are a pleasure to listen to. Sam is, as before, voiced by the actor Michael Ironside 
 and he does an outstanding job once again. 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Chaos Theory follows the theme of the series and gets even more political than before. That's the 
 reason why it might be a little too boring for a casual gamer. The graphics and sound are exelent. 
 The controlls could use some tweaking, but generally Splinter Cell Choas Theory is a great stealth-based 
 game.
  
  Subjective notes
  
  I loved this game. Stalth and politics is one of the best combinations for me in a game. I know 
 that the game has received a lot of negative publicity because of a lack of ... feelings I guess. 
 Aparently Sam is not involved in what he's doing enough. If you want a cheap Hollywood-tyle game, 
 take something like Far Cry and leave the Splinter Cell to people like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  Set in 2007, An Advanced Reccursive Algorithem is going to be used for Mechanised Warfare. Splinter 
 Cell Chaos Theory has got to be THE best stealth shooter. well its not really much of a shooter. 
 the point is that you leve as little trace as possible. that mean dont kill people (unless its 
 part of your mission) , dont knock people out and dont set off alarms. dont do any of these and 
 you will get 100% level score (-2% for every person you kill and -1% for every person you knock 
 out) . your heart rate will be pumped up by the music. in stressful situations the music will have 
 higher volume, tempo and loud druming and even louder and faster in a fight. Equipment, like the 
 vision googles give you infered/night vision like that lets you see in the dark. heat/infered vision 
 that lets you see the heat from objects and people. and the only non existent in the real world 
 vision, electro magnetic vsion lets you see electricity flowing through devices and power lines. 
 one of the best features for begginers is the training videos that indicate all the key presses 
 and mouse movements thatare required to do the moves in the video. other incredible feature is 
 the ai of the soilders, and the audio. you can choose if you want to hear what people are saying 
 in English or in their native language. The wepons attachment like the stun gun attachment and 
 the snipper attachment, means you can have one gun that does that purpose of 5. This is another 
 review by Webmessia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMEFREAK005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Heres a game for the money. The graphics are perfect and the AI is perfect. The sound is 99.9 percent 
 cool. But the framerate can be buggy sometimes. This makes gameplay harder, but the game itself 
 is brilliant. Tom Clancy made THE BEST Splinter cell ever. For a PC game, it is downright BRILLIANT. 
 
  The cheat codes are awsome and the gameplay rocks 98.9%. The first Splinter cell was great. Pandora 
 Tommorow was great, mainly because of the Graphics. But Chaos theory lets you kill any enemy you 
 want. (despite 1 0r 2 tiny missions) but the physics engine is smooth and re-built. Bodies don't 
 go through walls anymore!!! 
  
  This game deserves Game of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory sets you as the aging Sam Fisher to once again save the world from terrorists 
 using all of your stealth like abilities.
  
  First off the graphics in this game are some of the best yet seen, so be sure your rig is up to 
 the challenge. If you have a 6800 or ATI X1000 series card or better you can enable HDR (High Dynamic 
 Range Lighting) to the game and it looks quite unbelievable. This will how ever take a major hit 
 on your frames so like I said before make sure you can handle this game or else you might as well 
 go pick up the XBOX version. Even if you don't have one of those cards the game still looks amazing 
 without HDR and on a card like a X800 XT or X850 you should be able to play max settings on at 
 least 1280x1024 or 1280x768 for the wide screens out there and still play at 50frames or above.
 
  
  The storyline is great again, as it better be seeing as Tom Clancy wrote it. The game play is fantastic, 
 with a few new gadgets to play with like the PSM add on to the gun to take out electronic devices 
 temporarily you have a another solid Splinter Cell game. Sam also has a few new acrobatic moves 
 he can show off and they work very well in the game as well as being useful in the CO-OP multiplayer.
 
  
  Splinter Cell CT plays great look better and with the new CO-OP and the same Pandora Tomorrow multiplayer 
 this is the best SC game made to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekrmme
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  For those fans of the Splinter Cell series, Chaos Theory is the natural evolution of an already 
 great set of games. For those of you that don't even know who Sam Fisher is, it's as good as (or 
 better than) any of the three to start an addiction. And for those of you who turn up your noses 
 at the very thought of stealth gaming, I'm so sorry. It's a shame that you have to miss out on 
 one of the best games of the last year.
  
  Gameplay: Pure, unadulterated stealth. Here and there you'll find a mini-game, and there is a storyline, 
 but really, sneaking up on terrorists with a ten inch long combat knife is what this game's about. 
 The game's AI has been beefed up as well, making enemies relatively challenging and resourceful. 
 In addition to a stellar singleplayer campaign, the two versions of multiplayer make this game 
 standout. The classic Spy vs. Mercenary mode from Pandora Tomorrow hasn't changed much, but if 
 it ain't broke, Ubisoft sure ain't gonna fix it. Finally, there's the brilliant new co-op mode. 
 Co-op's not a new concept (Halo, for instance) , and it's ingenious for Splinter Cell, as spies 
 can now play lethal games of cat and mouse with a friend, opening up all new possibilities. All 
 the modes are great, with practically no flaws.
  
  Graphics: In March 2005, this game was head and shoulders above most of the competition in terms 
 of graphics. Sam's motion was fluid and beautifully animated, and the environments were generously 
 detailed and interactive. And, as demanded of a game worthy of the Splinter Cell name, the lighting 
 was exceptional.
  
  Sound: Chaos Theory's sound is great, especially if you are lucky enough to own a surround sound 
 system. The weapons sound great (though most of yours are silenced, so you don't quite hear the 
 power behind them) and the auditory interaction with the environment is incredible. Sometimes you 
 will actually hear an enemy before you spot him, often mere feet away from you, causing you to 
 freeze in shock, hoping he doesn't walk right into your hiding spot.
  
  Value: Since it's over a year old, you can find it for $19.99 if you look in the right places. 
 Even if it was still in the high forties, though, it'd be worth the money, just based on the replay 
 value of the singleplayer and the amazing multiplayer mode.
  
  Overall, Chaos Theory is a truly great addition to the already legendary Splinter Cell franchise. 
 It's as fresh today as it was a year ago, and a must for fans of any type of stealth gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BajaBravo
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 4, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe this game is  $20 these days. It's sooo sweet. It's basically the same game mechanics 
 as the previous Splinter Cell titles, but refined. Some may complain about lack or originality, 
 but in my opinion it's a good thing; Splinter Cell and Pandora Tomorrow were also fantastic. 
 
  
  Chaos Theory features more tactical options in that it is somewhat less linear than the previous 
 games. To me that's a big improvement. Graphically the game is spectacular. I really like the mission 
 scoring feature too - it added a little replay value for me. I went bad and redid any missions 
 I didn't get 100% on.
  
  My only complaint about this title is that it uses StarForce, which may cause problems with some 
 optical drives I hear... http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/StarForce 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Splinter Cell Chaos theory.
  This game is awesome very very good.
  The Graphics, Sound and game play are amazing.
  
  The maps have such detail on them and the 
 graphics are just awesome in the game.
  
  The Sound is great on my A2ZS. 
  
  and the gameplay is really really good 2 a great effort for doing that I really love this game 
 this is on my top 10 for sure its a really good game.
  
  Its worth getting for sure its not often a good game comes out like this one.
  
  Well I hope 
 this review helped you.
  
  and remember Nvidia and Leadtek Rule!!!.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game looks great, plays great and simply put is the KING of 3rd person stealth games.
  If you are worried about being dissappointed or losing your money on this title do not be.... The 
 game looks like real life.. i might even go so far as to say it looks better than half-life 2. Smooth 
 gameplay and terrifi support will guarantee this game to be around a long long time.
  The british have James Bond (007 spy) well Americans have Sam Fisher (splinter cell spy) and the 
 two of them working together in a game would seriously blow peoples minds.
  That would be a great idea for a game bring british and American spies together to kick some serious 
 butt.
  anyways the sound is just awesome in this you hear the rain dropping around you as you crouch in 
 the shadows waiting to take out a guard or merc..... it is so immersive you feel as if you are really 
 there.. and your heart starts pumping fast and faster the closer a merc gets to you... make a decision 
 take him out or sneak away into the shadows undetected.
  If you are a fan of run/gun this is not for you but if you like tactics and being covert then buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yozee306
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  this game was the best in the series in my opinion yet i till can't help but to question gamespot's 
 review of a 8.6? this game deserves atleast a 9.3 it has stunning graphics amazing storyline and 
 sounds so relestic everything from gun shots to the sound of the rain and whats probaly the best 
 part of this game unlike the other 2 you don't have to be steathy you can either go in with your 
 20k with all your gadgets and be all silent or you can go in with a shotgun and frag greanades 
 and bassicly rip everything in your way apart... whats is also a new cool componet is one of my 
 fav by the way the new knife unlike the previous 2 games which if you remeber in padora tommorow 
 you could only use your elbow now you have a desisiuon to cut your enemy or knock em out by bassicaly 
 wacking or pushing them but i just think game spots wayyyyyy to picky take half-life2 for the xbox 
 they gave that a 8.3 or something and said it has bad framerate which i own it and the only time 
 i found the framrate a little bad was when i loaded my game it would hitch for about a half a second 
 and that was it... well i am tired and gota go to bed sooo if you haven't checked this one out 
 you gota and don't worry you don't really have to have played the other ones to understand but 
 if u have youll probaly understand it a lil better...:) enjoi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Spliner Cell is great period.
  
  The gameplay is a little slower than FPS but worth sneaking around. The pacing of the game also 
 right. The map of the single player are also superb because there is no repetition and you do not 
 feel like you have been there before. The A. I. rocks and the response to noise and other things 
 is also very good I have to admit.
  
  The graphics is one of the first shader model 3 games I got and I saw the differece. Soft shadows 
 are awesome but I have to warn you that if you dont have a powerful card or a card that is like 
 1 year old, your system might go down weeping with SM 3.0. Overall the animation, lighting, shadows, 
 parrallex mapping is done well. 
  
  The sound is also a bonus. I have sound blaster X-Fi XM and I have to say that splinter cell 3 
 is among some of the best sounding games around.
  
  The value of this game is great if not superb and once you are done with the singleplayer you can 
 fire up the co-op and it is one of the best I have ever played.
  
  I'm a satisfied Splinter Cell 3 customer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  It all started with games like Thief back in 1998, and was followed with games like Deus Ex and 
 eventually, the Splinter Cell -series. I am talking, of course, about games with a sneaking element 
 with'em. The less light, the better for the player. I'd say Splinter Cell is the closest game resembling 
 Thief -series, albeit taking place a few years in future, while Thief did it's thing in mostly 
 medieval era. Now you got your hightech gear, instead of just bow and weird arrows.
  
  Sam Fisher, our old'ish field operative, is back at doing what he does best - sneaking up on people 
 and throwing guards off-balance with his tricky questions while holding knife on their throat. 
 Aye, a knife, new addition to the series. While in earlier games of the series, you were pretty 
 much only able to kill with your guns, now a closer approach is possible with your knife. Cool 
 addition, yes, but rather pointless, since you might as well just knock the guys out, since the 
 overall effect is the same. But I guess you can get some cruel sensation when you stick that tactical 
 knife between your victims ribs in the silence of darkness.
  Other new and rather nifty additions, are some moves. If you're hanging down from a edge of something, 
 you might be able to grab the guard and pull him down. Only downside with this is, that I personally 
 found only one spot (the first missions lighthouse) where to use it. Maybe I was just uncreative 
 or something, but it didn't work on spots where I was trying it. Mild disappointment, but hardly 
 a score effecting "error". Other fancy move is now available, when there's a pipe or something 
 similar to grab and pull your legs up to it too. Fisher hangs down with his feet and either breaks 
 the guard's neck, or chokes the guy if you wanna let him live. This is fun, but also quite rarely 
 met fun at that.
  I guess the additions would have been better, if there would have been couple spots with forced 
 usage for'em, but there was no spot where you actually *had* to use that. I ended up whistling 
 guards closer to get to twist their necks from up above, just to try it out couple of times. 
 
  
  Sam moves in such grace you could mistake him for a cat. Especially up close and personal, when 
 you're creeping up to your next to-be-victim, Fisher starts moving bit differently, and eventually 
 moving his hand ready to the knife's handle. In general, his moves are fluid, except sometimes 
 when your movement includes climbing etc. There you get some flinches, but nothing bad to be sorry 
 about really. His sneaking speed is nicely handled with mouse's scroll as before, and in general 
 the old SC Vet's are at home within first two minutes. 
  
  Fisher's gadgets are pretty much the same as before; night-goggles, thermal-goggles, rifle with 
 attachments suchs as ringfoil's and sticky shockers to take out your target's silently, sticky 
 cameras, grenades of fragment, gas, flash and smoke. Only new thing (maybe some of the grenades 
 were new too, can't remember so well) was a new mode to your goggles, that showes the electricity 
 in machines and wires. It served quite nicely as an alternative surveillance camera spotter, but 
 was essential in some of the opportunity goals in missions, such as finding telephone bugs etc, 
 that were hidden. Also your pistol now was an alternative firing-mode, which causes interference 
 on electrical equipment, making'em shut down etc. for a while. Other than that, the gear seen in 
 previous SC games was the same as in Chaos Theory, if I recall right. 
  
  But then again, Sam doesn't need that much new gear, 'cause the game is probably the easiest of 
 the series. Previously you had to be able sneak up *behind* of your target, now it's fine to pretty 
 much just run to'em and kill or knock'em out. Sometimes the guards get a notice of you before their 
 world turns dark, sometimes not, but if they don't get to make a sound of alarm, it's pretty much 
 the same wether you snuck upon'em, or rushed to hit'em. It is fun sometimes, but makes the gameplay 
 bit too easy IMO.
  Nice addition is, however, the possibility for alternative route's. Usually there's one or two 
 alternative's to go around per mission, instead of the straight tube from previous SC games. The 
 addition is very small, but it's still a whole another approach to certain situations.
  Missions in are quite good, I have nothing to complain about'em really. Plot levels with other 
 SC games in quality, so it's good enough for me at least. But then again, since it's a strictly 
 linear game, the plot doesn't make that much of a difference really. One thing to spice up the 
 game, are the conversations through radio between Sam and others. And let's not forget the chuckling 
 discussions between guards and Sam, when he questions'em for information. They're no Best Lines 
 of the Year -material, but it's usually quite fun just to listen what they're saying. 
  
  I'd say Splinter Cell -series has done it's work for now, I can't think of other stuff Sam would 
 have in his arsenal. Only thing I guess I could hope, is fan-made missions. I bet there would be 
 a whole lot of climbing, rappelling etc, to have some variety on the basic sneaking.
  For the record, I have not even tried the multiplayer-mode's, and I'm not even planning to. The 
 idea of having two copies of Fisher seems... unsettling.
  But as a single-player fun, the game rises above the masses in quality, but sadly isn't very lengthy, 
 while still having enough to play worth buying the game.
  
  Oh yea, one more thing : why the hell are all the guards and civilians working and walking in the 
 dark? A guard is walking along a pitch black corridor, and doesn't see Sam standing a feet away 
 from him - what the hell is he guarding? His own nose? Takes away a bit from the difficulty and 
 immersion, but doesn't ruin the game. Still, bit funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridhuman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is finnaly out on the shelves, and I manged to snag it for $26.25 at 
 the local Staples! Comming home, I wasn't sure what I'll be getting. Since, If like me, you didn't 
 find the last two splinter cell's as amusing or inriguing, you wouldn't really be sure about the 
 3rd now would you. But heck, I saw the amazing reviews it got and bought it anyway (not counting 
 the under/over-rated ratings of GS) . When I loaded up Chaos Theory for the first time, and began 
 to play, I was in such awe. Most noticably, the graphics kick 4ss! Best in any 3rd person game 
 I've ever seen. Controls and camera are flawless, no hassles at all. Not once did I find that the 
 camera was frustrating, glitchy, or clipped, and executing all of Sam Fisher's sleek moves is a 
 breeze. 
  
  Although Splinter Cell is the thinking man's game, with stealth as the primary criteria, you can 
 always take the more macho route with the several much-needed features new to Splinter Cell that 
 can be found in CT. First of all, the best weapon in the game? One word: knife. In the previous 
 SC, Sam had to sneak up behind a character and bump him on the head, or grab and then bump on the 
 head. In Chaos Theory, Sam can attack NPCs from any direction, in 2 several ways. If you decide 
 to go for a kill, you can either stab/slice the guy, or use the good old grab-and-break-the-spinal-cord 
 kick technique. However, if you decide to be a nice Splinter Cell and just put the NPCs to a good 
 long sleep, you can always: punch the temple, slap the forehead, choke and wind them, and do other 
 things I may have forgot to mention. Plus, before beggining any mission you can select your equipment 
 preference of either assault, stealth, or a balanced mix called "Redding's Recomendation". Your 
 modular SC20k assault rifle features the new shotgun and anti-material sniper attachments, along 
 with the launcher of things like sticky cams/shockers, ring airfoils, gas nades, etc. Finally, 
 your SC 5-7 Suppressed Pistol features an OCP attachment that cn temporaraly disable lights, computers, 
 and other electrical gizmos (really handy for bypass and distraction) . You also have cool new moves 
 like hanging upside-down from a pipe, and then grabbing a guy and either choking (stunning) him 
 or slicing his throat. 
  
  Multiplayer in Chaos Theory is also a key part. There is the return of the Shadownet Spys vs. Argus 
 Mercs mode. and a new CO-OP mode. CO-OP is great fun (be sure to patch it to 1.05, or servers will 
 not be listed) . You and a friend from around the globe can now play through (i think 9) exclusive 
 CO-OP missions to unlock a story. And you have to use cooperation (no duh) to get through each 
 level. There are cool moves like Tomoe Nage, Jump Boosts, human ladded, dual rappeling, a mission 
 impossible-esque rope descend, and synchronised swimming! (just pullin ya!)
  
  The SvM mode I've yet to check out, but all i can say from the training missions, it is not for 
 the impatiant and easily-confused mind. So many keys, objectives, booby traps, and other traps 
 for a feeble old me. It a really think-fast test of skill. Check out other reviews for the SvM 
 MP.
  
  Overall, I might have missed some things about this amazing game, but you have to take my word 
 for it, you will not regret it. 
  
  GFX: HDR is wicked cool, Normal and Bump mapping, and all those other goodies that will run as 
 smooth as silk on a decent computer. Gorgeous environments, super texture job, and atmoshere!
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Awsome! Great AI, control, camera, challange, missions! So many things to do, so many 
 ways to do them, this isn't your grandma's stealth game!
  
  STORY: A classic "save the world from a new-age techno-wacky limbo thing" ala Mision Impossible 
 or James Bond. however, when compared to said movies, Sam Fisher pwns all (and I mean ALL) the 
 n00bs.
  
  SOUND: Amon Tobin's soundtrack for CT is awsome, a true SC musical score, and the sound of the 
 environment and enemies is excellent. Top notch voice acting by Micheal Ironside and other notable 
 hollywood hotshots.
  
  VALUE: Most stores, especially swanky department stores, sell Chaos Theory at around 30$, a great 
 drop in price from the $50 it used to be a while back. I got mine for $26, youve got to be !@#$% 
 kiddin' me!
  
  w00t! 
  
  PS: If you think I missed something in this review, just wait how much i might skip on the review 
 of SCDA, since I can't possibly get my mind over how much there will be to do in it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thref2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is a great game that delivers both multiplayer, and single player awesomeness! 
 SP: CS has a awesome storey line, combined with great game play mechanics, to make one of the best 
 single player stealth action experiences to date. The multiplayer is very good also, and you'll 
 be spending most of your time playing this game on that. There are little to no bugs and glitches, 
 in the single player, and very few in the multiplayer. The knife is a nice addition to Sam's arsenal, 
 but actions using the knife (like cutting open the back of a tent) aren't used much, wich is dissapointing. 
 If you liked the first two splinter cell games, go pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, I am happy to say that none of the titles in the Splinter Cell series 
 are a letdown. Chaos Theory sticks to the same formula that made the other Splinter Cells good 
 games.
  Gameplay - Nothing new here. You have to lure the enemy, or follow their route, hide in the shadows 
 and take them out. Then you have to complete the objective and do some secondary objectives if 
 you feel like it. I like the statistics that they added to the end of every level so you can see 
 what you have to work on to get the 100% success rating for the next mission. The biggest complaint 
 I have about the gameplay is the trial and error routine. We've all gone through it in these stealth 
 games so it's not that big of a deal. Other than that, I really enjoyed the story and most of the 
 missions were pretty open-ended so you could basically do whatever you want in every level.
  Graphics - Pretty good graphics but some of the models look a little weird when you grab them. 
 All of them have the same look on their face when you are holding them, but it never gets dull 
 to knock them out. The ragdoll effects really give you the incentive to throw their bodies over 
 the edge of a cliff. The soft shadows look pretty good in this game and Sam looks really cool. 
 The loading times are fast, except if you turn the 3.0 shaders on. Overall this game looks really 
 sharp.
  Sound - I love the menu music. The guns sound cool and the explosions are great. The voice acting 
 can be kind of stupid sometimes though, because some of the jokes fall a little flat, especially 
 the ones regarding Sam's age. These jokes only come up once in awhile, but it still lessens the 
 serious tone set by the game.
  Value - This game was 15 dollars at Best Buy. With a difficult, but fun multiplayer it makes this 
 game even more worth buying. The single player took me about 12-13 hours to beat and that includes 
 completing the secondary objectives. For that price, there is no reason why you should not check 
 this game out.
  Tilt - Overall this is a really good game. If you love stealth games with high-tech gadgets, then 
 this is a must play. Fans of the Splinter Cell series will not be let down by this game but they 
 will not be blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mai_sam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  hellew eveyone ... my name is ..... aah i think it boring like i hav to say my name .. age ... 
 (asl) and i dont know wat else ... so today i am writing a review on one of ma favorite games ever 
 (inclding prince of persia and doom 2 too :D ) splinter cell. Tom clancy's splinter cell has impressd 
 me very much i hav finished the game twice the first time i finished it at 50% and the second time 
 60% of overall rating ... MAN I SUCK DONT I?? i suggest hardly u buy splinter cell its a very very 
 cool game and and and yeh watever! ...... ITS COOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jazic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the Splinter Cell Series. That being said I've played each game at least twice 
 all the way through but never really tried the multiplayer. Coop is extremely fun and brings a 
 new flavor to an already good slice of cake. If you like cake this game is for you!
  
  Gameplay is alittle bit more laid back than your typical shooter game but that being said it offers 
 tons of options for getting the job done. Whether it be expose yourself or take em out in a fair 
 fight or follow them till they are vulnerable and knock em out like a sissy (I'm the sissy player) , 
 it offers a lot of options.
  
  Compared to the other games they have added the Whistle feature and a few new moves while removing 
 a few others. Good changes in my opinion.
  
  Coop is very fun once you've experienced the single player game. Bringing a friend or even someone 
 random into the game with you is exiting and a first in this series.
  
  Over all this is a very fun game with great graphics, sound, replay, and online. Highly recommended 
 if your a fan of stealth or even interested in stealth type gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quirinus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  After completing Pandora Tomorrow and being largely disappointed, I was half expecting Chaos Theory 
 to be much of the same. But there is a ray of light at the end of the tunnel for us addicted SC 
 fans.
  
  There seems to be more of the original back as Sam tackles more political-related terrorism. The 
 introduction of the stealth knife offers a simple yet very effective tool that can be used in a 
 number of ways. As an interrogation tool like the F2000 pistol was, or for cutting fabric and plastics 
 - making a nice little entrance/exit if available.
  
  The graphics are brilliant on a higher-end machine and the use of lighting effects and the environments 
 are spectacular. The bloodless knife attack (somehow) kind of makes the game a bit of realism - 
 but I guess a higher age rating would lower sales - ay Ubisoft? 
  
  The AI still can't see your bright green, luminous goggles (which I find rather annoying) But the 
 enemy's AI has seemingly improved which is a good thing, flanking manouevers are more effective 
 and Sam must use burst fire or pick the enemies off with his newly modified SC20K, now featuring 
 a better sniper and also a noisy shotgun for CQB can be attached. You can now choose what kind 
 of kit you take into the field. There is the stealth option, with less ammo but more gadgets and 
 vice versa.
  
  The cutscenes can be quite useless at times, but offer a better cinematic feel compared to the 
 previous games. 
  
  Another nice addition is the ability to throw opponents over balconies, leaving them whailing and 
 plunging to their death. 
  
  There is a new co-operative campaign where you can tag along with a team mate as another Third 
 Echelon operative and complete missions together.
  
  The multiplayer is still flawed however - it is very difficult for new players to compete online. 
 It is very difficult to play with strangers as the maps are a little too big for the small amount 
 of maximum players and there will be more time spent running round in circles for each other over 
 fighting. 
  
  Overall, a decent game, still not as good as the original I feel - but hope for the more addicted 
 fans. Lets hope Double Agent doesn't flop again like Pandora Tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  As featured at loadedinc. com...
  
  The original Splinter Cell was released on the Xbox console in 2003 to much acclaim. It brought 
 a suspenseful single-player campaign that revolutionized much of how stealth gameplay performed. 
 A little over a year later, Pandora Tomorrow took the traditional Splinter Cell formula and threw 
 in an exciting fan-welcomed versus mode. In Chaos Theory, the third Cell title in as many years, 
 Ubisoft has added several new design elements, a completely new gameplay mode, and in the process 
 of development opened up the Splinter Cell franchise to an entire new range of gamers.
  
  Those players are, like me, people who were far too frustrated by the difficulty of the first games. 
 Sure they could be beat, after ripping your head bald in frustration after one alarm went off after 
 another causing you to fail the mission. In Chaos Theory, there are varying levels of alarms, giving 
 you several chances to redeem yourself. Enemies in the game will respond to the environment and 
 after the second and third alarms are sounded, they will dawn body armor and helmets, respectively; 
 this is reminiscent of Pandora Tomorrow. 
  
  Unlike that game, where three alarms meant a failed mission, the fourth alarm will instead put 
 guards in alert mode. It wont automatically send you back to the beginning, but thrusts your character 
 into a combat role that isnt easy to come out of alive. Since ammunition is at a premium, youll 
 be using every trick in the book to avoid extermination. Removing the alarms takes away a lot of 
 the difficulty experienced in the first two games. The alert guards provide a counter-balance so 
 that there still are penalties for letting the enemy know of your presence.
  
  Part of the reason that alert guards are so menacing is the games AI. When in combat mode they 
 are indeed a tricky group to defeat. Theyll take cover behind pillars, counters, overturned tables, 
 pretty much anything they can find. Theyll duck out, fire a few shots, and go back into hiding; 
 it doesnt help much that they have deadly accuracy, even on the normal difficulty setting. If 
 you havent alerted the guards, youre experience with the guards will be markedly different. Guards 
 will be unaware of you if youre in the shadows, even inches away from them. They also seem oblivious 
 to nearby sounds unless they are in their line of sight. Should they discover you, the alert AI 
 will take over and theyll always know where you are, hidden in shadows or not.
  
  Chaos Theorys difficulty is also noticeably different in the ease of taking down patrolling guards. 
 Now armed with a knife, killing unaware guards is as simple as clicking the left mouse button. 
 The animations differ from throat slits to head bashing, but the effect remains the same: making 
 the game more accessible to the casual player. This is experienced, too, when hiding the bodies 
 of dead or incapacitated guards. Levels will lend you the favor of just leaving the body where 
 it falls, instead of throwing it in the shadows where watchful eyes cannot see them. Rarely do 
 patrolling guards overlap their routes. The ones that do will bunch together and start a conversation, 
 leaving themselves open for the convenient placement of a gas grenade. These encounters arent 
 uncommon and seem to be the result of some new level design which feels less like one fluid encounter 
 and more of a room-to-room conflict.
  
  New level design is a good thing, and in Chaos Theory its one of the best new features of the 
 game. Instead of having a set path and specific obstacles to tackle, you have much more freedom 
 than in the past. Should you walk straight to the elevator, incapacitating the guard and disabling 
 the camera so you dont get caught? Or do you go to an out of the way bathroom and crawl through 
 a vent to end up in the elevator shaft? Its decisions like these that are littered throughout 
 the game and let you choose what to do based on your style of play. 
  
  The load out you carry throughout the mission is also demonstrative of this. These load outs include 
 everything youll need to complete your mission including ammunition, weapon attachments like a 
 shotgun or sniper rifle, grenades in a variety of different flavors, and incapacitating gadgets 
 like airfoil rounds and sticky shockers. There are three load outs to choose from at the beginning 
 of each mission mission: stealth load outs are geared towards non-lethal kills and remaining in 
 the shadows; assault configuration gives you a lot of ammo and different grenade types to enhance 
 your lethality; Reddings Recommendation is a nice average of the two with increased ammo and 
 a few gadgets and grenades.
  
  Of all the improvements and tweaks, however, the most noticeable is the new cooperative mode. It 
 lets you and a partner play new missions over LAN or the Internet. These missions can be played 
 in normal and elite mode, with elite restricting you and your partner to non-lethal weapons. This 
 addition is a noble effort on behalf of Ubisoft but could have done with some extra tweaking. If 
 you do manage to find a partner through the matchmaking service then be prepared for some lag. 
 Even on a high-end DSL line there were spotty moments of play throughout play. If the game works, 
 then youll no doubt notice how easy it is to get lost from your partner with virtually no way 
 to find him/her again. The new co-op addition does seem a bit shoddy but its not a significant 
 contribution to the overall game, and is excusable.
  
  Not everything is new in Chaos Theory and veterans of the previous Cell games will feel right at 
 home in the single-player campaign. The story is chalk-full of international conspiracies, just 
 like a Tom Clancy-influenced production should have. Sam Fisher returns to his role as a futuristic 
 secret agent man with a license to kill. Always deadly, yet always likeable, Fisher has enough 
 wisecracks and shows enough personality to be convincing in his role not only as a spy, but as 
 a human being. Its subtle things, like when Fisher is told about a corrupt corporation and suddenly 
 remembers he forgot to do his dirty laundry, that veterans have come to love. 
  
  What veterans may not like is the difficulty of Chaos Theorys 10-mission campaign. The difficulty 
 has been toned down a little through some revamped gameplay options and those familiar with the 
 series should be able to run through it in about 8-9 hours. Newcomers, or just plain sloppy players 
 like me, should expect to take an hour per mission. When single-player has been mastered you can 
 always boot up the spies versus mercenaries multiplayer mode. There are a few changes like bigger 
 maps, but its ultimately the same game from Pandora Tomorrow. There are still two mercenaries 
 who can shoot anything in sight and two spies who have to be sneaky and damn good to complete their 
 objectives. 
  
  For newcomers, there is a training mode that will get you used to everything in multiplayer. It 
 wont nearly prepare you for actual play though and youll suffer through your first matches. If 
 you are new, its best to load up a game by yourself and just explore the maps. With such large 
 layouts they can become confusing very quickly and you can get lost at the drop of a hat. Its 
 best to play your first few games as a mercenary as it is just straight-up shooting. Youll increase 
 your rank and learn the nuisances of the map in the process.
  
  As usual for a Cell game, Chaos Theorys presentation is top notch. The game makes excellent use 
 of shadows and character animations seem fluid and complete. The characters look great and feature 
 lots of little details. Youll see Fishers crouched walk change as he gets closer to his enemies, 
 his head will turn in the direction of close enemies. Levels are styled primarily after indoor 
 environments with lots of short hallways and branched rooms. Even the outdoor environments feel 
 restricted and aside from the open sky above are just as narrow to get through. The multiplayer 
 modes have some washed out models and reduced graphics.
  
  In the sound department, Michael Ironside reprises his role as Sam Fisher. The voice work is top 
 notch not only from Ironside, but from all the actors. A lot of the dialogue between Fisher and 
 his support team bring out a lot of their personalities and do well at mimicking the type of relationship 
 these people would have through their dialogue and jokes. Most of it works but some of it doesnt. 
 Gunfire, grenade explosions, and other various sound effects are appropriately loud and realistic 
 sounding. The games soundtrack is original, featuring several techno-style beats that will pick 
 up in pace when youre discovered.
  
  All-in-all, Chaos Theory strives to hold on to its roots while attempting to reach a new market 
 of players. Some hardcore veterans may be put off by the ease of this title compared to the previous 
 two but that can easily be fixed by adjusting the difficulty slider. This is, by far, the most 
 fun and accessible Splinter Cell title to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorraid
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  Its Sam and he is back... and this time he kicks MGS's Metal Booty
  This is really a must have game and all fans of stealth games should have it.. The story is not 
 that involving but who cares when u get to sneak up on dozens of opponents with dozens of ways... 
 makes u feel like u really in the boots of some secret Agent. The voice acting is done well and 
 the Graphics look impressive. The Multiplayer is the main Thing where u now get to play as Co Op 
 with one of your friend. In short The game Rocks over Metal Gear Solid: snake eater 
::::::

::::::
UserName: postpizzaman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  At first, I was very mad at this game. I got tired of it before I even started playing. This is 
 because it was lagging too much, but then it stopped. I've grown into the game and loved it. My 
 favorite part is when NYC has a blackout. I completed this game yesterday and i am pleased. It 
 didn't have the same impact as the first splinter cell, but still it was great. I found myself 
 using the online guide often, and w/o the guide I wouldn't be able to finish the game. It was very 
 hard at some times. Overall, I felt that I've been there done that with this game. It was good 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Imagine if a simple computer program could trigger WW3, Imagine if a single 40 year old missile 
 could sink the most advanced warship in history; imagine if that very same program could destroy 
 two continents. Stop imagining and start living it.
  
  It's 2007 and Sam Fisher is once again called back into service this time to save a computer programmer 
 from Revolutionaries in Peru but what he doesn't know is that its much bigger than a kidnapping....
 
  
  Its been a full year since I bought this game and yet I still seem to be hooked.
  
  In Splinter Cell Chaos Theory you take control of Sam Fisher an Splinter Cell working for the NSA, 
 his mission (for the new comers to the series) is to investigate, gather and conduct intelligence 
 operations in support of national security, he is sometimes allowed fifth freedom (meaning that 
 he can kill anyone or anything, any where, any time or spy on other agencies within the US border 
 for the sake of National security [it's loosely based on FDR's speech] ) . 
  
  Enough with the small talk, I'll get right into this review.
  
  Chaos Theory allows more freedom 
 than ever, in this game it's 3 strikes (alarms) and your not out making missions easier to complete 
 and sometimes even harder to achieve certain objectives, to compensate for the loss of the 3 strike 
 rule Ubisoft implemented Secondary and bonus objectives, these are optional objectives that you 
 can achieve and in doing so increases your mission rating failing to complete an secondary or bonus 
 objective means that your mission rating drops. Like all CT games there are hostages and friendly 
 troops around the area, if you kill one of them on purpose or even by mistake (I know it's tempting 
 but contain yourself) then you automatically fail the mission (however unlike other games you can 
 still continue to finish the mission but really whats the point) . Sam for some reason has become 
 more of a blood thirsty killer, most interrogation conversations that Sam make are very shallow 
 and dark it's almost like Sam loves to kill, and in this game youre allowed just that. Chaos Theory 
 also has Same Brandishing a knife, use it to your little hearts content.
  
  If your into firefights then Chaos Theory has enough firefights to wet you appetite, firefights 
 are rare (if your sneaky otherwise) but when they occur then you better have enough ammo to sustain 
 the firefight or get the hell out of dodge, unlike other games Splinter Cell wants you to lurk 
 around in corners not spend your time ducking bullets so if you do happen to get into a firefight 
 then prepare yourself. Chaos Theory also introduces new gadgets into the game, like the OCP or 
 EEV mode, the OCP is an excellent asset you can actually disable anything electronic (think of 
 it as your own little EMP device) , unlike previous games where the only countermeasure you had 
 against a camera was to sneak around it; you can now disable it for a short period of time. The 
 EEV mode acts as a microphone, binoculars and scanner all in one. Want to hack a computer across 
 the room? no problem, want to hear a conversation behind a glass wall? no problem. CT also introduces 
 hacking, most computers you access contain vital information that Third Echelon needs to either 
 prevent war or start a war, some of the information you find will allow you to access certain features 
 and certain areas of the game, other information will allow you to understand what's going on in 
 the game as the story progresses.
  
  Chaos Theory is also an adventure game because of the fact that there are multiple paths through 
 most of the missions; Peeking through a door to find that your exfil point is overrun by bad guys? 
 no problem take the stairs and jump down. That's all I have for the game play portion now on to 
 the sound and storyline
  
  Sound:
  
  The ambient sounds in this game is just simply amazing, you can hear footsteps and voices Clearly, 
 if you happen to run and scrap a bush the bush will make a noticeable sound. The Music is pretty 
 well done, although through most of the game you won't hear it, if you've been spotted then a tense 
 dramatic track will play. Conversations in the game are at sometimes dramatic and sad and at other 
 times humorous and dark, its some of the best dialogue I've ever heard. The only beef I have about 
 the sound is that when they speak in their native languages (a PC only option) they sound like 
 their English partners, very bland. 
  
  Overall the sound is so good that I'm speechless.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in SCCT is some 
 of the best I've ever seen in any game, the detail that the developers spent shows. Each shadow 
 and reflection is done perfectly, when people talk there mouths are in synch with the words there 
 saying, you can actually see people blink, it's utterly amazing and realistic. 
  
  Storyline:
  One of the best I've ever seen. Nuff said. Don't want to ruin the game. 
  
  Multiplayer:
 
  Never played multiplayer although I hear it's pretty good.
  
  The only problem I have about this game is that it's full of product advertisements, theres one 
 for Nokia, Brothers in Arms RTH30 and EIB. 
  
  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory will grab you by the throat, and take you down for a ride of your life. 
 It's one of the best games I've ever played and will be for sometime.
  
  Until next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaDupaR
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  This, this is a game that's worthey of the name game.
  
  I've been a Splinter Cell fan from the start, and have always loved the game.
  Part 1 was, besides 
 this, the best. Original, funny, extiting and a great storyline.
  
  And now there's a new part SC3: Chaos Theory.
  The thing that immedeadly jumps out is the new 
 game engine. 
  I love it. Wheater effects, fire, lights, it is all great and SuperB. Water reflects stuff, your 
 suit will shine when it's wet, shadows move around realisticly, 
  and maybe, best of all, enemy has got RagDoll physics. so they finnaly fall realistic at last! 
 no more 'floating' enemys like in Splinter Cell & SC: Pandora Tomorrow! You shoot an enemy that 
 stands near a ridge, and he falls down!
  
  Great for all the sadistic people amung us. :)
  
  This game is way too great too explain it 
 to you here, so I have but one thing to say: Buy it. 
  Love it.
  And it's a new way of living :) You'll just have to see if for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the first day that was released and i was absolutly sure that would be a revolution 
 on stealth games! And i was right!
  The gameplay is extremely easy with no bugs or problems, and you can control sam as easy as you 
 walk! New moves have been added and a variety of gadgets to help you complete the missions! The A. I 
 is extremely intelligent! For example if you move in a room a small candle or something else and 
 a soldier came in and seee that something is missing, he'll start searching the place and if he 
 finds you.........
  The atmosphere of the game is the best i have ever seen! The dynamic lighting and the shadows make 
 's you feel that you're inside and you live every moment like you've been there! If you have a good 
 graphics card you will enjoy this game to it's finest!
  The sound is a masterpiece! You can listen even the insects that flying around lamps! A big part 
 of your safety in the game is the sound! You can hear the footsteps of the guards and then you'll 
 plan you move!
  So guys if you haven't play this game yet, you must rent it or buy it at all costs!!! Oh and i've 
 forgot the excellent multiplayer experience! If you have lan with a friend you can cooperate and 
 together to complete a mission wich is very fun and you'll love it! It's a whole new experience! If 
 you have headphones with a microphone attached to them you can talk with your buddy and plan your 
 moves but..... be silent or the guards will hear you talking and then...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hk-dude
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  First I am just rating the PC version Single Player Game. This is the first game of this type I 
 have played with the exception of SWAT 3, which I found too restrictive and did not like. (I was 
 looking for fun; I did not want to be a Cop.) Normally, I play FPS, but I was looking for a change. 
 So this review is for folks who fit this profile.
  Splinter Cell 3 was a pretty good game, but there were some items I found irritating and kind of 
 dumb. 
  Pros First 
   The idea of sneaking around as a real spy was fun. The missions are really serious and it adds 
 a sense of importance to what you do.
   There are often many ways to solve a problem. This adds to replay-ability. 
   Cool gadgets 
 to help your character solve the missions. I must admit using cheat code to set up traps and other 
 situations to see what would happen. The gadgets include silenced weapons, night vision, thermal 
 vision, remote cameras, electric zappers to stun foes etc..
   There was no ridiculous power ups scattered about, this has always seemed dumb to me.
   You 
 are equipped with your weapons at the beginning; you do not find more powerful weapons on missions. 
 This seems more realistic.
   I really enjoyed sneaking up behind the NPC to do what ever you need to do. My favorite was using 
 Melee moves to eliminate the bad guy.
  
  Cons-
   At many locations there are traps set up and I guarantee you will die the first time you encounter 
 it. To make it worse, one you know about it, the trap is easy to avoid or take out. This takes 
 out the realism of the game. It seems like you just missed saving the world.
   Throughout the game you are guided by partners back at HQ. This would be fine, but your boss 
 is annoying and treats your character at times like a kid. Not like a seasoned spy who has and 
 still is saving the world. I would like to snap his neck. 
   At one point in the game you must upload critical information to a plane flying overhead. This 
 is fine, until you think about at all times the people at HQ can see everything you are doing and 
 track your every move, see computer data when you access it, etc.. The goal of this mission then 
 seems stupid. This not the only example of this in the game. 
   If you leave bodies (dead or unconscious) around and they are found, you lose points. Fine for 
 most missions, but during a war zone mission, some how enemies can tell the difference between 
 dead bodies from the war and the ones you made. Stupid again.
   At the beginning of each mission you are allowed to select from 3 different groups of equipment. 
 I would have preferred to be able to pick and chose each item to fit my style. 
  
  Generally, I would recommend you play the game. It is fun, but some items, I found irritating. 
 The designers of the game just seemed to take shortcuts to make the game. I am glad I did not pay 
 full price for the game, as I just purchased it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  I love the Splinter Cell series for two main reasons: 1) The stealth action is done so well, and 
 2) The Splinter Cell games have great storylines. Splinter Cell Chaos Theory achieves these two 
 goals and then goes beyond them. The ways of evading and silencing enemies in this game are almost 
 endless. The modern technology and the acrobatic moves you can use in this game are tons of fun 
 and very cool. The great story also helps to drive forward the action. As one would expect from 
 a Splinter Cell game, the graphics in Chaos Theory are phenomenal. Character models are incredibly 
 detailed. Sam Fisher's clothes even get wet when walking about in the rain. The sound in this game 
 is really good. Splinter Cell games have always had great voice acting and Chaos Theory is no exception. 
 The music is also quite good. Even if the single player campaign begins to bore you, you can switch 
 to the awesome multiplayer made famous by Pandora Tomorrow. Although the multiplayer is great, 
 it's almost exactly the same as Pandora Tomorrow. Chaos Theory does so many things and does them 
 really well, it's definitely the best Splinter Cell game yet. I greatly look forward to Double 
 Agent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrainthegamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  I have played the previous series and it has some improvements in this one. Actually, I don't write 
 much about the game so I want to make it short. The graphic obviously you all know it has such 
 a great display in texture details and lighting effect in the game. It feels like you watching 
 the action movie and some of it are like for real.
  
  The gameplay is simple and easy, not much different from before. It just added more interactive 
 environment and action. The interesting action I like in this game is hacking mode. Hacking make 
 the game more interesting and it give other option to sneak in. However, you should learn hacking 
 from the given videos and it will teach you how to do it.
  
  The storyline also good but I don't care much about the storyline as long as the gameplay is simple 
 and easy to learn. The important thing is you must do all your boss order, otherwise, you'll fail 
 the mission.
  
  I think that's all for now and I know my review is not the best but I try to make it clear that 
 this game is AWESOME. For those who seek other action adventure game, this one must add in your 
 wish list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brewed100
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the 3rd installment of this game and I like the fact that environments aren't rehashes 
 of their predecessors. In practically every level I explored the difference in Shader Models 1.0 
 and 2.0 and although the latter had soft shadows preferred the SM 1.0. As usual the levels are 
 fun to run around with more than 1 way to achieve an objective.
  
  The best things I like about SP3 are the level design and color palette used for each level - mood 
 setting and convincing ... and they vary (unlike doom 3) . Even on a low end graphics card users 
 will like the atmosphere, colors, lighting of the levels.
  
  The music was pretty good too, but the soundtrack for the Bank and Battery levels are the most 
 memorable in my opinion. There is level were Fisher takes out the guards in the Japanese house 
 with SUV in front which is blasting some funky beat . That was funny and enternaining and I found 
 myself listening to it for a while even after I took all the bad guys out.
  
  Interestingly enough, even though FIsher went all around the world to take care of business, I 
 didn't get that sense of 'whew' when I was done. SP1 had, Sam on rooftops, outside, inside high 
 tech buildings. SP2 had him out on the oil rig, and in the jungle as well as indonesian evirons 
 remember? I think in this one he was easily plopped in front of (or in the building) and that was 
 that for the most part. That's more of an observation than a complaint - all of his missions can't 
 be the same after all.
  
  Looking forward to the next installment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell, a stealth game that redefined all stealth games. it just keeps improving. and nothing 
 will ever be bad about the series. Gameplay was more challenging in this game cuz the A. I. improved 
 by so much then stealth was an only ally. The top of the light house is very difficult to pull 
 off.
  Graphics: they have improved very much. u can see the looks of sweat on interrogated soldiers' 
 arms. however, those wonderful graphics are cut short for night vision is used mainly, but they 
 make up with it for a 4th kind of vision that's like Ghost Vision or something. sound is used to 
 hear soldiers and the tool bars even have a sound meter. this definitely is not exactly cheap like 
 all other Splinter Cell games are now. but it lives up to the price.
  overall it's an awesome game. i'll give in the 9 range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenermac
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I have only recently gotten back into First Person Shooters ( MDK was the last one I really got 
 involved in) , and I have to say that Splinter Cell Chaos Theory is a must play! As a Reconnaissance 
 Specialist in the military, I have to say it is one of the most awesome "Simulators " (if you will) 
 that has ever come to pass. It gives you that sense of "I need to stay quiet to stay alive" feeling. 
 If you love adventure, get this game! 
  The graphics in the game are exhillarating. The controls take a while to learn, about 30 mins, 
 but you will figure them out very soon, even though when you watch the training videos you think 
 it's going to be rediculously hard. There is so much to do that you will never get bored or loose 
 focus. 
  If you are the type that just likes to go in shooting, you might want to try something else like 
 Painkiller. Stealth is definately the key in this game. Finally, this game makes me want to go 
 out and buy all the prior Splinter Cell Games. I've missed alot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jadedcell01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  To begin this review let me open with a qualifying statement: I am a die-hard splinter cell fan 
 and as such may present a biased review. Nonetheless, I will TRY to be objective.
  
  This is one of the finest, smoothest and graphically pleasing stealth games I have played. The 
 game play is engaging, the story flows quite well (even better than previous incarnations in my 
 opinion) and it completely captivates you from the moment you start playing to the last second 
 of the game.
  
  Once again you reprise your role as Sam Fisher, stealth super-agent. Sam is wonderfully voiced 
 by the grisly Michael Ironside (of Total Recall fame) . It is another 'stop the terrorists and save 
 the world' scenario, but lets face it, would you have it any other way? This time Sam has some 
 new tricks up his sleeve (such as the knife attack at close range) as well as the moves that worked 
 so well in the previous two games. The graphics are slightly better than Pandora Tomorrow, but 
 since that game was so beautifully rendered, Chaos Theory has done well to improve.
  
  Overall the game is a great piece of work, with just a few little annoyances. Some camera angles 
 are problematic and I am not sure about the introduction of the knife as a close range attack. 
 I am a staunch believer in using the old head-lock, but I guess Sam is getting on in his years 
 and perhaps the strength in his arms isn't what it used to be. Furthermore, the game can be a little 
 repetitive for experienced Splinter Cell players, with some parts of the game feeling very Pandora 
 like.
  
  If you have played the previous two games, then I am sure you already own Chaos Theory. My advice 
 to those new to the genre is get a copy of either the original Splinter Cell or Pandora as Chaos 
 Theory may provide a bit of a steep learning curve if you are not familiar with stealth games.
 
  
  Well I tried to be objective but I did warn you that I was a huge fan! I wonderful game not to 
 be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty awesome. Despite the fact that its on a DVD (What the Hell) its still really 
 cool. The sound is definitly deep and realistic and the graphics are top notch. The gameplay is 
 also awesome like it was for the first two in the series, which are also must buys even to this 
 day. Hell, if u never played any splinter cell games and u like high tech stealth action, go out 
 and buy all three! They are all so good and so enjoyable. This game has a nice difficulty lvl to 
 it too, so if u like a realy cool challenge, then check this out. the bottom line is that u have 
 to get this game and if u have the right PC then go out and buy it right now. I know I sound repetative, 
 but I cant stress that fact enough. All the elements of this game just come together so well, that 
 it is just a thrill ride that cant be missed. This game was under rated by gamespot and it really 
 diserves a higher score than 8.6. Just buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mongoose689
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:07 am PT
Review:  I love the whole "stealthy spy action" feel to this game and its predecessors. When I played Pandora 
 Tomorrow for the first time it blew me away with all of the stunts and tricks you could do, and 
 then when I played Chaos Theory, it had thrown in even more! The multi-player in this game is also 
 perfect. It has so many elements that you can use to fit any player's style of play. Whether you 
 are a spy or mercenary, the enjoyment value is completely off the charts. This game deserves a 
 10/10 rating, hands down by my opinion, and I have yet to even hear of a game that could possibly 
 even parallel Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qulzam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  The 3rd installment of Splinter Cell is worth than other parts. it is the best Splinter Cell in 
 the series. the graphics are all the best. specially the water of this game is the most gorgeous. 
 the specular lights which are only in this game of the series, this option is worth if u have a 
 Powerful PC. This game has lot of cool moves and these moves really improve the gameplay such as 
 Bashing the door and others you will find in Cool moves movie in splinter cell chaos theory. it 
 is using Starforce which is a bit problem creator, but avoid it, THe best game in the SERIES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft revolutionized if not created the stealth-action genre. But it has been a while since we 
 were blown away by the first Splinter Cell, and now two installments later we have one question 
 in mind. Will Ubisoft continue to strike gold with Sam Fisher or has the series lost its steam? 
 Here is the short of it; pure gold.
  
  Anyone who has seen Chaos Theory in action can attest to its visual masterpiece. Dynamic lighting 
 is back in a big way. No longer are shadows blobby, elongated representations of the characters. 
 Now we have shadows that are detailed and exact.
  
  Another of the biggest renovations of the graphics is the amazing use of bump and normal mapping. 
 Now when you are sulking around in the shadows of espionage Sam actually has a recognizable face, 
 with expressions, and features that look real. Rather than the flat textured faces we have seen 
 in the games previous.
  
  Everything from the grenades, to gadgets can be seen on your uniform, dangling when you run and 
 jump, and clattering all the way. My only disappointment in the visual presentation is the reused 
 model for all of the enemies. I had no idea that there were only two Koreans and they happened 
 to be cloned a million times over for their army.
  
  Another thing that was somewhat of a down side was that the sound was great, but at the same time 
 forgettable. Music that was not much altered from the first two makes its return to the scene, 
 and while it is fitting for the game, I would have liked to see some variety.
  
  Many would say in the domain of sound, it is more what you do not hear in a stealth action game, 
 but Chaos Theory proves them wrong. Guards can be heard having conversations almost at all times, 
 giving you that nervous feeling of danger right next to you. Cans clink, the equipment on an enemy 
 jingles and clatters as they move.
  
  The conversations you hear at random can be the most hilarious point in the game. One such talk 
 between your enemies is about getting the new Prince of Persia and how that will get the Game of 
 the Year award easy.
  
  Funny Ubisoft, but not as funny as the hit they took on the Half-Life series. One such banter you 
 will hear is when an argument is being had about opening a steel door. The question is asked, Am 
 I gonna need a crowbar? Then the answer is supplied, Naw. Crowbars are for stupid video game 
 characters.
  
  It is tough to tell any of the stories without giving away the plot so here goes. Its a great 
 story and it involves a terrorist attempt to control the world.
  
  In Chaos Theory you will sneak around corridors, shoot out lights, choke, whack, and shoot American-hating 
 terrorists. But the beauty is how you go about achieving all of these objectives.
  
  Again we have the multi-player seen in Pandora Tomorrow. The Mercs v. Spy games are an absolute 
 blast to play through and thrive on skill and planning. An inclusion to Chaos Theory was the option 
 of online co-op. In the co-op mode they have a few unique missions that you and a fellow spy can 
 play through. This is my only big complaint; while being immensely fun the servers rarely worked. 
 I tried for hours to play co-op and got through 2 missions.
  
  All in all Ubisoft has struck gold again with Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory. I was surprised as I 
 thought after the second one they were done, and the third would be a let down, but it is actually 
 the best of the bunch. This is a recommendation to anyone who loves games, and if you are a stealth-action, 
 or action fan, not owning this game is blasphemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeXi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  Splinter cell : Chaos Theory is made very good by Ubisoft, especially in the 
  graphics improvement.
  the levels are very good, they referred about every little detail in the 
 game.
  the thing i love in the game is the reaction of the characters,
  for instance: when they see a shadow they get under pressure or patrol in the area they saw the 
 shadow.
  the other thing i liked is that in a certain levels you can get caught by one
  of the guards, cuff you, then take all the weapons from you including the
  binoculars, and you 
 need to start searching for your weapons and stuff.
  
  the only thing that bothers me in sc: ct same as in the 2 previous games
  is that the enemies 
 don't see the green light of the binoculars
  and that sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam2000_290
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  PLay it, it is fun, the funniest game ever especially the coop. The music is cool too. Play the 
 single player mode it is the best!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I have a cheat: press and hold L1, L2, R1, 
 R2 and press square 5 times and circle 5 times. That will unllock all the levels also coop mode 
 too. But you have to do it to coop. I t is cool. The coop mode is  
 Play buy one no buy two, that's an order soldier. Play with a friend. Try the verse mode too, it's 
 the best. I am telling ya it is the best buy it play it live it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moose9130
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first put Splinter Cell Chaos Theory into my computer my first thought was: Wow this game 
 is huge. My second thoght was Jeeze this game is massive. When it finally loaded my eyes were suprised. 
 I had not seen such good graphics in sooooo long. I was blown away. Splinter Cell Chaos Theory 
 sported a great storyline and some awesome characters. Also since it is made by Tom Clancy and 
 Ubisoft there were some references to Ghost Recon 2. Such as the Video of the USS Clarence E. Walsh 
 getting blown up, ah such a great cutscene. Aside from such great graphics the AI and gameplay 
 was definetely boosted. When you shoot at someone they take cover and start to try to flank you. 
 Unfortunately the game is very hard for some and can get you stuck at a lot of places. Some of 
 the problems are that all the AI look the same and tell you things like "please don't kill me I 
 have a family". I probably heard that phrase 50 times during the game. The sound was pretty good 
 but the voice acting was superb. Another great thing that they included was co-op and versus. Personally 
 I have speant hours on both of the little bits and still love playing them. Overall I have never 
 played a better game in a long time and can't wait until march when Splinter Cell 4 comes out. 
 Still the thought of the three little dots on Sam Fischer's head makes me tingle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  most people who like the, run in and kill everything, technique will hav trouble getting used to 
 this game. just like in real life, IF YOU GET SHOT, YOU DIE! no shields, just a bullet proof vest, 
 and a med pack here and there. you main means of defense are the shadows. you rely on steath to 
 take out enemies 1 by 1 (or if your really good, as many as you want) . its different than other 
 games in the way that, theres not one way to do each level. look around to find vents and pipes 
 you can climb to get around the building quitely. the more attentive you are, the easier it will 
 be. looking around at your enviroment and manipulating your enemies are what make this game one 
 of a kind. sure you can pull out your machine gun and gun him with 20 bullets, chances are someone 
 will hear that tho. have fun deciding how each enemy will die (or not, as you can knock them into 
 unconsciousness)
  the only thing more dangerous than your enemies is light. you will find its fun to find someone 
 to kill because their life is in your hands and its all up to you whether they learn this or not. 
 as long as you can get rid of light, you can play with the enemy all you want, it does get old 
 if you keep messing with the same person tho, and eventually they will freak out and just shoot 
 into the darkness where they last heard/saw you.
  if you dont feel like being stealthy you could always run around with the shot-gun attachment and 
 blow their faces in, but you ARE limited on ammo, so your hands or knife are more convenient.
 
  i have encountered 2 problems with this game. 1, my sound card screws up when a gun is shot too 
 close, and everything (including ambient noises) sounds like static until i turn off the game. 
 and 2, the co-op when first released was FULL of bugs. there hav been some patches since then, 
 but the sound card issue has kept me from wanting to try again.
  the versus mode is amazing. mercs are virtually blind, all shadows are exagerated so that there 
 could be a guy right in front of you and you cant see him. this gives the spy a fun upperhand. 
 unfortunately you cant shoot a gun with the spy, you hav to use a tazer gun, and the only way to 
 kill a merc is to sneak up behind them and snap their neck/suffocate them, or jump on them from 
 a higher surface. there are all kinds of gadgets you can use, and the mic capabilities make it 
 easy communicate and plan with your partner, but watch out, if you get "hacked" you are visible 
 on the enemy radar, and they can listen in on your conversations over the mic. you get hacked by 
 either being shot by a "spy bullet" or running past some sort of spy marker thing (i cant remember 
 what its called)
  its a fun, slower-paced, steath game several steps beyond ghost recon or counter strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorlok83
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:36 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the splinter cell sequels and to be honest I liked all of them.
  
  Anyway, from the beginning; If you are a fan of stealth spy games where waiting is more favourable 
 than shooting everything you see than this is a game for you. Me personally, I like both shooting 
 and waiting. The thing that makes this game so fun is the atmosphere, My usual time of completion 
 of a splinter cell (any splinter cell) is 4 to 5 days, But those days are total enoyment!
  
  The graphics is very great however, you might want to have some strong graphic card, the music 
 is mystic as always and is nicely incorporated with the rest of the sounds (like footsteps, yes 
 it has them and the sound varies on what kind of ground you are walking and the pace you are walking) .
 
  OK the movement of the character you are playing could be done a bit better when he is in a crouched 
 position although I find it excelent.
  The gameplay is like you have to be present every second and have to keep track of movements positions 
 abe become familiar with the surrounding.
  Having said that, the better part of the game is played in the dark, so you might want to lighten 
 up your screen a bit in order not to have to use the night vision all the time.
  Try playing a multiplayer, it is amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caesarmoridon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  SHORT. The online play is teadious and not that enjoyable, but the single player is awsome. I just 
 wanted to quit and never play the other 2 but this one I want to replay it again and again. The 
 plot is great, believable and enjoyable. The only thing wrong is it took me a couple of days to 
 sort between fiction and reality. Yes it is that good. It was a little easier than the others but 
 under hard very enjoyable. I love it! If I was to change anything I would have levels. I wanted 
 to have more to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankJaeger
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  WOW! I say wow cuase Holy S%*@ Did he use a F@ ($IN Knive!!! Yes im talkin about SC: CT (Spllenter 
 Cell Chaos Theroy) . This is easyily the greatist Game Of All Time (or Should Be) . From The Voice 
 Acting To the solid multiplayer SC: CT is no disipoint ment for stealth Action fans. No its not perfect 
 There is one problem it  
 there is no problem !!!!!!!!! The Graphics are ball Squishingly Good!!!!!!!!!! Even the AI have 
 a life like feel to them?"What the Hell was that"?? ---------Mercs on pent house level. so if you 
 are lovin the SC series what are ya doin Go F&$#in Pick up splenter cell Ya Douche!! (No offesne 
 towards reader) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bichula
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  asi es chaos theory es un buen juego pero debil si lo comparamos con pandora tomorrow , en aspectos 
 graficos chaos theory es increible, pero en aspectos como control e historia , he sido un fanatico 
 de la serie splinter cell pero chaos theory es bastante debil , pensaba que la tercera entrega 
 de esta serie seria mejor que pandora tomorrow que dejo la bara bastamte alta y simplemente chaos 
 theory no lo sobrepasa, esperemos que la cuarta entrega de la serie sea mejor que chaos theory 
 aunque no es un mal juego. si eres un fan de sam fisher juega chaos theory pero si valoras aspectos 
 como historia y control quisas podrias dejarlo pasar y quedarte con pandora tomorrow, la decision 
 es tuya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:52 am PT
Review:  The third chapter of the Splinter Cell series is called Chaos Theory. It features three game 
 modes: Solo  the single-player campaign; Co-Op  online missions where you and a friend fight 
 against the computer, and Versus  online mode, where 4 players are split up in two teams  Spies 
 and Mercenaries.
  
  SOLO / SINGLEPLAYER
  
  The single-player campaign has 10 missions. You visit Peru, Japan, North Korea, New York and more. 
 Each mission is very interesting and fun. You have to be careful not to kill the civilians, though, 
 because that will result a 0% mission rating. The mission rating is showed after each mission. 
 Many things can lower it, so you must be very stealthy to get 100%. Anywho, its not necessary 
 to get a good rating. You dont get anything.
  
  Before each mission, you can select your equipment (load-out) . There are three types of load-outs: 
 Stealth, Assault and Reddings Recommendation. Stealth is less grenades, more gadgets. 
 Assault is more grenades, wall-mines, less stealth stuff, while Reddings Recommendation is 
 in the middle.
  
  Sam has a new vision mode in this game. Without the night vision and thermal vision, his goggles 
 now have the "Electromagnetic Field" Vision, or EMF. It shows electrical things, i. e. lights and 
 computers.
  
  You can interact with many things in the game i. e. doors, bottles, cans, traps, etc. Bottles and 
 cans can be used to create distractions. The bottle can even knock out a guard if it hits the head. 
 The doors can be opened in many ways in Chaos Theory. You can choose whether to open it normally, 
 silently, or bash the door loudly (this can also knock out enemies on the other side) .
  
  Some doors are locked. In the first two Splinter Cell games, you had to use your lock picks or 
 the Disposable Pick to get through. The Disposable Pick is gone, but Sam has a new friend, the 
 knife. If youre in a hurry, use it to quickly open locked doors. Use it carefully, because it 
 makes much noise and leaves traces. The knife can be used for many other things. You can pierce 
 power suppliers, cut materials and even kill enemies with it.
  
  You can get rid of enemies in many ways. You can knock them out or kill them. The controls are 
 simple. Get near the enemy and click LMB for a lethal attack, RMB for a non-lethal attack. Always 
 hide the bodies out of the way, because guards can notice them and sound an alarm.
  
  CO-OP / CO-OPERATIVE MODE
  
  In CO-OP, you and a friend can complete missions that can not 
 be completed by an individual agent. It uses the same engine as the single-player, so if you played 
 the single-player, the CO-OP won't be hard to get around.
  
  There are 5 maps with the game, including a training mission. You can get two more if you download 
 the 1.05 patch. Each mission is very fun. You can use each others bodies to access areas high above, 
 or below.
  
  You can't select your equipment before missions in CO-OP though, but you can share your equipment 
 with the teammate. To do so, select the item you want to give, get in front of him and select "Share 
 Equip" from the interaction menu.
  
  SVM / SPIES VS MERCENARIES
  
  In SvM mode, 4 people split up in two teams, spies and mercenaries. There are three game modes: 
 Story, Deathmatch, Diskhunt.
  
  In the Story mode, spies have to neutralize all objectives in the given time limit. They have to 
 be stealthy, because if they get killed too many times, the mercs win. Same thing goes for the 
 mercenaries. If they die too many times, they lose.
  
  In Deathmatch, there arent any objectives. The main thing is to eradicate the opposing team. There 
 are some limitations, though. The mercenaries dont have any visions, the laser on their gun, the 
 CamNet. They cant perform the Berserk move and they have only one gadget, the Flare. The spies 
 have the Flashbang only, and jumping on a merc is an instant kill.
  
  In Diskhunt, spies have to take the data disks and keep them until the time is over. When they 
 die, the disks are dropped and they have to start over. The mercs have to protect the disks and 
 eliminate the intruder threat.
  
  The spies have night and thermal vision, like in single-player. The mercs have motion and electromagnetic 
 field visions. The motion vision detects spies that move fast and creates a reticle around them. 
 The electromagnetic (EMF) vision displays spies that are using their gun, the camouflage suit, 
 visions or watching a sticky camera.
  
  There are many gadgets in the game. The spies have flashbangs, smoke grenades, chaff grenades, 
 spy bullets and more. The flashbang is used to blind the mercs. It is useless if the merc is using 
 special visions, though. The smoke grenade confuses the merc and lets spies advance without being 
 detected. If the merc doesnt use his gasmask in time, he gets knocked out for a short period of 
 time. Chaffs mess up mercs vision, they cant reload their gun or use grenades. These are just 
 a few gadgets used by spies. The mercenaries have different ones, i. e. the Fragmentation Grenade 
 (you obviously know what its used for) , the Camera Network (CamNet) , the Tazer and more. The 
 CamNet lets mercs search for spies and see areas theyre far away from. They have to use it careful, 
 though, because theyre an easy target for the spies.
  
  If youre a big fan of the Splinter Cell series, I highly recommend you getting this game. If you 
 get bored of the single-player or CO-OP after passing it, the SvM mode is always fun, because there 
 are no AI and each match is different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menfear
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  The third Tom Clancy`s Splinter Cell stealth action game in row. Also aggain Sam Fisher as the top 
 secret agent on the way to clean the mess that the US goverment made. The world is in front of the 
 3 WW so Sam has to go in action once aggain. Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is a fully featred game, in 
 it the brand new-two players-cooperative mode in addiction to the updated version of the mercenaries-versus-spy 
 competitiv multiplayer mode indtruduced in the second Splinter Cell game. Sam also gots some new 
 "tricks" and the new knife with it he scaters enemys. So its a lot of new featres to the new Splinter 
 Cell game.
  
  The solo mode is the highlight of Chaos Theory-its year 2007 and the word is on the edge for the 
 starting the WW 3. Sam Fisher has to clean the mess that the US goverment did-informational warfare 
 and a tenuous relationship between the United States, North Korea, and Japan. The thing i liked 
 is the new combat knife that Sam has. Its a new cosmetic change to scare the foe`s in interogation 
 to tell you what ever is possible. So again like in the first two games you are sneaking around 
 and solving the objectives you got. You have to interogate foe`s, killing dangerous individual or 
 just "knocking them out". There are many cool ways to kill-from behind, below and even from above. With 
 a gun or the combat knife. You are playing Sam in a third-person perspective in inflitrating enemy 
 compounds and ventilating his foe`s. The SC-20K again delivers lots of featres you can do with it. The 
 sticky shocker, the airfoil round amd the sticky camera, these tools are very usefull. Then you can 
 change the gun into a sniper or a shotgun-rifleThe four visions-night, heat and the electro-magnetic 
 vision are the tools that you will need.
  
  The new multiplayer co-op game plays like the campaign just that instead of one player sneaking 
 aroung there are two. A bad thing is that there aren`t lots of maps, just four plus one training 
 map. The cool thing are the co-op moves with the other spy. The weapons are the same as in the single-player 
 
  the maps are that for exiciting, much beacuse you play with an other person and that makes it so 
 much better.
  
  The next multiplayer mode is the four-player spy-versus-mercenarie concept. This mode vas introduced 
 in last years`s Splinter Cell game Pandora Tomorow. The game is pretty much the sam just the slite 
 differents, some new maps that are big and you will have to learn where is what. Interestingly is 
 that before you can actualy play the game, Chaos Theory actualy forces you to complete a brief "exam" 
 by going throught a quick scenario as a spy. The spy in the game is resemble to Sam Fisher, but it 
 is a diffrent feeling. The mercinari is a slower and harder to control charecter. But he has some 
 weapons with it he can kill a spy easly when he is near, but thats hard beacuse spy are very quick 
 and you can loos him form his eye in second, but for that you have the two visions. The infra read 
 vison, with it you see the slightes move and the electro magnetic vision-with it you see objects 
 with electricity. The spy has also two very usefull visions, nightvision-like in single-player and 
 also the heat vision. In versus mode you have three different gamplays to play-"deathmatch","story" 
 and "dischunt". The spy also as the mercinarie can have 4 gadgets, like camo suit, smoke and flash 
 granate for spy etc., and tazer, camnet (a camera net over the map) granate and so on for mercianire.
 
  
  Ultimately the versus mode can be fun playing with your friends. But the maps feel very big for 
 four player, so you don`t know every inch of it, much or less come to grips with the idiosyncrasies 
 of the spy and mercenary sides, then you're potentially a huge liability to your teammate. This 
 isn't necessarily a fun mutliplayer. Most of the time you will be hinding and seeking.
  
  Gameplay-Just like in the original game, with new style in singleplayer and in multiplayer.
  
 
  Graphichs-The graphichs are very good, though the charecters and Sam look liek plastic figures 
 sometimes, all in one the graphichs are great and they play a hude role in Chaos Theory.
  
  Sound-Really great sound, the music is superb by the author Amon Tobin. And also the talk of the 
 charachters are also great. There is nothing i could say that is bad in sound.
  
  Tilt-Chaos Thory really is a very featred game that the original wasnt. Like in the singleplayer 
 and multi there a lots of exicment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassansameh2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  its my first time to play any virsion of splinter cell even i'm old gamer . but i would vote 9.5 
 its the best game i ever played but the bad thing about the sound . i didnt like that typical accent 
 of english . well sound is not that great
  never tryed multiplayer but it sound good . the graphics r great and the game play is the best 
 . tooo tooo great game they just need to emprove the sound stuff . one thing i didnt like too was 
 in how he walk slow it still make enough sound for enemie to hear like i got someone behind me 
 wanna kill me and i hear his steps but i never look back to see whats is happening
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lan_d_best
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  Chaos Theory sounds great. The ambient effects are varied and clear, the voice acting is superb, 
 and the score, composed by Amon Tobin, is hip and catchy but also understated and mysterious  
 perfect for a Splinter Cell. 
  
  While Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory doesnt deliver a terribly original single-player experience, 
 it introduces a useful new co-operative mode and manages to improve upon the incomparable multiplayer. 
 If you're PC gamer who likes hard games and brutal competition, Chaos Theory is a must-have. Don't 
 let it out of your sight. 
  
  Sam also has a new combat knife he can use to slice through any fabrics or enemies he comes across. 
 Some might find the knife a little bit too easy to use, but we respect it as a means of making 
 the game a little more accessible. The beauty of Splinter Cell has always been how it allows the 
 player to make the game as hard or easy as desired depending on their approach to a situation. 
 The knife definitely provides a new approach. 
  
  Apart from the scrambler and knife, Sam relies on all the same gadgets and most of the same moves 
 that he used in the original Splinter Cell. Before missions, you are given three different equipment 
 options: stealth (few bullets and lots of gadgets) , assault (all guns and grenades) , and Reddings 
 Recommendation (stealth with more bullets and fewer sticky cams) . This is an improvement over the 
 system used in previous games, but simply allowing players to customize their own equipment would 
 have made a lot more sense. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knot3D
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:54 am PT
Review:  Many SC fans were sure, SC Chaos Theory would be the best SC ever. 
  
  The E3 PC preview footage of CT indeed looked out of this world. For me, like many, CT was the 
 reason to buy a shader model 3 capable videocard.
  
  Then the game got delayed 6 months. The demo came. It rocked but framerates were suffering a bit 
 under all those gorgeous sm3.0 fx, even on a 3,2 Ghz pc with a 400/1100 clocked 6800GT.
  
  The final game shipped ; framerate performance was up, but it was pretty evident that this was 
 NOT the godly Chaos Theory we saw at E3. Some key levels, demo-d at E3, like Hokkaido, had been 
 pretty much chopped up and toned down severely in the fx department. (where teh F , are the shiny 
 floors all of a sudden !?)
  
  Even though the sp game features an Expert mode, this is nowhere as tough as SC1's Hard mode, by 
 comparison of first playthrough. Leveldesign, AI and atmosphere in SC CT just lacks this 'chemistry' 
 for the game to be considered stellar. The enemies in CT don't look nor behave as hazzardous as 
 they did in SC1. Most of the times they react pretty scared.
  Sam's default sneaking suit model is superb in CT, but the other model with the black shortsleeve 
 shirt looks really blocky. Disappointing.
  
  All we can do is hope the future will bring better stuff, but the new SC4 teaser trailer seemed 
 rather uninspired. Looks like the series is slooowly going downhill a bit.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  i'm gonna just breifly cover the other games here:
  splinter cell was revoutionary, it's game design was great, but it ultimately lacked, level design 
 was to linear, and there were often not that many ways to play the game. replay value was miniscule, 
 story telling was week, and your over all emotional involvement was not what it should have been, 
 not to mention the complete lack of multiplayer. enter left, the pandora tommorrow, a great sequel, 
 it had amazing revolutionary multiplayer, and great level design, the story telling improved slightly, 
 but it wasn't going to win any awards for story. all in all, it was a promising but still lacking 
 game, the singleplayer game was still to linear and tedious, even with the adition of far better 
 level design. the game needed something, it needed more choices, dynamic enviroments, enthraling 
 story telling, better combat, more physics, a even more interactive enviroment, better animations. 
 basically it needed more in the singleplayer department, both of the original games deserved great 
 recognition for originality and brave design. but chaos theory had alot of slack to pick up.
  
  Chaos THeory is the best stealth action game, the multiplayer has been further refined, with 
 a pure deathmatch mode, classic mode, beter firstperson play as mercenaries, coop, and a awsome 
 single player, if you are wondering yes this game is using the unreal engine, but it looks about 
 as good, and in some ways better than the doom3 engine. the immersion of the levels, the ambient 
 audio, the supreme, i mean supreme level design, and great missions, dynamic AI, awsome new combat 
 system, A KNIFE, and greatly more open ended play, and for a first in the Series, single player 
 replayability , a dynamic mission rating system. animations at par with half-life 2. this game 
 is the best stealthaction game, you can play for the action. kick a door open action role through 
 and bring your knife to bear on the enemies throat, and the animations make this look so fluid 
 and beatiful it is so sweat. or you can crawl into a air duct and slip by unnoticed, or blow out 
 the candle on the porch outside, luring the guard out when he comes to investigate, you slip by 
 unnoticed, or if you wips ou a flare, and exposes you, you can speedily aproach and slide your 
 knife under his arm to slice through his ribs cutting his lung clean open, so he can't scream. 
 yeah it has that many and more possiblities usually for any circomstance, you just have to think, 
 the AI is wonderful now, it gets spooked, communicates, forms patrols. all sorts of stuff, the 
 only better AI , would be farcry, or half-life 2. you can actually spook an AI villian and not 
 be spotted in a cool ghostly way, my favorite though is the speedy action role knife attack, you 
 sprint at your target, and action role to cover your final approach with silence, as you exit the 
 action role press attack and your man sam wips his knife across the thought of your advasary just 
 as he turns to see what was making so much noise, he drops to the ground gurgaling drowning in 
 his own blood. this brings up one of my only problems withthis game, it has little effect on the 
 mission wheather you kill or knock out guys, i wish that when you shot, or knifed someone they 
 would bleed on the enviroment leaving evidence of a struggle so that patrols or other AI would 
 be alerted to your presence when they found this blood. that would bee sweat. if you want to kill 
 someone then you halve to snap their neck or sophocate them. that and the still not perfect, though 
 tons better story, are all that need to be fixed, something that doesn't need fixing but i would 
 like to see is a even more dynamic combat system, the combat is so much better it wet my taste 
 and now i want more better combat. i'll hold my breath because this iteration was such a suprise, 
 almost every level is going down in the library of great level design it's that much better. wow. 
 time to break it down, if you like the demo, single or multiplayer. at all get this game.
  
  HERES HOW IT IS:
  GAMEPLAY:
  DYNAMIC AND IMMERSIVE, yeah the shooting is great, a nice 
 tight over the shoulder camera, you can switch from shooting lefty to shooting righty and back 
 and forth so you can shoot around objects while exposing less of yourself. the variety of gadgets, 
 the interactive immersive enviroments promote multiple pathways, and solutions, and great varied 
 replayable gameplay (there was maybe one or two levels i didn't like, you'll know witch they are, 
 they advance the story but not the game) . there is even a cool portion of the game where you can 
 get caught and then break free, while being interigated, it's really hard, but optional, it only 
 happens if you get caught, i didn't see this till the second time through the game. the un armed 
 combat is fluidly animated, and the AI is near perfect, the addition of a knife seems obvious but 
 has great impact. cutting stuff, like tents, or people, it's all fun. the gameplay is great, if 
 you don't like stealth action and is the only reason you might not like this gameplay, it's not 
 slow, but it isn't UT.
  10
  GRAPHICS:
  LOOKS MORE LIKE UNREAL ENGINE 3, THAN UE 2, wow, seriously this game is great in so many ways, 
 the only reason the graphics got nocked down is because they aren't nearly as good in multiplayer, 
 the texturing is preatty much gone, with games like battlefield and doom3 running so smoothly online 
 while looking great i was kind of disapointed and let down with the online graphical flare, it 
 might be because this is basically the x box port with higher resolutions. but i'm still sad. but 
 the single player is absolutely great.
  9
  SOUND:
  GREAT, this game sould like a war game, it's audio is that good, the abient sounds of the different 
 enviroment, and dynamic noise, you can use sounds in the enviroment to mask your noise, like in 
 the first level you can use the thunder to mask your gun shots, do as you please. great diologue. 
 I love it.
  10
  VALUE:
  SPECTACULAR, the game has a great singleplayer, and a great multiplayer, and coop, and is only 
 50, normally you pay 50 dollars nowadays for either a pure multiplayre, or pure singleplayer game.
 
  10
  REVIEWERS TILT:
  ALMOST PERFECT, as i mentioned above before the break down there are some additions i'd like to 
 see so i can't give this a perfect score. but get it none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:32 am PT
Review:  Seen as i had this game on the Gamecube previously, i wanted to buy it also on the PC because of 
 the multiplayer option.
  
  I breezed through the singleplayer in about 10 hours, if that. The graphics are absolutely stunning, 
 and are superior to the Gamecube version, which also displays stunning visuals. Chaos Theory is 
 the best verson in the series, gameplay and story wise. Sam Fisher can do so much more now, which 
 really adds to the gameplay, giving a wide range of actions to do on an enemy. There is also a 
 new meter included too, the sound meter. This corresponds with the light meter, and tells you how 
 loud you are walking, so you can move softer if behind someone. The story is also quite entertaining, 
 giving that i actually understoo it this time.
  
  But, single player is nothing compared to the fantastic multiplayer. It is split into two different 
 options, Co-op and Versus Mode. Co-op is basically a mode where you can team up with a friend or 
 a player, and complete these new missions against computer A. I. These are fairly long and entertaining 
 missions, and its fun where you can talk to your ally, and come up with tactics, considering you 
 have a microphone of course. Its a shame though, as there aren't really a lot of missions to complete, 
 but you can alos download patches, which includes up-dated features, including a couple of new 
 missions.
  
  Versus mode though, is really something spectacular. You basicaly decide whether you want to be 
 a spy or mercanary. If you pick the spy, it is basically the same controls as in single player, 
 with obviously a few tweaks to suit multiplayer. The mercanary though, is a first person mode, 
 just like a james bond game, which is completely new to Splinter Cell.
  
  There are pro's and con's to each of these characters, its up to you to decide who is better. The 
 spy, has much more freedom in the environment, for example they can climb obstacles and hide in 
 the shadows, but the weapons is non-lethal, a sticky shocker with paralzes the enemy, incase of 
 danger and it will give to time to escape. The mercanary, has a gun of course, a range from a rifle, 
 uzi and shotgun. These are very powerful weapons, and can quite easily kill a spy. But due to the 
 darkness of levels etc. they can quite easily run past a spy in the shadows, and then get grabbed 
 from behind. It's really is fun to experiment with the two characters on the wide range of Versus 
 levels.
  
  This really is a good game, and if you don't have Xbox Live i really recommend you get this, due 
 to the brilliant effects and online play. One bad thing on the PC version maybe, is the learnnig 
 curve, if you're new to Splinter Cell, then the controls are quite fiddly due to the keyboard, 
 but you'll soon get the use of it.
  
  If you like Tom Clancey and Splinter Cell, or you want an online game to keep you playing for months, 
 maybe years to come, i suggest you definately check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I was really impresses with Slipter Cell Chaos Theory. I usually don't like game where you have 
 to be covert and sneak around not able to shoot everything. This game had a lot more then I expected. 
 The graphics were excellent and the moves you could have your character perform were great. The 
 interface was easy and it was an overall fun and challening game. I liked the ida of shooting out 
 lights to create darkness and draw guards to you. The story line was really deep. It kept me guessing 
 what was really going on. I really was impressed by this game. I prefer the PC version over the 
 other versions though. I would definately give this game a try if you haven't already. That is 
 is you up for a challenge? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roketjack
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Splinter Cell, I thought, cant be as good as MGS..
  I was wrong. 
  The best bit is probably the sneaking around and scaring your enemies by throwing things at them. 
 Also the ability to sneak up behind them and stick your knife into their back.
  The story is good aswell. Set in 2007, you have many cool things. I have only just finished the 
 game, but I think its great, the ememies have a brain to, they behave just as you would expect 
 an ordinary solider to behave say if a light was off, they would go and check it out, if they saw 
 you they would turn on the alarm system.
  So overall a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luekwa
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell has got to be one of the greatest series to ever come out. In my opinion the only 
 way to play splinter cell is PC. You just can't get the smooth control and stealth on the consoles. 
 I don't know if you can use the XBox keyboard and mouse for this though. 
  The single player is fantastic. The story line is incredibly intricate and flawless. There are 
 a few questions left unanswered but all in all its perfect. As you play you get drawn into the 
 plot and actually feel as if you were Sam Fisher. The game is almost like a movie (splinter cell 
 the movie comes out next year!) in the presentation of the game. 
  The moves in the game are even better than before. With so many more options you can never play 
 the game the same way twice. The AI is incredibly smart taking action to almost any small smell 
 or sound. They are incredible. your aresenal is better than before with camera jam on your pistol 
 instead of having to hold down the key with the seperate camera jammer. 
  The co-op is in my opinion the best out there. The incredible moves you can preform just make me 
 have an orgasm (except for climbing on top of eachother which is kind of awkward) . The opertunities 
 compared in the co-op mode compared to the single player mode are even more crazy. you can split 
 up and complete objectives faster or stick together and work as an effective strike force. The 
 greatest part is after playing the co-op missions replay the single player and youll find out its 
 more interelated than you had ever realized. 
  The multiplayer is something else. Wow. Thats all I can say. even when you only have 2 people playing 
 its a great time. While one person is a spy using incredibly awesome new gadgets the other player 
 is a completely new character with a whole new arsenal of gadgets. Choosing from the assuly rifel, 
 uzi, or shotgun is a hard choice to hunt for the spy with. Its always a guilty pleasure taking 
 the spy from the behind with a blow with the shotgun to the head. 
  With all the maps in the multiplayer you never get boerd. I've been playing it since it came out 
 and I still can't believe how cool it is. Anyways if you have LAN connected computers you can do 
 this anytime at all. For 15 minutes to hours on end. 
  This game is worth 50 bucks in its whole. Best value ever. The best part is you don't even have 
 to have played the first two games to get the most out of it that you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-S_FM
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Fans of Splinter Cell's past games will find that, while not offering anything particularly new 
 to the franchise or genre, Chaos Theory is the most polished, technically impressive and enjoyable 
 Splinter Cell yet. For those of you who don't know, Splinter Cell is a third person action stealth 
 game, where you play an American covert government soldier called Sam Fisher.
  
  The plot of the game is pretty generic Tom Clancy, some conflict involving one or two of your usual 
 global pressure cooker countries, and some pseudo-terrorist effort that you have to thwart. Plots 
 aren't the strong suit of the SC games, but every other bit of the game is.
  
  The game mostly sees you creeping through beautifully rendered environments, trying to avoid friendlies 
 and enemies as you get to your goal. These usually include things like finding someone to kill, 
 or finding something to steal, or extracting information. Many missions also have optional 'collection' 
 tasks, where you have to find x of x items or things dotted around the map, these don't add much 
 to the game really but they make the missions a little more involved, which is a good thing. To 
 complete your missions you usually have to stick to the shadows, and stay quiet. Naturally, the 
 light meter on the hud is back, showing how visible you are. One of the many polishes added for 
 CT was a sound meter, which constantly monitors the ambience of the environment and how much noise 
 you make. If you're louder than the ambience, nearby people will hear you, if you're quieter, you're 
 effectively silent, no matter how much noise you actually make. This means in especially loud places, 
 you can be as loud as you want. It's an excellent refinement which adds an entire new dimension 
 to the stealth.
  
  There are other polishes to gameplay, you now have a third viewmode, electromagnetic, which lets 
 you see electric currents clearly - useful in conjunction with another new addition, a pistol attachment 
 which lets you jam electronic equipment, like, for example, lights. They also changed the nightvision 
 view to a yellow-y greenish colour rather than the black and white of previous games, it makes 
 nightvision much nicer to use, and is an important addition as anyone who played previous SC games 
 will tell you, you spend most of your time in night vision.
  Another big addition is the commando knife, which makes Sam much more effective a fighter in close 
 quarters. You no longer need to be behind the enemy to take him out instantly. It can also be used 
 to puncture fuel canisters, cut cloth (like tents) , or break locks. You no longer have to pick 
 locks (it's still an option) , breaking them is much faster - but much louder.
  
  The developers wanted the game to be playable as an action game as much as a stealth game, they 
 wanted you to be able to have great firefights, nothing is quite as exciting as when a great shootout 
 comes together - and they tried to implement this concept, but frankly it didn't work out so well, 
 especially not on expert difficulty. You die too quickly and aiming effectively isn't nearly as 
 fluid as with a first person shooter.
  
  You also have a few more... inventive.. ways to dispose of your enemies, including pulling them 
 off a cliff, pushing them into the sea and hanging upside down from a pipe over a walkway and snapping 
 the enemy's neck as he walks below you. The AI in CT is improved over PT, they now crack out flares 
 in darkness and seem to co-ordinate with eachother. They talk a lot, especially when they just 
 see a shadow dart by them or hear your faint footsteps, they become frightened and react realistically.
 
  You also have the very refreshing option of hearing the AI speak in their native tongue, or in 
 English. English is better for gameplay purposes, but it's great for the atmosphere to listen to 
 them speak in their own language, though this means missing out on key information.
  
  The level design is as diverse as ever, from a lighthouse facility to a bank, to a Japanese bathhouse, 
 all the levels are extremely unique and look fantastic. The models also look good, they look a 
 little plasticy and artificial (like doom 3) , but they still look great. The light reflections 
 and shiny surfaces on textures add an incredible level of realism to the environments. My machine 
 is a 2 GHz AMD 2400, 512mb ram and a Radeon 9800. Runs flawlessly at 1600x1200.
  
  The developers have also expanded on PT's spies vs mercenaries multiplayer mode, which played something 
 like a glorified version of counter strike, the spies would be equipped with all kinds of fancy 
 spy gear (but no weapons) and charged with retrieving something from somewhere, while the mercs 
 (armed to the teeth) , would have to stop them (guile vs strength) . It was a great multiplayer mode 
 which was worth the price of PT alone. Adding to this excellent multiplayer mode is the ability 
 for the spies to use eachother - for example one spy will give the other a boost up onto a wall, 
 then climb up his friend's body, allowing them both to get over the wall - it's pretty amazing. 
 And there's also a co-op multiplayer campaign which feels a little more contrived and formulaic 
 than the single player game, but is still great - all round this is probably the best multiplayer 
 package for any game out so far this year.
  
  Ultimately, everything added to this game is just polish, if you didn't like Splinter Cell or Pandora 
 Tomorrow, you won't like Chaos Theory, and although this game does nothing to advance the genre 
 and is in no way revolutionary, it is nevertheless the best Splinter Cell yet, making it pretty 
 much the best stealth game ever made. If you're a fan of SC you have most likely already bought 
 it before reading this, if you're undecided.. buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whateve_r
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  I first got Pandora tommrow as a gift from my buddies for my PS2, i was busy playing Mafia. Maxpayne 
 2 and all of a sudden this third person shooter comes by which involves no shooting, i mean less 
 the better. I was annoyed and did not play the game after the first level.
  
  Aftrer some time chaos theory comes by and it get's the same awesome reviews, being bored to death 
 i got this game. I got myself together and made sure i finshed it once, though i had little idea 
 that i was going to play this game more than thrice. Yeah you heard right..
  
  Now in the beginning if this is your first splinter cell game like me then you might be confused 
 about the controls, lots of things can be confusing. Read few forums and get the controls right. 
 I am obssesed with this game.....
  
  After i fell in love with the grpahics, which i have to say are on par with Doom3 and much more 
 nicer but kinda shiny. Belive me the shadowing is just gorgeous, may it be the lightouse level 
 or the nuclear plant, the game is truly gorgeous. I was lucky enough to have a 6800GT which plays 
 the game like charm.
  
  After the graphics i realised that OMG we have a game here that requires here to do something other 
 than go in face shoot and kill. It becomes an obssesiont o find new ways to complete a level and 
 not get cought. The stealth part is really amazing, it feels you are a spy but the glasses make 
 it wierd though. "Once you get a hang of it" you will be obssesed to complete level with 100% precison, 
 though i have managed in every level except bathhouse. 
  
  The story is very good with a little twister in the end, i loved it. Though the xcitement of not 
 being spotted keeps you busy all the time. There are more lots of ways to complete missions, after 
 playing the game over and over i was able to find new routes to complete the missions. 
  
  It will take time for first timers to get used to it, but you guys will love it after that.
  
 
  whateve_r
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 5, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  Is this game as good as advertised, well no, but it's still good. Let's get the bad out of the 
 way first. The bad is the dialogue, I mean it's pretty lame to say the least with lines ( he's 
 deader than Elvis) , or ( that missile battery lit up like a smoker getting off an airplane) . Now 
 granted these little stabs at humor would be fine in like Duke Nukem ( where the hell is that damn 
 game anyway it's been 8 years in the making) or sorry lost my train of thought there for a moment. 
 But Splinter Cell 3 is suppose to be a serious game, and these lame attempts at humor really take 
 that serious edge off the game. Now granted some might think that I'm nit picking alittle, well 
 sorry but i'm a 37 year old boy and I want to play some serious games. Also I have some problems 
 with the screwy camera angles, yes you heard that right ( well read that right ) even though you 
 control the camera angle with your mouse, the game sometimes takes that control from you, and your 
 going what the hell is wrong with my mouse it's not working. Now maybe it's just a bug or something 
 or maybe these French guys Don't know what mouse FREE look means. ( Hey that didn't sound Anti-French 
 did it ) . Any way this game overall is pretty good, but because of what I spoke about above it 
 could have been a much better and a more serious game. Actually the two previous installments of 
 the series were far more entertaining, and serious than this one. Hopefully Splinter Cell 4 will 
 be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  I was impressed by the graphics in the previous 2 Splinter Cells but I found the slow-moving stealth 
 gameplay boring after awhile. This time around, you can explore the levels for alternative paths, 
 you can save at any time, and you can use your firearms quite a bit if you dont want to be stealthy. 
 It makes the game somewhat more like the great first Deux Ex game for the PC. The levels aren't 
 huge like they were in Deux Ex and there aren't any RPG elements either, but you do get the sense 
 that you can make choices about how to complete in each mission. The previous Splinter Cells punished 
 you if you didn't make the "right" choice at various times within each mission, you'd have to replay 
 the mission from the start, and I found that highly un-fun.
  
  The graphics are absolutely impressive. The character models look great and move realistically. 
 The real-time shadowing really enhances the overall look and style of the game. There's nice use 
 of reflective surfaces and bump-mapping. On the PC with textures on hi-detail, the game looks amazing 
 but you will need a high-end rig to run it at a decent framerate. Thankfully, with medium textures, 
 the game still looks great on standard p4 with a decent video card. Graphically, it is easily one 
 of the best looking games of 2005.
  
  Cons:
  The solo-player part of the game is a too easy at normal difficulty. There are higher levels of 
 difficulty if you want more of a challenge so this isn't really much of a complaint. Replay value 
 of the single-player mode is limited and that's the only real downside to the entire game. For 
 that reason, I'm not sure the game is worth full-price if you are only interested in the single-player 
 mode
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortman190
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  --Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory --
  
  Youre creeping through the bushes, keeping an ear out for noises and an eye on movement, and your 
 stealth meter that is implanted onto your suit. You notice an open entrance to the ventilation 
 system of the building you have so discreetly infiltrated tonight. As you creep through it, you 
 hear hushed voices from one of the rooms up ahead. Curious, you decide to investigate. As you near 
 the opening, you recognize one of the voices- Douglas Shetland, your old friend. You hear the conversation 
 and record it on your laser mike, and at the end of it, Shetland, your supposed friend kills 
 a prominent power in the Japanese Defence force, and the surrounding area erupts into high-tech 
 warfare-with you in the middle.
  
  This is just one of the thrilling plot climaxes in the game, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory (SC: CT 
 for short) . SC: CT, released roughly a year after Pandora tomorrow (PT) , is indisputably the best 
 game in the series. Many advances and improvements have been done in SC: CT that separates it from 
 the other Splinter Cells. These include improved graphics, more advanced AI, improved game play 
 and the introduction of a new game mode-Co-Op.
  
  The graphics have improved dramatically since PT- the characters no longer look like plastic action 
 models as they did in the previous games. Although, Sam still looks a little unrealistic, but less 
 so than in PT The environments look more realistic than in PT, although some of the environments 
 looked pretty good in PThard to improve on something so good, but Ubisoft have somehow managed 
 to do it. Some maps even give a cold sense of realism as you trudge around the concrete corridors 
 of a high-rise metropolitan building in downtown New York, covertly, and non-lethally, taking out 
 enemies as you advance on your target. 
  
  That leads me to my next point-game play. No longer do you have a set amount of times you can get 
 caught. Instead, each time an alarm is sounded, the enemies become tougher and tougher as the alarm 
 level increases. This gives the player more of a motivation to be stealthy, than the annoying prospect 
 of 3 alarms=loss of the missionSam even makes a joke about this in the second mission. You have 
 fewer weapons in this game as the infamous SC20K has been combined into many different modes of 
 combat: Fore grip mode for improved stability, launcher mode for creative takedowns, Sniper mode 
 for those headshot fanatics, and introducing the Shotgun mode for all out killing pleasure. Sams 
 arsenal of acrobatic moves has been increased as well. There isnt as much of a penalty for killing 
 except for a deduction on your final score, though enemies are more alert in this game so it is 
 much harder to kill. A failed sniper shot will result in the enemy ducking for cover and calling 
 for reinforcements. 
  
  Think that you can easily take out a light source permanently? Think again. Most guards carry flares 
 or fluorescent tubes with them, so you have to be wary when taking out a light source. Thankfully, 
 the handgun has an attachment (called the OCD) that temporarily shuts down electronic equipment 
 such as cameras or lights. When a light is taken out in this fashion, a guard doesnt resort to 
 their personal light source, and squints in the darkness for a period of time-until the lights 
 come back on. This presents many other forms of distraction as well. 
  Its all well and fine to say how good a game is, but to be truly equal, what are the downsides? 
 The levels in AI/difficulty arent equal. If you play the game on the lowest difficulty and take 
 someone out, a guard in close vicinity wont notice that their buddy is in heap on the floor. The 
 next level up and NPCs 10 meters away will rush in and notice the corpse, although the take down 
 was in pitch black. There are a few issues that I had with the sound, such as enemies stuttering 
 in their conversations with one another. I dont know if this was just my copy, but I am sure that 
 there are many other bugs present in the game. The story is lacklustre in terms of a Tom Clancy 
 thriller-after all, stealth games are renowned for their great plot. 
  
  After youve completed the single player, then you can happily move onto the multiplayer and co-op 
 game modes-if you can get them to run properly. The multiplayer is still the good-old spy vs. mercenary 
 gaming, with some improvements made. Thankfully, no radical changes have happened with the revolutionary 
 multiplayer mode that was introduced in PT. Ubisoft have decided to introduce a co-op mode as well, 
 but at this point in time its not worth the hassle. Its the same storyline but slightly different 
 maps made for two players. With no map system being present in this game mode, its easy to get 
 lost and lose your teammate. Until they improve co-op, itll never start a revolution like PTs 
 multiplayer mode did.
  
  A good solid game, but until Ubisoft fix the problems, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory wont ever be 
 as good as Thief.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  The third entry in Tom Clancy's "Splinter Cell" series is by far the best version to date. It sports 
 a graphically enhanced single player mode; brings an entirely new mode, co-op (cooperative play) 
 to the series as well as improves -- if only slightly -- The popular Versus (Spys vs. Mercenaries) 
 mode that first appeared in "Pandora Tomorrow".
  
  Single Player:
  
  There are new additions to Sam Fisher's arsenal and athletic moves... Namely the OCP attachment 
 that allows him to short out lights momentarily without having to fire his gun as well as wireless 
 "hacking" goggles.... But truth be told, they don't have much of an impact on how the game plays 
 out and are not worth mentioning here (see previous reviews for in-depth details if you must know) .
 
  
  The two main criticisms of the original Splitner Cell and Pandora Tomorrow's game play were the 
 levels were both linear and too unforgiving with the "trip three alarms and you automatically fail 
 the mission" restrictions which resulted in more trial-and-error game play than a cohesive, immersive 
 game play experience.
  
  Chaos Theory deals with these two aspects with levels being more open and less linear (although, 
 you still must go to specific areas and complete specific tasks to move the story along) as well 
 as putting less restriction on using lethal force and the amount of alarms you can set off and 
 still continue the mission. 
  
  So-called Splinter Cell Purists (Veterans) who prefer to play in completely stealthly, "hands-off" 
 manner like to tout this as "dumbing down" of the series, but in reality it gives the game a lot 
 more replay value than simply memorizing patrol patterns and doing "speed runs" through levels 
 since the player now has the freedom to tackle various situations a number of different ways without 
 being penalized for not doing it the "correct" way as in previous games. Having more than one choice 
 is the definition of replayability and this new addition greatly improves the singleplayer experience 
 from the start.
  
  However, the one major flaw Choas Theory brings over from the previous two games in the single 
 player is the inconsistent and dodgy AI (Artificial Intelligence) the player has to contend with 
 through out the levels.
  
  The AI has been upgraded to behave more realistically to notice changes in the environment such 
 as open doors that were once closed and lights being turned off which were on, but Choas Theory 
 still suffers from the AI either being incredibly omnipotent in situations they shouldn't be -- 
 They have pinpoint accuracy and can kill you even in a pitch black environment -- Or being incredibly 
 unresponsive in low light situations when they are staring right at you and your light meter indicates 
 they should be able to see you.
  
  The other major flaw is while the levels are large and more open-ended, the game still suffers 
 from a suspension of disbelief (or lack thereof) in most locales are dark strictly for the sake 
 of gameplay and nothing else.
  
  A perfect example of this is in the "Cargo Ship" mission where you must cross an engine room full 
 of armed guards to reach the other side. Most engine rooms are not pitch black and the only reason 
 it is in this game is for the sake of the game play more than realism. There are parts in other 
 levels that are similar and one must constantly keep telling themselves, "It's a game. It's a game..." 
 to make these leaps in logic which ultimately detracts from the immersive qualities the game presents 
 to the player in other areas.
  
  However, the good points and changes made in the single player far out-weigh the negatives and 
 should satisfy both those new to the Splinter Cell series and hardcore veterans alike if they all 
 give it a chance.
  
  CO-OP:
  
  Choas Theory introduces this game play mode to the series and puts a unique twist on it: You and 
 a partner are Splinter Cells "In-Training" and are sent on missions that are peripheral to the 
 main storyline Sam Fisher undertakes in the single player portion.
  
  The levels are designed to where objectives can only be completed by two operatives and involve 
 the staple, Splinter Cell athletic moves -- Only this time, these moves require two players in 
 order to be completed successfully -- And high-tech spy gadgets found through out all three Splinter 
 Cell games.
  
  The main drawback in CO-OP is that it is way too short (there are currently only four levels) and 
 that it doesn't work most of the time for a majority of those who want to play either on LAN, or 
 across the internet. 
  
  There are numerous reports on other Splinter Cell forums (including the official UBI Forum) about 
 stalled connect issues, being dropped from games, and not being able to see games in the browser 
 just to name a few. UBI has acknowledged there is a problem with CO-OP, but no official announcement 
 as to whether any future patches will address these problems as of the time of this review.
  
  Versus (Spys vs. Mercenaries) :
  
  This mode is basically the same as in Pandora Tomorrow. 
 There are new maps and ones from Pandora Tomorrow have been remade and included to coincide with 
 the supposedly improved netcode... Although, the issues with Versus are the same with CO-OP which 
 makes this a less-than-desirable mode to play and as such, there aren't that many servers or players 
 at any given time depending on where you live.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: 
  
  Splinter Cell: Choas Theory improves on its predecessors in every way. With a graphically rich 
 single player campaign that still suffers from the occasionally glitchy AI, it is still miles above 
 the linear, frustrating and restrictive single player from the first two games and is the main 
 reason to buy Choas Theory as the singleplayer has been the staple attraction of the entire series 
 from the start.
  
  CO-OP and Versus are good only if you can get them to work and will definitely improve longevity 
 of the title after you exhausted every single scenario in the singleplayer and want to try something 
 new, but still in the Splinter Cell universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainHawk1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  Here's the scoop. Splinter Cell has outdone itself again. It's updated and blazing to go for anyone 
 who has played the previous 2 in the franchise. If you haven't been introduced to Sam Fisher yet, 
 you've missed out on a lot but will probably appreciate it even more than gamers who have been 
 playing this series since it debuted. First, I want to correct the reviewer who called this a "first-person" 
 shooter and complained about the amount of stealth in this game comparing it to Thief. One, it's 
 third-person and it's not a shooter and two, if you don't like stealth, don't even waste the $20 
 on the Splinter Cell and Pandora Tomorrow two-pack, because that's all SC is. Stealth... period. 
 The point of SC has never been to shoot things up, it's to stealthily accomplish missions and in 
 this game, it's done more beautifully than ever. 
  
  The first thing I noticed that I couldn't get over was the tremendous amount of detail in the environment. 
 it's simply amazing. One of the features I've always liked about this game is when you incapcitate 
 an enemy, you have to hide the body. In previous offerings of this series, it was a great concept 
 but fell short with how the body reacted especially when next to objects (clipping problems) . The 
 way the bodies reacted was simplistic and didn't look real at all. Now, the bodies flop around 
 and react nearly perfectly with their environment (try standing at the the top of a flight of stairs 
 with your back to the stairs and hit the 'equip' button to drop the body quick and watch the body 
 flop and fall and come to a stop) . 
  
  Another great thing about this game is the secondary missions which, if you don't complete during 
 the main level, you have to go back and do them again later in the game (... at least, that's what 
 it keeps telling me on screen) . This adds a great deal of realism in that just because you didn't 
 get something done, that doesn't mean it doesn't need to get done. Another thing I liked happened 
 in the second level: no more three alarms and the mission's over crap. That was so silly and so 
 unrealistic and the developers realized this too and they even make a joke about in the beginning 
 of the second level. Now, it's just a very bad idea to get too many alarms as you'll alert everybody 
 and they'll come after you. 
  
  As an added feature, in the beginning of each level, you have a choice of three different arrangements 
 of weapons and equipment for your SC-20K, and it is much easier to toggle through your inventory 
 than it ever has been. Also, it has become much easier to throw picked up objects, not relying 
 on that confusing arc thing in previous games. 
  
  Sam finally got a knife in this game... 'bout freakin' time ('can't slice a guy's throat when you 
 grab him from behind, and you still can't snap his neck... y'know, what's the point of making a 
 game with an 'MA' rating if you aren't going to use it to it's fullest?) .
  
  I like the hacking capabilty in this too (... just wish I knew how to do it) .
  
  As far as what 
 I don't like: The manual ain't worth a crap unless you've never played SC before. I'm 3 levels 
 into it and there's a whole bunch of things I don't know how to do yet and I don't have the patience 
 for the training videos.
  
  As far as I can tell there is no autosave on this game so if you get to a part that was difficult 
 or time consuming, you'd better save it or it'll take you back to the beginning... of the level. 
 From what I can tell, if you go on to the next level it doesn't automatically save either (... or 
 maybe I just jumped into this game without really reading into it.) .
  
  I hate saying this, as much as I love this series, I still think the first one was the most challenging. 
 I am flying through these missions. PT was a hell of a lot easier for me than the first SC, too, 
 I hope this gets a little more challenging (.. or am I just that godd??? nah.) . 
  
  All in all, a great game, so far, and even with my complaints it's still the best of the set. I 
 will review it again when I've beaten it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 25, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the best in the series. The gameplay has been improved so you no longer have 
 to repeat and load your savegame every time you make a mistake. You can go for the stealth approach 
 or for the guns blazing style. Either one, will provide you with loads of fun.
  
  There is a lot of replay value since you are scored depending on your performance on each level 
 and you may want to go back and repeat your missions to get your 100% rating on all of them.
  
  The graphics really amaze me on this game. If you have an Nvidia 6800 series, this is the right 
 game for you. Pixel Shader 3 with all its glory. The textures, the lightning and everything else 
 is very detailed. Unfortunately this is something you will not enjoy if you are an ATI user, since 
 the lack of support for PS3 will keep you from really enjoying this game.
  
  The sound effects also deserve mentioning. They excellent and also play an important part in gameplay.
 
  
  The only thing I have to say negative about Chaos Theory is the fact that in the multiplayer mode 
 you do not have Pixel Shader 3, and the experience is not as immersing. Multiplayer can also be 
 frustrating if you do not know the level like the back of your hand. It is definitely better to 
 play with friends than with random people in the internet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I am a great fan of the Splinter Cell series. Overall they are immersive, clever games that require 
 a great deal more thought than most. Although the latest addition to the series is a pretty good 
 game, possibly very good compared to most of the games released recently, it really is almost a 
 step backwards compared to previous games in the series and is one of the most obvious examples 
 of the dumbing down effect that seems to increasingly afflict games. Earlier episodes in the series 
 were undoubtedly hard, at times almost too hard in that they required too great a degree of "trial 
 and save". However, anyone who played and enjoyed the previous episodes may well be disappointed 
 by this one. SO much has been made easier - lack of alarm limiters, capacity to kill far more easily, 
 multiple ways of solving each mission that don't so much provide flexibility as make it _easier_, 
 enemies that operate on their own and make it easy to pick them off (leathally or non-lethally) 
 etc. Yet conversely on hard mode (or those who for this in an attempt to get a challenging game) 
 it isn't so much challenging as irritating - wall edges seem to become increasingly permeable to 
 enemy fire, they execute snapshots that are so obviuolsy based on the fact that the programme knows 
 where you are rather than any need to require actual line of sight, enemies seem bizarrely impervious 
 to shots directly to the head - I just don't seem to be able to shoot as straight as I did in previous 
 versions, so one is frequently in the laughable situation that as an elite soldier your average 
 japanese gangster shoots with an accuracy that the player can only dream of. In addition, you seem 
 to have a lot of nifty special attack moves but these are never, ever needed. Not once. It is so 
 much easier to adopt the "sneak and grab from behind" or the "snipe 'em when they're in the shadows 
 manouevers and the way that the missions have been made so much easier means that either of these 
 approaches is almost guaranteed to work. 
  
  And those moves that you can execute (like the plit jump) no longer require any skill to execute 
 - no... you just look at a corridor wall and, eerrrr, jump - the software does the rest. Same with 
 defusing wall mines. Same with the airofoil round - you used to have to aim at the head, now as 
 long as you wing a target's ankle, down they go.
  
  So a great shame -this is still a very playable and often fun game - but it really could have been 
 so much better. Why do designers/publishers do this sort of thing?
  
  Other issues?
  
  Despit the backstory, plot is rudamentary and makes a few junps of logic that suggest poor testers 
 and although interesting the "eletrical" view is absolutely pointless - you never ever use it. 
 And the "magically puts the lights out for a bit" feature on the pistol just makes things easier 
 still.
  
  On the plus side - looks really good, music works and it runs out of the box (security is bloody 
 annoying though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 25, 2005 5:53 am PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series is one that has some gamers divided. While no one will ever argue that 
 the series isnt pretty, there has traditionally been a difference of opinion when it comes to 
 the merits of the series gameplay. While some people really enjoyed the first two games level 
 of tension and the palpable sense of danger, others argued that the punishing level of difficulty 
 turned the games into a frustrating exercise in trial-and-error.
  
  The folks at Ubisoft seem to have taken some of those complaints to heart when it comes to the 
 latest installment in the exploits of Sam FisherSplinter Cell: Chaos Theory. Unlike its predecessors, 
 Chaos Theory puts more emphasis on Fishers lethal side, and it lowers the stakes when it comes 
 to slip-ups that may occur when youre slinking through the shadows. While these changes were implemented 
 to win over those who did not have the patience for the last two games, at the same time, Ubisoft 
 has run the risk of alienating established fans of the series.
  
  Like the Splinter Cell games before it, Chaos Theory takes place in the near future, with a story 
 that could easily be found in tomorrows papers. A group of terrorists have unleashed an insidious 
 wave of attacks on the worlds information systems, creating blackouts to mask their dealings, 
 and hijacking vulnerable weapons systems in order to start World War III. Once again, Sam FisherThird 
 Echelons most seasoned lone operativeis sent into harms way to quietly and anonymously prevent 
 the apocalypse. His exploits will send him around the globe, uncovering a twisted conspiracy that 
 just may strike a little too close to home.
  
  Veterans of the first two games will have no difficulty at all getting right into the action. In 
 fact, since it lacks an integrated in-game tutorial, Chaos Theory assumes that this is not your 
 first foray into the world of Sam Fisher. In addition to the abilities youve seen in his previous 
 games, Fisher can now execute a number of new moves, such as switching hands while aiming to get 
 a better view and grabbing people while hanging, as well as reaching over railings and through 
 walls to grab his enemies. In addition, Fisher is now armed with a knife that will allow him to 
 intimidate his captures, as well as terminate them with quick brutality and a minimum of commotion.
 
  
  There are also a few handy new additions to Fishers equipment, including an attachment for his 
 pistol that allows him to remotely interfere with electronic equipment, as well as a new visor 
 that lets him see powered objects.
  
  Of course, the split jump, the SWAT roll, and non-lethal ammo all make a return appearance, but 
 sadly, all of Fishers moveseven the new onesare horribly underutilized. With its dialed-down 
 difficulty and rather bland level design, the game simply doesnt demand that the player have a 
 command over Fishers skills, and as a result, the game really loses a lot of the excitement that 
 the previous games had in spades.
  
  Fisher is allowed to be a lot more lethal this time around. Few missions have restrictions on kills, 
 and even when you do violate those rules, they almost never result in mission failure. To be honest, 
 there is nothing really stopping you from barging in and opening fire with wild abandon, but doing 
 so would pretty much violate the understood objective of the game. 
  
  Still, the ability to be more liberal with lethal force does make the game a whole lot easier. 
 In the previous games, you often had to study your environment, get a feel for patrol patters, 
 and devise a path to sneak up behind an enemy without being noticed. Alerting your foes to your 
 presence would often result in disaster, which made taking out every pawn seem like a vital experience. 
 In Chaos Theory, most of the enemies seem to work alone, meaning that as long as you stay behind 
 your target, you neednt keep to the shadows, since no one else will see you. 
  
  In addition, whereas the previous games enemies were rather savvy when it came to the survival 
 department, the enemies in Chaos Theory tend to travel mindlessly into the shadows, making them 
 easy targets. Cant get behind them for a silent grab? Well you can still slice them from the front, 
 killing them dead before they even know what happened to them. And, in the unlikely chance that 
 you do alert others to your presence, you can make short work of them, and proceed, even if youve 
 activated an alarm or two.
  
  Yes, this relaxed gameplay does reduce some of the occasional frustration and trial-and-error gameplay 
 that made the past two games problematic at times. But, in letting the pendulum swing so far in 
 the opposite direction, the designers at Ubisoft have eliminated almost every shred of tension 
 that made the other games so great. They have removed nearly every incentive to perform your tasks 
 with precision and skill. In essence, the game tolerates failure.
  
  The designers have sought, however, to up the challenge of the gameplay for those who choose to 
 accept it, and they have done this in two separate ways. First, they have included in most missions 
 optional opportunity objectives, which can be completed at the players discretion. These side 
 tasks often require you to search every nook and cranny of a level. However, these quests very 
 rarely amount to anything more than repetitive scavenger hunts, and though there is occasionally 
 a hint that completing these objectives will add to the plot, they never do.
  
  Secondly, your performance is graded at the end of every mission, giving you points for remaining 
 hidden, for not tripping alarms, and for completing opportunity objectives. Conversely, points 
 are deducted for exercising lethal force, and for tripping alarms. However, since the only real 
 consequence of playing poorly is a bad score, this evaluation process really does nothing to raise 
 the tension of the gameplay.
  
  In a seemingly promising move, most of the levels have been designed to be non-linear, with multiple 
 paths. Supposedly, this allows the player to choose their own way to tackle a level. But, to be 
 honest, most of these alternative routes are small detours at best, and none of them significantly 
 change the way a level plays.
  
  Also, the mission briefing allows you to choose from a variety of weapon loadouts that supposedly 
 allow you to choose the manner in which you plan to tackle an area. Truth is, no matter what you 
 choose, you will be properly equipped for the mission at hand, making all of the loadout choices 
 practically identical.
  
  All told, the lack of challenge, combined with overly-forgiving gameplay that does not make use 
 of Fishers abilities, creates a single-player experience that lacks the tension and the excitement 
 of the games that came before it. Add to it a story that lacks the flow typical of a Tom Clancy 
 game, and the gameplay is simply not that engaging. This is, without a doubt, the weakest single-player 
 experience in the series.
  
  Of course, Chaos Theory does have some decent multiplayer. The two-on-two mercs vs. spies mode 
 is back, but aside from a slew of new maps, the gameplay is pretty much what you experienced in 
 Pandora Tomorrows multiplayer mode. In addition, Chaos Theory does introduce co-op play to the 
 series. These co-op modes require players to work together to accomplish tasks, which is a nice 
 departure from the lonely single-player mode, but the levels are even more uninspired than in the 
 single player, making for a largely forgettable experience.
  
  Graphically, Chaos Theory is strong, though not without its faults. Sadly, a lot of the soft lighting 
 effects and that made Pandora Tomorrow so great are muted in this game, as are the interesting 
 color palates that once served to give the levels a grandiose backdrop. In its place is a serious 
 amount of bump-mapping, as well as ultra-sharp textures. The result is a game that looks good, 
 but more rendered and unnatural than its predecessors. In addition, the locales are all rather 
 bland. Compared to Pandora Tomorrows beautiful ocean at sunset and dusk jungle missions, Chaos 
 Theory just lacks the graphical punch that its predecessor had in spades.
  
  The sound has always been a solid aspect of the series, and Chaos Theory is no exception. The voice 
 acting is top-notch, and it is served by well-written dialogue. However, some of the foreign accents 
 are a bit over-the-top. The music is very subdued, following the action like your standard movie 
 score. Its competent, but hardly noticeable. The sound effects are where this game truly shines, 
 from the ambient sounds that really make use of the 5.1 surround stage, to the various footfalls 
 that truly vary with how quickly you tread. The only complaint one could lodge against the sound 
 design is that for some inexplicable reason, when you are walking a captured enemy, the footsteps 
 are remarkably loud (though they dont register on the sound meter) , and no matter which way the 
 camera is facing, they always come from the rear speakers. Logistically, this does not make sense, 
 and until you remember that enemies rarely every share the same space, its easy to mistake those 
 steps for another enemy.
  
  All in all, Chaos Theory is a solid game, but within the context of excellence set forth by the 
 first two games in the series, Chaos Theory is a disappointment. Though it may look pretty, the 
 game lacks the innovation necessary to move the series forward, and by relaxing the challenge, 
 the gameplay has actually taken a huge step back. If this is where the series is truly headed, 
 then maybe Sam Fisher should retire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iliastse
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy is the No.1 (at least for me) writer in spy-fiction. Novels like Hunt for Red October, 
 Patriot Games and Sum of All Fears, are some of his worldwide best-sellers, that became top-selling 
 movies and introduces us in a world of conspiracies and spy-games, where nothing is what it seems. 
 Same thing happened in gaming community with Rainbow Six, Ghost Recon and Splinter Cell.
  
  SCENARIO: You are Sam Fisher, a special member of Splinter Cell team, a man fully trained in the 
 art of spying, both deadly when using your knife or your gun. Game starts in Japan with the creation 
 of a team called Information Defense Force. Its purpose is to defend the country from enemy threats. 
 After World War II, Japan signed a treaty, so that they could have an army, for special emergency 
 situations. But IDFs creation was considered a threat from Korea and China, as they believe that 
 Japan is somehow breaking the treaty. Under big secrecy, the leader of IDF begins attacks against 
 Japan, putting the blame to North Korea. When U. S. A. interferes, according to Article 9 of the 
 treaty I mentioned above, they suffer an attack, which makes North Korea to launch another one 
 to South Korea. Are you getting a little confused? This is only the beginning. You must stop the 
 alliance between a Japanese admiral, a neurotic hacker and the leader of an international military 
 organization.
  
  REALISM: Top-class. At the start of your second mission, a dialogue between Fisher and Lambert, 
 gives everything that game is all about. Lambert informs Sam that in the ship hes on board, a 
 new alarm system has been established. Fisher naturally asks if the mission is over, in case the 
 alarm is triggered 3 times, while Lamberts reply is negative. Forget stealth games that there 
 was only one road to success. Firstly, you can choose if you want to move stealthy or you re gonna 
 invade with your shotgun (I personally strongly recommend you to be sneaky, a bullet in Fishers 
 head convinced me) . Enemy soldiers act differently when you are stealthy and differently when the 
 alarm is triggered. Pay special attention where to leave a dead body, when you close a door or 
 turn off the lights.
  
  GRAPHICS: Most of the missions are in the dark and you ll catch yourself using Night Vision 
 too often, or you re gonna increase Brightness of your monitor. That doesnt mean graphics arent 
 detailed. From a wave hitting the rocks, to the inner places of a cave and from the rusted parts 
 of a ship, to the wooden boxes in the cellar, textures are so realistic that will make you wanna 
 touch em. Incredible work is made in terms of physics (e. g. you kill an enemy and when you bring 
 him to the top a precipice, you push him, so he naturally falls) .
  
  SOUND: Two words Extremely good. Some simple examples can convince you. The touch of your boots 
 in the ground, the strike of a thunder (youll run outside to see if its really raining !!!) , 
 even the noise of an electricity power machine. Amon Tobin has created the music for that game, 
 one of the biggest personalities of music nowadays.
  
  CONCLUSION: Theres no doubt that this 3rd part of Splinter Cell is the best in series. It breaks 
 the borders of Action games and invents a new genre, Id say it Spy Simulation. If you re 
 fed up with every day life, Chaos Theory is for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denisefr
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  I'm a convert to stealth games after this one. I own Pandora Tomorrow on Xbox but must admit to 
 not being able to finish it. Those darned guards spot me every time and you can't kill any of them! 
 How rude.
  
  Anyway - for Chaos Theory I decided to go for the PC version instead - I'm better at the controls 
 than on the Xbox so I'll be reviewing the single player missions on that.
  
  Let me just say in opening - WOW! Now I understand the attraction of Tomb Raider for guys - Sam 
 is a hottie! Right, now that's out of the way on to the game itself.
  
  1. Storyline - I enjoyed the way the story moved along - each level was different and contributes 
 to the final outcome very nicely. I was thinking as I played through the final level - how on earth 
 did I get here, a few seconds of review and I could trace the plot developments quite clearly. 
 Well done - not too unbelievable and nice to see it not falling into the trap of going for the 
 obvious villains (I won't say any more to avoid spoilers but you'll see what I mean) .
  
  2. Characterisation - Loved Michael Ironside's wry voicing of Sam. It adds miles to getting you 
 involved with the character. I didn't think the odd joke was out of place, in fact, its probably 
 quite accurate to release tension in stressful situations with humour. I read in another review 
 that the mission briefings were annoying and must agree, but as they said, read through instead 
 of listening to minimize pain. Overall there was enough character development to keep me happy 
 (bear in mind I'm an FPS fan so its not particularly high on my list of priorities) .
  
  3. Graphics - gorgeous on my pc, when I'm not seeing them in black and white through the night 
 vision. The effects of the various visions is fun - nothing like seeing red blobs to let you know 
 you're a spy. The rain effects, lighting and NPCs are up to what I'd expect from a game of this 
 generation, my only quibble might be with Sam himself. When he has nothing to do for a moment he 
 does rather look like he needs a pee but can't think of how to get out of that rubber suit - sort 
 of blank faced and staring, if you know what I mean.
  
  4. Weapons - I'm a stealth player so tend to stick to the knife and pistol (to take out the cameras 
 and lights using the OCP) - but if you like to shoot at things instead there's a fair range available 
 including a sniper attachment on the SC-20K rifle.
  
  That's a very quick review of my impressions of the game - I'd definitely recommend it to anyone 
 with an interest in trying the stealth genre, its immense fun, which in the end is what I want 
 for my hard earned cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 22, 2005 2:24 am PT
Review:  The third title in the ground breaking series is arguably the best yet. It's more open-ended and 
 flexible allowing much more freedom and fun for the player. The game splits into three interesting 
 areas, single play, co op and multiplayer (versus) . The single play and co op use the new revolutionary 
 graphics engine said to be designed for next gen consoles and really looks brillant while the versus 
 is stuck with the old Splinter Cell graphics engine but keeps all the same fun. The game is packed 
 with features that should make any fan of the series happy and despite it's lame attempt to be 
 more serious with it's new "M" rating which brands it as not you little brothers esponiage game 
 it is basically the same game as the previous two. Heavy involving shadows and noises and the element 
 of stealth and information warfare, Chaos Theory would be the best game the series has seen if 
 it weren't for it's staggering amount of technical problems which should never have seen the light 
 of day especially from such a big publisher/developer as Ubisoft.
  
  The story is pretty by-the-books and follows most of the generic Tom Clancy style storylines of 
 heated political tensions and you having to go in and fight an information war under the enemies 
 noses to prevent a war. There are about a million strange character names which are tough to remember 
 and you won't have a clue as to what's going on unless you watch the ridiculously cartoony cut 
 scenes. But when it comes down to it, the plot is an overall dud, the concept is neat but the execution 
 is mediocre so it's best just to scope through the levels with a general understanding of the plot 
 and just knowing your objectives. That's the best way to go. You are continuing the story of secret 
 agent or "Splinter Cell", Sam Fisher and play in a third person point of view using your environment 
 to your advantage in a lethal game of hide and seek with dim-witted terrorists.
  
  The new graphics engine looks great with great shading and lighting technology as well as smooth 
 models and crisp textures. Although there are no Havok environmental physics, the world still looks 
 amazing especially next to the previous two installments. The nightvision no longer has it's silly 
 movie like look of bright green with static but is now an extremely realistic deep green with blurred 
 dark corners to make a circle shape of the screen as though you were looking through Sam's night 
 vision goggles. The thermal vision remains realistic and this new vision that allows you to see 
 electronics is generally useless but at times can be helpful. There is also a scope which can allow 
 you to hack computers and electronics from a distance as well as use your rifle scope.
  
  The versus graphics remain the same as Pandora Tomorrow and look incredibly dated if you play right 
 after platying some single player. It just shows the developers rushed the final product, putting 
 little attention in versus mode's direction. It remains very entertaining and fun like in Pandora 
 Tomorrow but a graphical update would have been nice. There are a few new levels ranging from mediocre 
 to good but always remaining like a puzzle and the teams are generally balanced giving both Mercenaries 
 (played in first person) and spies (played in 3rd person) their own advantages and disadvantages. 
 There is a new spy feature which enables the co op ability so spies can use each others help to 
 do things such as reach high areas and outsmart mercenaries. Also, there are more ways for spies 
 to actually kill a mercenary making you feel less defenseless in the face of a Merc. While the 
 lack of attention is annoying, versus mode still remains entertaining and provides unique, balanced 
 and just plain fun online and LAN play.
  
  The gameplay is generally the same. The single player experiences some differences such as the 
 new vision and scopes as well as the attention to close combat this time around. Rather than using 
 your pistol to take out enemies close at hand your new knife is a good killing tool. Now, Sam can 
 inflict fear on those he has held hostage by threatening to test out his new knife making characters 
 squirm in fear. The knife is plenty of fun to stab enemies and cut their throats, it is also useful 
 for cutting thin materials and piercing things like small power generators. It has many uses and 
 makes a great weapon of choice especially when fighting is such close quarters.
  
  Also, Splinter Cell veterens will recall that they could only sound three alarms in the previous 
 games before failing a mission. In Chaos Theory, you can sound as many as you like although the 
 more that go off, the more guards show up with heavier armor. The dialogue pokes fun at the old 
 system and the new open ended style works great. It's also a relief to know that you can kill all 
 the civilians you want although it will result in a 0% mission completion at the end, but who really 
 cares about those? You continue on anyway! I, personally prefer allowing civilians to live but 
 at least you now have the choice to be good or evil. The new features are good for while they last 
 and I saw that because the game consists of, I think, 10 missions. Each taking about an hour to 
 complete if you eliminate almost every enemy and don't rush it. So the game does zoom by rather 
 quickly but it remains tense and fun for the whole time.
  
  The music suites the atmosphere extremely well. It stays slow and low key when you're creeping 
 about and picks up and speeds up your heartbeat as an enemy becomes suspicious of your actions. 
 Occasionally, you'll get a Mission: Impossible vibe as you creep through hallways listening to 
 the music. When there is no music playing you're treated to top-notch background sound effects 
 of things like police sirens or anything else you'd expect to hear in the scenerio that you are 
 in. The voice acting is great and the funny, amusing and sometimes serious dialogue is great. It 
 laughs at the previous games and the 3 alarms system and Sam's age. The only problem with the sound 
 is how much it picks up when someone starts to fire at you. The music blares and the character 
 always screams the same gibberish and fires like mad at you, forcing you to just load from the 
 last save.
  
  Probably what would have been the best part of the game, co op, is so glitchy I have yet to play 
 it. I didn't want to write my review without playing it but after the latest patch promising to 
 fix the problems, but coming short on that promise, I thought it was time to let loose and let 
 everyone know. The co op is the most faulty aspect of the game. I'm sure if you are lucky enough 
 to play it that it is extremely unique and fun although, if you can play it you're computer is 
 probably at risk. You see, Ubisoft cleverly covers up their shortcomings as a developer by posting 
 on their forums that co op is unique in that servers are hosted by both players that play and must 
 share the duty of keeping the server stable. Also, if you have firewalls, protection on wireless 
 routers or basically any other security feature enabled then co op won't work. So essentially, 
 you're PC must be totally vulernerable to hackers, viruses and other nasty treats for you to play. 
 And Ubi wonderfully makes it seem as though it were intentional. Well, I certainly hope not. So 
 far I have seen errors such as saying "Server doesn't exist" when it clearly does. "Server has 
 maximum number of players allowed." when it does not. I've seen it just tell me I can't connect 
 but then continue to say "Loading" or "Connecting" or whatever it says and do nothing. There is 
 no way to cancel this so you have to Ctrl-Alt-Del your way out of the game. I have seen it say 
 "Connecting" and then just return to the lobby screen as if it just gave up on connecting without 
 telling me.
  
  I'm going to come out and say it, I hate Ubisoft. Since their Rayman and Tonic Trouble days, I've 
 always hated them. But recently my hatred has reached a new high. I buy their games because they 
 are fortuante enough to publish and occasionally develop good games although more than anything 
 their useless and pointless ubi. com accounts are a major pain. They don't store your CD Key like 
 Valve's brilliant Steam system, it's just a pain. I have about 90 accounts and can never remember 
 the password because it needs both letters and numbers. Basically every named in existance has 
 been taken, on co op I tried "fattyfatfat" and it was taken. How could that be? 
  
  Not only that but a friend of mine has encountered several technical problems on versus for Chaos 
 Theory and we have both pestured Ubisoft technical support to see what kind of response we could 
 get. Naturally, we got some of the worst technical support I've ever seen. I once had to call Ubi 
 support line for Far Cry and it was the most painful experience of my life. The poor support is 
 especially bad when the game is released in such a crippling state it wouldn't be able to survive 
 in this world if it weren't backed by the "Tom Clancy" and "Splinter Cell" name.
  
  I could ramble on for hours about Ubi's poor support and poor condition they have left Chaos Theory 
 in. But, in a nutshell gamers who enjoy espionage will find the most elaborate stealth game ever 
 made in the single player campaign. It's all out hi-tech stealth warfare in one simply great story 
 mode. The single player is an instant classic and while I have major problems with some aspects 
 of the game, never think that I don't think this game is brilliant, because I do.
  
  Both types of multiplayer are damaged by bugs but versus generally works for most people and is 
 easy to get into. The game is meant for single player and that's where most of the attention lies. 
 It's unfortuante since this could have scored a 9.0 or higher if it weren't for the utter lack 
 of attention Ubisoft paid this game that's calling out for help. The out-of-the-box problems haven't 
 been fixed by the first two patches and at this point is hard to say when they will be addressed 
 but the problems are so obvious and troubling you have to wonder how much effort was spent in fixing 
 the problems compared to how much effort was spent on marketing to see how much money could be 
 made on the faulty copy ready to be shipped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2005 2:13 pm PT
Review:  After being disappointed by Pandora Tomorrows thoroughly mediocre single player campaign, I was 
 highly skeptical of this title. However, Chaos Theory is vastly improved over its predecessors 
 in every way. The level design is much better, production values rival any game on any platform, 
 and the co-op mode is a fantastic addition to the series  provided it actually works. If the co-op 
 mode had a few more levels and hadnt been so terribly buggy, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory would 
 have been the best PC game in years. As it stands, it is still one of the finest stealth/action 
 games ever made, and every fan of the genre should own it.
  
  The cornerstone of this game is still the single player campaign. The previous titles have featured 
 strictly linear levels with small maps. Chaos Theory features much larger maps and a much larger 
 degree of freedom. It also boasts a much higher degree of interactivity with the environment. The 
 levels are still not open-ended by a long shot. They are best described as semi-linear. Each 
 level features a linear series of mini-challenges that usually have two or three solutions to them. 
 You might be able to enter a room through the front door or by a vent that comes from a storage 
 room, but you still end up in the same place. On average though, the design and flow of the levels 
 is excellent. The game keeps you moving towards your objectives without ever making you feel like 
 you are on rails. The best part about each level is the size. The levels are very large and typically 
 last you an hour or more, depending upon your style of gameplay. The games ten levels will probably 
 take you between 10 and 15 hours to finish.
  
  Each level also contains one or more optional objectives, and a scoring system that rates you based 
 upon how many alarms you set off and how many objectives you accomplish. This system works much 
 better than the three alarms and you fail or one alarm and you fail system of the previous 
 games. It also gives you incentive to replay each mission until you achieve a perfect score. 
 
  
  In addition to the better level design, the single play game features some other improvements. 
 Chief among them is much improved audio  namely, a huge number of sound bites and well-written 
 lines of dialog. The terrific voice acting from the first game has returned. You can interrogate 
 most guards, and most of the interrogation dialog offers some amusing moments, as well as some 
 useful gameplay tips. The atmospheric sound is superb as well. The terrific audio complements the 
 games gorgeous visuals, which easily rank amongst the best that the PC has to offer. Sam is decked 
 out in detail all over his body and all of his moves look very cool. The environments are beautiful 
 and the lighting is simply perfect. Chaos Theory sports arguably the finest production values in 
 any PC game to date.
  
  Does the gameplay have any faults? A few. One of them is inconsistency in the AI. The sharpness 
 of the AI occasionally changes, based upon the level. Sometimes guards wont notice if their buddy 
 gets knocked out three feet away from them. Other times, they will notice their KOed buddy when 
 he is in complete darkness 35 feet away. Another minor flaw is that the game favors an overly aggressive 
 approach versus a nonlethal approach. You will have to self-impose a no-kill rule to give yourself 
 some challenge in this game. Also, like its predecessors, the campaign lacks lasting value, and 
 the story is average.
  
  Once you are done with the single player campaign, a true treat awaits you on-line with the games 
 innovative co-op mode. This assumes that you can actually get it to work. More on that later. The 
 game mechanics of the co-op mode are largely the same as the single-player campaign, only this 
 time you have a partner, and there are more guards. The game also throws some high walls at you 
 that can only be scaled using special co-op moves. For example, you can give your friend a boost 
 to the top of a wall, and then he can let you climb up his back to get up over it. The result is 
 usually quite thrilling. The co-op mode is full of you take the guy on the right and Ill take 
 the guy on the left moments. Quietly taking out a room full of guards with your buddy is an experience 
 that is a unique and very memorable experience. This part of the game is a long, long overdue addition 
 to this genre, and you will probably be left hoping for an exclusively co-op game in the future.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the co-op mode is riddled with so many bugs that there is less than a 50% chance 
 that youll actually be able to play it. Even if you can, it requires a lot of work to get it right. 
 Ubisoft is currently working on another patch, but until it is complete, you shouldnt rely on 
 being able to play co-op. There are also only four co-op levels, and you cant save your progress. 
 If these issues didn't exist, Chaos Theory would be worthy of a 9.3+ score. Nonetheless, co-op 
 mode adds a lot to the overall package and helps elevate the game to elite status.
  
  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory has breathed new life into a series that was on the risk of going 
 stale. It sets high standards for production values and, in the meantime, provides an innovative 
 new gameplay mode. The single player is by far the best of the series, and co-op is pure ecstasy 
 --- if you can actually get it to work. As an added bonus, a DVD-ROM version is available too. 
 Sooner or later, you should own Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  This being the second splinter cell game ive played I thought it was in some ways better than the 
 previous but in some ways worse.. I thought the way the game alowed more freedom was a big improvement 
 over the other two.. the scoring idea was great allowing for more replayability, ive already gone 
 through it twice, Instantly failing the mission for doing something slightly stupid was really 
 bad about the other 2.. The graphics kicked booty in this one to.. But the other 2 games the enviroments 
 seemed more varied and interesting although linear .. Chaos Theory also seemed much less challenging 
 darker and slower paced than the other ones .. I think anyone just getting into the splinter cell 
 games should start with chaos theory though.. all of them are great games im working on pandora 
 tomorrow now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedofide
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  this game is incredible. I have played the first two and have always been a fan but they really 
 did a great job with this one. 
  The graphics if you have a high end PC is easily the best out there. All the details as far as 
 dynamic shadows, normal mapping, parallax mapping, and to top it off with pixel shader 3.0. I like 
 the new soft shadows it just adds that next step of realism. My only complaint with the graphics 
 is the faces on the NPC's are really plastic looking, but hey they look like real plastic.
  The sound is up there with the graphics as well, the first level in the cave really gives you a 
 good idea of what the capabilities are. The echoes off the walls and just all the little affects 
 that you don't think about but really just adds more to the overall feel.
  The gameplay really is awesome to, it's a lot of fun to be able to complete the mission multiple 
 ways, it really gives you that replayability. I like that you can either play it as stealth and 
 not kill anyone or you can really make it a challange and try to kill everybody. The AI is so incredible 
 that the enemies are the most intelligent that I have every seen. They will work together to find 
 you as well as one will flank you while the other comes at you head on.
  If you have every played either one of the first two you will love this one and if not you will 
 meet your first love. All the details are just phenomenal this is a must have for any gamer who 
 likes action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is the next installment in this popular stealth-action series. Unlike 
 Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, it uses a completely new engine, and features a cooperative multiplayer 
 mode. While the Versus mode, which is SC: CTs competitive mode uses the same engine as the Versus 
 mode in SC: PT used, there were some improvements made. All this comes together for the best game 
 in the series, regardless of its flaws. 
  
  The game takes place in 2007. In the single player mode of the game, you will once again take control 
 of Sam Fisher, a Splinter Cell, member of the Third Echelon, a secret organization inside the NSA. 
 As usually, Fisher carries out all kinds of super secret mission, when avoiding detection as much 
 as possible, and in the end averts conflicts, wars, and other unpleasant stuff. The game has an 
 interesting Tom Clancy-esque story that revolves around information warfare. In the SP campaign, 
 Fisher will visit such locales as New York and Hokkaido, an island of Japan, in order to gather 
 information and eliminate targets. Overall, the story is in the usual Splinter Cell style  it 
 involves a lot of people, some plot twists, and overall it might not be impressive, but its good, 
 and fits the game nonetheless.
  
  Besides changes in graphics, SC: CT also features a lot of changes in gameplay, compared to previous 
 games. Sam Fisher is now more deadly, and is free to exercise his fifth freedom, allowing him to 
 kill anyone he wants to achieve his objectives, more freely. The game incorporates many new moves, 
 many of them involving Sams new knife. While in the previous games, the basic and most often used 
 means to dispose of an enemy was an attack from behind, in Chaos Theory, Fisher has the ability 
 to use more attacks from different angles, both deadly, and less than lethal. This means you can 
 play the game in more than one way: you can be a deadly ninja that goes around and eliminates everyone 
 in a swift and stealthy fashion, occasionally triggering an alarm, and getting yourself in a firefight, 
 or you can be a shadow, that avoids his enemies and completes the mission without ever being seen. 
 Or something in between, if you want.
  
  Maps in CT also offer more freedom, compared to previous games. Although some of them are still 
 somehow linear, they do well to offer multiple paths, and generally make more sense. Maps are now 
 bigger, and will often require you to sneak through areas which you already visited, increasing 
 the sense of non-linearity. In addition to maps being bigger, you now get to choose which of three 
 pre-packaged kits you want for each mission, and you can choose one, depending on your style of 
 playing: if you want to be stealthy, youll take the stealthy kit, or if you like to kill people, 
 youll take the assault kit.
  
  The AI in CT is also improved. They notice things like open doors, or turned off lights, and become 
 more careful. They also remember previous events, and if you, for example, turn the same light 
 off twice, theyll see that theres something fishy going on, and will be even more competent in 
 checking all dark crevices for enemies. 
  
  Overall, the gameplay in SC: CT is fun. It might get boring after a while, but the campaign isnt 
 too long, and feels just right, compared to todays standards. The SP campaign also offers increased 
 replayability due to multiple paths that the player can take.
  
  In addition to the SP campaign, theres also a brand new coop mode. PC games today lack good cooperative 
 modes, so coop in SC: CT is a welcome change. Coop plays very much like the SP campaign, except 
 instead of playing all by yourself, youll play with a human partner. That allows you to use some 
 interesting tactics, and makes the gameplay somehow different from SP, although still similar enough 
 to make you feel at home. While coop is fun, its only fun when it works. At the time of writing 
 this, there are still a lot of bugs in coop, and some of them make the mode impossible to play. 
 However, Ubi promised that they would release patches, and even additional downloadable content, 
 for the quite short coop mode. Still, it would be nice if they could release a game that works 
 out of the box, without needing any patches.
  
  The third mode of SC: CT is the spy versus merc mode. Its a 2v2 multiplayer mode, in which two 
 of the players are spies, and two of the players are mercenaries. Mercs are basically guards, and 
 they play in first person, using various gadgets to detect and eliminate spies, who play in third 
 person perspective, and use various gadgets to distract, disable or hide from mercs while completing 
 objectives. This game mode is unique, and highly original. It is very different from your usual 
 deathmatch, and it is also very different from the SP and coop portions of SC: CT. SvM is very exciting 
 on both the spy side, and the merc side, though it might take some time to learn the game, due 
 to its uniqueness. The bad thing about SvM is that it is very similar to the same mode in SC: PT. 
 The SC: CT version features new maps, gadgets, and is better balanced than its predecessor, but 
 it still seems that its just an update to the old game. The game ships with a level editor for 
 SvM, so theres probably going to be some custom maps released for the game mode, which somehow 
 increases its replayability.
  
  Splinter Cell games were always known for their good graphics, and Chaos Theory certainly stays 
 true to that. The lighting was always an important part of SC games due to the fact that shadows 
 are an important part of gameplay, and in SC: CT is looks great. The various locales also are well 
 done graphically, and often create a specific atmosphere to them. Animations for Sams various 
 new attacks are very well done, and implementation of ragdoll effects makes the game both better 
 looking, and adds to gameplay. The Versus mode is another story though  it looks very much like 
 SC: PT, since it uses the same engine, and the graphical differences stand out very much. You can 
 get over it, and just play the game, but it wouldve been nice if SvM featured better graphics. 
 
  
  Besides looking good, SC: CT also sounds good. The music background by Amon Tobin fits the game 
 very well. The voice-overs of main characters are as good as ever, and contribute to the style 
 of the game. The voice-overs of enemy characters are also good, and even though sometimes its 
 it apparent that theyre put together from different sound bits, it is nice to hear enemies asking 
 one another Did you hear that? and then hear a reply along the lines of Yes. The game lets 
 you switch between accented English voices, and voice-overs in characters languages, which is 
 a nice addition, however, not completely so, as some of the conversations between guards can, for 
 some reason, revert to accented English. 
  
  Overall, the latest installment in the Splinter Cell series is the best one ever. It stays true 
 to the original, while still incorporating plenty of new stuff. For people who were never fans 
 of SC, this game isnt going to convince them to like the series, but those who liked previous 
 Splinter Cells are going to enjoy Chaos Theory.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2005 2:14 am PT
Review:  Even though Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory is the third game in the series, it is the best one yet. 
 They stick to the "If it ain't broke don't fix it" theory with this game, and add an awesome new 
 multiplayer gameplay experience with a coop experience unlike any other. The single player game 
 gives the gamer once again, the opportunity to save the world, while using some fun gadgets and 
 weaponry.
  
  The single-player game encourages the player to avoid conflict and termination of enemy individuals. 
 Players score higher if one can complete a mission by avoiding guards, or knocking them out without 
 killing them. Thankfully there are several munitions available to help with this task. Aside from 
 hiding in the dark and sneaking up on individuals, the standard fare of gas bombs, airfoil rounds, 
 and sitcky shockers are on hand, and how much you carry with you can be determined before the mission 
 starts.
  
  Like previous Splinter Cell games, you have close contact with tactical ops during the missions. 
 There are also multiple paths to complete every mission as well. The player can also decide whether 
 to go 100% stealth or take a full assault path, however being too aggressive will eventually spawn 
 alarms, which after several will bring a full army after you and/or you will fail the mission.
 
  
  Players of previous Splinter Cell games will be delighted with more of the same with a few graphical 
 improvements and some new tricks up Sam Fisher's sleeve. New gamers will probably find it exciting 
 enough to want to go out and buy the previous Splinter Cell games, which I highly recommend as 
 well.
  
  Splinter Cell is always a refreshing change from the normal sea of FPS games on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinoff
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 13, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher's back for the third time around in Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, the celebrated series 
 which brought hardcore stealth-action game play firmly into the mainstream. While there are some 
 innovations to the tried-and-true game play, Chaos Theory really shows off the "If it ain't broke 
 don't fix it" mantra of a solid series and proves that Ubisoft really can do no wrong with the 
 series.
  
  For those unknowing few, Splinter Cell casts you as Sam Fisher, covert operative for a U. S. government 
 agency known as Third Echelon. It's Sam's job to constantly go alone into hostile territory in 
 order to protect freedom and the American way from all manner of terrorist activities and other 
 manner of villains. Because it is one man against an army, the concept of stealth plays the biggest 
 role in the series, where a run-and-gun action is a guaranteed suicide ticket.
  
  Chaos Theory's storyline plays out like this: information warfare has become the biggest threat 
 to global security, and rising tensions between East Asian powers sends Fisher on a series of missions 
 to find out just what is the source of these attacks upon sovereign nations. Splinter Cell was 
 never revered for its story and Chaos Theory is no different. Story is there to give a reason for 
 the game play, and for the most part the events of the story will take a back seat to the action.
 
  
  Control-wise Chaos Theory plays almost identically to its predecessor Pandora Tomorrow with a few 
 noticeable exceptions. Sam has a few new moves, notably his knife which is used as his "persuasion" 
 device (rather than the gun-to-the-head of past games) and also can cut thin material, stab enemies, 
 etc. There is also a new vision mode, electronic detection which can coincidentally see the flow 
 of electricity which allows you to cut power to certain objects and related activities throughout 
 the game. A few moves have been enhanced, including Fisher's abilities will hanging or otherwise 
 suspended on objects. He can now hang from a pipe and pull off an inverted sleeper hold and other 
 nasty surprises for the unaware sentry.
  
  If there is one thing Splinter Cell has always excelled at it is presentation, and Chaos Theory 
 is certainly no slouch. Regardless of what system you play on (but especially on Xbox and PC) the 
 game is simply gorgeous with excellent animations, lighting, and backgrounds. Between such visuals 
 as flimsy material which reacts to the character's movements and light which bends and refracts 
 depending on the surfaces, Chaos Theory is a joy to look at.
  
  In the sound department Michael Ironside reprises his role as the gruff voice of Fisher, and for 
 the most part the voice acting is done extremely well, although why every single terrorist you 
 interrogate seems to be able to speak perfect English is beyond my reckoning. Add in impressive 
 sound effects of the usual bangs and cracks along with well-done weather effects and you have a 
 very acceptable sound package.
  
  Now we come to the additional features of Chaos Theory, which really make it a game worth owning 
 (at least on the PC, Xbox & PS2) : multi-player. The excellent Mercs vs. Spies multi-player scheme 
 of Pandora Tomorrow is back and better than ever with all of the tension and team play which made 
 the previous games' MP action so great. In addition to the versus mode is a new addition to the 
 Splinter Cell games: Cooperative play. Playable both online and in split-screen, you and a friend 
 play as a couple of up-and-coming Third Echelon splinter cells through a series of missions which 
 emphasize working together to get back obstacles and the like. While the co-op missions are not 
 as well polished as the single-player mode's are, they are an exciting time if you can get a friend 
 together working as a well coordinated team to pull off some exciting tag-team kills from the shadows. 
 It must be noted that it is here the GC hits a glaring weakness: NO ONLINE PLAY. Much like almost 
 every other multi-platform game released these days, the GC gets no online love in Chaos Theory, 
 which definitely lowers the value of it when compared to the other three versions of the game.
 
  
  Splinter Cell, while it still remains a "love-it-or-hate-it" style of play, cannot be faulted for 
 the quality gaming experience it delivers which each new rendition. Chaos Theory doesn't break 
 the mold as much as Pandora Tomorrow did by introducing the multi-player aspect, but it does refine 
 and establish a few new tricks which definitely make it of great interest for those interested 
 in a little more than just twitch-based action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Again, here comes the time to wear Sam Fisher's enhanced suit in order to infiltrate thoughtfully 
 crafted levels of tactical goodness, beginning in South American locations and a boat, through 
 Asian spots based on a scenario involving North Korea. The character has now a wide repertoire 
 of stealthy moves to use - some being more aesthetic than useful - when the player can choose, 
 for the first time really in the series, to be more aggressive if ticking the ''assault'' mode. 
 ( Yes, I said It wasn't my intention to make it, in my way too short and lame Pandora Tomorrow 
 review, but I can't resist - and glad to embark again, requiring a longer analysis now ) .
  
  Ubisoft Montral has done it right at delivering hare a superbly updated Splinter Cell in Chaos 
 Theory, increasingly reshuffling Fisher's ways to move around in more opened levels. The team seems 
 to have synthesised the best parts of the prequels, acknowledging the importance of polish: fluid, 
 responsive controls; great interactivity; said additional moves not overly shadowing the classical 
 ones; fantastic shadowing & lighting; spies vs mercs ( upon Pandora Tomorrow ) ; and a sense of 
 humor spreading the surprising fun factor emanating from a tight stealth game ( face it, Fisher 
 IS old ! ) . Though you can play action oriented this time, no alarms limit, be aware that hardcore 
 purists will be much rewarded at playing very stealthy: past three alarms in a level, you can now 
 continue but coerced to complete it primary only - without completing secondary, opportunity or 
 bonus objectives that can be nifty goals to reach for boosting your success percentage, which is 
 collated in the statistics. It represents your stealth ratio during the mission. 
  
  As such, the exquisite match of stealth and action is pure synergy, for an entirely different feeling 
 next to the Metal Gear Solid series so many times compared with. Frankly, the two franchises rely 
 on somewhat too much antagonistic features to be really compared each other adequately. It's almost 
 black and white: SC CT exhibits a sublime mix, a refined infiltration game while MGS delivers brutal 
 action through a devious characterization, loudly weapons and story wise derivative. It's finesse 
 vs controlled adrenaline. There is a pick for everyone.
  
  Either the player chooses the single levels, detailed, varied, engaging, or the multiplayer options 
 spies vs mercs running smoothly, nicely tweaked over Pandora, everything infuses the neonised feel 
 issued by.... dare we say conventional mechanics of dja vu, though what a meticulous layout is 
 seamlessly reproduced here for , again, a fluid experience.
  
  However, there are still minor yet annoying issues to deal with that can be easily overlooked depending 
 of your gameplay style. 1) The co-op mode is rather difficult to use, to prep, be sure to have 
 a friend ready to embark at the same time; 2) mission briefings by superior Lambert and other colleagues 
 are.... boring, bland interface; 3) level connectivity could have been better, partly due to some 
 plot holes, and 2; 4) the ''plastic'' feel provided by overuse of bump mapping and reflection surfaces 
 may irritate some purists; 5) the overuse of night vision, when thermal + EMF only needed scarcely 
 in later missions.
  
  Everything's already said about the impressive graphics displayed, from resolution to texturing. 
 Shadowing is especially thinkered, as expected in this kind of atmospheric experience. Some coloring 
 overly hued like the dawn's orange skies of Hokkaido can be pretty much unrealistic, yet strangely 
 serves the layout well. The devs clearly know how to modify a Unreal engine. Also worthy of mention, 
 virtually no clipping issues were experienced from start to finish - same for multiplayer. Animations 
 are on par; the only drawback technically speaking of, for an otherwise flawless graphical construct, 
 relates to average character details, also some lack of modeling and facial expressions. Yet who 
 cares when constantly playing in the dark?
  
  The audio track is sumptuous. Amon Tobin knows how to tune her work, use the frequencies smoothly, 
 the right way for an outstanding result almost too easy for the team to implement it thereafter. 
 It's always good to hear professional talkers, like actor Michael Ironside. That said, the sounds 
 themselves remain practically unchanged since the original a few years ago, sometimes underwhelming. 
 That's why only a ''8'' here. Oh, the shotgun attachment is NOT that underwhelming though= a portable 
 cannon, 120 decibels of noise out of place transcending all the rest.
  
  As the third chapter of the Splinter Cell series, CT delivers the goods and more. It is still hugely 
 based on trial and error, especially if you want to reach a good stealth score. For that, only 
 fans of the genre could be tempted to dig it extensively. But being one of those very rare games 
 boasting both a great SP campaign and MP options, highly replayable, at a point of becoming the 
 new reference, then newcomers may be welcomed to embark on this high tech survey combining realism 
 and fiction so efficiently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tode
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 10, 2005 12:27 am PT
Review:  I guess 1st person shooters are becoming the thing of the past. As I was playing the game I had 
 this nagging feeling that I had been here before. To much time in black & White night vision. Thermal 
 vision left a lot to be desired. If you have a hi tech item. make it usable. HUD zoom mode is another 
 looser. One scene I sneak up on a sleeping sentry from his left side. Now this man is cutting some 
 timber. I get right on top of him and he jumps straight up fireing his weapon directly at me. I 
 didn't yell and shout like a mad fool while I was doing all this cat footing around in sneak mode. 
 How the hell did he know I was to his left and that I wasn't his kid brother. This happened often 
 when I got club footed and alerted someone. I soon became a game. I would save and then go up to 
 a sentry/guard and whistle. I mean, full alutomatic in my face. Not aby your leave" or a "halt, 
 who goes there" of any kind. Bangidy! Bangidy! Bangidy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the collectors edition, as i enjoyed the previous two splinter cell games. I got this 
 game knowing i'd at the least be in for my antics with Sam Fisher and i'd enjoy it at least as 
 much as the other two. I knew the graphics would be better, but i didnt realize the difference 
 in gameplay and enviroment that has been included in this lastest installment.
  
  The graphics in CT push SC to the next level, as shadows and lighting are the primary focus in 
 all SC, it's an obvious and wise decision that it was where they focused most of the graphical 
 inhancements too. Visually, if your comp is high-end or mid ground, its going to look very nice. 
 Espcially those including me that can use the Shader 3.0 support, whichs even adds to the great 
 look of the lights/shadows. I was blown away at how nice the game looked, but even more impressed 
 with the gameplay.
  
  I found while playing CT, that i didnt want to rush through it, even tho it gives you the choice 
 of going partially rambo style through the missions, or covert. I found by going covert, you really 
 get a nice long chance to take in all the game has to offer, from secondary/opt objectives. When 
 i was playing i found myself combing the level over one or two times when i was finished taking 
 everyone out, just to make sure i had tryed everything. Because unlike the previous two SC's, this 
 one adds, more objectives and multiple pathways to completeing those objectives.
  
  If you have a 5.1 sound card, youll be impressed, as it takes full advantage, and it can help you 
 hear where guardsa are coming from, or from where there talking. The sound is to be as expected, 
 but i found it was better then pandora. Also i love the scores for each lvl, they fit each level 
 perfect, you'll know what im talking about when you visit the bank lvl, etc. I found in this game 
 they made the sound tie in with the overall experience making it more immerisve. And when you put 
 that with its gameplay and looks, it keeps you coming back and gives you the feeling your really 
 there and in control. 
  
  Now, the single player along is worth throwing the money at, but they've also brought back the 
 mutliplayer, which was diffently the strong point of pandora. As well bringing back a few maps 
 from pandora and adding some large sized maps, with more complex things to do. Some maps seem like 
 a spy's playground, while others are more tight and mercs will have an advantage. But overall all 
 maps are done well and balanced which just makes it come down to skill in the end.
  
  Overall, i found myself sitting for 3-4 hrs at a time and time flying while playing, im just enjoying 
 it to much. If your have a high-mid lvl pc, or xbox, dont waste your money on anything else, what 
 more could you want then a very good lenght single player campaign and an intense multiplayer mode. 
 As well as the addition of co-op. I havent tried co-op yet, but i; ve only heard good things..... hey, 
 who doesnt like co-op? Diffently better then SC 1 & 2 put together.
  
  Now stop reading this long review and go buy it, i promise you won't regret it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3_eyed_weasel
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 2, 2005 5:45 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell 3 Is a game that exceeds every game I bought in 2005 and 2004 combined.
  
  Single player
  The main portion of the game. The single player in SC is basically kill/knock 
 out people, and doing stuff. The catch is if you are ever caught doing these things, your in big 
 trouble, thanks to the alarm system. "BUT WEASEL!" you say. "I thought the alarm system in SC was 
 complete crap!" Well wrongo! At least for Chaos theory. Yes, that system has been removed to bring 
 in a new and better system. You don't lose as alarms go up, things just get hard. As so.
  Level 1: freebie
  Level 2: Jackets to take more hits
  Level 3: A bit harder
  Level 4: What 
 the hell are you doing? This is a stealth game. You get hard now!
  Level 5 or over: Screw it. Your dead eiher way.
  This allows more freedom for the player and 
 also makes sure they don't act like TOTAL idiots.
  You'll be hiding bodies, and shooting out lights to lower your chances of being found, because 
 in real life a dead gaurd USUALLY means something is up. Being seen in light is pretty much an 
 alarm there, and the new sound system allows for great fun. Lets say it's raining outside, well 
 you can pretty much run, seeing as how everyone can only hear the rain. But lets say it's so quiet 
 you hear the guys heartbeat. Well then in that case, loudness is pretty much means "Face full of 
 lead."
  On the topic of lighitng did I mention the lighting and graphics are **** hot? I mean really **** 
 hot! Damn these graphics are great! The detail is fine, barely any jaged edges, water dropping 
 and lighting as if it were real. Low compressed movies and screenshots aren't good enough. You 
 NEED to see this game! It's just (insert mindblowing phrase)
  Story shouldn't be spoiled so I won't say much. Expect a lot of twists and Tom Clancyesque cutscenes 
 thrown in. The story is often said to be to confusing and bland, but they just can't think.
  Overalll the SP gives a good, long campaign with lots of replayability......... oh and a lot of 
 new moves/items are in, but I don't like writing things you can find on any preview.
  
  Co-op
  Just cut and paste everything I said for SP and add the next paragraph.
  The only differences 
 between Co-op and SP are...
  1. You have 2 splinter cells *duh*
  2. The whistle button is out and replaced with a co-op button. This button allows cool looking 
 moves *they're useful as well, but not the point* like throwing your partner up and climbing on 
 him to reach high places. Putting down a rope so your partner can climb it. And a move where you... throw 
 your partner.... at terrorrists. That just screams total awsomeness right there. You have to see 
 it though.
  3. The whistle button is removed because now, you have voice proximity. So now you can curse at 
 both your partner's AND the terrorists stupidity. But be warned that the terrorist can do something. 
 So keep your voices to whisper..... at least when I play with you.
  
  Spies vs. Mercenaries
  So you heard ON AND ON AND ON about this mode and it's ... revoloutianary 
 ... esqueness. Well what you heard is probably true. Shadownet *3rd person spies who sneak around 
 completeing objectives with non lethal equipment* And argus *1st person mercs who run around and 
 kill spies preventing them from completing the job* are teamed up on a map to do...... well I already 
 said it. If you liked PT then you'll love this. Mercs are now stronger, with more weapons, stronger 
 attacks and the what not. Spies have been weakened and cheap ass strategies like douple jumping 
 and spam smoking are removed *thanks to the gasmask.* and spies were never meant to kill, which 
 means less deathmatch, more story.
  The best addition to both teams are the use of teamwork. Mercs and spies can now heal each other, 
 and co op moves have been implemnted for spies.
  The main addition for spies *besides co-op* is the "camo suit" which makes characters "invisible" 
 Which is total BS. Countless times have I seen spies walking with camo, it just makes the background 
 distorted which most people thought was perfectly invisible in a Mercs eye. It only works well 
 in shadows, but your invisible ANWAY!
  The main addition for mercs are the 2 weapons and poison mine. The 2 weapons *shotgun and uzi* 
 are nice. The shotgun *though UGLY* is basically 1 hit KO up close *but spies are deadly up close 
 so you'd wan't to keep them far* The uzi shoots fast..... really fast. And that's it. The old rifle 
 is the only one that has a sniper joint, and it's rate of fire has been lowered for the uzi.
  Maps are big and very interactable and provide for great fun *or you could just look at the pretiness.
 
  
  Complaints
  Not a whole lot. I gave it a 9.9 for two reasons.
  1. On xbox, lighting isn't as profound. Meaning, on PC where your in a shadow and the light meter 
 is at zero, the only thing you see is Sams goggles. In xbox you can still see Sam sometimes.
  2. The PC controls are a bit weird, whereas it's better for Xbox
  
  Don't listen to Greg. "The 
 maps are too big and for hardcore gamers only" Well Greg, this site is MADE for hardcore gamers
 
  "The Graphics get a 9" I don't need to comment even the slightest bit on it. That and ALL his 
 latest reviews praise how awsome the game is yet it gets such a low score.
  
  I'll be Weasel_3-eyed on the PC version of this game. So if you wanna play PM me. *weekdays aren't 
 available** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRBottom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  Let me break down the third installment to the Splinter Cell series:
  
  Gameplay:
  Here you get that classic Splinter Cell feel of sneaking through the shadows and following closely 
 behind those oh so lovable bad guys. However, with the addition of the knife, the gameplay was 
 changed just enough to still be unique and enjoyable.
  One of the things I liked is that you can interrogate many more people, a lot of them randomly 
 placed throughout the scenario. Also, when you have an enemy in your clutches, arm around his neck, 
 knife shaving his beard, you have the option to strangle him silently or make a more flashy kick 
 to the back, breaking his back, and sometimes sending him over a railing into various places.
 
  New moves are also added. The ability to grab and kill enemies from hanging on a ledge to wound 
 around a pipe really add depth and more options for clearing an area.
  The 3D map is a little confusing at first, but once you get the hang of it, it is very useful for 
 finding objectives in the very large levels.
  I'm nowhere near finished, but so far the game has brought me very unique and difficult challenges. 
 The enemy AI on the hard difficulty is much more challenging then the boneheaded set patrol walkers 
 of Pandora Tomorrow.
  
  Graphics:
  This game is beautiful. The shadows, reflections, and textures are done wonderfully. Sam is the 
 highlight of the show. Every detail on his suit and face really brings out the silent killer in 
 him. Just WOW.
  
  Sound:
  I've always loved the music in Splinter Cell, and Chaos Theory is no different. The environments 
 and beautifully recorded soundtrack really place you on that ship or in the lighthouse. Plus, Sam's 
 voice just runs chills down your spine.
  
  Value:
  Right now, with a slightly short single player, and a buggy mulitplayer, I'd give the game a 7 
 for Value, but due to my hope of future patches, with improved multiplayer that helps with disconnects, 
 I give the game a 9.
  
  Thing I left out:
  - New function with pistol to temporarly take out a light, very neat idea.
  - Ability to chose 
 your layout, though limited, adds a nice touch.
  - Beautiful and eye popping cinematics.
  - I happen to really like the story line behind the Splinter Cell games despite what others think. 
 This one has a good base to keep you in it.
  - Coop, if you can play it, is very fun and unique.
  - Expect the same great versus mode of Pandora 
 Tomorrow with a little extra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylore2003
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of The Splinter Cell Series, so when I heard of this newest installment I jumped 
 on the Band-Wagon. Usually when you do this the End result is a disappointing Mistake. However 
 I was not disappointed. The Level design is superb; The New moves add extra excitement. And the 
 multi-player is Amazing. Its one of the Best First Person Action games on the market now. If you 
 are a Fan of Espionage and like to sneak up on random terrorists and snap their necks, you will 
 love this game. UI do however have some complaints. The Jokes as many have said are Lamey lame 
 lame. And sometimes it fells monotonous. But all n all its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy stealth action games, you'll love Chaos Theory. It's that simple. The feel and spirit 
 of Pandora Tomorrow is perfectly recreated in this sequel.
  
  There has been a trend for increased expectations in sequels, which is not always fair. Not every 
 sequel demands the risk of innovation in style or gameplay. Chaos Theory adds no new innovations. 
 But what it does it does well, and there is no need to apologize for that. Chaos Theory is a refined 
 version of Pandora Tomorrow which varies the gameplay, and provides opportunities for replay that 
 Pandora Tomorrow simply could not.
  
  As a result, it provides a nearly perfect example of addictive gameplay in a stealth shooter.
 
  
  Pandora Tomorrow did admittedly have some problems, including lack of replay value. But the missions 
 in Chaos Theory are far more open to experimentation. There are often multiple approaches to objectives 
 for each level, and the game does not often throw irritating limitations that force you to replay 
 levels. No, in Chaos Theory you are far more free to choose your own way through the level. In 
 that way, you feel that you are really playing the game rather than simply figuring out the path 
 the designers want you to follow. This adds immensely to the depth of the game.
  
  The game's presentation and graphics are top notch and solid. Voice acting was also top notch. 
 I found the story engaging, if a bit difficult to follow at points. Like in the past, the story 
 is really told in between levels rather than during them, which isn't terribly different from other 
 FPS games, with the exception of (maybe) Half Life 2.
  
  I have not finished the game yet, but I have found difficulty to be a mixed bag. Some early levels 
 have been a bit easy. For those who are veterans, play at the higher difficulty level to keep things 
 interesting.
  
  Overall, it's hard not to recommend this game to stealth FPS fans. In many ways, it is the best 
 available refinement of the genre. Nothing earth-shattering here, but if you liked Pandora Tomorrow, 
 there is simply no reason why you won't enjoy Chaos Theory as much or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game looks great, plays great and simply put is the KING of 3rd person stealth games.
  If you are worried about being dissappointed or losing your money on this title do not be.... The 
 game looks like real life.. i might even go so far as to say it looks better than half-life 2. Smooth 
 gameplay and terrifi support will guarantee this game to be around a long long time.
  The british have James Bond (007 spy) well Americans have Sam Fisher (splinter cell spy) and the 
 two of them working together in a game would seriously blow peoples minds.
  That would be a great idea for a game bring british and American spies together to kick some serious 
 butt.
  anyways the sound is just awesome in this you hear the rain dropping around you as you crouch in 
 the shadows waiting to take out a guard or merc..... it is so immersive you feel as if you are really 
 there.. and your heart starts pumping fast and faster the closer a merc gets to you... make a decision 
 take him out or sneak away into the shadows undetected.
  If you are a fan of run/gun this is not for you but if you like tactics and being covert then buy 
 it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
