-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tomclancysrainbowsixrs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.6, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,004 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Red Storm Entertainment
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Aug 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Rogue Spear is in many ways a much better game than its similar predecessor, it too is not 
 without a laundry list of problems. 

 Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six was the sort of game whose unique style managed to win people over despite 
 its noticeable flaws. When developer Red Storm Entertainment set out to create a sequel, it must 
 have figured that deviating from Rainbow Six's winning game plan would be a mistake. As a result, 
 though Rogue Spear is in many ways a much better game than its similar predecessor, it too is not 
 without a laundry list of problems.  

 In Rogue Spear, once again the elite Rainbow team is called upon to put the kibosh on terrorist 
 activity around the globe. At first, these terrorist incidents appear to be random events, but 
 as you progress through the game you will uncover the disturbing forces behind the new wave of 
 terror. Following Mr. Clark's detailed mission briefings and background information, you will lead 
 your team against these sinister powers and help make the world a better place.  

 The most obvious improvement in Rogue Spear is the graphics engine, which has been heavily modified 
 to allow greater levels of detail, larger mission environments, and better character animations. 
 Most of the scenarios are simply gorgeous and are amazingly detailed. Buildings are richly decorated, 
 while outdoor areas are more lifelike than before. In most indoor areas, even the most out-of-the-way 
 rooms are highly detailed, complete with random civilians wandering around in some areas, like 
 a fat guy in a towel heading to the sauna. Rogue Spear also includes weather effects, such as snow 
 and rain, which can hamper your ability to see and hear terrorists.  

 One graphic enhancement you definitely won't miss is the vastly improved character animation. Not 
 only do the 3D models in Rogue Spear look more realistic, they also move in a more lifelike fashion. 
 A slew of new motion-captured animations have terrorists bolting out of rooms when you hurl a flashbang, 
 rushing to investigate strange noises, and dying in a seemingly endless array of dramatic Hollywood-quality 
 deaths. Your own team members will also maneuver in a variety of new ways, including moving in 
 a crouched position and limping severely when they've been wounded. The game still suffers from 
 polygonal clipping problems, but overall it looks a lot better than Rainbow Six.  

 Rogue Spear is at heart the same game as Rainbow Six, only with a number of new features that enhance 
 the overall experience. For starters, you can now crouch and peek around corners. These are perhaps 
 the most useful new features in the game, since they let you remain stealthy and peek into rooms 
 before entering them. Also, you can now bring along dedicated snipers, who set up shop and pick 
 off tangos with deadly accuracy when you give the word. Though there are only a handful of missions 
 where snipers are genuinely useful, it still is nice to have them as an option. Also, you can now 
 order your troops to cover or defend specific areas when they hold for a go-code, which is another 
 great feature that is absolutely critical on several missions.  

 Rogue Spear has several new weapons, including three different sniper rifles and several new assault 
 rifles. However, this is a mixed blessing since 90 percent of the missions require the utmost stealth 
 and secrecy. Most mission briefings warn you that the terrorists will flee or kill hostages (thereby 
 ruining your operation) if they catch the slightest hint of your approach, and for this reason, 
 you almost always want to carry a suppressed weapon to keep things on the sly.  

 The watch mode introduced in the Eagle Watch mission pack is still available in Rogue Spear. This 
 lets you plan a mission and then have your operatives carry it out while you look on in safety. 
 You can also jump in and assume control at any time.  

 The game introduces several new operatives, including a number of characters from the Rainbow Six 
 novel and a few additional leader-types (so you don't have to worry quite so much about losing 
 Chavez any more) . Rogue Spear also offers 18 missions, two more than Rainbow Six. Once you complete 
 a mission, you have the option of trying it again in two great new game modes: Lone Wolf, which 
 challenges you to traverse the map alone, with randomly placed tangos on the alert, and Terrorist 
 Hunt, which lets you wander the map in an effort to liquidate each and every bad guy. In both modes, 
 all additional elements are thrown out, including hostages and bombs, so it's just you against 
 the bad guys. Also, Rogue Spear retains the practice mission and branch campaign options from the 
 original game.  

 Unfortunately, in addition to all the new features, Rogue Spear also includes some significant gameplay 
 imbalances. On the one hand, Red Storm has significantly fine-tuned the enemy AI. Terrorists now 
 react much more realistically to everything that happens around them. Not only that, but they react 
 very quickly and shoot very straight, and they rarely, if ever, miss their targets. By itself, 
 this would not be a problem, but because the friendly team AI is so flaky, the game can be overwhelmingly 
 difficult for all the wrong reasons.  

 In several areas, particularly on the Kosovo and hijacked airliner missions, the terrorists always 
 react faster than your men - always. In fact, your computer-controlled team members tend to move 
 and react much less effectively than they did in Rainbow Six. True, they don't get hung up in doorways 
 quite as often as they used to, but they don't survive missions as often either. Worse yet, your 
 guys still get stuck on ladders on occasion and even fall off elevated walkways, sometimes fatally. 

 Part of the problem here lies in the mission-planning phase of each operation. For the most part, 
 this mode is exactly as it was in the original Rainbow Six. The major differences include support 
 for the new action orders (cover, defend, snipe) and an improved 3D view of each mission area. 
 However, even with the 3D view enabled, you seldom get a good feel for the operation area until 
 you actually enter the mission. This causes countless problems while planning missions, because 
 you often can't tell what sort of area you're asking your troops to pass through.  

 Also, because of its larger and more intricate mission areas, Rogue Spear could have seriously benefited 
 from a much smoother, more intuitive, and less cluttered planning interface. In Rainbow Six, mission 
 planning was one of the highlights of the game. In Rogue Spear, it feels more like a chore. Planning 
 the stealth-only missions in this game, in fact, is almost absurdly difficult given the size of 
 the mission map and the numerous guards scattered around it.  

 On a more positive note, Rogue Spear's multiplayer options are phenomenal. The game offers several 
 adversarial modes, including assassination, in which you attempt to defend an NPC general, and 
 stronghold, in which one team must defend its base from the other team's attack. The game is playable 
 on both Mplayer and MSN Gaming Zone, though your mileage will most certainly vary on both services. 
 Yet while the game's multiplayer options are impressive, the performance seems to be all over the 
 place. Many users have complained loudly about sudden network drops and crash bugs, while others 
 rave about the game's stability. Passing final judgement on Rogue Spear is difficult. While it 
 has numerous noticeable problems, it retains the original game's charm and unique style. The new 
 features are good, particularly the addition of snipers and crouched movement. Multiplayer support 
 is also excellent, though it does still need tuning. Overall, the game succeeds almost in spite 
 of itself, because Rogue Spear is damn good at its core and more of a good thing for fans of the 
 original Rainbow Six.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LordAsher
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I remember getting this game way back when it was released and being depressed at the time because 
 my computer couldn't handle it. Ahh... the good old days when games were rather simple. Now-a-days 
 I have the game loaded on my computer and after several years of dust collecting I decided to play 
 it again and realized just what the hell was I thinking when I played the game. I remember being 
 able to get into the last few missions and being sooo damned good at it, now I can barely make 
 it past the first mission. On a further note, I do have to say that the reason I believe it to 
 be the best R6 game is because of the emmersive content that you can get into. From picking your 
 own camo and weapons (and even your own type of bullet) down to planning every action (including 
 setting up sniper traps) makes this game one of the most unique to this date. It saddend me to 
 see the R6 games go the way they did, several team members decked out in all the stuff you could 
 ever want to use in a mission to just a few team mates with very very little things to choose from. 
 I wish that Tom Clancy would step in and say, "Guys, we need to make another sequel to Rogue Spear 
 but we'll use the graphics and content of todays games in the emmersive content that we used in 
 the original Rogue Spear." Just the thought of seeing a game like that would make me giddy as a 
 school girl. Heres to hoping a dream like that will come true some day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  so.. i think this is a really great game!.. though i played rainbow six 3 first but when i played 
 this i saw very similar gameplay and tactics..
  these work well in a game like this.. i can see why tom clancys rainbow six didnt move on from this 
 game but just improved it!.. its really good!
  this games not very hard good gameplay but the way u use granades.... not so well... and as in most 
 of the tom clancy games.. u cant go melee!.. and somhow this game lags down my other computer. and 
 at the start of every mission u need to hav a plan.. by this u hav to set up routes for u and ur 
 teams to deploy... (very stratigic!)
  and this has a wonderful campaign including 1 where u de-terrorise (thats a new word!..:) a hijaked 
 plane on an airfield. and another where u hit the deserts of the middle east and fight in a persian 
 fortress made of stone... really cool!
  and so.. i think this is a heaps great game but if u hav to choose between this and rainbow six 
 3.. choose 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_76
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  After playing the original Rainbow Six, I have to say that this game was going to go under a lot 
 of scrutiny; mainly from the fact that its successor was so revolutionary but very flawed at the 
 same time. Nevertheless, I was optimistic about what the new version had in store; and I was not 
 disappointed. For starters the revamped graphics were a nice addition this time around, although 
 they were a little dated, but a welcome improvement as compared to the washed out, non-brilliant 
 textures and blocky figures from the first game. Your team moves this time around with much more 
 fluidity and grace, but that still doesn't say much considering where this game is coming from. 
 Too many times that it seemed better to not let your other teams move without you controlling them 
 and getting shot to pieces by one terrorist standing in the corner of a room. In fact at the hardest 
 difficulty setting its an act of god if the rest of your teams don't get wiped out. But the combat 
 is still as realistic as it gets, with the mentality that one shot can kill, and this is none more 
 apparent when you get capped in the melon your first time. The mission structures are nice, with 
 a lot of variety in the locations of each. As far as objectives to each mission, there are only 
 so much a hostage rescue squad can do, rescue hostages, diffuse bombs and surveillance an area. 
 But thanks to the range of locales you get the feeling that each hostage situation is unique and 
 different. But if you are expecting great graphics, you will be disappointed; they are average 
 to good. The sound on the other hand will totally immerse you in the game and make you feel like 
 you are really in the met in the heart of New York City. Ambient noises and the yells and shouts 
 from your teammates and terrorists alike is very believable. Gunshots sound very realistic with 
 suppressed weapons making little to no noise and shotguns and un-silenced pistols ringing out.
 
  The game does include online play, which gives the game some replay value, but its spotty unless 
 you have a broadband connection. Once you finish the campaign, there is little reason to go back 
 to it though, making the games value a little low. Overall Red Storm tries to accomplish a lot 
 with its Rainbow Six franchise and delivers with a solid dose of realistic action and tactical 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best PC games I have every played. It is awsome. Pros: THis game is the much 
 anticipated sequal to the game of the year Rainbow SIx. THe levels are soo much cooler this time 
 around. You will do things from taking an art museum, to killing terrorists on an oil tanker, but 
 wait there is one more, there is a level where you take terrorists who have hijacked a plane and 
 you need to stop them (if you've seen the movie SWAT its obvious that they get that training part 
 from this game) . THe graphics for its time are ok. The controls rock Cons: The graphics are ok. 
 They are not the best though. I still think that the online interface could have been alot better. 
 No compaints here. Final Thoughts: I think this is one of the best games around. The story is good, 
 the levels are great. So long live Tom Clancy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRIT04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I really wish they still made tactical shooters like rogue spear. These were the real rs days, 
 not that lockdown junk. This game requires thinking, teamwork, and alot of strategy. This is not 
 one of thoses run n gun, games like you see today, this is a great game that requires skill. The 
 Single player isn't long but will have you pulling your hair out. The multiplayer is the best rainbow 
 six has to offer. It has a number of modes, as well as the classic team survival, and also includes 
 the classic rs maps ( city street large, killhouse, met, bunkers, etc.) You can go and pickup this 
 game for under ten bucks at a local gamespot, or eb games. It is definetely worth your money. If 
 you play online and see a guy with "DTP" somewhere in their name thats me. Also if you don't want 
 to pay you can download the game for free at a number of websites. So, overall this is a great 
 game, and a classic so go check it out
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiseMakaveli
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun.. Has amazing multiplayer value.. You can go online, and play all kinds of 
 games.. Creater your own complex vs maps.. Or co-op maps.. Single player is also very good.. This 
 game is all about tactics.. It isn't just any normal, shoot em up game.. There are some situations, 
 that require a littlebit of thinking, before acting.
  
  I bought this game years ago, when there were thousands and thousands of people playing online.. 
 Right now I haven't played it recently, but I spend days and days just playing online.. I duno 
 why all the games since this, have been total garbage.. This was a landmark, that IMO was ignored 
 with future games... None of the rest, did it like the best...
  
  So, if you're looking to see how well this game is, for it's price..
  
  Well, it's single player 
 campaign is not that long.. You can set up tactical waypoints for your team to follow, and set 
 waiting commands.. Kinda like the Zulu action in newer RS games.. If you get bored playing online, 
 there are more then enough modes out there that you can download for your game.. There is an infinite 
 amount of single player missions you can get.. Or even 100s of customized Nato guns for download.. 
 Ahh the good old days...
  
  This game is definately worth your money, I only wish this game could start getting as populated 
 as before..
  
  Buy It.. Enjoy It.. And Remember It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu_ponk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  As you know, this is an add on to the original hit game Rainbow Six. I must go back and reload 
 this game to see what you get with it, because I am sure that Gamespot is confused, and that in 
 total you end up with 15 mission maps. 
  
  For this review I can only assume you are farmiliar with these Rainbox Six games, and what it involves, 
 ie:- Plan your mission on a map, moves for every man; equip your men with correct guns/equipment 
 such as lockpicks; take on the enemy face to face or sit back and press the auto button to see 
 what happens.
  
  This does add on nicely to the first game and lets you play those old missions through the main 
 screen without exiting.
  
  Rogue Spear solves many of the original games problems; but problems in a new game like this were 
 only to be expected, as were the many patches for this game too - typical for glitchy PC games. 
 So I wont dwell on the glitches too much, you must just take home the idea that it does have them, 
 but they do not distract from the main playing of this game which is the important thing.
  
  Rogue Spear added plenty to the series. Not just new cool weapons, and funny new faces in your 
 squad, but now there are additional maps. These are very cool, from my favorite Snow locations, 
 to the gritty bombed streets of wherever. The rain adds to the effect, making visibility slightly 
 restricted.
  
  The game is awesome if you can forget the glitches and realy shoddy robotic movements of your men. 
 You must also put aside the stupidity of the men - lets assume there is nearly no AI for YOUR men, 
 as you can often sit back, give an order for them to "frag" (grenade) a room, and the stupid little 
 blokes bounce the grenade off the wall back to thier feet and wait to be blown to kingdom come.
 
  
  Let me set the scene. You spent a few minutes planning your movements then you're loaded into the 
 game map. Its raining as you and your men huddle in the corner of this bombed out city. Its grey 
 and dull and all you can hear is the rain, but somewhere around here are the enemy, armed. Its 
 your mission to save a couple hostages, but before getting there you've got to take out that sniper 
 at the top of that tower. I always do my own dirty work, so 'covertly' creep round the back, up 
 the steps, taking out a couple guards, and shoot the sniper in the back... and so on.
  
  As said your men are stupid - this is the Biggest Let Down of the game. I end up doing all the 
 work my self, clear the rooms then have my men follow me in - they're just there for cover. On 
 some of the bigger firing missions where you are plopped in the open infront of th enemy, you tell 
 your guys to get in that door and hide in this room - however often is the case they get all 'blocked 
 up' and cannot get through the door = glitch.
  
  As Gamespot mention, its the added features, or extra game modes that I liked. These are needed 
 because story mode is over too quickly. So in addition to training you can also just pit your self 
 against the enemy with varying tasks in any of the maps - kept me going for days on end. For example, 
 my fave' was Man Hunt, simply to flush out and destroy the enemy, so you might be needing a heartbeat 
 sensor.
  
  The enemy AI (Artificial Intelligence) is nothing special. Go beyond a point and it will trigger 
 movement sometimes, but most often they wait until you open a door. They all seem to be a dead-eye 
 shot.
  
  There are scope/zoom options on the bigger guns, letting you snipe them from great distance. For 
 added accuracy try using the sniper rifles. However there is little need for a sniper gun as the 
 levels are not big enough.
  
  Graphics are just fine. Not too sure how they are done. The backdrops are nothing special, but 
 the fuzzyness is realistic and helps the maps feel bigger and real. Your men and the settings are 
 all made of small blocks, there are no rounded edges here - ie poor. There are nice touches, such 
 as your mens backpack moves as they breath. Your men will limp and move slowly when shot.
  
  As said, snow levels are great. You can choose white camoflage cloths too.
  
  GAMEPLAY 
 - is smooth on a correctly spec'd computer. However many glitches hinder your movements.
  
  SOUND - voices are fine, nothing too dramatic like some games. Bullets pinging about is cool. Rain 
 etc very cool.
  
  VALUE - buy it cheap to ADD to your collection, its well worth it !!! It doesnt just add levels, 
 but also playing modes, guns, men/women.
  
  Just dont waste your money on Urban Ops unless you badly want additional levels.
  
  The game 
 is all tactical movement based. There is no real outdoor action until you get inside. So there 
 is no running around like a headless chicken either, as you might do in a normal 1st-person shooter 
 like Timesplitters.
  
  [Mums - dont buy this if you are anti-war.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrEru
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 1:33 am PT
Review:  I came to this off the back of playing a later version on the XBox so I wasn't expecting too much. 
 Overall I was happy enough with what I found to feel the game had been worth purchasing.
  The major thing I had felt was missing from the XBox version was some kind of strategic control 
 over the missions. When faced with an obvious outflanking manouvre blocked by a sofa I felt a little 
 cheated. I still enjoyed the action side of the game but wanted more of an intellectual challenge. 
 An old PC version was all I could use at the time and offered mission planning. Of course things 
 weren't quite that simple. The usual problem with open ended or flexible mission planning is the 
 weakness of AI. Your team mates need to be spoonfed and have each and every step spelled out for 
 them before you even start. For a short mission with a simple enough map to visualise this is good 
 ful and a challenge. For the large, more complex maps it is a nightmare. On certain levels I tried 
 really hard to come up with a decent plan before I started but the level turned out to be so different 
 to the way it appeared during the planning stage that my teams got wiped out in no time at all. 
 Of course once you have played a mission several times you can refine your plan, but something 
 is lost once you have played the level. Repeating a level is not the same experience as playing 
 it for the first time. 
  Despite the fact that the mission planner was a disappointment the rest of the game was very satisfying. 
 Sure the graphics were not up to the XBox standard but it was still playable. The sound is sufficiently 
 good not to upset you but nothing special. None of this matters too much because the game is good 
 enough to be worth playing. This is all that matters given that now it is very much a bargain bin 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six was one of the most impressive games ever, it was truly revolutionary and a great effort 
 to bring the tactical simulation of counter terrorism teams to home, but there were many things 
 taht could be improved, and with Roge Spear the R6 series is the king of tactical gaming, even 
 now taht Rainbow Six 3 is available, forget about little games like Counter Strike and SOCOM, this 
 is the best of the best.
  
  First of all you will notice that the graphics were improved, scenarios are bigger and more detailed, 
 and the detail in chracters, ascenarios and weapons is much better, and this is one the few PC 
 games that run as they should becuase you don't need a NASA super computer to run it.
  
  the graphics improvements are something to thank, but graphics are not the only thing that matters 
 in a game, right?
  
  The strategic part of the game is where the real improvements come, now you can choose more weapons 
 like shotguns, sniper rifles, more team members to chose, and now you an issue more orders, so 
 the game is now a real simulation of counter terrorism tactics, also the missions became more interesting.
 
  
  If in the first game you were good planning strategy but not in the action phase, now you can plan 
 the strategy and select a watch mode that allows you become an observer of the action and only 
 issue orders.
  
  Many People complain about the fact that you couldn't see the weapon in 1st person mode and that 
 you can't pick up enemy weapons, the fist thing I agree that doesn't look fine but this is a simulation 
 and in real life you don't see the weapons as you do in game, about picking up enemy weapons, and 
 about picking up ammo and enemy weapons that's normal since real counter terrorism teams are not 
 allowed to do that, REMEMBER THIS IS A SIMULATION GAME, NOT A DOOM OR QUAKE STYLE SHOOTER.
  
  This is a game for patient people, so if you like fast paced action games better look elsewhere.
 
  
  In the end Rogue Spear is a very addictive game, it vould be hard to learn how to play it but if 
 you understand the gameplay you will be rewarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  rogue spear will keep u engaged, excited, thrilled and give outlet to ur frustrations of day to day 
 living and dreams of being a hero, a soldier who gets people out of danger and risks his life for 
 his comrades and a larger cause i. e humanity.
  
  graphics: detailed setttings ,may be a bit cartoon like but i would say it just adds to the excitement.8 
 out of 10
  
  sound: awesome, the sound of the weapons are just awesome and the terrorists voices are frightening.9 
 out of 10
  
  gameplay: 9.8 out of 10, this game is a must buy, the A. I are simply cunning and ready to gun down 
 hostages with the slightest threat of danger nearby. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
