-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Desert Siege
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tomclancysghostreconds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 446 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Red Storm Ent.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Mar 27, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It features some subtle but important improvements to the original gameplay that make Ghost Recon 
 a more polished and enjoyable game as a whole. 

 The Ghosts are back. After first appearing in last year's tactical shooter Ghost Recon, this fictional 
 team of elite US soldiers returns in Desert Siege. This expansion pack takes you through eight 
 single-player missions in the sands of Africa and adds welcome new multiplayer options to the original 
 game. It also features some subtle but important improvements to the original gameplay that make 
 Ghost Recon a more polished and enjoyable game as a whole.           The Desert Siege levels look 
 much better than those of the original.    

  The setting of Ghost Recon was pretty typical: You battled your way through former Soviet states 
 threatened by Russian ultranationalists. Desert Siege offers up a more unusual setting. This time, 
 you'll help Eritrea stave off an invasion led by an Ethiopian dictator. At first, this may sound 
 pretty obscure, but it's actually quite topical. In real life, Eritrea won its independence from 
 Ethiopia only about 10 years ago after decades of war. Fighting flared up again between the two 
 nations just a few years ago. Plus, images of US troops fighting in sandy wastes or in Africa itself 
 have become familiar through US operations in the Persian Gulf, Somalia (Ethiopia's neighbor) , 
 and Afghanistan.   

  In the single-player missions, you'll get theoretically varied mission objectives, though they 
 almost all boil down to one thing: Very gingerly wend your way through the maps, picking off enemies 
 from afar. Expect relatively little in the way of extended firefights or close-quarters battles, 
 but expect loads of sneaking and sniping. The missions aren't especially original, though they 
 vary enough to be entertaining overall.   

  More than any particular combat encounters, what stands out about the missions are the environments 
 themselves. The towering refinery of the second mission is particularly impressive, and a railroad 
 yard provides the opportunity for some intense sneaking in a later mission. Some of the missions 
 take place at night, but the daylight ones have the added benefit of showcasing Ghost Recon's graphics 
 engine. The blazing sun lets you appreciate the visual details far more readily than the shady 
 areas found in many of the original Ghost Recon missions did. The textures and animations (other 
 than the slow-motion enemy deaths and dated-looking explosions) generally look really impressive. 
   

  The core single-player gameplay of Ghost Recon remains essentially unchanged in Desert Siege. Before 
 each mission, you get a briefing describing core and bonus mission goals. You also get a rudimentary 
 map of the mission area. After studying the situation, you fill up to three fireteams with soldiers 
 of your choice. Each team can include up to three men, though you can enter a mission with only 
 six men total. You can assume the role of any of these soldiers at any time during a mission.  
          Your squad members will do a noticeably better job in combat.    

  Each soldier has a specialty, like rifleman or sniper, that determines what weapon kits you can 
 select for him or her before each mission. Since each kit contains only two items (like a machine 
 gun and extra ammo or an assault rifle and binoculars) , you need to choose carefully based on the 
 mission requirements and terrain. It does seem odd, though, that a soldier can't carry grenades, 
 binoculars, and a rifle all at once. Also, you can't pick up dropped weapons or gear, so you'll 
 need to restart the mission if you lose a soldier carrying a rocket launcher needed to take out 
 a SAM site, for example. A bug that sometimes prevents you from reloading or switching weapons 
 can cause the same end result.   

  By completing bonus mission goals, you'll gain access to specialist characters with otherwise unavailable 
 weapons. Desert Siege adds five specialists with new weapons like the Russian PKM machine gun. 
 For multiplayer games, you'll find even more new weapons. You'll get the M60 machine gun, familiar 
 to anyone who's seen a Vietnam War documentary, and the FN-FAL Para Variant assault rifle designed 
 for airborne troops. Quite a few Russian weapons are added, like the Groza assault rifle/40mm grenade 
 launcher combo and the AN-94, scheduled to replace the aging AK-74. You'll get two new sniper rifles: 
 the 7.62mm H&amp; K PSG-1 and the Barrett M98, which fires a .338 magnum round. While these weapons 
 don't substantially change gameplay, it's always nice to have a wide selection of firearms. You 
 still can't see your gun barrel or sights in the first-person view, only a targeting reticle. Also, 
 environments remain essentially indestructible.    

 As you play the single-player missions, you'll learn that some of the problems that hurt Ghost Recon 
 remain in Desert Siege. The troop command interface and map are still rather clumsy, particularly 
 in the heat of battle. You'll often end up jumping between teams and moving them manually to keep 
 them alive. This decreases the immersion, makes coordinated tactics difficult, and defeats the 
 point of being able to give orders to others in the first place. If you're not jumping between 
 teams, you'll just play as a sniper and take out most of the enemies yourself, calling up the rest 
 of your men when the coast is relatively clear to provide a little suppressing fire or take out 
 a tank. Most of the missions encourage this sort of behavior, thanks to their wide-open spaces. 
           Snipers reign supreme both in single-player and multiplayer Desert Siege.    

  Happily, your troops are brighter than in the past. Ghost Recon was hurt by its weak AI, but Desert 
 Siege offers some improvements in that area, some of which first appeared in a recent Ghost Recon 
 patch. These tweaks make your fellow troops act a little more like assets than liabilities. That 
 said, they still don't always behave as wisely or realistically as you'd like, and certainly not 
 with the skill you'd expect of elite soldiers. They'll still get stuck on terrain (particularly 
 buildings) , requiring you to move them manually, or they'll kill each other with friendly fire 
 when it could have been avoided easily. The enemy troops now behave somewhat more realistically 
 as well: They're not all crack shots anymore, though they do tend to mill around casually even 
 as shots ring out in the area. So when you beat a mission, you'll sometimes feel like you've beaten 
 a level designer, not a wily, tactically proficient enemy force.   

  While the single-player game mechanics remain essentially unchanged, multiplayer gets some significant 
 changes and improvements. A new leaderboard makes tracking scores easier, for example. There are 
 also four interesting new multiplayer (or single-player firefight/recon) maps, set in varied locales 
 like the canyons of Colorado or a stronghold near Ft. Bragg, North Carolina. You'll also get to 
 play various multiplayer modes on the eight maps from the single-player missions.   

  Perhaps the most important new multiplayer offerings in Desert Siege are the new domination and 
 siege modes. Many of the original multiplayer modes in Ghost Recon had far more in common with 
 traditional run-and-gun shooters than realistic military operations. The new modes more readily 
 call to mind believable combat objectives. Sadly, just as in the single-player game, you'll still 
 find an undue and unrealistic overemphasis on distant sniping over midrange suppression by machine 
 guns or close-quarters fighting with submachine guns and grenades. Ubi Soft's buggy and awkward 
 matchmaking service still desperately needs an overhaul, too, though you're free to use other services. 
   

  In the new domination mode, teams try to reach and hold key zones for as long as possible. To hold 
 a zone and earn points, at least one of your teammates needs to be in it while preventing the enemy 
 from entering. Team coordination is a must if you want to cover various avenues of approach effectively. 
 In a welcome touch, kills don't earn you any points. They're just a means to a military end: controlling 
 territory. Glory hounds need not apply.           Desert Siege is a fine expansion and makes Ghost 
 Recon a better game.    

  Siege mode puts the smallest of multiple teams in a base that it has to defend from one or more 
 larger assaulting teams. The attackers gain control of the base by infiltrating its core and keeping 
 at least one of their men alive there for five seconds or more. Unfortunately, if the server is 
 set for infinite respawns, it becomes all too easy for defenders to camp the respawn points on 
 certain maps, ruining the match. Of course, immature players will find ways to abuse any game. 
   

  Whatever its weaknesses, Desert Siege has plenty of strengths and offers a real bang for the buck, 
 given its $20 retail price: Hard-core Ghost Recon players will be able to complete the single-player 
 missions in an afternoon, but then there are all the new multiplayer possibilities. Meanwhile, 
 casual Ghost Recon players will likely find in Desert Siege a good, solid military shooter experience 
 that plays better than the original.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  What I enjoy most of Desert Siege is the Black Hawk Down feel due to the desert premise. The refinery 
 tower mission is a particularly cool stage because of the impressive set design. There are lots 
 of abandoned houses and infrastructure strewn around the levels, resulting in many winding paths 
 full of ambush opportunities both for you and the enemy, so most of the adrenaline rush comes from 
 the tactical surprise created from this aspect.
  
  Another cool feature is the ability to unlock special characters called specialists with... ehem, 
 special weapons. Lastly, because the gameplay is roughly that of the original, the short expansion 
 works well in terms of filling up fans' excitement for a while, and for those new to the series, 
 it doesn't hurt to try this right away after you've completed and enjoyed the first game.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  An expansion is almost never better than the game it's built on. Some are just quick attempts to 
 cash in on the popularity of a license or materials left over from development. Others bring to 
 the basic game new and greater levels of enjoyment and interest. Ghost Recon Desert Siege is neither 
 of these. It is, instead, a worthy supplement to the original game. It adds a batch of evolutionary, 
 incremental changes without adding anything revolutionary or essential to your enjoyment of the 
 original game. But considering that we thought Ghost Recon was good enough to be our Game of the 
 Year, maybe change isn't necessarily called for here. 
  
  Desert Siege moves the focus on the conflict from the Eastern Europe to East Africa. A conflict 
 between Eritrea and Ethiopia is well underway and the Ghosts have been sent in to stop it. The 
 Ghosts won't be doing anything terribly different this time around; they'll just be doing it in 
 a different place. Its topical nature aside, the story's not any more consequential than that of 
 Ghost Recon. Like last time, I spent my time running through the missions focused almost exclusively 
 on killing terrorists and letting the less direct objectives fall where they may. Thankfully, the 
 folks at Red Storm anticipated this and killing all the terrorists is as good a way to win the 
 game as any. (For the record, people who are fixated on accomplishing the objectives in an anal 
 kind of way will also be rewarded for their obsessive behavior.) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Ubi Soft Entertainment has done it once again by releasing the first action-packed expansion for 
 Ghost Recon. Gameplay has not changed much from the original Ghost Recon, but a few changes can 
 be noted. First off, in the soldier selection screen, you have the opportunity to add an extra 
 four skill points to any attributes of the soldier, to signify that time has passed and that they 
 have received more experience within that time period. A few specialists from the original game 
 will be returning, such as Nigel Tunney and Lindy Cohen. One new specialist is available, wielding 
 a PKM support class machine gun, and is of Eritrean background. All in all, this expansion pack 
 really sets up a whole new scenario for the Ghosts, and Im sure that youll have fun playing through 
 every tense moment. Much of the music in Desert Siege is similar to that of the original Ghost 
 Recon, which is still being composed by Bill Brown. I am however disappointed that there arent 
 any new melodies to accompany the switch from the Georgian theatre in the original Ghost Recon 
 to the Ethiopian-Eritrean atmosphere in Desert Siege. One new thing that is problematic are the 
 conflicts with the sound compatibility between the game and the computer. It will usually result 
 in popping or crackling noises in the game, which are very subtle, but over time might start to 
 become annoying. Overall, the soundtrack still remains solid and supplies the game atmosphere nicely. 
 But the sound compatibility conflicts will downplay the rating a bit. Like any other expansion 
 pack, Desert Siege will be adding more maps to the multiplayer gameplay, and gives you the capability 
 to select from a wider array of weaponry when loading out for battle. There arent any outstanding 
 new features that come along with Desert Siege, mostly maps, weapons, and a few new multiplayer 
 features that build upon the first multiplayer system of the original Ghost Recon. The hardware 
 requirements for Desert Siege are the exact same as the original Ghost Recon: Intel Pentium II 
 450MHz, 128MB RAM, 16MB 3D Accelerator, 4x CD-ROM drive, 1GB disc space. Like I said in my review 
 for the original Ghost Recon, these requirements are very good, as they can broaden the player 
 spectrum since not all gamers have an excellent PC to run games with. This game can be supported 
 on older PCs, thus allowing more to enter the battlefield as the Ghosts. Now the story shifts from 
 the Georgian theatre to the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict. The year is 2009, one year after the original 
 Ghost Recon takes place. The conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has escalated, and both nations 
 are now at war. The Ghosts are called in to assist the Eritreans after their desperate cry for 
 help. The story in Desert Siege is somewhat easier to follow than in the first one, but its still 
 more for the people who understand global politics. Yet again, another classic Tom Clancy storyline 
 that involves military, politics, and a sense of darkness. In general, the storyline is tweaked 
 a bit better, so you can understand it more, but most people still sit down and play Desert Siege 
 for the action and realism. The types of graphics that are in Desert Siege are not too much different 
 than in Ghost Recon. Though the developers at Red Storm still havent mastered rag-doll, as I 
 occasionally still see a guy floating four feet off the ground after Ive killed him. The only 
 massive change that is noticeable is, of course, the desert environment. It is extremely well portrayed, 
 as the developers do their best to make the environment look real. In some daytime environments, 
 you might not be able to see extremely far due to the sand that usually shrouds the area. Other 
 times, however, it might be so clear that you can even feel the scorching desert sun beating down 
 on you. The African environment is extremely nicely portrayed, and I can definitely say with confidence 
 that Red Storm has raised the bar again with realistic first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_samurai
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  The Ghosts are on the move to the war-torn lands of North Africa, where over conflict has broken 
 out between Ethiopia and Eritrea. With UN support under constant threat and attack, and key aid and 
 supply ports closed, restoring order to the region rests in the hands of the Ghosts. The Tom Clancy' 
 Ghost Recon: Desert Seige featuresnew weapons, vehicleand enemies, plus enhanced sound and visual 
 effects to ensure that the trademark realism and tension of the original game is mainted in the 
 arid and unforgiving enviroments of North Africa. A good expansion pack of Ghost Recon sereis. This 
 game is basically based on Africa region Supported by UN and one thing in this game is 2 remember 
 is 2 look sharp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  People who loved the tension and tactics of Ghost Recon will definitely appreciate this first expansion 
 pack for the game. This time, the campaign is set in Africa (eritrea to be more precise) where 
 your Ghosts have to stop the invasion by the Egyptians.
  One of the main problems with the original game, the AI, has been improved, the Ghost wear a new 
 gear and new spacialists are introduced. Still, you will have a hard time when you think you can 
 win this war with just Runnin & Gunnin. Its a tactical shooter, so you must use team tactics to 
 complete the missions. A good opportunity for a LAN party or on-line co-op missions!
  Eight new missions and a lot of fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is a very hard game but it is not impossible. If you beat the first Ghost Recon congradulations, 
 you deserve to play the expansion Desert Siege. This is the same game as Ghost Recon but a different 
 campaign set in Africa. It isn't really much harder so if you are an expert at the first game then 
 you are not going to feel challenged playing this. New weapons, missions, and characters are also 
 in this. If you did like the first Ghost Recon though you should check out Desert Siege and if 
 you are new to the series then I highly recommend you first try the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  "Desert Siege" was the aptly named first expansion pack to the brilliant first "Ghost Recon" series 
 of games. As it was with the original (and still BEST) game the action is heavy and intense as 
 the Ghost Recon team travels to the desert sands of Eritrea. This time it is to stem an invasion 
 by its powerful neighbor, Ethiopia, in the year 2009 with a total of eight new missions/maps. There 
 was alot of replay value with the great multi-player on Ubisoft's game servers (or others U could 
 find) .
  
  The major differences this time around are your soldiers now are geared up in the "three-color" 
 desert pattern used by the Army and Marines (mostly) up until about 2004 (in real life-Marines 
 went to Marpat by 2003) . There are new specialists and all of them are geared up in desert cammoflage 
 now. The opfor now are irregular militia and Ethiopian army and their aim is still just as good 
 as the Russian soldiers in the last missions!
  
  What can I say? I love the missions, the look, the whole set up of this Xpansion. They went for 
 about 19 dollars so the value was great seeing as you also got 8 new quality missions that were 
 challenging as well! Some expansions only get you maybe 5 or 6 new maps and bill you maybe 25 or 
 30 bucks! Plus, they may not even be as good! No sir, with these games you got good missions and 
 quality to boot!
  
  Pick this up if you can! 
  
  "We're on the way!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2004 3:11 am PT
Review:  Yea well just as you figure it out to be a great game some one around my house hold bursts my bubble. 
 
  
  I like the game and it has so many maps which can be played co-op, DM etc. the look and feel of 
 this game is great!!! This game runs great and I have had no problems with it.
  
  But WHY OH WHY can't I convince my adult children and friends to play this game with me.
  
 
  Here are just some of the excuses I have been told :
  1. "C" (name omitted) cant play as a team member as he likes kill scores and running around DM 
 maps all the time.
  2. It is too hard to figure out the map screen and setting up my game controller. WHAAA!
  3. 
 I do not like co-op games because we run out of maps like in Viet cong or they are so linear like 
 some others.
  4. I don't have enough computer.
  5. I don't have enough room on my hard drive.
  6. No time to learn another geme I want to play 
 COD all the time.
  
  Well folks if these are your excuses then don't play this game. I played it alone and went online 
 with my little DSL I have more maps than I can play with and all good ones. I am having fun with 
 it and I like it. That is this players view and opinion. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
