-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rainbowsixvegas/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense tactical action that requires you to use cover realistically.
 Lets you feel like an elite commando like no other game.
 Beautiful visuals that let you battle in a glittering first-world setting.
 Impressive multiplayer suite supports a wide range of cooperative and competitive games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story features some standard plot devices and lacks a satisfying ending.
 Multiplayer bug causes game to crash on default settings.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,369 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Dec 12, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rainbow Six is reinvented and reinvigorated for a new age thanks to beautiful visuals and top-notch 
 tactical shooting action. 

  Fans of the Rainbow Six games for the PC have had every reason of late to be bitter. The popular 
 tactical shooter franchise originally began on the PC and offered up the first realistic tactical 
 shooting action around. However, over the past few years Rainbow Six fully migrated to the various 
 consoles, and the hardcore, realistic action was watered down quite a bit. So there will be a tendency 
 by PC fans to want to ignore Rainbow Six Vegas, which would be a mistake. Yes, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 is essentially a direct port of an Xbox 360 game, but Ubisoft has done an incredible job of reinvigorating 
 Rainbow Six. The gameplay has been refreshed and reinvented, and Rainbow Six Vegas offers up some 
 of the best tactical shooting action on the PC.  

          You'll go from the slums of Mexico to the glittering casinos of Las Vegas in this intense 
 tactical shooter.     

  First, the PC version is almost exactly the same as the Xbox 360 version. Instead of taking the 
 path that it used for Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, where the PC and Xbox 360 versions featured 
 completely different games, Ubisoft must have figured that it had something special with the Xbox 
 360 version and wisely decided to deliver that same experience to the PC. Thus, the single-player 
 campaign is exactly the same, and the multiplayer features almost all the functionality of the 
 Xbox 360 version.  

  In the campaign, you play as Logan Keller, the leader of one of Rainbow's elite three-man counterterrorist 
 assault teams who is called into action after an operation in Mexico goes bad and, for some reason, 
 the terrorists strike the casinos and high-rise hotels of Las Vegas. Your job is to stop them and 
 ascertain their intentions, which involves the standard McGuffin device that will kill millions 
 and a secret military base hidden inside a massive hydroelectric dam. The story borrows a few too 
 many plot twists seen in other Ubisoft games, namely the excellent Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, 
 and the lack of a satisfying resolution also makes the plot feel like a paper-thin reason to battle 
 an army of terrorists in Las Vegas, of all places; but we're willing to overlook it, because the 
 combat in Rainbow Six Vegas is simply excellent.  

  In Rainbow Six Vegas, slabs of concrete are your best friend, along with the edges of doorways, 
 slot machines, the sides of SUVs, and pretty much anything else solid that you can put between 
 yourself and the enemy. The controls translate fairly elegantly to the PC's mouse and keyboard. 
 By moving up to those objects and holding down the right mouse button, you can "hug" the cover 
 and then poke your body out from the sides or the top to shoot at the enemy before ducking down 
 again. Or, if you're under heavy fire, you can poke your rifle around the corner and fire blindly 
 to keep the bad guys at bay. The game seamlessly transitions from first-person to third-person 
 perspective when you do, so you get a very cinematic effect of watching yourself huddle behind 
 cover while bullets impact around you.  

          If you're in trouble you can blind-fire around corners to keep the bad guys at bay.    

  You don't fight alone in Rainbow Six Vegas, either; you're usually accompanied by your two teammates. 
 The artificial intelligence does a great job of controlling these agents as they follow you. Pathfinding, 
 for instance, is very rarely a problem, as they can navigate the cluttered environment effectively, 
 and they use cover just as well as you do. Controlling your teammates is simple, too. By simply 
 pointing at a spot on the ground and tapping the space bar, you can tell them to move to that position. 
 Point at a door and hit the space bar, and they'll "stack up" to it, or get into position to clear 
 the room. Tapping on the Alt key tells them to either hold place or fall in behind you. In fact, 
 the controls for the game in general are pretty intuitive and simple, and we found it effortless 
 to do complex tasks such as snaking a flexible camera under a door, calling out the targets inside 
 to our team, and then executing a simultaneous takedown from two different angles.  

  What also promotes Rainbow Six Vegas over its predecessors is the sensation that you're really 
 playing as an elite commando. In a page or two borrowed from Splinter Cell's Sam Fisher, you can 
 play in a highly mobile and agile manner. You can quickly rope out of a helicopter onto the top 
 floor of a skyscraper, run over to the side, and leap over the edge on a rappel line, all in a 
 few seconds. While on the rappel line you can hang upside down, lower yourself far enough to see 
 into the target room, then call out the location of the terrorists inside. Then, on your command, 
 your team will burst through the window and clear the room. This isn't just a mere gimmick, either, 
 as the levels are designed so that most rooms have multiple points of entry, so you can determine 
 your takedown strategy for each one. Admittedly, one of the contrivances in the game is that bad 
 guys in a neighboring room seem unaware of all the gunfire and explosions going on down the hall, 
 but at least this lets you execute textbook takedown after takedown throughout a level.  

  On the normal difficulty level, Rainbow Six Vegas is a moderately challenging game, though it's 
 fairly forgiving thanks to the fact that you can absorb a fair amount of damage before you die. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas uses a regenerating health system, so there are no health packs or health meters 
 to worry about. Instead, when you take damage your vision begins to blur, and if you take too much 
 damage you die. However, if you manage to find cover and avoid getting shot for a few seconds, 
 your vision begins to clear and you'll be back at full health. This lowers the frustration level 
 considerably, as you don't have to worry about rationing the health meter like you did in this 
 year's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter.  

          Another cool element is the feeling that you're a highly mobile commando, capable of rappelling 
 into danger on a moment's notice.     

  However, if you ratchet up the difficulty setting to "realistic," Rainbow Six Vegas becomes an 
 incredibly tense and difficult experience -- in a good way. In realistic mode, the amount of damage 
 you can absorb before you die is much lower than in normal mode, and this makes you really rely 
 on using real-world tactics and playing a lot more conservatively (and, well, realistically) . For 
 instance, instead of charging across an open area like you might on normal difficulty, you'll probably 
 want to pop a smoke grenade to provide concealment; otherwise, you'll get cut down before you get 
 halfway to your destination. Realistic mode will result in you dying a lot, but when you do, you'll 
 realize more often than not that it's because you did something stupid, which means you get to 
 learn from your mistakes and be smarter for it.     

  Speaking of dying, the game uses a checkpoint save system, so when you do die, you'll get a chance 
 to start back at the latest checkpoint. While you can quickly heal fallen teammates in single-player 
 by injecting them with the magic medical serum if you get to them in time, if you fall your teammates 
 won't be able to save you in the similar manner, so it's back to the checkpoint. Longtime PC shooter 
 fans will likely cry out for a quick save option, but at least the checkpoints are reasonably spaced, 
 and there's usually one before ever major set-piece battle, which is helpful. Most of these larger 
 battles are fairly scripted, but they're pretty intense nonetheless. Bad guys come rappelling down 
 from above, and the AI in general is good about using cover and grenades as effectively as you 
 do. There's nothing quite as eye-opening as seeing a frag grenade land right next to your character, 
 or as frantic as trying to get away and behind cover before it explodes.  

          Your AI teammates are smart and capable of storming and clearing a room without you.   
   

  The single-player campaign in Rainbow Six Vegas isn't quite as lengthy as in many other realistic 
 shooters, but the game compensates for this by having such interesting and repayable tactical battles. 
 You can go back again and tackle the game in realistic mode, or you can experiment with different 
 approaches. And there's plenty of replay value to be found in the extensive multiplayer suite. 
 The single-player campaign can be played cooperatively, both in story mode and in terrorist hunt, 
 which pits you and your buddies against a bunch of randomly placed terrorists. You can also play 
 with up to four players cooperatively, which is an interesting number since the single-player campaign 
 features only three Rainbow agents at a time. Still, realistic difficulty is tough enough that 
 you can really use effective team tactics to tackle some of the harder missions, and there's something 
 very cool about being able to strategize with your buddies while in the middle of a fight. The 
 only setback to co-op mode is that instead of automatically loading the next level in the chain 
 when playing in story mode, the game recycles the existing map. You have to set up the server ahead 
 of time to advance to the next level in the story, or load it manually.  

  In addition to co-op, Rainbow Six Vegas features a number of fun competitive modes with support 
 for up to 16 players. Retrieval is a particularly good one, modeling itself after the typical capture 
 the flag-style game and featuring respawns so you don't have to sit out if you get killed. There 
 are a number of modes that feature no respawns, if you want the "authentic" Rainbow Six experience 
 of no second chances. The levels themselves are adapted either from the single-player campaign 
 or created specifically for multiplayer, such as a university library that's alluded to in the 
 story. The action in multiplayer is just as intense as in the single-player game, especially since 
 you can use the same cover tactics that you used in the campaign. Our only major issue with the 
 PC version is that there's a known and nasty bug that causes the entire game to crash if you attempt 
 to search for a game using the default settings. You have to narrow down your search parameters 
 to avoid crashing the game. Also, the PC version lacks the built-in voice support found in the 
 Xbox 360 version, so it's harder to communicate with your teammates in the middle of an intense 
 firefight.  

          You can use thermal and night vision to cut through smoke and darkness, and it's helpful 
 for spotting terrorists before you enter a room.     

  What's also interesting about multiplayer is the persistent character that you can customize over 
 time by unlocking new weapons, armor, and accessories. For instance, you can unlock tougher body 
 armor, though the downside is that it lowers your mobility. Body armor comes in various pieces, 
 such as the torso, shoulder pads, and legs. The weapons in multiplayer are all taken from single-player, 
 and there's a healthy assortment of real-world and prototypical military gear in here, divided 
 into shotguns, submachine guns, light machine guns, assault rifles, and sniper rifles. Each weapon 
 can be customized individually with various scopes or sights, and there are various grenade types 
 that you'd expect, like fragmentation, smoke, and flashbang.  

  Rainbow Six Vegas sports some excellent graphics, and the PC version looks just as good as the 
 Xbox 360 version -- it's even slightly better in some places. The downside is your frame rate will 
 vary depending on your hardware, and you'll obviously need a fairly powerful system to run it at 
 high detail with fast frame rates. Those with older and slower systems should think about upgrading 
 or simply playing the Xbox 360 version. The amount of detail on everything is impressive, but it's 
 almost photo-realistic when it comes to your Rainbow troopers, as you can admire all the high-tech 
 gear these commandos bring into a fight. The beautiful visuals certainly bring the diverse Vegas 
 casinos to life. They're all fictional, of course, as no real-world casino would want to have its 
 virtual counterpart shot up in a game such as this. Perhaps because of this, the game doesn't really 
 make the most of its Las Vegas setting, which is our one lament. Sure, you're fighting it out inside 
 casinos full of slot machines and card tables, but you get the feeling that the game could have 
 been set anywhere else and it wouldn't have made much of a difference. But if you're going to set 
 a game in Las Vegas, then set a game in Las Vegas with an Elvis song or two, or at the very least 
 a Wayne Newton tune. Las Vegas is an over-the-top and surreal experience, which is something that 
 Rainbow Six Vegas doesn't quite capture.  

          Rainbow Six Vegas packs a ton of replay in its single-player and vast multiplayer suite. 
     

  The voice acting in the game varies, with the lead character sounding a lot like an angry version 
 of the executive officer from  Star Trek: Enterprise , but for the most part it's all about the 
 evil terrorists making evil threats and the good guys spouting all sorts of hoo-ha. There are helpful 
 voice cues, such as when your teammates yell out that they're swapping magazines, which means you 
 need to provide cover while they're unable to fire. And the bad guys are pretty helpful about yelling 
 out their tactics to one another, though the game's premise has many of them being ex-Special Forces, 
 which is an awfully rookie mistake. The sound of guns firing is pretty authentic, though at this 
 point every realistic shooter has the same level of effects. Still, the game sounds as good as 
 you'd expect.  

  While Rainbow Six Vegas bears little resemblance to its illustrious PC progenitor, that's no reason 
 to write off this engrossing action game. Rainbow Six Vegas is a highly tactical and dynamic first-person 
 action game that fans of realistic shooters should definitely check out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (252 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:04 am PT
Review:  Well, Rainbow Six Vegas probably merits a 10 ... but I'm saving that for that elusive very special 
 game. I've played many single person FPS games, starting with the justly popular WWII COD and MOH 
 series ... I'm yet to play COD4 (apart from the excellent, though short demo) but so far this is 
 the most fun and challenging "modern era" game I've played. Before discovering Rainbow Six I'd 
 only dabbled in the so-called tactical shooters (namely the Brothers in Arms games which I am yet 
 to complete) before playing Rainbow Six Lockdown ... which I thoroughly enjoyed (see review) ... 
 but this is much better.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas, like a lot of modern era games has a far fetched storyline ... you can always 
 read that on wikipedia (also a good source to assist in determining if you should buy a game) ... 
 albeit the storyline does flow pretty well and there's a few good "set piece" scenes that clue 
 you in that there is a traitor in your midst.
  
  The friendly AI works exceptionally well ... the enemy AI (aka Tangos) is also very good ... they 
 take cover and try flanking and don't just sit in one spot blasting away waiting to be outflanked. 
 Each level has its tough maps and the action can be pretty "full on" ... always snake-cam a room 
 and do it for say 5-10 seconds so you catch any enemy guards who may be walking by or lurking in 
 the shadows. You will NOT survive if you make like Rambo!
  
  The game, for me, got challenging after the initial Mexico missions ... which were relatively easy, 
 and perhaps are more for training as the various team commands are introduced therein. The Strip 
 map, part of the Calypso Casino mission, was very hard and it took some adjustment to be more cautious 
 than usual in a particularly heavy firefight (check your HUD map regularly to see the Tangos) . 
 Other memorable and/or challenging missions were Vertigo Spire, Dante's Casino (especially the 
 Hell's Gate construction site and the Data Hub segment inside an opera theatre) and Nevada Dam 
 (especially the Facility ... it took many attempts to secure that dark storage room) . Overall a 
 very enjoyable experience ... only minor frustrations with a few game saves that seemed to take 
 you back a bit too far for the replay attempt (nowhere near as frustrating in that regard as Men 
 of Valor) .
  
  Friendly AI, as in Rainbow Six Lockdown, needs to be used carefully and I tend to scout ahead/snake 
 cam before I throw them into the fray. The friendly AI is however MUCH BETTER than in Lockdown 
 ... in which sometimes you find you're missing a guy and that's because he's stuck running into 
 furniture or a wall (at times this is funny) . The ability to revive (heal) your AI team-mates is 
 great and they can take a fair deal of punishment ... they can also heal eachother ... alas they 
 do not reciprocate ... you take too many hits ... YOU die. If you do not heal your team-mates the 
 mission ends in failure (unlike Lockdown where "collateral damage to your team-mates means you 
 go on alone) . Certainly this game, more than many other FPS/tactical shooters, reinforces the need 
 to use cover (and the HUD map) wisely.
  
  The only quibble, which is minor, is the way escorting of rescued hostages works, like the engineer 
 at the dam ... he will follow you and to protect him you tell him to stay put ... then you have 
 to go all the way back to where you left him to get him to follow you again ... even if he is in 
 your line of sight. Lockdown was arguably better on this ... however in Lockdown the rescued hostages 
 didn't even need to see you (perhaps they were issued with comm earpieces?) .
  
  I'm not a "weapon head" and tended to stick with two "standard" assault rifles (namely the G3KA4 
 and the 552 Commando) rather than use SMGs. I did not find as many equipment boxes as I expected 
 playing through the game, but then I wasn't really actrively looking for them, and there were certainly 
 a few maps that would have been assisted with a re-stock of grenades. You can pick up guns from 
 downed Tangos but strangely not grenades.
  
  I've tried most of the weapon choices including the various SMGs in the FPS single player style 
 "terrorist hunt" missions ... which are "fun" in their own way ... the real bonus is you get to 
 try out a few interesting maps not in the main storyline.
  
  The next Rainbow Six games I plan to play are Raven Shield/Athena Sword & Iron Wrath ... which 
 are the "oldest" in the series I own, so it will be interesting to see the progression. A few reviews 
 I've read (I do this before I buy games) suggest Rainbow Six was better (or at least very different) 
 in its earliest iterations.
  
  So what more can I say ...
  
  SUMMARY: Highly recommended tactical shooter (with single player FPS missions to get your aim and 
 trigger finger co-ordinated) . Excellent graphics ... the sights and sounds of the glitzy casinos 
 are very well captured. Gore and language means this is not really for the under 16 crowd.
  
  As always I also recommend the walkthroughs here at GameSpot and also the pdf one at gamepressure. com 
 that may assist if you get stuck ... fortunately this game is very intuitive ... I recall only 
 one occassion when the distance to next checkpoint icon went AWOL (perhaps a glitch) that I needed 
 to use the Microsoft button to sneak a peek at the walkthrough and work out where I should be headed.
 
  
  Based on my experience with the Rainbow Six games I've recently purchased GRAW and GRAW2 ans SWAT4 
 which are next on the play list (in that order) . SO I've perhaps "evolved" from FPS to tactical 
 shooters ... perhaps because as you are responsible for more than one character it is inherently 
 more challenging to get a team, rather than individual, through!
  
  Finally, I like the game ending: "TO BE CONTINUED" ... so I'm watching the in-store and eBay prices 
 for Vegas 2 very closely! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strigidae
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  So after playing S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl, I was left thinking, hmm... what other good 
 1st person titles are there out there that a 3rd person enthusiast could play.
  
  After countless garbage and just plain evil rubbish, I got my hands on Rainbow Six: Vegas. "Oh 
 no... not another 1st person shooter," were my thoughts at first, but I must say the cover looked 
 good. I finished the game 3 times now and I'm thinking of getting my hands on Rainbow Six: Vegas 
 2.
  
  The first thing that got me hooked was the atmosphere. From the mission in Mexico, to the final 
 one, the developers got the atmosphere just right for each level. The application of the dissorientation 
 one gets when heavily shot increased the intensity. You start really being on your toes, and you'll 
 also make sure to execute your tactics and plans carefully as one shot to the head and your history. 
 The checkpoints are also far apart meaning you'll have to go way back to a certain point.
  
  It's crazy being disorientated while the room is full of smoke and gunfire sounds being everywhere. 
 Even if hit on just your kevlar the disorientation is just as good as dieing, because you can't 
 see where you're going and one bad turn will be your demise. A little cover fire however and hiding 
 yourself under reliable cover area will get you back on your feet.
  
  So how can such a difficult scenario be levelled out to your advantage, you may ask? The answer 
 is two extremely skilled and talented fellow squad members that accompany you throughout the game. 
 Controlling these guys was as easy as blinking, unlike controlling the baffoons in Ghost Recon 
 1 & 2. The only con being that they travel together and can't be separated. An excellent assortment 
 of weapons also puts the cherry on top. From the good old Alvomat Kalishnikov Model of 47' to the 
 modern M8 you can choose just about any side-arm, semi-auto rifle, full auto rifle and sniper rifle 
 to your liking to take down those cold terrorist vermin. Another thing I liked was that the terrorist 
 were not of Middle-East origin. I mean, how accurate is that... not every terrorist is from Iraq 
 or Afghanistan.
  
  All in all Rainbow Six Vegas is an excellent game. I wish the storyline was a little bit longer 
 and that checkpoints were a little more closer, but either than that I can't think of any more 
 reason to make one hesitant buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Joker_15
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Rainbow Six fan and Ive played almost all the games in the series and I even 
 read the book. I found Lockdown pretty disappointing because it felt far from real. Gun sounds 
 were bad, weapon names weren't licensed and a lot of other let downs, but enough of that. Back 
 to Vegas. This game is lovely. Really good gameplay, some nice intense firefights, but there are 
 a lot of little things that the developers could have taken care of to make this game much better, 
 but it ISNT RAINBOW SIX. Falls really short of what it should be.
  
  Ok, Gameplay first.
  
  The blind fire feature, a very nice one, is extremely inaccurate, and 
 in many cases becomes makes the use of it obsolete. Since the AI doesn't necessarily get pinned 
 by it and still move about, it reduces the utility of the feature. That has to be a little more 
 accurate. Where as the A. I can do it pretty well.
  
  Secondly, side arms.
  Most tactical teams train to draw side arms (pistols) fast, and are mostly drawn in a hurry when 
 your primary weapon runs out of ammo. weapon switching in R6 Vegas is very slow. And being able 
 to carry two primary weapons is a nice idea, but they each come with more than enough ammo, and 
 are pretty much accurate so there is very little difference between an SMG and a Rifle. You can 
 hit targets at the other end of a hall with ease. So ammo reserves should be less or weapons must 
 be different in characteristics. Since rifles are heavy, aiming with them could have been made 
 a little slower. And SMG's a faster to aim with but not very accurate at long ranges. And while 
 rappelling down, being able to use only the pistol is not a nice thing. Splinter Cell on the other 
 hand has the formula of stopping and switching to a Rifle mid-rappel (you can't move then) done 
 right. And it is also from Ubisoft. They should have seen this problem. If you want to bust in 
 through a window or shoot from a rope, you'd want to use an automatic weapon. Pistols for that 
 purpose are not very useful. And it would be a nice touch if every time the primary weapon runs 
 out of ammo and the player is still holding down the fire button, if the soldier immediately draws 
 the pistol and fires. For which the primary weapon doesn't have to be slung back, just dropped 
 in front of the stomach like in SWAT3 and SWAT4. One weapon shouldered one in front makes it look 
 better than having two weapons on the back. It also reduces the time required to draw the side 
 arm.
  Also, the side arm fires very slow. You can't click fast and try double taps. SO to sue the side 
 arm effectively in Vegas you have to use the tactical shield, which I don't like to play with because 
 I love to use the back against cover feature and play (love that feature) . The side arms should 
 have been a bit more powerful then to compensate the delay between shots and make using the side 
 arm worth your while. Otherwise it just ends up as something you'll see while rappelling. I don't 
 think there was any situation in which I actually used the pistol on a rappel (except of course 
 when I just wanted to try it. It wasn't something I'd want to do for the situation) .
  
  Also, the game has Augs and G3s, but the standard American assault rifles like M-16s and M-4s are 
 missing. That isn't very nice.
  
  And about reloading, if you reload the weapon when your magazine is not totally empty, its 
 called a tactical reload where you put that magazine back in your vest for later use. However in 
 this game every mag you change, the fresh one always has a full clip. That beats the realism of 
 the tactical reload. This has been made accurately in SWAT 4. But in order not to tax your memory, 
 screw the tactical reload. Since you already get plenty of ammo for each weapon you pick up, let 
 magazines be dropped even when they have some rounds left in them. It's better that way and you'll 
 have to use all your weapons that way and keep an eye on how you reload. And the weapon bolt which 
 is pulled when the weapon in reloaded (when it is completely empty) , can be seen only in first 
 person camera. Not from the external camera when you're backed against a wall. Makes the reload 
 faster in external camera than in first person view.
  When you screw on the silencer on rifles and SMG it looks like he turns it counter clockwise 
 while the silencer turns clockwise.
  
  Thirdly the grenades are a problem. There have been points where I want to open a door and throw 
 in a flashbang immediately or a frag grenade, but the door opening happens slowly and once open 
 the enemy is alerted of your presence. And then your grenade going in is pretty slow, and it defeats 
 the purpose. Also frag grenades detonate slowly and most of the time though I throw it into a group 
 of tangos, they manage to disperse and I end up hitting only one. Thirdly, the grenade range is 
 too small. In many occassions I'll be behind cover and the enemy about 20 meters away and I cannot 
 reach him with a grenade. I'll have to move up close and then throw. But by then the enemy disperses. 
 And if you try blind firing then, it is too inaccurate so you cannot even hit the fleeing enemy. 
 Third, after playing SWAT3 and SWAT 4, with much smaller maps, casinos in Vegas have lots of rooms 
 and choke points. And you get only three grenades. In contrast SWAT lets you carry 10 grenades 
 of each type. CS Gas, flashbangs and in SWAT 4, Stinger grenades as well. 3 grenades is a real 
 shortage. However your teammates always have breaching charges, flashbangs and frags. 
  
  Which brings me to teammates.
  When the can, they do not back against a wall unless you order 
 them to stick to it. When they're being shot at, they stand right there and dont always move for 
 cover. And if you ask them to back against a small wall (width wise) they always stick to the two 
 edges, and I cant stay at one of the edges cause then one of my team mates won't put his back against 
 the wall and he can get shot. And whenever I approach a room and I want to go in first, these guys 
 will just stand if front of the doorway, they do not press against the other wall when I press 
 on one side of the door. And they do not open the door staying pressed against a wall so I can 
 toss in a grenade, shoot or run in first. That is really irritating at times. You are supposed 
 to be the point man and you can never lead the team into a room clearance. And they literally follow 
 your footsteps. A formation option would be nice, or a team member view port option like in Ghost 
 Recon or swat, so on parallel balconys you can advance and they can advance on the other side simultaneously. 
 Because in many locations, in a hall, there are balconies on either side, and sometimes lots of 
 things obstruct your view of the other side, so you really can't keep asking your team to advance 
 when you move forward. There should have been some kind of team formations as well, instead of 
 always being right behind you, they could be beside you at a certain distance you should be able 
 to control. Increases your efficacy.
  A move and clear order like in SWAT would also be a great addition. In a tense fire fight in a 
 room or open space, saying smoke and move forward, or frag and move up would be real nice.
  
  
  And Hostages
  You cannot ask the hostage from afar to stop following you or to continue 
 following. You have to go up to him and order. You cannot even assign the hostage to follow your 
 teammate. Stop when he stops and follow when he follows. That is quite irritating.
  
  Other little things like:
  Game needs a sprint option as well. Really hard to move from cover 
 to cover without being able to sprint, especially in wide-open areas.
  Soldiers wear eyeglasses. And they have night vision. I don't know if you can use NVGs on glasses.
 
  Sniper support, and multiple rainbow teams operating would be nice. Not necessarily giving you 
 control over the other team, but going into a huge las Vegas casino with only three men, while 
 the whole city swat team is available seems quite lame. 
  So there should have been multiple rainbow teams moving around in areas, helping each other out 
 and where you can see them working but can't get to them... kind of like in Crysis. You meet your 
 team mates rarely, and they're supposedly active doing other things in your vicinity, or providing 
 sniper support or assisting military command with something. You see them doing things in areas 
 you can't access. That makes the game a lot more interesting, continues the rainbow six feel of 
 working in a big organization, and not a group of four heroes like the fantastic four. Here you 
 only get your info from Jo. She's always giving you all the intel. 
  Rarely a higher up, or different people for different kinds of objectives, like somebody for electronics, 
 some one for political scenario, someone updating you on the local place, like a local intelligence 
 officer talking directly to you. That would make the experience a lot more immersive. For those 
 who play the game and are new to Rainbow Six, they won't really know anything about the game. The 
 whole organization seems like three soldiers, one chopper, on Intel dude, and that woman who keeps 
 giving you intel. For a game which revolves around a multi-national counter terrorist team, this 
 feels more like a blown out of proportion movie or a game 'where you are a member of an elite team 
 of soldiers' concept kicks in. More like a Rambo flick or like Chuck Norris' old Mega force movie. 
 If anybody has read the book, you'll find it very interesting with it's heavy focus on detail and 
 realism in terms of military tactics. Rainbow Six Vegas leaves you wondering, what is a multi nationals 
 team of special forces doing clearing the Las Vegas Casinos with 3 soldiers? What happened to the 
 City Swat team etc. What happened to the National Guard, FBI and the other organizations that get 
 on the scene. How did so many terrorists with a mini nuke, get into the U. S. Enough terrorists, 
 with guns etc. to cause the whole city to run into chaos? Why is there only one rainbow team operating 
 there? Why does Rainbow have to do these Ops? Why not the Navy SEALS? What is the point of the 
 whole game revolving around Vegas? This one I seriously want to know. Rainbow is more effective 
 in situations where multi national diplomats, where an international organization is more welcome 
 to operate than just the nation's special forces. Or in under developed countries, where external 
 help would be wanted from an international team not just from the U. S. Why does everything have 
 to happen inside the U. S in a city, and all happen at such a continuous stretch. When you leave 
 Mexico, you go to Vegas and you know you're on Irena's trail (the antagonist of the game) . Looks 
 pretty lame to see you get pulled out of Mexico where terrorists capture two of your men, the terrorists 
 know of your organization and there is no worry or anything to show your organization is worried 
 about the leak. And you just fly to Vegas and encounter the same terrorist's goons, who somehow 
 appear to have American accents. 
  
  Lots of little things here and there which just ruin the story, the Rainbow Six part of it, and 
 just the game on it's own (if you forget it is a Rainbow Six title) . The game, in terms of gameplay 
 is fun, but the story is really bad. For a game universe created by Tom Clancy, this is like a 
 children's story. Nothing Rainbow about this game. It could have been a Navy SEALS game. 
  
  Verdict:
  Good game, good gameplay, with a few finer aspects missed out. But, that can be 
 over looked. But for a Rainbow Six sequel, this is far below what it should have been.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Las Vegas Nevada is in trouble from a Hispanic terrorist named Irena and who else can put a stop 
 to her but none other than the Rainbow Six team? The series makes its first appearance here in 
 Vegas.
  
  The gameplay is neat new twist in R6V, akin and awfully similar to Gears of War. Though in R6V, 
 the action is slower-paced but the squad based team maneuvering will please fans of the genre. 
 Team AI and enemy AI are quite stupid at times, the tactical challenge still retains its value 
 with a nice combination of third-person view behind the back shooting/cover system and first-person 
 perspectives when not pinned against the wall for cover. The single player campaign for R6V1 turned 
 out to have the better story and setting than R6V2. However, offline replay value is poor, considering 
 that, Terrorist Hunt, the only other game mode for offline play other than the campaign, is ridiculously 
 difficult without computer assisted squadmates helping you out. You are a lonewolf when playing 
 that one out. 
  
  Visuals in R6V are exceptional, depending on the settings of the mission being played. Walkthrus 
 at alleyways and pale colored city streets detract from the experience, while a terrific gunfight 
 at vibrant casinos and the famous Fremont Street are the graphics' strongest points. Some textures 
 are great to look at, though many of them are a bit blurred and bland to the eye. R6V PS3 and the 
 PC version do not support any anti-aliasing, as evident by the many jagged edges seen on power 
 lines and distant buildings. Suffice to say, I must admit that the lighting in the game turned 
 out to be more complex and dramatic than Rainbow Six Vegas 2! R6V1 appears to have HDR while the 
 sequel/prequel does not. Furthermore, the PC and PS3 version are virtually the same in terms of 
 appearance. 
  
  One side note people should be aware of is that I have played this game on an 8800m GTS, 4 GB and 
 C2D 1.83ghz CPU on Vista. The game, as one forum user puts it, "looks like Counter Strike Source" 
 but runs "twice as bad." The game offers poor support for widescreen resolutions, though a user 
 made fix alleviates the pain. Some areas of the game run at 60 fps then a few steps later in the 
 same map the frames drop to 10-15 fps, without much happening. So basically, the PC version is 
 horribly optimized. 
  
  Online play is the game's main bulk and true replay value, with nice unlockable weapons, armor 
 and colored camos. However, for both the PC and PS3 version joining a game-in-progress was never 
 implemented, forcing new incoming players to wait in spectator until the current match finishes. 
 In addition, minor bugs such as sound glitches and loopholes (where a machine gun firing goes on 
 forever) , rampant server lag, unpatched map exploits with cheaters teleporting, and game crashes 
 can occur. 
  
  That is not to say Rainbow Six Vegas is not a great game to play offline. While the story is uncomplete 
 until you actually play its prequel, 2008's R6V2, the single player campaign here ranks as the 
 best of the two. The PC online community still has few players running games and servers, though 
 most of them require a password to join. Exceptional game to pick up at the bargain bin if you 
 have not played R6V. I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  Bored stiff after playing this game for 20 hours. Tried to get through it but got sick of dieing 
 all the time.
  
  Really needs a quick-save option - I'd give the game a 7 if it had it.
  
  Graphics are average at best. I'm using a widescreen monitor with the patch for it and a 9800GTX 
 video card. Textures are really bad.
  
  Storyline is typical go there kill that FPS.
  
  Audio is average and guns sound Ok but nothing special.
  
  Game is a decent length, very linear, 
 and takes place inside of buildings mostly. I used the same statagies over and over until total 
 bordom had my un install the game before finishing. Just could'nt do it. 
  
  I did like the way you can press the right mouse button and lock youself behind cover the shoot 
 over or around the cover. Still that doesn't save the game.
  
  Even now out of the bargin bin I would not recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Ibought a set of three Tom Clancy games, and this was the star of the set. Maily because Splinter 
 Cell 4 was unplayable because of its bugs, and GRAW was HARD. So was this game, but not as much. 
 Anyway, enough complaining. Here's every side of my opinion:
  
  Gameplay: I'd hoped this would be in the end of the review, but this is the way I write them. Okay, 
 so this is a tactical First Person Shooter (you see what the player sees) . The tactical bit means 
 you also boss around another two guys and that the game is not a simple run into a room and shoot 
 at everything. That would simply kill you. The basic runthrough of a level is look under a door 
 with a camera, say "guys, open the door in a specific way" (granade, explotion or just run into 
 the room) , get cover anywhere, and shoot whoever your guys don't shoot. Everyone dead? Advance 
 and get cover somewhere else and repeat. 
  Actually it's not as bad as it sounds. The only bad thing is I hope you like watching ingame cutscenes 
 and shooting at the same enemies several times. Why? Because you will die. If you advance because 
 there's no enemies, go round a corner, and suddenly see an enemy, there's a 75% chance he'll kill 
 you in one shot (on the easiest mode) before you get to aim at him. There's no saving system. Only 
 a primitive "checkpoint" system, with checkpoints that have either got really really really long 
 and really really really hard levels, or on the other hand, two minutes of gameplay without enemies.
 
  Sounds stupid? It is.
  
  Graphics:
  Decent. Although impressive when it first came out, now it's just as good as some of the recent 
 ones (although not as good as Crysis obviously) It uses a lot of HDD which is an effect that makes 
 things have a little blur of light on them. Although normally in real life you only see this when 
 it's really sunny, it still makes the game look a little better.
  
  Sound:
  I played the spanish dubbed game, because I live in Spain, but the voice acting was as good as 
 movie dubs, which are brilliant.
  
  Story:
  Meh, terrorists attack the USA yet again, just with a little Las Vegas twist. The ending was completely 
 disappointing. Don't get me wrong, I don't mind the "To Be Continued"s. It's just, I'm not gonna 
 spoil the story, but you'd imagine an incredible explosive ending that ends up being worse than 
 a mixture of Coke and Mentos (youtube to see what I mean) .
  
  Mixture:
  Of SWAT 4, Ghost Recon, previous R6 games (i think) , and Las Vegas (and mexico too)
  
  Reviewer's 
 tilt:
  Worth playing, I guess, for the cover system, and all that stuff that many other games now have.
 
  
  Anyway, sorry I couldn't add points to the game because of the multiplayer, but I was ripped-off 
 by Ubisoft with its "Codegame" version of the game, that has no key to play multiplayer. And Ubisoft 
 has a really bad support webpage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the game and I'm not dissapointed at all with it.
  
  Its kind of like a mix between Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter and Swat 4 like i mentioned in the 
 title but with all the great pros and none of the cons from those games. Its got the awesome concept 
 of GRAW and all the tactical fun you would hope for from Swat 4.
  
  I think since GRAW wasn't really a great game but had so much wasted potential, they wanted to 
 show what they could do with the same concepts and remake them into vegas. The result is defenetly 
 worth your time.
  
  The overall gameplay is pretty simple yet amazingly effective in this. You have two other teammates 
 that you control by a simple point and click system. Go there and cover. Go there and break down 
 that door. Really easy and fun. Now follow me. No overhead map satellite bull that you just end 
 up screwing yourself over every time you use it.
  
  The formula for an overall great game is really all there but i still have to say that there are 
 some minor flaws nevertheless.
  
  Not sure if it was my system but the sound was at times a little messed up. You hear people only 
 over the radio even if they are right next to you and sometimes there is some really weird echo 
 when people speak. Gets a little annoying after a bit. Also, i thought the characters voices were 
 a little dumb but not that bad. The character you play really sounds like some sort of cowboy from 
 kentucky or something, makes you laugh really, not to mention the others.
  
  Another problem that i seem to encounter a lot with the Tom Clancy games is the save system. Again 
 its the checkpoint kind. They are not always set in the right places since it seems like you die 
 at a really hard spot only to start back 20 mins ago and 10 rooms back. Really gets frustrating 
 towards the end when the AI gets tougher. But overall its not as bad as GRAW.
  
  So in the end its defenetly worth giving the game a try. Really nice FPS with a tactical twist. 
 Defenetly going to look into the second instalment after playing this one. Also since i can't stand 
 cliffhangers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  First off, Rainbow Six Vegas isn't your average Counter Strike. It takes tactical shooters to a whole 
 new level. The gameplay is fast-paced but yet tactical and it needs from you some planning and thinking. The 
 storyline is good, Starts off with a failed mission in mexico, and then carries on to vegas. Youre 
 a member of the elite 3-man special force team Rainbow. On to the thinking-planning side. When you 
 start a mission there are usually many entrances. Depends of the mission which one you wanna take. The 
 multiplayer is also good. You can play survival (CS style deathmatch, no respawns) Team Survival (Same 
 as last but team based) Marksman and Team Marksman (Same as survival, with respawns) . Those are you 
 average gamemodes. But the new concepts are that you can play through the story with 3 friends/random 
 people or you can play terrorist hunt with 3 other people. Terrorist Hunt is like a trademark of 
 R6 games. The game puts enemies randomly on the map and you have to kill them. Sounds simple?. Its 
 not, the AI is smart and uses cover, grenades, tactics just as you do. The game also has a cover system 
 that changes your perspective from 1st to 3rd person and lets you blindfire or peek out which enlarges 
 you chance to die. Anyways, The graphics are just plain awesome for the time. And in many ways the 
 game is called System Killer. Luckily my system ran it just fine. Now for the overall ratings
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is good, fast paced and tactical. Great multiplayer and great story 
 make me say that it deserves a 9.3
  9.3
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are just great. Nothing else to say
  Tho there are some hitches in texture smoothness
 
  9.5
  
  DIFFICULTY
  The difficulty is the only letdown of it. It gets really difficult at places, even on normal, and 
 there are only two settings. From normal it can only go harder
  7.8
  
  OVERALL
  R6V is a great game that everyone should check out, tho the steep requirements are a bit of a bummer, if 
 you have the pc, check it out.
  9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas came out way back in 2006 and I've had the game for awhile now but never really 
 got into it until now. Yes, the game can be difficult, but you must be doing something wrong cause 
 every obstacle can be passed. Vegas is actually the fifth game in the famed Tom Clancy series and 
 this is the first time I've played any of the Rainbow Six games. You play as Logan Keller, leader 
 of Team Rainbow, who's sent in to Las Vegas to deal with a terrorist group lead by one Irena Morales, 
 who has obtained some type of micro pulse bomb and... well, you know what terrorist leaders plan 
 to do. The story is nothing unique but it'll hold your attention throughout the game. It was also 
 one of the first games to use the Unreal Engine 3.0, predating Gears of War and Unreal Tournament 
 III and the graphics are pretty good with some slick HDR lighting, especially in the casinos. Some 
 of the textures are low-res, a holdover from the Xbox 360 version but overall it looks pretty good. 
 The sound effects are excellent, as every weapon has "weight" and feels very real when you're wielding 
 them and engaging in intense shootouts. The music is generic action and the voice acting gets the 
 job done but nothing really sets it apart. The game features an easy to use cover system where 
 you use the right mouse button to take cover, where the view will change to third person. Using 
 the WAD keys, you can peek out and return fire or just press the left mouse button to blindfire 
 around a corner to suppress the enemy. The squad AI is generally good though it'll still do some 
 stupid things. The command button is controlled by the all powerful spacebar where you can order 
 your teammates to take cover at a specific area, fast rope down a building, or breach doorways. 
 You'll have to do some on the fly planning to save hostages but when you succeed, you'll have a 
 big smile on your face. The game can get incredibly difficult; normal should actually be hard. 
 You'll die within 2 seconds under fire if you don't take cover in every battle. The checkpoints 
 are spaced too far apart but this forces you to be careful rounding every corner and entering a 
 new area. You'll have a variety of realistic weaponry to use but you'll probably stick with one 
 or two favorites throughout the game. While it can be difficult, Rainbow Six Vegas features some 
 intense shootouts and an easy to use cover system. If you're a fan of tactical shooters or want 
 to try something new, pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  First thing I noticed is that this game does not support resolutions for widescreen displays (nor 
 does it run in a window) . The game looked horrible (for a two year old game thats pretty bad) . 
 I find ugly games hard to play unless if the gameplay is superb or the story is interesting. Gameplay 
 is fairly easy, with the hide for cover button and there seems to be some autoaim going on (I had 
 a hard time aiming with it) . With the over the cover shooting, I found my accuracy nearly zero 
 (while enemies did the same and hit my bodyparts sticking out from cover) . After a while I didn't 
 know where to go since I thought I explored everywhere and chose to give up on the game. The end. 
 Perhaps I'm noob :P ------------------------------------------------------------
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark30001
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  While this game may be fun, its also horrible at the same time. The interface looks crappy, theres 
 only terrorist hunt for single player after you get through with story mode. Why you ask? Well, 
 most of the time no one plays online because online is dead, and either the maximum games online 
 which can be 1-5 servers either have a password or has to high of ping. Online is a broken joke, 
 because when finally joining a game online its either laggy like a 1 framed picture or i get disconnected 
 and cant even log on to the first part. all servers have high ping, and the ones that dont'... 
 well don't exist. One time i was playing sharpshooter online and guess what? I GOT THE BLUE SCREEN 
 OF DEATH YAY!!!! If im able to actually find a game, i will get thrown around like a ragdoll by 
 the crappy programing of this game online, which means i get rubberbaning and delay. My computer's 
 been more than enough for this game also my cable coonection. Face it this game is crap. No tactics 
 involved what so ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollow_ichigo7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  From Ubisoft comes yet another great game.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is the first Rainbow Six I have ever played, and I love it. It's a tactical shooter 
 that's not short of action, and I hated GRAW because the process of ordering your teammates around 
 was so much of a hassle. Also, it was a lot easier to die in that game which was really what turned 
 me off. Vegas, however, had a great gameplay system, and I loved the cover system because of blind 
 fire which is very useful, and your health regenerates, and the AI is smart enough to know how 
 to move to cover. And ordering them around can be done with the push of a button.
  
  All that tied with a great story that's not far-fetched and enemies that fight back, a difficulty 
 is just right, being realistic and yet not too realistic, is enough to get you hooked. The developers 
 were also smart as Vegas 2 fits in with either of the two endings. 
  
  However, what I didn't like was how the weapons in the game were not well balanced in terms of 
 attributes. For example, in the assault rifle category, the 552 Commando has low accuracy, damage, 
 and range. In contrast, the MTAR 21 has high accuracy, range and damage. Obviously the player would 
 choose the MTAR 21. If there's going to be such a big difference in attributes, then they should 
 make the player have to unlock the better weapons or balance out the attributes, for example have 
 one with high accuracy and low damage and one with high damage and low accuracy. Because they made 
 good and bad weapons as clear as black and white, I ended up using the MTAR 21 for the whole game. 
 
  
  Other than that, it was one of the best games ever, and I'm going to get Vegas 2 when i get the 
 chance. I recommend this to all die-hard FPS fans looking for a cheaper game and to all who are 
 going to play it, have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow six: Vegas
  Rainbow six: Vegas seems to be the 5th installment in the Rainbow six sequel. And i gotta say, this 
 is one of the best Tactical shooter game that i have ever played... The intense action and adrenalin 
 thumps the player into wanting more ! The graphics seems to be pretty cool, the sound keeps a tab 
 on the excitement. The best part of this game is the agility in which the player can handle Logan 
 [player character] , and his team. this game features some of the best control and cover mechanism 
 ever witnessed in the gaming industry.. i have played a lot of FPS's but, this has got to be the 
 best. The weapons and their attachments add a variety of customizations, the 'Rate of fire' is a 
 cool new option where the player can control the number of bullets lodged into the bad guys ! The 
 "Shield" enhancement is one of my favorites, it gives an edge in intense battle situations. The 
 gameplay is well executed and the storyline keeps us wanting more. This game, seems to be in competition 
 with the Ghost Recon series, although they may be quite different in some ways, they do have a 
 lotta similarities.
  
  The downside being graphics glitches and the save-points seems frustrating at times. the option 
 of 'Auto save' would have been perfect !
  
  Over all, This has gotta be the Best tactical shooter there is... it even Beats Ghost Recon ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is not that good of game. its got some good graphics but the gameplay is just 
 boring and repitive. Lately i have been encountering repititive, extremely hard games, like this 
 and manhunt, two very hard games.
  
  I didnt even really get that far in this game because even on normal diffulculty i was dying all 
 the time, and i didnt want to waste my time playing a game where i see the game over screen every 
 ten minutes, and neither should you. The graphics are the only real good thing about this game, 
 but good graphics dont make a game, and i think everyone knows that. 
  
  When i played Rainbow Six 3 raven shield, you knew where the enemies were, you knew what you had 
 to do, and the plotline was good (i didnt really follow it) . In vegas, you dont hardly ever know 
 where your enemies are, so you will think you will have killed them all, and then they will pop 
 up out of nowwhere. The last level i played was the one where its in the casino and there are a 
 bunch of stairs going up to the objectie. i kept dying because when i thought i had killed everyone, 
 some guy would pop up and i would have no cover, so really the cover system doesnt aid you half 
 the time in this game, and the tactics are really no use
  
  Dont get this game, its not awesome, its just plain broken and a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Well, how to say about this game? The campaign mode could be pretty boring and I almost fall asleep 
 after played call of duty 4 instense battles.. it's fine but not quite. Enemy AI are dumb in campagin.. once 
 they heard the sound they will madly pour toward your location.. making it both an advantage and 
 disadvantages.. advantage is, you could just hold still on an corner and wait for them to come out 
 if the surrounding are safe enough, but in most part, specially in the "terrorist hunt" mode.. the 
 terrorist are especially cunning.. they know everything you have! And you have to fight one against 
 45 or somethings in some VERY dangerous **** me lots of door and cover nearby.. the very next second 
 there could be a guy pop out in front of you and really scare you to death.. LOL... yes it is.. you 
 don't even know where they are gonna be, there is NO safe corner in the place.. they could even 
 go search for you after they heard noise.. but you will never know when they will pop out in front 
 of you.. it's so freakin hard to beat it against 45.. and once you have fallen, probably with just 
 several more left to kill, you still need to respawn and fight all over again.. it's somehow frustrating..
 
  
  Okej, about it pros and good sides.. the fire fights are gorgeous and is very cool.. the cover system 
 is great and you could also use tactics and uprgade to your rifle.. lots of firearms to choose from.. fun 
 mutliplayer and pickin different gears..
  
  Cons, somethings lone wolf against dozens could be too hard.. not that instense enough.. the feel 
 of haunting that some one would pop out your screen make you too nervous.. bad voice sounds actly 
 about enemy AI, they could kept repeating the same phrase and words..
  
  Graphics are great still in nowaday standard.. although bullet's physical porperty could be badlt 
 act, 7.62x45 NATO machine gun bullets can't even shoot through woods?!
  
  Anyway it's a good game, but still far away from great.
  
  Graphic-8.5/10
  Sound-8/10
  
 Voice-act (terrorist) -6/10
  Gameplay-7.5/10
  Presentation-7.5/10
  Storyline-7/10
  Value-8/10
  
  Anyway it still worth a 8/10, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  A graphical nightmare if you've played recent games. But otherwise, you might find Vegas acceptable.
 
  
  The first time I loaded up the game, I got a black screen after starting a new game. That's when 
 I realised something was wrong with my settings: Rainbow Six Vegas doesn't support 1600x1200 resolution, 
 and has absolutely no widescreen support. Thus, the graphic factor for me was totally out, seeing 
 as how I invested in a 22" widescreen and 8800GTS and all.
  
  Sound-wise, it was acceptable, with a couple of notable soundtracks that really got your blood 
 pumping. The game interface was mediocre. It could learn how to customise weapons from Crysis. 
 Also, the menus and main menu screen was bland and boring. Overall, presentation was lacking. However, 
 that's not to say that the graphics in the game were lacking, it's just that it looks like Unreal 
 Tournament 2004 in 2008.
  
  On another note, the gameplay was smooth, and suffered rare faults. In fact, it only crashed into 
 a black screen once on my PC, and there was only one time that a bug occured when I couldn't change 
 weapons. However, there are problems involving certain areas of the game that are frustratingly 
 stupid. Some checkpoints are too far between, and are way too challenging even for normal mode. 
 (Take the dam level as an example) . The AI is good: they will notice you under normal circumstances, 
 and they won't hear your silenced weapon fire unless it's right next to them.
  
  So at least Vegas got gameplay right. Which is what encouraged me to finish the game in the first 
 place, because the story bordered on stupid. Not only did it lack creativity, but it was oh-so-predictable, 
 and hardly made any sense. Terrorists attacking Vegas, and wanting to blow up a dam? They really 
 could have made things alot more interesting. The level variety was the only thing that saved the 
 story from being a complete letdown.
  
  So why buy Vegas? Well, I can't really answer that for you. Either you love anything and everything 
 Tom Clancy, or you just have too much money on your hands. With other games on the market right 
 now, Vegas might be interesting to collect as a classic. However, let me assure you there is nothing 
 classic about Vegas. If you're looking in your bargain bin, I recommend Hitman 4 or even FEAR over 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFireCrossX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  i never had a go at tactical shooters until i came across this game. this was just purely amazing 
 beyond words at first i didnt know what to do but the general idea of taking cover and shoot really 
 lets me discover the action at my own pace. Yet with the unreal engine 3 makes the visuals just 
 stunning to stare at for few minutes. it might be abit difficult if you are a typical run an gun 
 person and just charge right into the action without knowing where the enemies are coming from, 
 in this game, you have to be careful for every step you take and should take cover 99% of the time 
 but even then at times you might need to be aware of the enemies flanking you. It's also something 
 new to me that you require around 2-3 shots at the body for an enemy to be died yet you also can 
 die easily if you are not aware where the line of fire is coming from. overall this is an amazing 
 game and should players should definitely get the sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's "Rainbow Six Vegas" is a futile attempt to spice up the shooter genre by taking the 
 player into a familiar (to some) location, but in a completely unfamiliar position. Most people, 
 when they think of Las Vegas, think of gambling, alcohol and all kinds of debauchery and sin. "Rainbow 
 Six Vegas" adds to the pile some good old fashion terrorism, and bad storytelling.
  
  The player takes the role of Logan, the newest team leader in the ranks of an elite squad, who 
 apparently isn't very good, since his fallow teammates, Khan and Gabriel, are captured by terrorists 
 on his first mission. Despite Logan's objections, his commander decides to leave the duo to their 
 fate, and assign Logan to a new team, headed for Vegas.
  Along for the ride, are two other A. I. squad members who will follow Logan blindly into the line 
 of fire in an attempt to bring peace back to the city of sins.
  From there on, the story's development hits a wall. Once the Vegas campaign starts, the game's 
 story doesn't offer any twists up until the very last mission.
  
  Although the game doesn't start or end in Vegas, the gameplay itself stays the same throughout 
 the entire experience. Logan can give order to his team, like assault, rappel or clear out a room 
 full of badies. Most of the time, the A. I. is pretty good, and Logan's team will work efficiently 
 and will not get in the way, while enemies take cover and flank when the option present itself. 
 It's too bad that after the second mission, "Rainbow Six Vegas" stays exactly the same. Nothing 
 new is introduced into the game, and every cool feature is used over and over again until nothing 
 seems fun anymore. Even engaging in combat is reduced to popping out of cover to take down an enemy 
 or two, and then popping right back in. who knew that being an elite commando can be so boring.
 
  
  Another downside to the gameplay is the fact that checkpoint are spaced too far between, forcing 
 the player to clear out room after room, only to die by a lonely terrorist who was hiding around 
 the corner, and then play the entire scenario all over again. It can get real annoying at times, 
 because wasn't enough excitement the first time to justify another run-through.
  
  "Rainbow Six Vegas" features a wide arsenal of weapons, from sub machine guns to sniper rifles. 
 At first this feature looks cool, and the ability to equip different weapons before and during 
 each mission can be fun, but soon the realization that some guns are better then others will make 
 most of the weapons unnecessary. The only real major decision is whether to bring along the shotgun, 
 or the sniper rifle.
  
  For some reason, this game as labeled as a "Tactical Shooter". To be frank, the tactical part in 
 the game isn't very dominant, or even present. Sure, Logan can order his team to burst through 
 doors, using grenades or flashbangs, or even fast-rope through skylights, but the matter of fact 
 is that no amount of tactic is really required at any point. Some entries are better then others, 
 and when dealing with hostages, grenades may not be the wisest choice, but every room or corridor 
 can be cleared by simply ordering your team to take cover and return fire.
  
  The game's only saving grace is the graphics. The rich environments are truly sight to behold. 
 The casino floors, show rooms and huge lobbies make for a wonderful battleground, with lots of 
 cover and destructible objects (such as slot machines, tables and cars) . Even when flying above 
 Las Vegas, the urban scenery looks amazing. The characters look ok, especially the Rainbow Six 
 team members. The enemies are a bit repetitive in design, but it's only noticeable near the end, 
 where the game throws at the player wave after wave of tangos. Speaking of the Rainbow Six team, 
 it is kind of funny to see the length the development team went to try and be politically correct. 
 The whole supporting team and enemies are composed of a verity of ethnic groups, while the protagonist 
 Logan and the antagonist are the only proud white American.
  
  The sound design in the game isn't the best there is, with the exception of the voice acting. Every 
 accent is well done, from the Russian to the Asian to the South American.
  Sound effects are a different story; the gunshots and explosion lack the punch you'd expect them 
 to have. Grenades explode with a measly bang, and gunshots are not nearly as ear deafening there 
 ought to be. The same goes for the background music; it is uninspiring and forgettable at best. 
 Its attempts at being dramatic fail miserably and the action sequences are accompanied by annoying 
 and bland scores.
  
  "Rainbow Six Vegas" is a good looking game, with fast paced action and high production values, 
 but lacks any originality and substance. If you are a fan of tactical shooters, I'm certain you 
 can do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflashxwmc
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  For most of my reviews, I like to go through the strengths and weaknesses of each game -- in more 
 of an informal style of review. Here is my review for Rainbow Six Vegas on the PC:
  
  Pro:
  - Since their are so many lights in each area, the game uses emitters to simulate a light 
 source coming out of a light while the scene is light only by a couple of pre-baked lights. 
  - Having been to Las Vegas, only once, I feel that the game achieved the essence of the casinos 
 and restaurants found there: neon lighting, messy floors. The team must have done their research.
 
  -Music adds a lot to the liveliness (ex: casino's play pop music)
  - Glass responds realistically when shot -- refracting light differently for a cool effect
  - 
 Teammates will give you a hard time for remaining static for too long -- reminds the player of 
 the urgency of the mission.
  - Levels almost always have multiple floors with big, equidistant objects on the bottom floor to 
 use as cover (adds to strategy -- if you are on the second floor you have the height advantage)
 
  - Even the smallest, unimportant rooms have props that can be shot and add to the realism of the 
 environments
  - Good use of complimentary lights to enhance forms (most areas have super- dramatic lighting... which 
 is good to establish the setting)
  - Lighting filter changes based on the color of light in the room -- might have a cool feeling 
 in an air duct and change to a warm feeling inside a large room
  - Fog diffuses realistically from one room to another (when a door is opened)
  - Good use of 
 shaders on simple objects to conserve geometry and distinguish objects 
  - Clear difference between enemies and their skill level: spec ops, amateurs, etc. This is done 
 by the way they communicate with each other and the clothing they are wearing
  
  Here are some aspects that the game could use work on:
  
  - Most textures are a little too 
 clean (no weathering) this makes for a synthetic look that doesn't effectively mimic reality
  - Characters or NPC's don't cast shadows (only moveable objects cast shadows -- and there are not 
 many of them) . I didn't notice this at first, and I believe that most players will dismiss it, 
 because of the unavoidable camera blur and also all the neon lights on screen 
  - Vast and beautiful levels are overshadowed by the fact that fighting only occurs in small areas 
 of each
  - Levels get exponentially harder and save points are hard to come by as it is, which brings me 
 to my next point: there is no way to go back to a certain area in the game (which I like to do 
 often) . The player can only restart from the LAST save point
  - Voices can be heard from too far away, not even being muffled through walls 
  - No incentive 
 to continue the game: there are no power-ups, no new skills. It feels like routine maintenance 
 -- doing the same things over and over
  - Timing isn't a factor in encounters: if two enemies are talking and the player tries to ambush 
 them while they are "off guard" the AI becomes alert the player steps through the door. 
  - Enemies don't seem to walk around enough (patrolling) . This way, there is no opening to an encounter 
 -- and the player must face the opposition head-on every time
  - Enemies have an unbelievably high accuracy for hitting the player... if they are shooting at someone 
 else and don't even have a clear shot at you, the moment you stick your head out they will hit 
 you (and their gun won't even be pointed in your direction)
  
  All in all, I enjoyed Rainbow Six Vegas. I think I liked the variety of environments more than 
 the gameplay itself, though. I can't compare the game to the series as a whole, as this is my first 
 time to pick up a Tom Clancy game. I did feel that the plot was a little too weak and there wasn't 
 much reason to travel from Mexico to Las Vegas; I'm not going to argue with it that much, though, 
 because being able to play in vegas was a new and exciting experience. The flaws I found in the 
 game are very nit-picky and some really don't take away from the gameplay. I guess it's the fact 
 that the game was so long and there wasn't anything new to the table after the first half that 
 I didn't rate it higher. A lot of times the game felt more like work than fun; and this defeats 
 the purpose of a game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foiyo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I got this game for my PC all I have been is playing it! It's really addicting. Anyone 
 who loves FPS's need to get this game! This game is also really realistic on realistic difficulty. 
 Online play is one of the best online modes. The story line is also great! It's makes you want 
 to wait and buy the second game. If people like tactical games they should get this too. It's good 
 that they just have a terrorist hunt incase you are bored with story. The online play is overall 
 good. Sometimes there are never any barely in servers up. Most of the modes are good but, some 
 good ones are rarely ever used. Most of them were good when they first were released. To some people 
 they got really boring. I personally love every type of game mode. Overall, It has to be the best 
 game out for the PC now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardBoiledGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Considering that is the first Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six game, it was amazing. 
  
  Plot:
  The plot of this game had a movie feeling to it. There was also no corny dialogue, only dialogue 
 that will keep u interested and hooked into the game. Plot was well done in terms of story development 
 as u progress through.... although the ending was a bit disappointing.
  
  Graphics/Visuals:
  The only thing i can say is that the graphics and visuals look very realistic. 
 For the first time, it is possible (for me) to actually see a person's face with a realistic feel 
 to it (i. e. wrinkles, light beard) .
  
  Environment:
  I've never been to Las Vegas before, but the quality of the lights, doors, buildings are enough 
 to make it look like that this is quality vegas. If u r into breaking glass, then this game does 
 a good job of that. Everytime u shoot the glass, a glass will only crack and the spot u fired at 
 will be broken, making it look very realistic.
  
  Gameplay:
  The controls of this game was actually very easy to control. This game will give the player the 
 feeling of an intense tactical shooter with the commands that could be made by you (the leader) . 
 
  
  I cant say anything about the multiplayer of R6 Vegas, but i saw some screenshots for the 360 version 
 which allowed u to create ur own character, hopefully, the PC version will also have that.
  
  One story short, if u r interested in in shooters of any kind and action/adventure, then consider 
 this game and it should be cheap now since the second one will come out during April 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  This game is an awesome and strong singleplayer. It could easily be the best tactical FPS singleplayer 
 on the market. However, the multiplayer mode is ... well ... can't say since it crashed almost 
 every time I tried it.
  
  Great stuff:
  - very nice and exciting maps
  - excellent gameplay
  - enemy AI works great
  - unlike GRAW that was too hard, the difficulty 
 levels here are just about right. The game is difficult enough to challenge you but not to discourage 
 playing
  - it looks like a mix of the best things from Lockdown, GRAW, and some gadgetry from SC compiled 
 in a very creative way
  - excellent weapons feel and plenty of them: 6 pistols, 4 shotguns, 4 snipers, 9 assault rifles, 
 6 submachine guns, 5 light machine guns
  - compared to its closest and most recent relative, R6 Lockdown, in Vegas you can combine various 
 scopes and silencers at the same time rather than just one or the other as in Lockdown
  - character creation is nothing revolutionary here, but it's a nice touch -- face features barely 
 modifiable, but personal armor, clothes, etc. plenty
  
  OK stuff:
  - sound is very good and in some parts excellent. - graphics ... well, some say excellent and I 
 say about average with lots of jagged edges and some serious blurring (and I use one of the best 
 graphics cards on the market right now)
  
  Bad stuff:
  - multiplayer (needs a patch ASAP; for all practical purposes the multiplayer is currently dead)
 
  - parts of console porting to PC too obvious -- selecting a silencer with directionally moving 
 the mouse as mimicking a gamepad controller; video options obviously made for a standardazed xbox 
 hardware with no variations in hardware options present on PCs, etc.
  - limited resolutions and no support for widescreen -- I don't use widescreen but would expect 
 a very common 17" & 19" LCD rez of 1280x1024 to be included
  - video options: no AA, and HDR doesn't do enough
  - AMD dual core processors may not perform 
 very well without the optimization patch (November 2006 patch available at AMD site)
  
  Overall, this is a great game (I'll give Ubi 2 weeks to fix the multiplayer before coming back 
 here and reducing this score; funny tho, they issued 1.01 patch even before the game was released 
 but unfortunately it didn't fix multiplayer) . Exciting maps, loads of weapons combined with some 
 tactical thinking and planning makes this game shine. If you are primarily a multiplayer person, 
 you may want to wait and see till this malfunction is fixed, but if it ever gets fixed the multiplayer 
 with ranks and points and multiple modes should be very exciting too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfGames4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the games to improve shots that I have seen. It is not only kills, 
 kills, but you are careful not to take that shot, commanding the troops, know the position of the 
 same, as will attack. Rainbow Six Vegas for Playstation 3, Xbox 360 and PC is a game of Shooting 
 in First Person Strategy, which in which you have the command of 3 people, which will have to solve 
 missions in the city of Las Vegas. The game has the great graphics, the gameplay is great where 
 you commands where you want the troops go, and you can hide using the right mouse button, in which 
 the vision is in third person. The Sound of the game flows perfectly with the environment. Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is recommended for fans of FPS and for possudores of PS3 and Xbox 360.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 9.5
  Gameplay: 10
  Entertainment: 10
  History: 9.0
  Elements: 9.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game in celebration of passing some exams so was expecting big things from it! I 
 was not disappointed! First of all here is my system spec:
  
  -Athlon 64 X2 4200 @ 2.2ghz
  -ASUS M2N4 sli
  -2gb Corsair DDR2 667mhz
  -Nvidia 7600gt 256mb
 
  
  As you can see its a pretty low to mid spec but was playable. The overall look of the game was 
 amazing with stunning visuals of Vegas and its casinos. The character visuals are good but the 
 terrorists are pretty generic. The gameplay is fantastic and I still have yet to play a game with 
 better team tactical control as this. I used an Xbox 360 controller with this game and found it 
 much easier. The storyline in the game is very good and it is very easy to get engaged in it completely. 
 There are some major twists in this story (I won't spoil them tho!) and this really helps to keep 
 you engaged.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of R6V is amazing and again it is quite easy to get distracted by this instead 
 of playing through the difficult campaign.
  
  Overall I would say that it is a fantastic game with a brilliant story (frustrating ending!!!) 
 and gameplay that I really enjoyed and continue to play even over a year later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoneEge
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  TCRSV is a fabulous game with superb graphics. Playing the game is so much fun. You just find yourself 
 in mexico fighting local terrorists all alone then later on find your team mates and get into Tom's 
 catchy world. The command, take cover, shoot style game play is really fun at the beginning (like 
 for hours and hours) but later on it starts to get boring because its the same over and over again. 
 The game has great graphics if your PC can handle it. And the sounds are realistic. You cant just 
 get in a room shooting at everything that moves. You have to plan your attacks because the AI is 
 really good. They can just take you down with a headshot. The bad thing is that you cant move cover 
 to cover like in Gears of War. Anyway the game is really fun and Jung makes you laugh at the most 
 critic point with his accent. And Michael keeps you happy with his weird british accent. You will 
 spend hours on this game. You wont even go to the bathroom and let it go in your pants because 
 you will not want to miss a second. Buy it ASAP !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballzilla
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game is by no means bad. But I wished I had played this before I played Call of Duty 4 to 
 truly appreciate its value. The storyline is not bad but is not as immersive as games like Crysis. 
 Action is where it's at. It's particularly fun to see the AI duck for cover and shooting their 
 guns from the side of the walls. I'd have to say that while there are challenging moments, it was 
 no where near the difficulty I had experienced with COD4. While it makes the game more fun to not 
 die as many times, it's sometimes not as satisfying. 
  
  The parts that truly sets itself apart from most first person shooters is the duck and cover mechanism 
 and how you can open the door from the side and throw in a grenade of your choice into the room 
 without exposing yourself to the line of fire.
  
  However the voice acting is at times lacking and of course the graphics just isn't the same if 
 you've feasted your eyes in games like Crysis and Call of Duty 4. It also runs rather sluggish 
 at full resolution and effects in comparison to Call of Duty 4, which really shows how optimized 
 the COD4 engine is.
  
  Overall, it is a good game and I don't regret playing it and finishing it. It was surely time well 
 spent. However, if you have the option, play Las Vegas first before playing the newer games with 
 the fancier voice acting, storyline, and better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas is an outstanding game that can not be missed. The story mode 
 is non-stop action that will leave you begging for more when it is all over. You will play as a 
 squad leader of two named Logan. In the beginning you will start off in Mexico with squad members 
 Kon and Gabriel. But during your mission, you will face some problems that will lead you to your 
 new objectives in Las Vegas, Nevada. You will receive new squad members. named Michael and Jung, 
 because of an incident that occurred in Mexico. Moreover, you will blast your way through hundreds 
 of terrorists in the casinos of Vegas and the dams of Nevada. You will be able to choose from more 
 than 50 weapons, such as my favorites, the 552 Commando and the MP9. Each weapon chosen can be 
 customized by adding attachments, such as, high capacity magazines, reflex sight, and laser sight. 
 You can also change the rate of fire and add or take off a silencer for nearly every weapon, except 
 for the light machine guns, such as, the M249SPW. Furthermore, as a tactical shooter, you will 
 be able to press your back against the wall to take cover and then fire whenever. You can choose 
 to shoot by taking out most your body or by just simply putting your gun out, with one arm, and 
 blast away while hoping you hit someone. You will also be able to command your squad members to 
 follow, hold, set up at door, or move to a chosen area. You can toggle the way your team reacts 
 when seeing an enemy by changing to either assualt, which will allow them to shoot whenever a enemy 
 is seen, or to infiltrate, which will make your team only fire when being shot at. Another amazing 
 feature is that you and your squad can rappel down or up a building and also breach through windows 
 or just shoot through the glass and kill the enemies while hanging in mid-air. When the story mode 
 is completed, it is not the end because there is a addicting mode called terrorist hunt, where 
 you must assassinate a number of terrorist all alone, unless you play it in multiplayer. Terrorist 
 hunt will have new areas in the levels you experienced in the single player. Also, RS: Vegas has 
 a great online mode where you can customize your character and then enter the team based online 
 battle zone. There are many modes to play in including free-for-all (only non-team based mode) , 
 retrieval, survival, and sharpshooter. Overall, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas is a brilliant 
 and highly addicting game that 100 percent deserves a 10.0. With an amazing 10 to 15 hour storyline 
 that has astonishing graphics, voice acting, and sound effects, at the end you will be thirsty 
 for more because of the shocking ending which will continue in Rainbow Six: Vegas 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anders_Mech
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  From the beginning of the Rainbow Six: Vegas, it is clear that this is not one of the straightforward 
 run and gun style games that seem to be clouding the shelves of the local video game store. After 
 loading up and starting a new game, it was hard not to notice the amazing visual style. Using a 
 system that has a fair bit of horsepower (3.0GHz Dual Core processor, 2 x nVidia 8500 GT 512 Mb 
 with SLI turned off, 1 Gig DDRII 667 Ram, Windows XP Home and a LG L1900J-BF) the game ran perfectly 
 at the highest non widescreen resolution. After playing the game for a couple of hours, I began 
 to really enjoy being able to use the games AI buddy system. By using the space bar, you can send 
 your squad members over to the location your mouse is pointing at. You can also "Stack-Up", slang 
 for having the squad prepare to burst through a door. When you "Stack-Up", you are presented with 
 three different ways that you can go through the door. Each has it's own strategic value, and coupled 
 with the fact that you can use your snake cam (a camera that fits under the door so that you can 
 see what's on the other side) and select up to two targets for your squad to target first when 
 they successfully breach through the door, can lead to interesting way of clearing out a room full 
 of baddies. Also, the difficulty settings of the game offer for gameplay that can be good for the 
 beginner, but challenging for the hardcore gamer. 
  
  Another point that Rainbow Six hit dead on in this installment of the series is the story. It drives 
 you to want to play the game just to find out what the ending is. This is important in games because 
 without this, this game would just be another of those games where after a few hours we question 
 why we are playing it. The basic storyline is that terrorists are holing up in casino's in Las 
 Vegas, you are sent in to command a crack special forces team to rescue various people and in general 
 find out just what the heck is going on. The characters are also a major point in the story, as 
 they are the ones that drive the plot. In this game the character's work seamlessly together. They 
 function as a team, like they should. When one of the members goes down, the other character, through 
 very good voice acting, manages to sound slightly upset, a welcome break from the bland "He's down" 
 from the sound vault of monotony. The only fault that is that I found the weapon system to be a 
 bit unbalanced; leading to me using the same weapons for most of the time I was playing it. I understand 
 that the developers are probably trying to be as accurate as possible but they could probably fix 
 this problem by making the more accurate weapons available later in the game. 
  
  After playing Rainbow Six: Vegas long enough to manage to pull myself away from it to write this, 
 I still find my self wanting to play it more. The replay value is also good. I had to reload the 
 game after re-imaging my computer and found that even though I had already played that part of 
 the story I still wanted to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daydestroyer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 used to be a very tatical game. There wasn't much out there like it. But now they changed 
 it a bit. It has much more action in it as well as some tatical gameplay, which is actually good. 
 
  The graphics look great! Vegas is a good spot to show it off too. Since there's lights everywere 
 and such. There are plenty of gun variety as well. A whole lot... to top it off you can customize 
 then with one thing (x6 rifle scope, acog scop, bigger magizines) the laser though is kind of pointless. 
 Unless you like running around shooting wildly. But it doesn't really look good either. Dont know 
 how to explain but the laser doesnt just look right. 
  
  The enemies, are basicly randomized custom soliders. So you'll be finding some guys who look like 
 there on your side. Which I think they are. Ex teammates. The new cover system works awesome. If 
 you made your own charater (theres plenty of stuff to get.... but you can also dress up as a terrorist. 
 Strange huh?) You can see what he looks like and admire his/her glory! The npcs AI is kind of sucky 
 though. At least in terrorist hunt (didnt do much SP) as in, they commonly just RAM into you. Making 
 you move back or they'll just shoot you in the head and you'll instantly die reguardless if you 
 put a helemet on your charater or not. Or even a full face mask. So if you do stop them, they'll 
 pile up which is moderatly dumb looking and they have that Oblivion slo mo physics I say. Like 
 when you blow them up they fly and fall rather slow. But when shot, they put there hand there and 
 yell then fall which is kind of cool. But the ramming is just annoying. They also have a good use 
 of cover but at the same time poor use. Such as when I was in the desert town mission, A guy took 
 cover behind a truck standing CLEARLY giving out his head.
  as well as sometimes like when I ran away from them and hid in this piece of a train (they saw 
 me) they kept on asking,"What the **** they were just here? Were are they?" dude you saw me ran 
 in there... by the way I think the Npcs cant run inside that train. They never follow you in there. 
 There is also no teammates in SP terrorist hunt. Solider of fortune you are!
  
  Multiplayer luckily is better. Its easy to do team works strangly without communication. Sometimes 
 you may need it. Other times you wont. Terrorist hunt is also funner with freinds too. Sharpshooter 
 (deathmatch) I usually find a bunch of people running around shooting. But if lives are on there 
 more cautious which is how I like it. There are a lot of game modes. Dont know how much but trust 
 me... I think theres much or more then UT04.
  
  Most of the time the host restricts gasmasks (no idea why) so you'll have to take that out of your 
 look list. The maps as well look cool and are huge. Like the library. Outside, front side and back, 
 roof and 3 stories with lots of room. Even rope for you to climb. What else could you ask for? 
 Maybe a little more or less but thats opinion.
  
  
  I didnt tell you everything but this game is worth picking up (even though I didnt say too much 
 good) but it is. Who knows if Rainbow 6 will always be like this or like this only in Vegas. We'll 
 find out soon after RB6 Vegas 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  BEST FEATURES: Rambo action; particle effects in graphics and sound effects; Multiplayer.
  
  WORST FEATURES: Cheesy and unsatisfying quirks in the storyline; unbalanced AI, performance 
 and game in general. 
  
  SIMILAR GAMES: Rainbow Six Vegas is a hybrid of Gears of War, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter and 
 SWAT 4.
  
  
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a tactical shooter that puts you as a commander of two Rainbow operatives 
 as you try to solve a growing crisis that takes you at a few spots in Americas, predominantly, 
 the city of Las Vegas. The single player includes two modes: campaign (the story mode) and terrorist 
 hunt where you're charged with clearing the map from bad guys on your own. There's also a neat 
 multiplayer mode. 
  
  Let's be honest, you know Rainbow Six Vegas is not going to be a standard Rainbow Six game, just 
 by looking at the package: the cool-looking operative by a shiny Vegas billboard. All the famous 
 Rainbow traidmark features have been either cut or heavily modified. There is no more mission planning. 
 Teammates can't be chosen and neither can their weapons. Before most missions, the player however, 
 does get a choice out of different (and very modern) weapons in several categories for his own 
 character. Each weapon can also be modified with an add-on. Appealing to the more mainstream gamers, 
 Rainbow Six is, basically, capitalism on a stick.
  
  The creators tried to inject a serious realistic tactical shooter with an overdose of action and 
 bling. The attempt is, without a doubt, more successful than that of R6 Lockdown, but the results 
 are still somewhat unbalanced. The gameplay consists of moving through the level, clearing room 
 after room, repelling waves of attacking enemies, rescuing hostages and letting your team members 
 defuse bombs or tap into computers. A relatively simple system of commands allows you to do a number 
 of useful things with your squad members. Your team can be ordered to stack up at a door and then 
 clear the room behind it in a number of ways. They can interact with mission-critical objects and 
 use different movement tactics. A few shots will kill both you and your team, so outmost caution 
 is a must. And yet constant unexpected attacks will throw that caution right out of the window. 
 There are save checkpoints, but they are fairly far apart. This means lots of trial and error: 
 fun prolonging the game for one person and annoying repetitions for another.
  
  Firefights are generally concentrated around a shoot-from-cover mechanic, something you mostly 
 see in cheesy action movies. At a push of a button, the character puts his back against the wall, 
 the camera goes to the third person view and the player can then expose a part of his character 
 to shoot at the enemy. He player can even blind fire - that is fire the weapon from around the 
 corner without looking. This action mechanic allows for spectacular shoot-outs while keeping the 
 character relatively safe. If the player tries to go outside this technique, his character will 
 not last very long.
  
  Despite the occasional alternative path in the map and cool tricks like being able to climb down 
 a rope upside down, R6 Vegas strips the player of any real freedom. It is noticeable from the linear 
 construction of campaign maps (as opposed to squarer sand-box maps) and the sheer amount of scripts 
 present. Scripted events are around every corner, in enemy actions, communications and the environment 
 in general. Stealth is present in the game but only when the game wants you to use it, to be more 
 precise, when clearing small rooms of enemies or solving hostage situations. In all other cases 
 it seems that the enemy knows exactly where you are, no matter how stealthy you behave.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence system is fairly complicated, which means that it's prone to critical 
 mistakes. In the earlier Rainbow Six games the AI was a problem, but at least one knew what to 
 expect from it. You could use those expectations as another way to control your teams. In R6 Vegas 
 the advanced AI tactics combined with a varied surrounding produce unexpected results. One of the 
 strange results is that your team seems to be weaker than the enemy, not being able to handle unexpected 
 targets. The enemies are masters of ambush, coming from every mouse hole, communicating, throwing 
 different grenades at you and using cover better than your own team, which by now, for some reason, 
 decided to go ahead of you and get themselves killed.
  
  Graphically, Rainbow Six Vegas is up to date, though the lower quality textures are covered up 
 with lots of light bloom, an effect that creates a blurry glowliness around everything. All events 
 feel well animated and a lot of things in the environment are destructible. The developers were 
 obviously aiming at the shiny world of Las Vegas to provide the bling background for the destruction. 
 Slot machines, flashing and shooting out coins as they explode, are good eye candy, while explosions 
 and smoke show off the particle effects.
  
  The sound support is one thing that's so well implemented into R6 Vegas that it's actually noticeable 
 at a number of points. Music is well chosen and changes with the action and your location. Needlessly 
 to say, the explosions and gun fire are a great part of the action.
  
  The best feature of R6Vegas is its multi-player where up to 14 people can play on a server. There 
 are tons of game types, gear and characters to choose from. One is able to highly customize their 
 character, though not nearly as far as on Xbox 360. On-line scripted action changes for a much 
 more natural and cool looking firefight. Maps are fairly large and Rainbow developers have released 
 a few extra maps free to download. 
  
  The performance is another bad point in R6V. IT starts with the video options, which are extremely 
 limited. Texture quality, for example , is not one of them. The graphics of the game might be fairly 
 impressive, but they aren't state of the art by today's standards. Yet a dual core 6600 machine 
 with 2 gigs of RAM and a good video card had a few struggling points. The fact that they were few 
 is the main part of the argument. Those points were inconsistent and the machine was slowing down 
 in spots that seemed to have no hardware-intensive things. All that lack of balance was experienced 
 in the patched 1.6 version of R6V. Makes you wonder what the 1.0 version was like.
  
  The constant trial and error, the inability to control the events at random places, the unbalances 
 in the performance and the helplessness of your team mates all begin to irritate shortly after 
 the first insertion, and don't stop irritating till the end of the game. And how does the game 
 end? It ends in the middle of things with the words "to be continued". Perhaps the problem with 
 anyone who doesn't like Rainbow Six Vegas is that he or she expects something from this game, that 
 it isn't designed to deliver, namely the tactical special forces experience. With that said, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is a good game for someone who just wants some run 'n gun action. It's relatively difficult, 
 and yet it has lots of eye candy mixed in with over the top firefights. If not the single player, 
 the multi-player makes this game worthy of purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  +Great graphics
  +Very intense
  +Great online multiplayer 
  +A very interesting premise, not seen in many war shooters. (Basiclly, it's not set in the middle 
 east, asia, africa, or south america, but here in the united states.)
  +Fairly long campagn mode, and difficult enough for it to last.
  +Really well done cover system, 
 and maybe the start of the covering system rip-offs in many other fps games.
  +Create a character and take him or her online. 
  
  The Bad:
  -Difficulty and sometimes long 
 seperation of checkpoints can make the game a little frustrating at times.
  -Online play might get a little stale
  -For a Tom Clancy game, a guy who writes novels for a 
 living, the story could be alot better, and the characters more interesting. 
  -Removed alot of the stradegy, planning, (but not all) and cool characters from old games. 
  
 
  The Ugly:
  *Apparantly all the cars in Las Vegas are Dodges
  *Though the location and premise is good, it seems a little ridiculous. 
  *Online play is getting 
 so old for people, most people play by new rules for games created by the people. 
  *The main character.. and the cliffhanger ending.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is the latest instalment 
 in the Rainbow Six franchise. This one takes the series, and flips it on it's ear. All the characters, 
 are gone, going across the world, is done, and the planning and trial and error nature is no more. 
 
  
  Instead of have a less realistic, but still not arcade like shooter with an awesome cover system, 
 and the occasional rappeling. Switching your team is a thing of the past as you are always (except 
 one mission) accompined by 2 other people. At the beginning of the game your two teamates are taken 
 hostage, and you have to get them back. 
  
  They happen to be in Las Vegas, where a group of mexican terroists are executing a VERY large scale 
 assault on sin city. You haul back to sin city, and then the rest of the story mode is one night 
 of progressing through Las Vegas, killing tons of bad guys. 
  
  So you go through Las Vegas streets, and Casinos, and even the back areas of the city. The whole 
 story is pretty predictable, and a little ridiculous. 
  
  Multiplayer mode is pretty normal. You have the Deathmatch, team deathmatch, Survival, Search and 
 Destroy, Attack and Defend ETC. The cover system makes it a little different than other FPS, and 
 for that, it does have a really great online multiplayer. 
  
  Including in online mode is the ability to make a character, equip him or her with many different 
 types of clothing, accesories, and camo colors, and take them online to play against other people. 
 But to get many of the options available for you character, and many of the weapons of online play, 
 prepare to play the game A LOT. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas shows us a little of what next gen fps can do. Too bad games like COD4 have surpased 
 it by now. But if you haven't already tried this, it's defintely and exciting game, that probably 
 shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is the latest installment of the long-standing tactical shooter series from 
 the collective minds of Tom Clancy and Ubisoft.
  
  This "next-gen" installment takes place mostly in Las Vegas, as the name implies. You're thrown 
 into a fictional story of a terrorist invasion of Las Vegas, and your team, Rainbow, is sent to 
 thwart these border-crossers and figure out their motives and source of their funding. The story 
 isn't much to follow, but takes the gamer to some interesting locales.
  
  Vegas' gameplay is what sets it apart from most other games released this generation. Throughout 
 pretty much all of the campaign, your character is accompanied by a squad consisting of two other 
 Rainbow members. You are inserted into hotspots and given objectives, which are usually concealed 
 behind several series of rooms and environments filled with enemies. You can control your squad 
 through a variety of tactical commands, sending them to take cover, stack behind doors, go into 
 a stealth behavior, etc. This allows you to approach clearing rooms in a much more strategic mindset. 
 For example, you can have your squad stack at a doorway while you climb to the roof of the building, 
 calling in your squad to act as a distraction as you drop down right behind the enemy lines.
  
  In combat, your squad is very vulnerable, encouraging the player to use the game's solid cover 
 mechanic. Even more refined than the system found in Gears of War, you can use pretty much any 
 environmental object as cover and use stop and pop gameplay to
  engage the terrorists. Strangely enough, the cover system seems to replace the entire lean mechanic 
 found in previous PC iterations of the franchise. This might piss off some hardcore fans of the 
 series, but the cover system seems to make up for it. Also new to the series is rechargeable health, 
 as found in all other shooters of this day and age. Some might argue that this takes away a lot 
 of the intensity and trial and error that used to make Rainbow Six what it was, but the developers 
 only seemed to incorporate it to reduce the number of annoying deaths and reloads. You can still 
 die in a couple of hits, especially on realistic mode.
  
  Multiplayer is where the game really shines, taking all of the gameplay elements found in the campaign 
 and pasting them right into the competitive experience. You can either play against other players 
 in several team-based gametypes, or take part in an AI Terrorist Hunt, which pits the humans on 
 a server against a predetermined amount of terrorists. All three versions of the game offer a co-op 
 mode allowing you take up to three friends through the campaign's levels. The multiplayer offers 
 an unusual number of customization options, letting you choose your character's look, weapons, 
 gear, armor, grenades, etc. The multiplayer is thankfully a unique experience, and should be considered 
 by those who aren't too enthralled with sci-fi or fast-paced shooters.
  
  R6V uses Unreal Engine 3 and certainly looks great. However, it seems to lack the amount of polish 
 that games such as Gears of War, Bioshock, or Unreal Tournament 3 possess. The most glaring problems 
 are the low-resolution textures on some environmental objects, looking oddly out of place in the 
 game's otherwise stunning visuals.
  
  Even though Rainbow Six: Vegas is somewhat of a departure for the series, it is a successful one. 
 It might do away with the ultra-realism of previous installments, but it doesn't completely drop 
 the tactical shooter identity. The campaign is engaging with its multiple methods of approaching 
 occupied areas, and the multiplayer is very well-built. Vegas is a must-buy for military and tactical-gameplay 
 buffs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhivargo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game certainly is fun. Except for bugs which are still prevalent even in lieu of the subsequent 
 patches, now up to 1.06.
  
  My version:
  -My version has a SAVING ERROR completely stuffs up single player campaign, which is beautiful 
 tactically uninspired. I often find myself repeating the same actions over and over. but not anymore, 
 because i cannot progress. 
  
  -The dodgy net code makes for an equally bland multiplayer experience. Multiplayer Level design 
 is lacking, unlike the campaign
  
  -The blur effects are over the top to compensate for the low resolution. MAX is only 1200x900 (?) 
 or so. 
  
  -Ubisoft offers little technical support for such a broken game. 
  
  THE SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN IS WRECKED FOR ME. IS THIS GAME WORTH IT TO YOU? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - First of all. It's tactical, and it works. Wonderfully! I've played various other tactical shooters 
 and nothing ever jumped out at me (Ghost Recon, Freedom Fighters) . The implementation of commands 
 is seamless, and not to mention the AI is incredibly helpful.
  
  - The cover system. Although more complex, I consider it to be an even better implementation than 
 Gears of War. Never before has cover been so helpful or even this possible - not to mention, it 
 actually gives me time to plan ahead and take my time.
  
  - The "gadgets", "eqipment", etc.. menus. Just hold it down and move the mouse? Brilliant!
  
 
  - Graphical Style. Motion blur is amazing, and the textures and environments are amazing.
  
  - Getting hurt. The way it gets progressively harder to see is so much better than any health 
 meter.
  
  
  Cons:
  
  - Why does it take that woman so damn long to say things?
  
  - The Chinese restaurant is too big!
  
  - No quicksave. Major issue for me - I need to be able 
 to press F5 and have it do something!!!
  
  
  Well, no question I won't get much sleep until this endeavor is finished. Thank you winter break, 
 and thank you Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krull543
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  This is a truly awesome game. I liked the way it walked you through getting started so that you 
 don't have to digest the manual to jump in. Rather, just start playing and your good to go. The 
 graphics are good. Although the max resolution could have been higher to max out my 8800GTX and 
 24" LCD.
  
  The AI is good with only the occasional bug with getting your team stuck where they won't respond 
 to commands. The opponents are somewhat predictable in the story mode, but when in the Terrorist 
 hunt you never know where they are coming from. This mode is a nice addition, very challenging 
 and keeps me playing.
  
  The story mode is satisfying, even if the end leaves you a bit hungry for the next episode. I'm 
 sure that is what they intended. It plays well on normal mode then you can go back in realistic 
 for a bit more of a challenge.
  
  What is truly incredible is the way that they designed it so that you can crouch behind the objects 
 for cover. I wished for a prone position, but there isn't one. If they added that and a crawl you'd 
 have the entire gamut for what a swat team uses in conflict. Then add the interaction with the 
 surroundings like in Crysis and you'd have an unbelievable game. For a bit more length they could 
 have thrown in some options for side quests or something.
  
  All in all, an awesome game! I'll be playing it for some time. Would be even better with the ability 
 to turn off the foul language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to play this game when i picked it up but after completeing the first few levels 
 i felt very unsatisfied. First thing i noticed was lack of realism when it came to the core of 
 the gameplay with CQB. Things such as stacking doorways and the number of team members made me 
 cringe. Close Quarter Battle is generally done in teams of 2, 4 or 8. Previous R6 games noticed 
 this and besides, three is just not a good number for it. The way the doors are stacked before 
 a room clearing was really unrealistic, but that could be because it's classified information, 
 just in case i won't mention the proper way the door should be stacked. However, the biggest thing 
 by far i noticed was my team members stepping into my own arcs and the fact that AI doesn't keep 
 to their own arcs, it was easy to get flanked when they don't.
  Otherwise I was pleased with gameplay, the weapons felt okay and the system they have for taking 
 cover was very satisfying however there was a very noticeable lack of weapons for a Rainbow Six 
 game, only like 10 or so assault rifles and a handful of other weapons.
  Lack of quick save and somewhat sparse auto saves will have you playing alot of the same scenarios 
 alot of times and forced me to stop playing a few times, it can get very stressful at harder rooms 
 to clear.
  The Visuals were amazing, and very pleasing to the eye, i could always tell i was where i was, 
 such as a casino or a slummy mexican street. Level desing was also very well done with lots of 
 oppritunities to flank the enemy on multiple floors.
  Voice acting and sounds were also very pleasing. Hearing the enemy communicating stoppages like 
 empty mags and hearing another enemy shout for him to hurry up made me laugh out loud since you 
 hear that kind of communication alot even in the military.
  Big thing here. Double tap. Enemy in this game are taken down in 3 body shots or 1 head shot with 
 assault rifles making the proper method of taking down Enemy uselss. They should have made it 2 
 shot kill with assault rifle. One last issue I had with gameplay was the accuracy. Assault rifles 
 are not that unaccurate, unless you suck ass. When i did my CQB training we were shot with simunition 
 for not hitting center of mass every time, it's unacceptable to miss a single shot in these kinds 
 of situations.
  If you're looking for a satisfying shooter then you should definetly pick it up, but if you're 
 looking for a realistic military experience, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiru_pwner
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Best in Series, Yes.
  
  I'm a fan of Rainbow Six, Lockdown. And this game, kicks it; s A**.
  
  With the tactical control 
 you have over your team, and the realistic gameplay, you actually feel as if you where there.
 
  
  The game is great, it has a normal RPG Gameplay, but its realistic substance makes it better than 
 anyother FPS till today. Maybe this game can be compared with Cryisis.
  
  The Graphics are awesome, I have a GAMING RIG, Alienware, playing everything on high, and it actually 
 hurts me when i get shot. 
  
  Multiplayer is really good as well. Its not Counter Strike, but its worth trying it.
  
  This 
 game is a MUST BUY for R6 and FPS Fans! 
  
  Cheers!
  
  Hiru 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  if there is something diferent about rainbow six vegas comparing to the others of the series is 
 for sure the great action sequences.
  rainbow six vegas is just explosive as any shooter and fun too.
  it is very interesting, it looks 
 like a bridge between the most realistic shooter and the fiction shooters that only cares about 
 the fun.
  because in the same time that vegas is explosive, it brings strategy to and of course the realism, 
 but the cool is that here all the elements are combined.
  you dont have a excesive realism, but you do not have an excessive strategy, so it is really like 
 a middle term just as i said before.
  the gameplay can reflects it too.
  it is very very simple but in the same time gives you a lot of ways of commanding your squad, it 
 is here that the srategy part comes.
  for example, you can choose may ways to storm into a room, you can go from above, send your team 
 to a determined door and order them to throw a grenade.
  so there are lot of options that raise the replay value.
  the sound and the graphics are very 
 good to.
  but there are bad points such as the small single player campaing and the boring ending.
  the 
 performance of the game fails a little too, slowdowns are quite commom in some levels.
  but dispose of that rainbow six vegs is really worhts and has the capacity of entertaining a large 
 group of players.
  well this one is the best of the series, no doubt about that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Since I first played Rouge Spear I have been a fan of RB6 when Raven Shield and Athena Sword came 
 out I loved them, they had finally fixed what had been wrong with Rouge Spear. Unfortunately Lockdown 
 was a real disappointment, unstable, poor control, no preplanning ability, sure the weapons were 
 more varied and such but it played way too much like a console shooter on PS2. 
  
  In other words, it was just bad game play, until Las Vegas came out, smarter enemies, smarter teammates 
 who actually take cover and act like soldiers rather than just standing around getting shot until 
 you tell them to do something. On the fly suppressors, decent weapons, way better graphics, and 
 improved team controls. 
  
  The negatives are few such as: unable to use way points on the fly or at all, you can't pick your 
 team mates, not enough classic hostage rescue missions. Some parts of the game can be redundant. 
 
  
  In the end the game is as good if not better than it's predecessor and well worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zooz12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 8
  
  - The Good:
  Nice visuals, New tactical gameplay, and an intense atmosphere.
  
  - The Bad:
  Graphical 
 Issues on some systems, Guys swarming on you sometimes seems out of it's place (Playin' on Realistic 
 difficulty) .
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas introduces a game mechanic which I call hide and seek , not many games have 
 used this kind of gameplay.
  In this game you have the option to take cover at a press of a button, you can take cover behind 
 any still object, from there you can peek on the corners or get up and shoot above the object covering 
 you (if it's lower than your hight of course) , if you get to the end of a wall, for instance, you 
 can put your gun out and shoot blindly at the target, which means you don't expose your head or 
 most of your body. This kind of gameplay brings new tactics to this kind of action games. And this 
 is one of the strong points of Rainbow Six: Vegas.
  
  Another thing is that you cannot save, the game has it's own check points for you. So it is a bit 
 annoying at first, but if you keep up the pace you can get the hang of it and succeed where you 
 have failed before.
  The check point saving system is in a way better than traditional saving, because here you are 
 always on your toes - nothing can go wrong, or else you are in jeopardy.
  This system helps getting into the feel of here and now , instead of before and after where you 
 could just save at any point and go back to any saved game anytime, which again takes out the live 
 action feeling.
  
  The health system is similar to the COD2 one's. Well, first of all, The best part of this system 
 is there are no medipacks or food or something in that fashion, there are however painkillers which 
 are not collect-ables and are used more as an ability.
  When you get hit you will lose your focus for a few moments, the screen will get blurry, and you 
 will need to wait a moment before continuing on. You don't actually use a painkiller on yourself, 
 you may however use it on teammates to revive them, but your fellow teammates cannot rivive you 
 if you get shot down.
  
  At some points of the game you'll need to wait for your crew members to hack something and in the 
 meanwhile you'll need to defend them against swarming tangos, which sometimes (Playing on realistic 
 difficulty) feels out of place.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas isn't like the other Rainbow Six games, it introduces new gameplay tactics, 
 and takes out the somewhat boring mechanic that was used in previous Rainbow Six games, like the 
 map planing, where before you'd plan ahead the path of your team and the path of the other teams 
 on the virtual map - but not in this game, in here you simply make your way through, you do have 
 a map to bring up anytime you like while on site but there is no virtual map to plan ahead on and 
 there are no other teams, it's only your team, which consists of two extra members aside from you 
 of corse.
  
  The animations on the guys have been captured by real fighters and simply look awesome.
  Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is a nice looking game, though there are no advanced graphical options to adjust, it 
 looks pretty with all that blurish effect.
  The game suffers from a graphical shadow problem apparently on my eVGA nVidia 8800GTS 640MB, Vista 
 system. But it's not something that will stop you from playing it.
  
  The music is exactly how it should sound, intense dramatic music usually sets the mood in Rainbow 
 Six Vegas.
  The sound effects also sound great, just as it should be.
  
  To sum up, If you like action, lots of action, you will get it here in Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  You are a team leader of the Counter terroist group in the latest FPS from Tom Clancy. Your team 
 gets ambushed in Mexico and your mission is to get them back while fighting off an invasion of 
 Las Vegas, Neveda. Gameplay is fun but very hard and only for patient and talented FPS players. Stay 
 behind cover and win the fight or rush into the gun battle and die. Your squad is very smart with 
 some of the best AI in a game. Your enemys are as smart as well. They will flank you and counter 
 your every tatic. Graphics are amazing as usual in this series. Detailed textures on every little 
 thing and guns are great looking. As close as you can get to the real life counterpart. Lighting 
 Effects are great as well and makes everything look very, very pretty. Sound is good with a amazing 
 soundtrack of orchestral music during gunfights and action. and slow paced elevator style music 
 while hustling to your next objective.
  
  The Good Great Graphics and sound. Amazing Story. and Great Lighting.
  
  The Bad: The ending 
 leaves you wanting more.. and there will be more.
  
  The Ugly: Some ammo glitches in the dam mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeda_blade
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  I have not been a great fan of tactical shooters liking mine to be fast and Furious than anything 
 else but when I played Rainbow Six: Vegas, suddenly I found myself tracking down other games in 
 the Tom Clancy franchise. With rather some what disappointment. Because all the other games that 
 I played didn't come close to it. Firstly are the controls that are easy to master and become intuitive 
 after some time. There is also the stunning visuals of the game that really make you feel as if 
 you are playing along side your time and the unique camera angles that switch from between the 
 third person and the first person seamlessly. The storyline is what you would come to expect out 
 of a Tom Clancy novel. My only regret after playing the game is that it is too short and there 
 are points in the game that you will run into where you would have to die in order to pass through 
 it.
  
  There are a shortage of the weapons that we can use though the weapons included are all real life 
 and modeled the same way but there could have been more mission and I diverse mission location 
 could have really bought the game into its own. But on the whole a good game and will be loved 
 by people who are thrown off by the complexity of the previous series and hated by those who have 
 loved and played the original Rainbow Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your two squadmates are taken hostage, you must get them back while saving the city of Las 
 Vegas.
  
  Graphics: Great looking, Shader 3.0 required.
  
  Audio: Squad has good communication, weapons sound great, all round well recorded.
  
  Missions: 
 Kill bad guys, defuse a few bombs, save the hosties, etc.
  
  Controls: I prefer the mouse and keyboard to the 360, so IMO superior to the gamepad.
  
  Features: 
 New cover system that works very well and can save your life in many spots.
  
  A. I.: Smart, can flank, and will own you hard if you let them.
  
  Loading Times: Many but never 
 more than a minute long.
  
  Multiplayer: Get your money's worth, cool rank up system.
  
  Requirements: Shader 3.0, Decent Gaming PC.
  
  Weapons: Standard RS weapons... no M4 : ( 
 The Good: Graphics, Cover System, Enemies.
  
  The Bad: Frustrating at times, No M4!
  
  The Ugly: In Games Ads. Meh.
  
  Replay Ability: SP- Average, MP-High.
  
  The Bottom Line: 
 The Best Rainbow Six Game to Date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I completed the single player missions two times and I felt that this is a game that is very fast 
 paced for a squad FPS. I've played SWAT before and I feel that this game is like SWAT except it's 
 gone Hollywood (I mean Las Vegas) . A lot of the controls such as peeping under the door and switching 
 gear has become a lot easier to do. For instance, in SWAT you would have to unequip your gun and 
 equip the optical rod to peep under the door. Not so in Rainbow Six: Las Vegas. Everything is streamlined 
 for action.
  
  The NPCs that follow you around can sometimes be a handful because when left to find cover on their 
 own sometimes they get into a lot of trouble. If enemy fire is coming solely from one direction 
 odds are the NPCs will do pretty good but lets say you're under a ledge with enemies sandwiching 
 you on the ledge and on the ground level the NPCs don't take the appropriate cover.
  
  I found one annoying in game script near final stage of the game. It seems that when you're surrounded 
 while one of your guys is fixing a computer if you leave the radius alloted to you (which is a 
 very small space around the computer) the mission ends in failure.
  
  I've also experienced the odd hissing after exiting from the equipment trunk (or equipping screen) .
 
  
  I also found wearing a shield and desert eagle made the game too easy. In the game when you get 
 shot you die very quickly but with the shield and desert eagle setup the enemies aren't smart enough 
 to hound you with grenades (only occasionally do they ever do that) . Sure, the shield slows you 
 down and doesn't let you chuck grenades but you become practically impervious to all arms fire 
 (if you hug your back to the wall) .
  
  Most of the enemies like to through grenades, smoke bombs, and flash bangs your way (especially 
 in the later parts of the game) and more often then not they go for the non-lethal method but there 
 were many times in which they would chuck a smoke bomb or a flash bang, catch me dead on but not 
 rush in to finish me off.
  
  It might sound like there are a lot gripes for this game but it's very satisfying to maneuver your 
 team to simultaneously bust down a room in two places and kill enemies in one coordinated hit while 
 saving hostages (which the game gives you many chances to do) . There are just a myriad of ways 
 to enter a room filled with enemies, C4 blast doors (kills the guys behind the door) , open and 
 flash, smoke, or grenade, prioritize which baddies NPCs should kill by highlighting them with the 
 under the door peeper. I loved this game that is why I played it a couple times through if you 
 like squad based games like Star Wars: Republic Commando SWAT Brother in Arms you would love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakazoto
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas was oddly enough my introduction to the Rainbow Six series, and what a fantastic 
 game to get introduced with. Unfortunately, as I began to play the older games (Lockdown, Raven 
 Shield, Rogue Spear and of course the Original Rainbow Six) I began to become disappointed with 
 Vegas. The graphics in Vegas are phenomenal. Interestingly it runs fairly smooth on my aging machine 
 (1.7 Ghz, 1Gb of ram, and a 512 Mb AGP 8x Radeon X1600) . The destroyed Vegas landscape looks fantastic 
 and I think if I ever visit Vegas I might be disappointed if it doesnt look like the war zone 
 depicted in the game. The sound is also fantastic. Voice acting is top notch and very entertaining 
 as well as the sounds for the weapons. The weapons are modeled nicely and feel realistic when playing 
 the game. Your two teammates are also very skilled and aside from being capable of doing the things 
 that any normal tactical shooter teammates can do, (breaching, flash banging, tossing grenades, 
 etc.) they are also very good shots (as should be expected from an elite military force) . You rely 
 on your teammates just as much as they rely on you. The cover mechanic introduced in this game 
 is also extremely well done. A simple click on the mouse and you hug a wall, destroyed van, trashcan 
 or anything else you can get behind to save your hide from the oncoming onslaught of bullets. Once 
 in cover mode you can move to the edge and pop up or peak out to shoot or if the situation calls 
 blind fire around the corner. The game is also fairly long (much longer than its predecessor Rainbow 
 Six Lockdown) and tells the story in a much different way than previous Rainbow games. The story 
 is told through a series of communications between team members and control (which is an operative 
 stationed in the helicopter that ferries you and your team around. The story is also much more 
 engaging than previous Rainbow games, although still not on the level as Half Life 2 or F. E. A. R. 
 From a technical standpoint, story standpoint, and just plain fun standpoint this shooter has hit 
 the nail dead square on the head. Unfortunately, there are some problems. First and foremost is 
 the massive amount of terrorists you encounter in Vegas. There are just endless numbers of bad 
 guys for you to kill. I have a hard time believing that there is indeed that many terrorists in 
 the world that would all agree to take the entire city of Vegas over for the wishes of one crazy 
 chick. But, if that werent the case who would I be shooting instead? Secondly, the regenerative 
 health system is a huge departure from Rainbow Six games of the past. While I understand that with 
 the new level designs and story driven gameplay this health system is almost a necessity (especially 
 since it would just be sacrilegious to place health kits on the ground in a Rainbow game) . However, 
 while necessary it removes much of the tension felt in Raven Shield when limping around at half 
 health because you caught 1 bullet earlier. Instead in Vegas you can take unlimited amounts of 
 bullets as long as you take time to recover in between shots. Also, the cover mechanic, while awesome 
 as it is, pops you into third person and allows you to see around corners into places that is an 
 actual impossibility for your character to see. And finally the lack of a second team or any planning 
 (linear levels were designed so that planning would be completely useless, much like Lockdown) 
 really hurts the tactical and realism feel to the game. These things all pull the realism of the 
 game down considerably and create a big departure from Raven Shield and previous games. Unfortunately, 
 I found the insane attention to realistic detail in Raven Shield to be the very best part of the 
 Rainbow Six series. This game is a fantastic game indeed and I highly recommend anyone to pick 
 it up. This game should appeal to all types of gamers tactical and action alike. However, with 
 the massive departures from realism and true tactics the game comes in second to the original Rainbow 
 games for me. I still loved the game though and play it quite often to this day. Pick it up; you 
 wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas ia about a bunch of terrorist that attack Vegas. In this game you need to find 
 out what the terrorist are thinking of doing to Vegas.
  
  You start out in Mexico where you objective is to find a terrorist leader named Irena. You fail 
 and you squad gets captured. You have to go back and help the people of Vegas because the terrorist 
 have attacked the city. You get a sighed a new squad and have to take the fight to the terrorist.
 
  
  This game is mainly a first person shooter, but when you get close to a wall or object that you 
 can use for cover, you can play third person and peek around corners and take out your enemies, 
 like in Gears of War.
  
  The graphics in this game are good looking but there are a few flaws that look bad. Another thing 
 is if you do not have a super powerful computer and you set the graphics settings really high then 
 you will have frame rate problems.
  
  The sound in this game sounds good but it would of been nice if there was more Las Vegas music.
 
  
  If you are looking for an awesome tactical shooter than you should play Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martial-law
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six make its next generation hardware debut in the most dramatic installment 
 of the renowned first person shooter franchise to data. Rainbow operatives takes to you from the 
 slummy streets of mexico to the glittery casinos of Las Vegas. the future of global security hangs 
 in the balance as you battle to defend Vegas From The Terrorists Of Mexico. So You Better Buy This 
 Game It's A must buy you Won't be dissapointed. The Game difficulty level is a little hard but you 
 will cut down your foes with ease once you approach these problems tacticaly. And The Graphics The 
 Unreal Engine Has Totally Done It's Job This Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhajduk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  {This review reflects gameplay post patch 1.04 - Widescreen is reputedly added in 1.05}
  
  If you are a true fan of previous Rainbow Six games then this is most definitely not a game for 
 you. Similarly if you are a fan of more conventional tactical shooters for the PC then the shoddy 
 physics system and hordes of seemingly never-ending terrorists will be off-putting. Further yet, 
 if you are a fan of conventional logic you will probably be fairly appalled by the notion of a 
 terrorist group containing an amount of members usually reserved for private armies, or the fact 
 that the planning on the side of the Rainbow Six team as to how to deal with this threat is to 
 run and gun through hordes of them. In short the amount of tactics you will be displayed with in 
 this game is more akin to Halo than Rainbow Six.
  
  The graphics are also very poor as far as most PC games are concerned. The textures are very blurry 
 and the lighting is unrealistic. The physics are very poor with plainly unrealistic deaths, Counter 
 Strike: Source has a far better physics system. When shot NPC's and objects will flail around with 
 such (for some reason slow motion) force that it would seem they've been hit by a rocket. So far 
 the U3 engine seems very disappointing. The game is also very poor optimized for PC with visual 
 lag on the following system on all but lowest settings:
  
  Intel Core 2 Quad Q6600
  Nvidia 8600GT
  2GB of 1033MHZ Kingston RAM
  X-FI Xtreme Gamer 5.1 Sound Card
  
  If you 
 don't believe me that I have that system (because after all it shouldn't be possible that a game 
 should lag on lowest on that system right?) send me a message and I'll post you my DXDiag.
  
  Further yet as a PC game it is plainly sub-standard. The graphics menu is a travesty. You have 
 a very limited number of options, there is no advanced graphics menu (you can't even pick texture 
 quality or FSAA/MSAA) and there isn't a sound menu at all. Sadly widescreen support is also unavailable 
 with many fans having to employ hacks to create widescreen play. Yet back onto the storyline; essentially 
 your squad have been kidnapped by a miscellaneously evil terrorist group that want to destroy the 
 good old fashioned values of heartland America. But seriously, when confronted with the question 
 why are we even helping these immigrants anyway? our good ol' fashion John Wayne-alike protagonist 
 answers because these people deserve better in the most pious of manners.
  
  Yet it doesn't end there. The gameplay is simplistic at best. There are now 2 keys which command 
 your team. There is no tactical map planning, you can't send orders to your team to set up ambushes 
 etc through the tactical map but you can use them as very effective human shields. Just send them 
 into the fray and let them get shot to bits. Don't worry, you'll have a very long time to get to 
 them and resurrect them. Also, gameplay basically consists of holding right mouse button continuously 
 to scuttle along the sides of objects and fire around them. It is almost like a parody of the tactical 
 shooter it was supposed to be.
  
  So overall if you are looking for a very mediocre first person shooter then this is your game. 
 However if you are a fan of tactical shooters looking to find a game that will challenge something 
 more than the muscles of your index finger (which may well develop acute RSI from the repeated 
 tapping of the fire button) the this game will sicken you. All in all it is your choice and I can 
 only warn as to how disappointing I find this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saurabhmisra87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY ----&gt;: I couldn't get my fingers off the keyboard and mouse. This game is very addictive. 
 Not being a pure FPS also adds to its list of innovative features. Fantastic collection of guns 
 and grenades and there stats mentioned accurately. Teammates JUNG &amp; MICHAEL are very helpfull 
 and sometimes clear out a full fledged room themselves. But there should have been an option for 
 ordering them to throw a grenade in any situation in case we dont have some. The enemy AI is also 
 wonderfully designed with tendencies of being confused and alert at times. The game requires you 
 to carefully observe the environment and plan your move before breaking into the desired field 
 of attack. Unlike most other games, there is no HEALTH BAR. Get shot twice or thrice and its game 
 over. The blurring effect gives a unique chill to the gameplay. The checkponts are placed where 
 progress is saved are conveniently placed so that we dont have to replay an intense battle again 
 and again. STORY ----&gt;: The story starts by spawning our character LOGAN with GABRIEL &amp; KAN 
 in an area near the mexican border like a trainyard and then the story progresses with quite a 
 few twists &amp; turns to do more than keep our eyes glued to the monitor. It is quite involving 
 but the ending is a little disapponting since the main villain GABRIEL manages to escape &amp; 
 then the obvious TO BE CONTINUED statement appears. GRAPHICS ----&gt;: The visuals are jaw-dropping. 
 The environments inside casinos have been beautifully emulated. Even outside in the open, for example, 
 in the trainyard or the NEVADA DAM, the surroundings have been created in a fantastic manner. I 
 especially loved the way cracks appeared on glass and the way it broke was awesome. The transpareny 
 was different for different types of glass. I didn't observe any ripples in water when i stepped 
 into a pool or a puddle in the graphics settings that i played the game in. The objects lying around 
 are also interactive. AUDIO ---&gt;: The sound effects have been carefully incorporated to match 
 the situation being faced i. e the commands, the warning signals &amp; the usual miscellaneous sfx. 
 The communication with the teammates is very comprehensive. THANKS TO UBISOFT FOR THE ABSOLUTE 
 FUN I DERIVED FROM PLAYING THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series hasnt fared very well on the PC in the last few years. What once started 
 off as a extremely hardcore blend of shooting and tactics reached a low point a couple of years 
 ago with the nearly unrecognizable flop Rainbow Six: Lockdown. Vegas is a new direction for 
 the series, and for the most part, its a very good one. The high level planning stuff is gone 
 and probably never coming back, but what remains is still a highly challenging, tactical, thinking 
 mans shooter.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas is anything but a run-and-gun shooter, but rather a stop n pop one. If 
 you are looking for a game where you can go prancing through levels, running at full speed or circle 
 strafing enemies to death, then you wont like what you find in this game. What it requires is 
 slow-paced, methodical, and well-timed jumps from cover point to cover point, where you are rarely 
 exposed to enemy fire in the open for more than a few seconds (i. e. first you stop) . Killing 
 enemies requires peeking out from cover for short bursts and landing quick head shots (i. e. then 
 you pop em) . If you take a few hits, you can regain your health by hiding and taking cover for 
 a few seconds (Ala Halo 2 or Call of Duty 2) . You cant take many hits though, and its possible 
 to get killed in a tenth of a second if you walk around a corner right into an uzi. Enemies also 
 use cover and fire from behind it, so you need to suppress and flank them or score a good headshot 
 to take them out. This game is pretty challenging and requires some thought, timing and skill.
 
  
  Vegas changes to a third person when you arent aiming at somebody. These moments include climbing 
 ladders or rappelling down walls, but the best timing of this feature is when you are using cover. 
 By holding down the use cover key, if you are near a large object, you will crouch down or press 
 your back against a wall, and the camera will pan out to third person. The game does a great job 
 of figuring out how to use whatever is in your environment when you press that cover button. From 
 there, you can press a directional key to pop out from behind cover and fire off a quick shot at 
 an enemy. This mechanic is implemented to near perfection, and thats a good thing, because it 
 comprises about two thirds of the game. The switch to the third person camera is a subtle effect 
 that not only shows you how well you are hidden, but also adds to the excitement by giving the 
 game a cinematic feel.
  
  The games environments are perfectly designed to take full advantage of the cover and fire mechanics. 
 The levels arent open-ended, but you will find a lot of branching paths that allow you to enter 
 some areas from more than one side. As the name implies, you will be fighting through the realistically 
 rendered streets and casinos of Las Vegas. Every environment is full of opportunities to use cover, 
 and nothing seems out of place. Outdoors, you will be taking cover behind abandoned trucks or Volkswagens, 
 and indoors, you will be hiding behind blackjack tables, doors, and slot machines. Vegas sports 
 some impressive vistas while you are in the streets or riding in the chopper, and some nice indoor 
 areas too. The environments are constantly changing, and some of them are spectacular. The graphics 
 show the same fine art direction and attention to detail that is typical of products from Ubisoft 
 Montreal. The lighting, especially, is excellent. Areas look great when you enter them, and even 
 better after you fight through them. As the environments get more and more shot up, glass breaks, 
 screens go dark, and cars fall apart. For most of the game, you will creep along, shooting terrorists 
 and leaving carnage in your wake.
  
  Most of the environments are beautiful, as long as you dont look too closely at anything. If you 
 do, youll find some low-res and low detail textures that appear to have been designed for play 
 on a television, not a computer screen. For example, youll see a screen with figures on it, and 
 when you get close, you find that the figures are blurry mumbo-jumbo. The characters in the game 
 dont look all that great below the neck either. The clothing, especially, looks pretty flat.
 
  
  The weapons in the game pack a pretty good punch and they have a powerful feel. This could be because 
 the sound for them is top notch. In general, the audio for the game is pretty strong. Firefights 
 are full of the sounds of guns firing, bullets firing and chatter. Most of it is great, except 
 for a few weak voices here and there, and the music is unremarkable.
  
  As it turns out, you wont be shooting bad guys by yourself. You will also have a squad that 
 follows you and obeys simple commands like stay here, go there, or open and clear this room. 
 I use quotations around the word squad because there are just two guys that follow you, and they 
 dont specialize in much. The squad controls are easy to pick up and you will probably get used 
 to them right away. This simplicity comes with a price, however, and that price is a lack of depth 
 or versatility in how you use your squad. Your guys fight pretty much fight as a pair separately 
 from you, which doesnt give you a lot of opportunities to use them tactically. You can position 
 them to occupy enemies or take fire while you flank, and they can breach doors for you while you 
 enter a room from a safer spot. There isnt much to the squad control other than that though. Friendly 
 AI is pretty decent, and your guys do a pretty good job of staying alive. They occasionally do 
 some boneheaded stuff though, like blow themselves up with a grenade. The squad is an asset to 
 the game, but I have seen a few games do it better (e. g. Freedom Fighters, Star Wars: Republic 
 Commando) .
  
  Enemy AI is sort of a mixed bag. Enemies are competent and occasionally surprise you by using grenades 
 or flashbangs. They are pretty good at using cover, but most of it seems scripted. Terrorists dont 
 dynamically react much to what happens around them. They wont press their advantage if one of 
 your squad mates is down, and they wont retreat if you flank them (that might be a good thing 
 though, as the game is pretty unforgiving) . The AI practically crumbles at long range if you use 
 a sniper rifle much, as bad guys will hardly react to their buddy getting shot if they havent 
 spotted you yet. Regardless of its minor issues though, the firefights in the game are very satisfying 
 and never get tiresome or boring throughout the 10 hour campaign.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas uses the checkpoint save system that we PC gamers love to hate. The checkpoints 
 are generously spaced, however, other than one or two maddeningly difficult sequences late in the 
 game. The game is pretty hard, but it rarely feels cheap or unfair. If you get killed, you can 
 usually analyze what you did wrong and try something different.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas wont be challenging Half-Life 2 or F. E. A. R. as a gaming masterpiece, but 
 its still a fun and competent shooter that is worthy enough to add to your collection. Some finely 
 crafted environments and great implementation of stop and pop shooting give the game enough of 
 a punch to separate it from the pack. Vegas is a solid starting point for a rebirth of the franchise 
 on the PC. Deeper squad mechanics and smarter AI in a couple of places would have been nice. Maybe 
 we will see those in the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriKFM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Graphically it is very impressive, with beautiful scenarios. Performance is fluid, thanks to the 
 Unreal Engine works great. The covering system it's really well done, and is what makes this game 
 original from other titles.
  
  The story is really good too, and the game isn't as short as others in the genre.
  
  The gameplay 
 requires much more than shoot everything around, specially in realistic mode, you will have to 
 use your teammates correctly and know to cover yourself or you will be death really fast.
  
  Terrorist hunt isn't as fun as it could be because enemy spawning.
  
  A good game without 
 any doubt. Even you can replay Campaing because it's really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onenottoforget
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry.
  
  I so wanted to tell everyone about this being the best of the series and a contender for game of 
 the year... But I can't.
  
  While the game play was fun with the new cover system allowing you to pick your moments to pop 
 up and cap someone, the glitches and dumbed down feel of this tactical shooter just seemed to ruin 
 my hopes of reliving my previous memory's of strategical love while playing previous outing of 
 the same series. That and on top of the poor ending to the game which ends so suddenly makes you 
 just wonder... why?
  
  I'm sorry but you will just have to try harder next time or my hopes of reliving those memory's 
 will be crushed forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iCEE_Taffer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Great combination of state of the art console graphics, and finesse of the private computer (hey 
 what ! Run n gun involves finesse ;) . Great blend of intense close quarters combat action and open 
 area urban fighting.
  
  Hey the story isn't all that but it beats some other ones. Reminds me of GRAW of TCE and off course 
 Rainbow Six. This is a great add on to the tactical shooter genre.
  
  For the future I hope they keep making grand games for the pc, little less demanding on the hardware 
 (I mean program the software to adapt to the user-hardware configuration) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kez1984
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This unlike the previous incarnations, is a dumbed down console game, not a pc tactical shooter, 
 but a overly simple console shooter, all flash, no substance, if you have played raven shield or 
 other previous games, and expect something more than action that set rainbow 6 apart from other 
 first person shooters then like me, you will be sorely disappointed. Graphically the game looks 
 beautiful, the environments and the characters models are highly detailed, the sound effect are 
 great along with the vioce acting, but as stated, all flash, no substance, they sold out there 
 core game play for money, to appeal to the console market and treat us, the pc users like dirt, 
 screw ubisoft, they make products, for money, they don't do it for the love of it, they do it for 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Vegas has got to be one of the best tactical shooters I've ever played. It looks nice, and sounds 
 just as good. The weapons sound like they can do some serious damage, which they can. Also the 
 AI is amazingly smart, planning and surrounding you if you give them the possibly. If thats not 
 enough, then you have to experience the best part of Vegas, multiplayer. With the ability to play 
 with multiple people, multiplayer is easily the best part of this game. Unfortunately, within the 
 best part of the game, lies the only problem with the game, lag. It can get so bad, that you wouldn't 
 even be able to move. But as long as you have good internet, like cable, those incidents should 
 be rare. if you've got the comp to run this game, as well as good internet, this is definitely 
 a game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Vegas has some great gameplay and far better than alot of FPS shooters out there, it's probably 
 the first on the PC atleast to combine alot of my fave elements with the Cover system and Health 
 with great tactical online play. However it's a shame because the game is ruined by bad optimization 
 and a shameless 360 port where you can really tell because of the menus.
  
  Your hit by a ton of splash screens as soon as you load up which can be quite annoying and that 
 i've noticed is the menus can take a long time to load. I even timed it from getting through the 
 menus and to the multiplayer server browser and then into a game took about 2 mins 30.... I have 
 a x1950xtx 2 gb ram and core 2 duo 6700 aswel....
  
  Also in the options it really has no customization like other original PC games like basically 
 nothing for graphics apart from HDR and the res. Also if you turn HDR off the game gets some weird 
 little graphical effects on darker colours. Theres a fix for this on the forums but it doesn't 
 really help because then the graphics just look cheap, so really you have no option but to have 
 HDR on. Also theres no AA options in the menu and you'll have to force that on but with HDR having 
 to be on you'll need a beefy PC. The Multiplayer menus aswel are quite poor with the server browser 
 not really giving you any information that you want. It's obviously a 360 port here too because 
 it has quick find and game which doesn't work well for PC users and they should have put their 
 efforts into making the browser better. You can't change the size of the browser too which is annoying 
 because it is quite small and you can put servers in order of like say most players. Another thing 
 is servers often say 15/16 players but if you try to join them then they're probably full and you've 
 wasted 10 seconds lol.
  
  Onto optimization and it is **** poor and again this shows you that all efforts have been made 
 for the 360 version but nothing on the PC side of things. The game doesn't even look good compared 
 to other Unreal 3 engine games and it doesn't perform well at all with me only having 40FPS which 
 is dumb considering i'll be able to run Crysis on DX9 with High settings very well or UT3 on max 
 well. Again because you can't change much in the way of graphical settings unless your a computer 
 geek and can edit the config files then it doesn't scale down well at all. This obviously really 
 impacts the population of the multiplayer which is very low and you'll struggle to find a game.
 
  
  The Gameplay is great though and has a average length single player with a poor storyline, tbh 
 though you'll only play it because the gameplay is sooo fun. You wotn be able to run a gun and 
 you'll need to take cover alot which is made fun by the cover system. If you've played Gears of 
 War then you'll know that thats like and it really adds ALOT to the gameplay. Also theres no 100HP 
 health bar crap so it'll be like COD or GEOW where the more damage you take the more blurry or 
 red your screen with get until you die, this indicates that you need to take cover. The game is 
 split up into a series of levels with options to customize your character between each one which 
 is nice. You'll obviously be fighting in Las Vegas and it's really nice to be fighting in casinos. 
 The ending is really poor but considering the storyline isn't all that great you wont really care 
 and then you'll move onto the multiplayer to have fun with the gameplay further. The Multiplayer 
 past the menus is great however the graphics arn't as good as the multiplayer and it is a shame 
 because theres no options at all to change this which again says bad port. good luck trying to 
 get into a game though as most of the fans of the series are still paying RVS (the 3rd game) lol. 
 With lots of customizable stuff on your character which is a refreshing change from everyother 
 multiplayer FPS it is fun to make yours look different from everyone elses. The Guns in the game 
 are all fantastic although theres not as many as RVS but still ALOT! So all that with the cover 
 system makes for a great multiplayer game but i was personally put off it because it's a very bad 
 port that i couldn't stand it anymore.
  
  The graphics are all good but not great and no real options really puts them down for me. The sound 
 on the weapons are good and all the radio voice overs are very well done, the music is so so... 
 what do you expect though? All you'll wanna do is hear your weapons fire lol.
  
  All in all Vegas has great gameplay ruined by being a bad 360 port, which is a shame as it's a 
 good game. IF you can overlook these issues then you'll love it but as i can't it's only GOOD and 
 not AMAZING ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I was unfortunate enough to buy Rainbow Six Lockdown, it had to be one of the worse shooters I 
 have ever played. Not the case with R6V. This game is very immersive &amp; will have you hooked 
 from minute one. There are several features that set it apart from other Rainbow shooters &amp; 
 GRAW, which I thought it would be a cheap remake of. First, the cover position is great. It allows 
 you to take cover against walls, buildings, cars whatever. From that position you can briefly get 
 a fix on enemies, aim, &amp; or fire. If you get pinned, there is an option to blindfire . I prefer 
 the terrorists hunt over the story mode, more grit to it. The maps are nice &amp; have good layouts. 
 The AI is adaptive &amp; on par with games like Far Cry or F. E. A. R. There are no health packs, 
 boosters, &amp; best of all none of that run, jump, shoot crap. A few other features are the ability 
 to scale small objects, fast rope, breach moves, &amp; rappel. Now the bad part, your videocard 
 must have shader 3.0, &amp; you need a pretty solid CPU/GPU. I had to upgrade my card. however, 
 there alot of new copies on e**Y for a nice pick up, I bought an unopened dvd for $20 from a guy 
 who still had a 5200fx. I have also played on Xbox 360. This is a great game if your system can 
 handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamartto
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Well now it's time for me to review this great game, the first thing that I got to say is that 
 this game is an straight port from the xbox 360 version, so, it is not possible to tweak the settings 
 other than the ones the game provides. With that said I had to play the game with all settings 
 on low at 1024x768, my PC specs are as follow: P4 2.8GHz CPU, 6800 128MB AGP GPU, 2GB RAM.
  
  There are 3 major aspects that every game has to have in order to succeed:
  
  1. Gameplay
 
  2. Story 3. Graphics.
  
  I'm going to evaluate each one from bottom to top
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Obviously my hardware doesn't allow me to max this game or even play it at medium 
 settings with out sacrificing fps (frames per second) , but something that really took me by surprise 
 was the fact that the game prioritizes players models over the game models, that allowed me to 
 appreciate details of my teammates' gear ( grenades, ropes, night/heat vision googles, and so on) , 
 the weapons models looks good, and the overall game doesn't look that bad on the lowest settings.
 
  
  Seems to me, that the unreal engine 3 allows low-end pc display graphics similar to 2005 and early 
 2006 games maxed out in my opinion.
  
  To conclude with the graphics part I must say that if you have the hardware capable to max out 
 this game go ahead and do it because that would complement the whole R6: V experience.
  
  STORY
  
  Well, the game's story is not complex at all, is in fact rather simple, and talking 
 about it can spoil the game to those that haven't played it yet, but in case you are wondering 
 how the story is let me tell you this, you are part of an elite rainbow team and you play as Logan, 
 and he has to save the day in order to fight the next one.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Finally, this is the core of any game and let me tell you that it is very well executed.
  
 
  &gt; Team-Mates
  
  First of all, let me talk about your team-mates, they use cover properly, find paths easily, and 
 follow your orders verbatim in a non-hero way 90% of the time, which means that they won't try 
 to follow an enemy across all the map.
  
  You can also set your team-mates their rules of engagement, in simple words go assault (they are 
 weapons free, so if they spot an enemy they'll try to eliminate it) or infiltrate (they won't shoot 
 at any enemy unless the enemy attacks first, no matter if the enemy is 2 meters away) . Now, no 
 matter the rules of engagement that you have set your team-mates you can order them to active their 
 weapons suppressors so you can act aggressive when clearing rooms without alerting the next-door 
 enemies.
  
  I know what you are thinking, Hey, what's the point of having this uber team-mates playing at your 
 side if they are really that good? , well, remember that 10% left, that 10% means that when a team-mate 
 doesn't follow your orders then he will be shot and killed if he takes too much damage too quickly, in 
 that case you can send the other one to heal him or you can go and heal him. Keep in mind that 
 the other rainbow won't leave his partner alone, this kind of behavior ensures that you act as 
 a unit with your team-mates and don't try to go lone wolf. The mission ends if any of your rainbows 
 dies.
  
  &gt; A. I.
  
  I have mixed reactions on this one, because when you are fighting against them the combat feels 
 good and you actually feel that you are fighting against a very well trained group of soldiers, 
 BUT, my major complain is that you can actually clear a room shooting through the glass using the 
 weapon's suppressor and no enemy will try to fight you back unless another opponent was looking 
 your way when you killed his friend. Other than that the AI, offers a just right challenge.
  
  &gt; Weapons
  
  The weapons in this game are really good and accurate, whether you use 
 the suppressor or not the sound of each and every weapon feels like a rewarding experience when 
 fired, the recoil of every weapon is just right, and the reload times are perfect. And if you are 
 curious about the ammo, well, there's plenty of it, and if for some reason you ran out of ammo 
 you can pick up your enemies weapons or use your pistol (which contains unlimited ammo, obviously 
 you still need to reload it) .
  
  &gt; Cover System
  
  This game makes use of an amazing cover system, which lets you lay back on flat vertical surfaces, 
 and when you do that the view changes to a third person perspective, so you can have a better view 
 of the field without exposing yourself to the enemy fire. The transition between first and third 
 person view is done seamlessly and keeps the pace of the game all time.
  
  &gt; In-game Interface
  
  Since this is a straight port from the 360 version of the game the 
 in-game interface remains the same, but since I played this using a Keyboard and a mouse then I 
 can easy switch between weapons or gear flawlessly using shortcut keys.
  
  &gt; The Rest
  
  The game uses checkpoints so you can't manually save your progress, but each check point is 
 placed according to the difficult of each segment, so you won't replay the whole level if you get 
 killed.
  
  Every part of your arsenal (grenades, flash bangs, thermal/night vision, spy cam, and so on) are 
 useful and you will use most of them (depends on your play style and if you want to test something) 
 throughout the game.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS AND CONCLUSION
  
  &gt; If you have the hardware necessary to play this game I strongly recommend you to do it, otherwise 
 you probably will miss a fun game experience.
  
  &gt; In case you are wondering if you can play the game using the X360 controller, the answer is 
 yes but you do need to update the game at least to v1.01.
  
  &gt; On a side note, I played the game using the v1.04 (the v1.05 was released when I was already 
 playing the game and I didn't feel like updating the game) , also I plan to replay the game once 
 I upgrade my PC fully.
  
  Hope you enjoyed reading my review of Rainbow Six: Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of those rare games that revives the series for me. I remember first playing 
 the original Rainbow Six, after reading the book (which was just as awesome) . It was a great gameplay 
 experience, but at the end I only wanted to do the missions solo. I got bored with micromanaging 
 the teams, thankfully Vegas completely skips the micromanaging part and gets straight to the action.
 
  
  Though R6 Vegas may be a scripted ride, it's fun from the beginning to the end. This experience 
 should not be missed. The act of setting up breach points for your two allies, and then coordinating 
 a simultaneous breach from opposite sides of a room filled with hostages and enemies, is smooth 
 and on-the-fly which really adds to the intensity of each combat sequence.
  
  The thrill of going from Rooftop to chopper, flying over a battle-torn Vegas Strip landscape, to 
 another rooftop, while getting shot at by RPGs and machine guns, is alone worth the purchase.
 
  
  Gameplay: Managing your two allies is simple and straightforward. Just use your reticle to point 
 at objects and if they can be used, then press a button and your teammates will use the object. 
 Breaching doors in different ways, by smoke, grenade, or explosive is as simple as a button. The 
 single player Terrorist Hunt is fun, but they don't allow you to use your snake cam which makes 
 it really difficult. No need for health packs, health is regenerated. But you can die instantaneously 
 by a well placed shot.
  
  Sound: Music is great, but it keeps repeating, not enough variety. Guns sound awesome, the correct 
 boom that's louder in your ears when looking through a scope, and correctly muffled when you use 
 a silencer. Each gun sounds like you would expect. Sometimes the enemies don't make sounds when 
 they move, so they can sometimes just pop out of nowhere. Usually though they make an unnecessary 
 amount of chatter to let you know where they are.
  
  Graphics: The game uses an updated Unreal Engine, and it looks great. When you get hit, the screen 
 gets foggy and darker the more damage you take. Casinos, Mexico alleyways, building rooftops, Vegas 
 streets all look like should look which is very well done considering Vegas is all lights.
  
  Bottom Line: R6 Vegas is an experience not to miss, and just as exciting the second time through. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Roy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the best game in the Rainbow Six series. It is just so revolutionary, the cover system, 
 the AI, and to boot the multi player isn't that bad. You play as Logan Keller leader of the Rainbow 
 Six team, and you have to stop a terrorist endangering Las Vegas; Irena. The game is beautifully 
 introduced, the tutorials are simple and easy, the learning curve is perfect. Why is it so good?
 
  
  While you play, you keep on telling yourself, one more hour, one more, and so on. It's three in 
 the morning and your still under heavy fire, enough of that. Just go buy the game now! Have fun, 
 soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  After playing GRAW2 I think I was just about in heaven with the AI in Rainbow 6 Vegas.
  
  Graphics:
  For its time the graphics were great. Zero crashes throughout the entire game. There 
 arent to many options in the graphics area but you dont need them.
  
  Gameplay:
  Easy to learn, simple controls, and great AI makes for a fun game. No cheezy voiceovers, no dumb 
 as* NPC's walking around, no stupid NPC's that just walk right into a room asking you to hide behind 
 a door and just sit and wait with your shootgun.... the AI makes this game woth the $. Weapons are 
 standard and there was no lack of ammo. I will make this quick and painless... if you want an easy 
 to play, well thought out tactical shooter, then this game is a must.
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of pretty much all of Tom Clancy's games, especially the Rainbow Six series. Now 
 on the other hand I'm going to have to say that i was a big fan. I was excited that there was going 
 to be a new rainbow six, but when i tried it out it was a different story. First of all what the 
 hell is with the weapons..... they look unrealistic and down right retarded, second not many weapons 
 to choose from like in the old ones, third the AI are a bunch of idiots with guns that run around 
 the place shooting anything, but for some reason still seem to hit you. And last of all whats with 
 the new third person cover thing? Its interesting but demotes the game even more by reminding us 
 of a console game and not a good PC game.
  Although there were a few good things.
  Even though i don't really like the cover mode it still comes in handy and adds a new perspective 
 to the game, there are also a few weapons that haven't been introduced to the series yet, and the 
 graphics are not bad at all [just the weapons animations] Overall i think that this game is exactly 
 like Battlefield 2 MC, a cheap remake of a really good game with a few extras...... rent it first 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppers30
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  The only positive aspect in this game is the graphics. Other than that this game just plain stinks. 
 Multiplayer is totally lacking, hardly any servers or players. I am running a newer box with all 
 my drivers up to date and I am only getting 10-20FPS. Terrible work. This is just a direct port 
 and not worth a single penny. Ontop of all this support from Ubisoft is nowhere to be found. I 
 will never purchase another one of their titles ever again. Once again I stronly recommend not 
 purchasing this game even if it drops to $10. Just get a torrent and play singleplayer if you want 
 to see how it performs and trust me you will be highly disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  As allways UBISIFT MONREAL studios is 1once again the best in my book ... if you apply the patches 
 you will reallly play the most complex tactical shooter practacaly the way its made will push you 
 evan further in to the game &amp; when you will se how siple &amp; intuitive are the controls you 
 will be surprized about the genius that UBISOFT MONTREAL studio represents ! The story yes its 
 just to great for a terrorist hunting game but what the hell its based on Tom CLancy's book's so 
 no surprise here .... Logan Keller is a Sam Fisher with a versatile personality &amp; he prefares 
 teammates in place of shadows :D ! Before you start the game go &amp; look at cop mivie like SWAT 
 &amp; HECK you will feel just likke in that movie every scene is epic &amp; your sqad mates are 
 just like swat but evan more prepared they use some moves from SAM FISHER &amp; thats alot for 
 a tactical game . The Unreal 3 engine isn't used at a higher capacity but if you pass some lower 
 textures you will se that allthough its no GEARS of WAR in some scenes its just stunning &amp; 
 life like visuals .... i haven't tryied the multiplayer but i'm sure that if you get passed the 
 problems its a great expierence just like on X360 ! &amp; another thing support UBI so that they 
 don't get bought by EA its a shame if that happends .... because the gretest developer will be 
 lost foreever &amp; keep in mind that still Assassins Creed trilogy isna't ready or splinter cell 
 or end war + many others ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas has great SP and COOP game play but the MP side of the game left me frustrated 
 and wanting this game to be so much more. What hurt R6V is the optimization and the lack of decent 
 support. Patches have been put out and new maps released but the patches havent fixed the problems 
 that Rainbow 6 Vegas is riddled with.
  
  I really like this game to the extent that it probably wont leave my PC anytime soon. The twenty 
 dollar price tag that this game can be picked up for now is well worth the SP game alone.
  
  Be prepared to see sound, graphics and assorted other bugs. Many people have reported more 
 problems than I have had with the game. I would have to say Rainbow 6 Vegas has given me the most 
 intense modern close quarter combat of any pc game to date. I am hoping for another Rainbow 6 title 
 to be released. I enjoy sniping but R6V has basicly made the sniper useless in the MP mode.
  
  As you can see I have mixed feelings about the game but overall for $20.00 bucks you can't 
 go wrong if you enjoy modern fps games... just don't expect a MP that is very satisfying or populated 
 24/7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRB_4Life
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Compared to other games in its genre and generation I consider it a very mediocre game. It plays 
 like crap as well.
  
  First off, the graphics are a joke. BF1942 looks better and that game is a couple gen old...
 
  
  The game looks HORRIBLY blurry at all times, even when motion blur and HDR is turned off! Ick... I'm 
 looking for crips clarity imagery... Not blurry dimensia looking environments.
  
  I'm running an NVIDIA 8800GTS with 3Gig of system RAM and a CPU clocked at 2.7GhZ and the performance 
 I recieved from the game at high resolutions is a disgrace and makes UBISOFT look very bad. The 
 game just doesn't seem to be compatible with NVIDIA hardware.
  
  None of UBISOFTs games do...
  
  Yes my drivers are all updated and blah blah blah, I'm somewhat 
 of a guru, the system is not a problem. I am running all the latest (BF2142, FEAR, GTR2, SIMS2, 
 you name it...) on high to extreme video settings with not even a hint of stutter. So why is it 
 that UBISOFT games seem so problematic with NVIDIA systems? I bought SCDA as well and it ran OK 
 on my two 7600GTs in SLI but it didn't run at all on my 8800GTS... Like I said, they are LACKING 
 in support and definity in thier games...
  
  Overall the game COULD have been good. It has SOME good aspects and the physics are pretty good. 
 Improvements neccessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  The first person shooter and tactical shooter theme is a saturated genre. This game is more tactical 
 and realistic but still fits snuggly within that general game type.
  
  Ubi Soft has taken all of the tricks they learned from the Splinter Cell series and Ghost Recon 
 and molded it into a classic feeling, well rounded game. It also reminded me of SWAT a lot, mainly 
 because there's a strong similarity in the feel and playability.
  
  The biggest issue is that it feels like a more updated experience of the previously mentioned games. 
 If you remember how it felt playing one of them for the first time, expect much of the same. The 
 mission progression is nearly identical to Splinter Cell in every way, down to the tech girl who 
 radios in objectives and carries the plot line. The user interface and the overall feeling of the 
 game borrows heavily from Splinter Cell as well. The font is even the same. You'll have the standard 
 UI such as climb rope and defuse bomb by pressing the space bar.
  
  The good...
  
  + Very entertaining
  + Different approaches and tactics can be used on the same levels, giving 
 it high re-playability
  
  The bad...
  + Repetitive Sound !
  HIGHLY repetitive voice tracks get annoying pretty quickly. You can shoot a guy in the face without 
 a silencer and have a guy ten feet away say something to the effect of, Wow, I know there's gotta 
 be someone else hiding aroundhere. 
  
  The same lines are spoken over and over again. Did I mention they say the same lines over and over 
 again? Yep. Annoying stuff.
  
  A wider range of voice scripting and voice actors would have enriched the experience greatly.
 
  
  The combat artificial intelligence is actually pretty solid. When you direct your team, they will 
 rarely run around randomly with confused pathing. In that regard, they did a great job. Shooting 
 at your enemy will force him to keep his head down. On a few occasions, I had a bad guy walk right 
 into me , bumping into my chest, but this is the rarity rather than the norm.
  
  The biggest complaint I have about game mechanics is the SAVING CHECKPOINT system. It's a downright 
 failure and makes the game nearly worthless in some parts.
  
  While I understand the point, the arrangement of the checkpoints can be downright idiotic and TEDIOUS 
 at times. How many times is a person supposed to replay the same 10 minutes in order to fine tune 
 their approach to a 20 second mob encounter they keep screwing up on? It gets to be VERY frustrating 
 and tedious -- never mind if you are crazy enough to use the realistic setting. The saving checkpoint 
 system almost makes it as bad as the new Ghost Recon for sheer punishment. It is ALMOST annoying 
 enough to take the fun out of the game, and, at times, this definitely does happen. I finished 
 the entire game then decided to play it again. Like Half Life 2, completion of a level unlocks 
 it so you can go back and play individual levels. The problem is, I hit new game to reply and it 
 reverted everything to locked. Now I'm stuck having to re-complete the hardest portions of the 
 game over and over and over. One part in particular, that involves protecting a mainframe is highly 
 irritating. So much so that I am going to remove the game from my hard drive. I finished in 5-7 
 deaths the first time. Now, after 20+ deaths, I'm just over it entirely. It gets old, frustrating, 
 and tears every last trace of fun out from the game. Also, the checkpoints were poorly thought 
 out. In many spots, they are placed in the worst possible place, before a long winded dialogue, 
 equipment change, etc. How fun is it dying 10 times and then having to switch gear OVER AND OVER 
 each time in addition to hearing the same dialogue? It's really bad.
  
  I have had a lot of fun playing this game... mostly. Unfortunately, the massive flaws cited above 
 makes it highly frustrating in some ways. The problem is that it feels more like an improvement 
 on the same old shooter experience with updated graphics. Speaking of which, where's the anti-aliasing? 
 I don't think it is even present in this game, unless that happens to be a glitch on my end. The 
 best way I can put it this...
  How many times can you repackage a tried and true game such as checkers? It could be in a really 
 nice and well presented box but it's still CHECKERS. That's exactly how I feel about Rainbow Six 
 Vegas. Multiplayer and Value:
  The multiplayer option adds a LOT of dimension to this release -- but only if that's your thing. 
 I picked this one up for under 20 dollars. if you're only into single player gaming, I still would 
 pick it up for $19.99 or less. I could not justify dropping fifty dollars on this game for either 
 play mode, but it's still a decent title.
  
  MULTIPLAYER alone...
  This could easily warrant a separate review. The multiplayer in this game is an absolute blast. 
 While the overall online server experience feels like a combination of other tactical shooters, 
 it makes the replayability and worth of Rainbow Vegas even greater.
  
  If you want to sit down and have some strategic, shoot em up fun, give this game a look. You won't 
 be disappointed though you'll still be in very familiar territory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sledge_4314
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six VEGAS starts you off as a new rainbow leader: Logan Keller. Your primary objective 
 is to arrest a terroist Irena Morales however things go bad in the beginning and you must drop 
 your primary mission and save VEGAS from the devasting terroist attacks.
  
  When you're spotted by an enemy AI, they'll do anything to take you out but your teams got your 
 back!
  
  The negative:
  -A training mission is welcome,
  -Arsernal is not very impressive,
  -Rainbow Movement could have been more swift
  
  The positive:
 
  -a feel of a next generation game with the cover system, fast roping, blindfireing, rapelling, 
 OPA and window entrying.
  -very impressive AI,
  -Your team will never let you down,
  -Single Player missions are very interesting and will keep you playing until the end, in other 
 words no boring bits,
  -Multiplayer is highly addictive,
  -very impressive graphics,
  -quite realistic,
  -controls are handy,
  -most rooms have multiple entry points.
  
  Overall: 
 I think the gameplay of this tactical shooter is the best and im looking forward to playing the 
 next Rainbow Six! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Strengths:
  
  -Impressive AI (team mates and enemy) . Especially on Realistic difficulty setting. Enemy AI will 
 literally try and flank you (move around and come from behind) . Team mate AI is adept. Minimal 
 babysitting required. They index and eliminate targets, assess threats, adjust vision modes for 
 smoke and low light conditions and follow ROE (Rules of Engagement) correctly.
  
  -Compelling Visuals / Graphics. (This is also a con; see below) . The opulence of Las Vegas, is 
 clearly reproduced in stunning detail. Very original and imaginative level designs in terms of 
 color-scheme. Helps immerse the player into the fictional / real world setting. Painstaking detail 
 such as slot machines with working spindles and properly modeled game tables complete with accurate 
 markings for proper card games, etc.
  
  Character, vehicle and weapon models -- first and third person -- All rendered with similar attention 
 to detail.
  
  -Many tactical options presented to the player to overcome and defeat the opposition. Inverted 
 rappelling; Window breaching; Ability to command team while on the other side of the room / level; 
 Fiber Optic Snake camera to assess situations in rooms prior to entering. These are the major additions 
 to the series and Vegas in particular.
  
  The fluidity, speed and dynamic nature of combat is replicated very well. This is a much needed 
 improvement over previous Rainbow Six games that adhere to a slow and methodical style of play 
 that is outdated and cumbersome. This former model did not accurately reflect real world combat, 
 nor proper CQB Room Clearing procedures (fast and aggressive) .
  
  Weaknesses:
  
  -SP Campaign is very short. Will take a skilled FPS player 8-10 hours at normal difficulty. Maybe 
 12-14 at Realistic difficulty setting.
  
  -Levels in SP are very linear and scripted. This is due to the console origins of the game. Player 
 must proceed down one main path to proceed. Enemies spawn in various places out of view when invisible 
 triggers are crossed. Some even re-spawn behind the player for added challenges . This equals no 
 replay value other than difficulty setting.
  
  -Checkpoint Save System. Another console origin limitation. This becomes frustrating because the 
 checkpoints are not close together. Player can be playing for a half hour on some levels and be 
 killed by one stray bullet (on Realistic) and have to start over a half hour from where he/she 
 already was.
  
  -Engine is not optimized. Even on a mid-to-high end PC, the game chugs along at less than optimal 
 frame rates. Even dips down into single digits on high end hardware. UBISoft may, or may not continue 
 patches that further optimize the game. Latest patch is 1.05 (July 18, 2007) and this may be the 
 last patch Rainbow Six: Vegas ever receives.
  
  NOTE: One should not judge future game and Unreal Engine 3 performance on badly coded game like 
 Vegas.
  
  -Graphics in Multiplayer are dull and washed out. Many of the textures are low resolution. Models 
 are also less complex than their SP counter-parts. HDR (High Dynamic Range) lighting must be enabled 
 at all times, or the game looks like a PS2 title due to low resolution textures. Blurry HDR effect 
 also present as a post-processing effect with no way to turn off in Video options. Creates unnecessary 
 eye strain for long periods of play.
  
  -Multiplayer all but dead. UBISoft did not release a Stand Alone Dedicated Server application to 
 allow unmanned servers to be run remotely. This is a hold over from the console platform where 
 games are hosted off XBox360s, and PS3s with a player present.
  
  Many cheats and hacks are easily made with Notepad due to engine being unprotected (even with Punk 
 Buster anti-cheat support) .
  
  -Horrible MP Interface / GUI. No pings. No way to filter out different game types. Ping refresh 
 is often unresponsive and all but useless.
  
  Most gamers have moved on despite R6: V bringing something unique to the FPS genre with the cover 
 / fire system, rappelling and ability for players to customize their avatars.
  
  Overall...
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas does some things very well, but fails to deliver 
 as a whole as either a competent tactical-action game, or a Tom Clancy Rainbow Six game. The SP 
 is linear and scripted and straight out of 1999. The MP is all but dead thanks to horrible interface, 
 bugs and lack of general support by UBISoft.
  
  Only pick up Rainbow Six: Vegas when it is around the $19.99 mark in a year or so. And just for 
 the SP as there will be no one left playing MP by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Having played GRAW all the way through three times in as many months (and still without getting 
 bored with it) I thought I would try Vegas as another well regarded tactical shooter from the 
 same stable. However, this turned out to be a bitter disappointment.
  Where GRAW is closer to a sim, I would barely call this game tactical and think it is closer to 
 a run-and-gun FPS. In GRAW the tension is built up by moving slowly and gun battles are short and 
 intense. If you get hit then theres a good chance you are dead. The minimal soundtrack also helps 
 build the atmosphere and the overhead map lets you plan the positions and movements of the team 
 easily and intuitively. This is all spot on and done just to the right level as I must say I hated 
 games like Rogue Spear where the planning was just tedious and over detailed.
  I find in Vegas I just dont care about the missions that much. In GRAW, while the team mates hardly 
 have personalities and you can complete missions even if you lose some of them, you just dont 
 want to do it that way and you always feel that you want to keep everyone alive. The interaction 
 with the team characters is deeper in Vegas  they talk (and actually look different!)  but all 
 you can do is move them to somewhere within view and hope they point the right way and do the right 
 thing when they get there (which to be fair, for the most part they do) . By the time you play GRAW 
 for the second or third time you feel confident enough to move the team in pairs way out of visual 
 range using the tactical map and helmet cams to keep and eye on the action but you dont do this 
 in Vegas. It is basically a linear conveyor belt and the use of tactics is limited as both team 
 mates operate as one so you need a helping of luck to get through tough areas which limits the 
 point of any tactical plan. Tagging enemies is good though and room take downs can be sweet but 
 another spoiler is the dreadful Call of Duty 2 style health system where you can get shot to ribbons 
 but if you manage to take cover just before dying, presto you are all better again after a few 
 seconds. Another gripe is that the checkpoints are too far apart in Vegas and I hate those weapons 
 crates as you have to visit them repeatedly to re-supply when reloading a scene to start a section 
 again. GRAW is again more realistic where you kit out at the beginning of a mission and you had 
 better watch the ammo level before the next equipment drop. In Vegas the baddies also spawn at 
 trigger points as you progress like a Doom type shooter and some sections are so difficult that 
 it gets tedious re-trying. So far I am only on the first casino level where you have to get up 
 the stairs in the central atrium using smoke for cover etc but it is a difficult section and as 
 tactics barely work I am not sure if I can be bothered to play much more.
  Final gripe is the language as while I dont have a big problem with profanity in general I do 
 hate this in all games. What with the Vegas setting, all the swearing in this game just gives it 
 a GTA tacky feel that feels very cheap and I am surprised TC even lends his name to it. I must 
 admit that the scenery in GRAW was pretty dull but its silence gave it a much classier feel. 
 My only hope is that they havent spoiled the formula in GRAW2 as I cant see me bothering with 
 Vegas for much longer.
  Okay, I'm an impatient moaning whinger but there you have it. You can give my reveiw negative feedback, 
 I don't care. Now, GRAW for a fourth time...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game. Over 40 weapons and grenades and explosives. The 
 game starts off in Mexico. The mission is to capture Irena alive that doesn't work, the squad mates 
 are taken hostage, and you eliminate 60 terrorists yourself to get to extraction point like any 
 real life super spec-ops commando would do.
  
  Logan (you) spends most of you're time in Las Vegas, so the name of the game is called by its location.
 
  
  The levels are beautiful and capture the glitz and pizzaz of Las Vegas. Casinos are modeled well. 
 The cover system is very good. You can be behind a wall and lay supressing fire only sticking out 
 the arms. Logan can order is squad to cover prepare the team to throw grenades, flash bangs, smoke 
 grenades, or breeching charges busting into rooms. The only problem is you cannot order your teammates 
 to toss explosives at anytime.
  
  I have a Athlon 64 3000+ ATI Radeon X1600 Pro 512 MB 1 GB of RAM and it chugged a little on 1024 
 x 768 medium settings.
  
  The biggest flaw in Rainbow Six is the checkpoint system. It's 2007 and even Wolf 3d a game that 
 is run on a 286 ( 50 mhz processor?) , from 1992 you can save when you want to. So areas I restarted 
 a half a dozen times. The multiplayer and co-op modes are fun. The terrorist hunt where you hunt 
 down all the terrorists on the map and you can do it co-op. Playing terrorist hunt alone is tough 
 being outnumbered 25 to 50 to 1 and taking them down one by one. The maps have many passages so 
 its easy to be flanked and killed from behind which makes it better to play with a partner.
  
  If you haven't played any tactical shooters since 1998 (Last time I played one was the demo 
 of original Rainbow Six in a PC Gamer disc) play it you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniterra
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  First impression I had playing this is that it would be a completely different Rainbow Six, cause 
 the game starts on an war ambient, and the player is acting alone.
  
  I could notice that this game have a story, a main character, with some kind of personality. This 
 did not happen on the old games in series, and I consider this a good feature that catch the attention 
 of the player.
  
  About technical details, I consider the graphics effects very solid, beautiful. But the game lacks 
 on the sound effects. I have constant problems with the sounds, for example when I enter the menu 
 and back to the game, it starts some disturbing sounds, and I have to enter and exit the menu again 
 and again to stop that strange sounds.
  
  Concluding, the game is too short, and this (plus the continue message) give it an impression of 
 incomplete, unfinished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petsfed
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I have played every Rainbow game made for the PC. Including a little bit of Takedown, despite the 
 fact that I don't speak Korean. This is not Rainbow Six, by any reasonable stretch of the imagination. 
 The pre-action planning is gone, the neato gizmos that allowed you to recon everything are gone. 
 You can't even adjust your armor levels, or your teammates' (2, down from 7) load-outs. The tactics 
 are watered down, and the enemy doesn't have good enough hearing or communicative ability to make 
 total stealth necessary, or even worthwhile.
  
  However, this game is great fun. The cover system is brilliantly executed, my only wish is that 
 it could be made sticky (did I miss that in the incredibly thin options menu?) so I didn't have 
 to hold down the right mouse button all the time. The weapons selection is quite diverse, although 
 i see less difference amongst the submachine guns, and the MP5SD5, underpowered mainstay of the 
 series that it is, is inexplicably absent. The tactics are far more fleshed out than in R6: Lockdown, 
 which was itself a copy of Republic Commando set entirely on earth.
  
  Rappelling in to storm a room from the windows is fun. Breaching doors is fun. Tagging targets 
 for my teammates is fun. Advancing under cover is fun.
  
  There's a sense of immediacy in every situation, the terrorists seem much more human, as do the 
 hostages. In other words, this game has everything I ever wanted in an R6 game that wasn't already 
 there, while simultaneously dropping everything I already loved about R6. That's not to say this 
 game is not worth picking up, only that it is not, by what I know to be a Rainbow game, worthy 
 of the title. It is still an incredibly fun game, and a very fun semi-realistic tactical shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amareen18
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  i think rainbow six Vegas is great tactical game with great graphics and great sound and shooting 
 its just a great game thats the short summary of what i think about the game.
  first things first the gameplay rainbow six is superb its a very hard game where you are like a 
 stealth team and you free hostages you have an ROE options from infiltrate to assault and back. 
 Infiltrate lets you take a more cautious approach by only shooting when being shot at, rather that 
 opening fire when an enemy is spotted. The infiltrate ROE comes in handy when handling a hostage 
 situation. With it, you have the option of opening a door and using a flash bang or smoke bomb 
 . Assault let's you immediately open fire on any spotted tango. It is for easily clearing out a 
 room. When you switch weapon frequencies your whole squad will do the same. the graphics are highly 
 delighted the guns are perfectly done The textures are great dynamic lighting is wonderful the 
 shotting is great When you get shot, the screen focuses inward and blurs.
  
  the sound are beautifully done the sound of the shotting but the sound of the explosion is not 
 very realistic the is great wonderfully done i can't say no more about this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shim_K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  A very short summary of what I think about Rainbow Six Vegas : A great tactical shooter that surpasses 
 the rest of the Rainbow Six series with many compelling features. Pros : Many great features such 
 as blind-fire, gun add-ons, rate-of-fire changes, and much more. Also, the great multi-player.
 
  
  Cons : Momentary pauses here and again, near-escape scenarios, and many multi-player bugs (sound 
 loops, lag) and bad bullet hot-points (body hits need about 8 rounds to penetrate and kill) .
  
  The good overwhelms the bad.
  
  Gameplay 10
  --------------------
  The gameplay is 
 superb with the many astounding features. You can switch ROE (Rate of Entry, I believe) from infiltrate 
 to assault and back. Infiltrate lets you take a more cautious approach by only shooting when shot 
 at, rather that opening fire when an enemy is spotted. The infiltrate ROE comes in handy when handling 
 a hostage situation. With this, you have the option of opening a door and using a flashbang or 
 smoke bomb (as assault let's you breech the door or throw a frag gernade) . Assault let's you immediately 
 open fire on any spotted tango. It is for easily clearing out a room. When you switch weapon frequencies 
 (silenced guns etc.) your whole squad will do the same. You can command your squad to easily follow 
 along and help you pick of tangos or take it alone by commanding the rest of your squad to sit 
 still. The best key feature is the hide behind obstacles feature. With that, you can take cover 
 and analyze the problem, then either just push your gun out and inaccurately throw out rounds upon 
 rounds, or take aim and strike with accuracy. Graphics 8
  --------------------
  Basically, the graphics are strongly detailed. I love the blur feature as you shift up and down. 
 The textures are terrific and the partical effects and dynamic lighting are far above average. 
 When you shoot certain things, such as a fish tank, it will react. As when you shoot the fish tank, 
 it may spew water. When a flashbang is blown in your face, the screen turns white and the basic 
 outlines of everything turn gray and blur. When you get shot, the screen focuses inward and blurs. 
 The only true downfall is when you turn the brightness up to above 8, the smoke gets of very low 
 quality.
  
  Sound 9
  ---------------------
  Not very much to say but very sophisticated. Realistic gunshots, but not very realistic explosion 
 sounds. The terrorists are greatly responsive, as when you shoot a wall various times, a terrorist 
 may shout, : Why you shootin' the wall, **** Pardon my French.
  
  Value 9
  ----------------------
  If you are going for revolutionary graphics, wait till Halo 3. If you 
 want a better Rainbow Six, grab your maxed-out Credit Card and rush to E-Bay. Gameplay is great 
 and almost about everything else surpasses all else.
  
  Overall 9.5 Superb
  -------------------
  ----------
  -----
  --
  .
  
  The worst thing that happened to the 
 game is the cheat function was disabled...
  
  That's it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gvas39
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  Ok. This game is grate very realistic really good graphics a loot of action is going on in the came 
 and is much more improved that the previews Rainbow Six.
  Its a tactical shooter which will make you an addict stuck in your Pc fore many many hours (almost 
 brake up with my girlfriend)
  Its only problem is that you have to go to check point to auto save BUT that is making it even 
 more interesting ...
  You will love it even if you are not a fun of Tactical shooters.
  The gaming is intense at all times and after half an hour you o playing you can learn the controls (even 
 if you use the xbox control)
  Be sure to install the latest version of the 1.04 update and having the latest Driver at your GPU 
 and before you purchase it go to Ubisoft's site and run the test with your Pc to check out if you 
 have the recommended system!
  A 9 from me for this Tom Clancy did it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcturusBootes
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Tracers? This game is Hollywood on this point. Tracers in real life are used mostly in a fix gun 
 emplacement not used in personal fire arms, this is my biggest pet peeve with first person shooters.
 
  The firearms could of been researched better. The ballistics and penetrations could have been 
 modeled more to real world specs.
  It would of been nice if you could direct your AI team to throw grenades etc or have them throw 
 them on their own like the enemy AI.
  Overall, this is the better Rainbow Six games I've played. The visuals are great, very realistic. 
 The sounds effects are the best I've seen with first person shooters. I give this game a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Sublime graphics, a superb plot, easy-access in-depth gameplay and a really annoying ending which 
 makes me want to play this over and over again, make this game an excellent team shooter. The game 
 combines on-the-spot tactics, little or no pre-planning and intense gun fights to create a very 
 very realistic environment in which anything could happen and your enemy could be hiding right 
 around the next corner or, for that matter, pretty much anywhere. It's a decent length in single-player, 
 although characteristic ubisoft multiplayer bugs leave plenty to be desired. It's definitely worth 
 buying, however, as it has a great story and is very fun. I'd say the xbox 360 version is a better 
 buy as the co-op modes create excellent scenarios to play with a friend or two. Or three. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jent0n
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Has anyone here played the original Rainbow Six games on the PC? It's NOTHING like this new game. 
 Granted, this was a pretty fun and intense shooter, but from a 'tactical shooter' standpoint, I 
 thought this game was pretty weak. 1) My first beef is with the 'magic serum' that you inject in 
 your teammates. That aspect alone completely destroyed the sense of realism that should always 
 be present in a tactical first person shooter. I found that I could just order my guys into any 
 room with little regard for their safety because I knew I could just revive them once I cleared 
 the room. As a result, I played with more reckless abandon (even on the realistic setting) . 2) 
 This may be nit picky, but why on earth would you send in an elite counter-terrorist group with 
 only one squad? In all the other Rainbow Six games for the PC (the original and Rogue Spear for 
 example) , you had multiple squads. If anyone has ever played Swat 4, having more than one squad 
 makes much more sense. If you're entering a big room with multiple entry points, you'll need the 
 two squads to throw their flashbangs to encompass all parts of the room. At the very least, they 
 should've included one more teammate in order to back you up when you split off from the group.
 
  
  3) There should've been more options for your teammates when they stack up on a door. In Swat 4, 
 there were a lot more options before entering a room. You could tell your teammates to check under 
 the door with their own snake cable, you could tell them to breach, (flash) bang, and clear , breach, 
 frag, and clear , or (in the expansion) , you could queue up commands and then initiate them when 
 you wanted to. Those options made for a much more realistic experience while playing.
  
  All in all, the graphics in Vegas rocked, but I felt like I was playing a watered down console 
 version of an FPS, and as a PC gamer, that annoyed me.
  
  *SIDE NOTE: for a better tactical first person shooter experience, try Brothers in Arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex071093
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is one of the best tactical shooter I've ever seen. The Storeys pretty good 
 and the multi-player is too, although the game itself is a great one, it could of used a better 
 soundtrack that sounded more like Vegas. Visuals are excellent and it sounds and feels as though 
 you're an actual commando fighting terrorists. Swing from high buildings, break though windows, 
 take cover from fire, and use special tactics, your team and the latest high tech weapons and tools 
 (such as the opti-wand or the snake cam as it is referred to in Rainbow Six: Vegas, also there's 
 the night vision thats available or grenades.) to complete your mission and defeat the enemy. Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas is an awsome game and hopefully the Tom Clancy series will come out with games just 
 as good or better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_ford
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is an impressive first person tactical shooter.. Very realistic with very good graphics.. The 
 bad: You need a good pc with a good graphics card and at least 2G of ram to enjoy the visuals of 
 the game.. The story goes as usual.. You will hate the end.. Sound is good... The gameplay is very 
 good.. The al of the enemies is good and if you play the game in the realistic mode is sufficiently 
 difficult.. Also your teammates are very clever and you can control them only with few buttons.. The 
 health system is like call of duty 2 (no health bar) ... but if someones hit you sometime you can't 
 see nothing and if you are lucky you can find a cover... The conclusion: If you are a fun of the 
 first person shooters you must'n miss this game.... very realstic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsd2002
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I read several reviews and decided to pass on R6LV. After awhile I just could wait for GRAW2 anymore 
 and decided to gamble on Rainbow. First off I've loved the Rainbow series for the beginning. However, 
 the last few have been bust. Many of the reviews complained about the graphics or no tactical planning. 
 It's certainly a different experience but it is damn fun. I've really enjoyed this game and it 
 would have really been a shame to miss. The graphics, once you get them set up, are excellent. 
 The story is a little lame and the main bad guys are as well. The action is non-stop and very intense. 
 P4 3.4 Ghz HT overclocked to 4G
  2 Ghz DRR2 533 mhz
  1900 XT Radeon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doug_Rock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the best First-Person experience i had for a long time.
  For many years, this genre lost a little bit of it's golden years, but it seems, that now, extraordinary 
 games will continue being produced.
  
  The gameplay is awesome and very realistic. You have to hide yourself not to get shot, just like 
 in real life. Another thing that for sure makes the game much better when talking about gameplay, 
 is the life system. This system was created in Call of Duty 2, and it makes the play a lot more 
 continuous. That is for sure very good. :D
  
  The graphics are excellent. If you have top videocards, put all the video configurations in max, 
 and have fun! :D
  
  The sound is very good. I gave it a nine, because it is between an 8 and a 9. Some people will 
 like it and some won't for it is not exceptional like the one of Call of Duty 2 or Medal of Honor 
 for example.
  
  The storyline is amazing and there is no abrupt stops to tell about anything in the script. After 
 each mission, you enter in the helicopter, and a woman there will tell about the next mission.
 
  
  There are no bugs that craps up the development of the play and it is for sure and FPS you SHOULD 
 have in your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game has the best setting of any shooter to date. That setting is Las Vegas. You will be fighting 
 in the streets and casinos, and yes, it is as cool as it sounds. The only problem with this is 
 that it doesn't last very long. You get to go through maybe 3 or 4 casinos, and then that portion 
 of the game is already over. Take my word for it, though; this is some of the most fun you'll have 
 playing through a game, until you die. The game doesn't offer a quick save option. The only saving 
 involves checkpoints. While they are usually well placed, sometimes there can be a stretch, and 
 if you die right before the next checkpoint, you have to start over, sometimes 10 minutes back. 
 This usually isn't a problem on normal mode, but on realistic mode this becomes more evident.
 
  
  A nice feature is the fact that you can duck behind cover and shoot out to kill enemies. This makes 
 the game feel a lot more realistic, and the fact that the graphics are good helps too when you 
 see your soldier hugging up against something for cover. You choose all your weapons on the helicopter, 
 which is another nice touch. You can also switch weapons with dead enemies once you run out of 
 ammo for yours. They offer night vision and thermal goggles, but these are relatively useless, 
 because there are hardly any overbearing dark areas in the game, and when you are using the thermal 
 vision, it only works within a fairly short range, so it's only useful when you are in smoke.
 
  
  Rappelling is also fun, but is somewhat scarce in the game, as there are few situations where you 
 can actually use it to your advantage. However, it is simply one of the funnest features of any 
 game that I can remember recently. Battles in casinos also have somewhat of a feeling that just 
 makes you happy you play video games. It just feels right to be involved in huge firefights in 
 such a location. The graphics are excellent, but since this is basically a port of an Xbox 360 
 game, they aren't quite as good as they could be, compared to other games on the PC. The options 
 menu doesn't give a lot of settings you can change, either. Other than that, they look amazing, 
 and there are rarely framerate slow downs.
  
  The sound is good, but the enemy soldier's dialog can get very repetitive. When you are fighting 
 it out in casinos, the sound is great, because of all the ambience adds to the fights.
  
  The single player is short, but the multiplayer is fun, too. It isn't as good as some other games, 
 though. Finding a game is relatively easy, but once you join one, waiting for it to finish so you 
 can join in too is very tedious at times, especially sometimes when you have to wait for up to 
 10 minutes. Almost the most fun about multiplayer is customizing your character's clothes and armor. 
 After you do that, playing online and seeing what you just made duck behind cover is a satisfying 
 sight. the multiplayer component also includes the cover mechanics, which really adds to an otherwise 
 lifeless multiplayer suite, and nothing beats killing someone with a pistol while your rappeling 
 down a wall. Over all, multiplayer is a very fun experience, as long as you arent waiting to be 
 able to actually play in a game. Rainbow Six Vegas is definitely worth buying and playing, because 
 there is no other shooting experience that can capture the feeling you get than this one does. 
 After all, what happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_japon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  R6 Vegas Rocks!!! I loved it! normally if u can search dead soldiers body and tkae equipments it 
 will be better . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giant11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. It's definitely one of my top favorite FPS games and I've played quite 
 a few. Here are just a few reasons why you should get this game:
  *Lots of weapons. Believable, realistic-looking and sounding weapons that also inflict realistic 
 damage
  *Physics in the game world. Just a nicely implemented feature that never gets in the way and doesn't 
 seem to affect game's performance either.
  *Tactical elements in attacking your enemies. This game really allows you to plan your attack, 
 everytime.
  *High replayability. I've not yet tried multiplayer, but all the multiplayer modes aside (including 
 co-op) , you can play 'terrorist hunt' mode by yourself. It's a very neat little game experience 
 - you choose the location, the number of enemies, their difficulty level, and, most importantly, 
 your loadout! Great fun..
  
  As for the negative aspects of the game:
  *no mission-editor. This means that there will be no community-made maps.
  *Bad performance on 
 even good PC's. Though it ran decently on my computer, in general, it seems to run badly on most 
 people's PC's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElvisNixon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Been having lots of fun with the online coop modes.. for example, you can run through the whole 
 game in story mode online with friends. Haven't even touched the single player, so there is lots 
 of game for the money. Very few online games have any coop whatsoever, so this is quite refreshing.
 
  
  U do need a strong setup, hopefully a dual core processor of some sort, and a solid GPU since it 
 runs on the new unreal 3 engine. The game looks friggen great... the Casinos and hotels are extremely 
 detailed. The guns feel real. Since it is a 360 port, you don't get to use console commands, which 
 kinda sucks. But then again, it took the coop mode from the 360 version, so that more than makes 
 up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_hazem5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Best game ever made in this series, great graphics althought there are some places where it fades 
 a lot but over all an immersive reality gameplay which can't be resisted. Its performance is great 
 compaired to the graphics on my x1600pro 800*600 every thing maximum except shadows low which is 
 not bad or realised during the game play Best game ever made in this series, great graphics althought 
 there are some places where it fades a lot but over all an immersive reality gameplay which can't 
 be resisted. Its performance is great compaired to the graphics on my x1600pro 800*600 every thing 
 maximum except shadows low which is not bad or realised during the game play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mannsdan
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  This game had the potential to be very great. Alas, it is not. I much prefer Battlefield 2 or, 
 even more, BF2142 for my FPS fix. But stil, this game IS very good and fun to play. Here are some 
 of my beefs: #1 this seems like a game made for a console and then quickly patched up to get it 
 to run on a PC. It has the feel to it that it was a rush job. Is Clancy forgetting his roots? Wasn't 
 the franchise originally released exclusively on PC?! #2 What is up with the audio!! In multiplayer 
 on line mode you hear every noise coming from every particular direction all with the same volume. 
 the audio does nothing but confuse you! i found myself looking around to see where the shots were 
 coming from only to realize that they were from a room far away or somewhere on the other side 
 of the map! There are no audio options to set in any menu! This is one of the things i mean about 
 it appearing to be made for a console! #3 I want to go prone! I feel like i am not in total control! 
 many times i found myself wanting to lay down prone to shoot at the feet of guys hiding under cars 
 or trains or benches. i mean, couldn't i do that in PS2 when playing Socom? Instead i have to constantly 
 hit the cover button, (letter C) . i strongly suggest that you program your mouse so that it is 
 easier to get behind cover. you are constantly using it! #4 Where the heck is everybody? The multiplayer 
 online mode offers very few selections. I downloaded the latest patch and still there are very 
 few servers online. probably because most people play this on the 360! #4 No online VOIP support. 
 can't talk to your friends - just type fast.
  Still the game has a cool story line mode, it offers a very fun &amp; challenging single player 
 terrorist hunt and the multiplayer online mode is also worth some of your time; although Vegas 
 uses the counter strike source engine so you could just get that game for much cheaper if all you 
 care for is multiplayer mode! Very Good Game Could have been OUTSTANDING! Like i said before, probably 
 becuase it was platform based and just pushed to PC version to squeeze a lil more cash from us 
 PC gamers!
  I'll catch you on a Karkand server instead!! BF2 Rulz!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonelyGhost
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  So it's been a while since the release of Tom Clancy's 'Rainbow Six: Vegas'. I myself have been 
 playing his games a number of years, and initially began with the original Rainbow Six games like 
 'Rogue Spear'. At the time, these games stood out from the average FPS. They were the embodiment 
 of the tactical and strategic shooter, yet these elements, albeit interesting, hindered the game-play 
 mechanic and made progression within the game somewhat slow.
  
  Outfitting your characters and each of your team members and additional teams, and plotting routes 
 within the map for multiple teams became more of a chore and became boring rather quickly.
  
  After a while, I stopped playing Rainbow Six games. However, a friend recently bought the game 
 ad recommended it to me, identifying all the major differences and how much of an improved game 
 it was. Hesitant at first, I then went out to buy the game. Once installed I began to play the 
 main single player campaign.
  
  From the get go of this game, I could already see the HUGE differences and improvements between 
 the ever evolving Rainbow Six series and could tell this would be a unique game.
  
  Game-play: The game-play mechanics in Tom Clancy's 'Rainbow Six: Vegas' (RS: V as we will refer 
 to it) are amazing and extremely smooth. Camera angles are intuitive an never get in the way, and 
 perfectly enable you to play the game with very little, or no problems.
  
  Taking a page from the Gears of War book, RS: V allows you to use cover realistically, and in fact, 
 using cover is not only a must have in the game, but is extremely enjoyable - making you feel that 
 you are very much apart of a very dangerous fire-fight in a real world environment.
  
  The AI in RS: V also hold much of an improvement over its predecessors and is actually better than 
 many of todays FPS's, especially with the difficulty settings upped to 'Realistic'. Enemy AI use 
 cover fire just as well as you do, and have some very well developed team maneuverer's. In addition, 
 the two team members with you (also computer controlled) behave very well amongst the game environment 
 and they too use cover fire just as well.
  
  The story line in the SP campaign however is a little weak but still good, with some points in 
 it lacking cohesion. Nonetheless, the SP story line is still very interesting and worth paying 
 attention to.
  
  Graphics: The graphics used in RS: V very good, with a great attention to detail paid. Whats even 
 better about the graphics is that they do not require a powerhouse of a PC to be enjoyed. I myself 
 am running the game on an Nvidia 7600GT and have all the specs on high.
  
  The in-game graphics are very sharp with nice textures used. The real world environment of Las 
 Vegas is definitely brought to life, and mixing this with the intense SP, or even MP action, leaves 
 you feeling very charged and excited.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds in RS: V are very well produced and put to use, and there is little to say about it. 
 However, the sound of some of the guns does feel a little week, although this is rarely a problem 
 or an issue. The music on the other hand is placed very well and sounds great, fitting right into 
 the game, especially when it kicks in during the many shoot-outs which you will encounter. Conclusion:
 
  All in all Tom Clancy's 'Rainbow Six: Vegas' is an astounding game with smooth game-play and great 
 visuals. In addition, the very interesting and wide array of multi-player modes keeps the game 
 playable once the main story line has been completed. The use of cover fire adds great realism 
 to the game and the clever AI makes this even better.
  
  The only real downside to this game is the multi-player bug that sometimes causes the game/server 
 to crash. Other than this, there are very little problems with the game.
  
  This game certainly does justice to the Rainbow Six franchise and is a great addition to any collection; 
 starting from the Rainbow Six enthusiast right down the the beginner and is also a must have for 
 any fan of FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker16
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Irena Morales is a very naughty girl. Not only has she been sticking soggy pieces of chewing gum 
 to the underside of tables, she and her team of Mexican terrorists are also dabbling with the idea 
 of blowing up Las Vegas with a big bomb that goes boom and breaks stuff into little pieces. Sounds 
 like a job for the Rainbow team and I'm not talking about Zippy, Bungle and George.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a fairly triumphant return to form for the venerable Rainbow Six series, 
 with Ubisoft Montreal striking an excellent compromise between the visceral realism so revered 
 in the original Rainbow Six games and the all-out action approach so reviled in Rainbow Six: Lockdown. 
 There's also far more location diversity this time around, with tight, claustrophobic areas mixed 
 up with wide-open, sprawling spaces.
  
  Spend Your Money On This Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a solid next-gen tactical shooter, the amount of replay value, new gameplay 
 and a solid multiplayer makes this game a must have for any fan of the Rainbow Six series, or just 
 tactical shooters.
  
  If you are familiar with Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six, you are part (head) of a elite squad of anti-terrorist 
 members, the games focus on killing terrorists from doing whats wrong, and since they nestled themself 
 into Vegas, lets say this is one game of roulette thats really exciting.
  
  Gameplay:
  Solid, it brings in some new features into the genre by using smokegrenades in combination with 
 heatseaking goggles, which makes you see thru the thick smoke while being camouflaged with it, 
 its great for nailing down terrorists forces with incredibly ease, though, the AI is what you expect 
 from terrorists, mostly their just out to kill you, but you'll be using somekind of GoW style cover 
 system, it works pretty good since only rushing into rooms will get you dead most of the time.
 
  
  The tactical therm for this title comes from commands you can use on you're squad, and diffrent 
 from other games like these, the squad is actually helpful for killing terrorists, they'll give 
 you back cover and scream out commands, but they'll mostly just wait till you give you're signal.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Again, solid.
  
  If you have a nice high-end computer (check my rig, its on my profile) it'll run smooth and you'll 
 have fantastic graphics, the game graphics comes in handy in some of the first cinematic cutscenes, 
 like when you are watching Vegas out the helicopter, and when you climb down the rope to check 
 into a building, or use a grappling hook to bounce from window to window, the graphics are top-notch.
 
  
  The Vegas style is really there to, you see mostly casino's, yet no strip clubs, what the heck 
 Ubisoft? We want nekkid!
  
  Story:
  Basic Rainbow Six blah blah blah, kill these terrorists in order to save live of millions of people, 
 its not like I wanted something else, it works great for other Tom Clancy's games, right?
  
  Sounds:
  Great, voice-acting is really good, and just like all other shooters nowadays, the 
 weapons sound realistic and just good overal, though I'd like to hear more Vegas, like when you 
 shoot a slotmachine you hear a 'dingdingding we have a winner' kind of sound, that'd be funny.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  The game has a nice multiplayer component, it has some older gamemodes from the older Rainbow Six 
 games, and just the basic gamemodes and retrieval, which is basicly just CTF with some twist.
 
  
  Is it a good tactical fps:
  Its a solid title, and probably the best Tom Clancy's game now, I haven't played the 360 version 
 yet, but if you don't own a Xbox 360 and do have a high end pc, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdac
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  the first time i played this game i though it was going to be the classic fps boring game... but 
 when i started playing i culdnt stop until i got to the end hope you launch teh second part soon 
 i cant wait to finish it and to kick some terrorist butt!!! hahahaha also the game mode is fantastic 
 getting cover behind walls and other stuff not like other fps games when you are like always uncover 
 just standing and thats it, the story seems a little realistic and i like the idea of involving 
 the mexicans hahaha they are so funny!!! well thats all i have to said about this marvelous game!!! 
 i really enjoy it and paly it more and more!!!! nice one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 28, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  The coolest thing about this game is the setting. Yes, the shooting, the tactics, the weaponry 
 are great... but as they say What Happens in LV, stays in Vegas . Well, I'll tell you what happens 
 in Vegas; you get to ef up a whole bunch of terrorist mo-fos! Tom Clancy and Ubisoft continue to 
 beautifully milk the Rainbow franchise... and I don't mind it at all... keep making games the way 
 you're doing it and I'll be there with my dollars!
  
  The art style (not the graphics) is sweet, especially the very first mission. The voiceover acting 
 and even the background music is awesome.
  
  Grin has done a great job in delivering all the key ingridients for a tactical shooter. Buy this 
 game! Trust me!
  
  I only have one complain: the ending was so short, I was hoping for a Hollywood Moment ... not an 
 abrupt ending... I don't wanna give it away... but I warned you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comugrafica
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 27, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I bougth this game based on the great reviews it has online, however apparently no one had finished 
 the game befor they wrote the reviews because this game has one of the worst endings I have ever 
 seen for a Rainbow Six game. Lame.. lame.. lame ending. I mean come'on... you figth about three 
 houndred terrorist in vegas to let the bad guy scape and the end, and not just only that.. but 
 the great save you make i blowing up a missile in the middle of the air.. give a break. The guys 
 at Ubi should have know better than that. Extremely dissapointed with the ending, and to be honest.. 
 its not worth it to replay the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  To be really honest, i am not a fan of tactical shooters, i hated that genre of FPS, that is ofcourse 
 before i played this game. I have to say, i am very impressed by this and it has boosted my interest 
 in tactical shooters.
  
  The story line of the game is pretty simple, terrorists in Vegas, you have to get rid of them. 
 I wont spoil it for you and wont tell you more about the story. In my opinion, story was not the 
 strong point of this game.
  
  I have played a few tactical shooters before, but this game has a gameplay like no other. Its very 
 very good, although you wont be able to perform moves you can in ghost recon, rest assured what 
 you can do is enough. Controls are very responsive and the game has a certain feel to it. The weapons 
 also pack a punch. There is a large variety of which you can choose from, assault rifles, snipers, 
 machine guns to the small pistols. The game will let you customize them aswell with silencers, 
 scopes etc. You will have an opportunity to change your weapon in every level and you can pick 
 up the enemy's weapon aswell. The game lets you carry only 3 weapons at a time along with grenades.
 
  
  The graphics for this game are powered by the Unreal 3 engine. To be honest, i am not at all impressed. 
 UBI soft made horrible use of for what can be regarded as a very advanced engine, just look at 
 the UT2008 screenshots and you'll know. The game requires a hefty system to run. In the end the 
 requirnments outdo the visuals, you don't get what you pay for. In my opinion, half life 2 looks 
 better and only requires a mid-range system to run at max settings. The game will stutter a lot 
 unless you have 2GB of RAM. Some of the times it just hung up on me for a good 10 seconds. The 
 weapon models look good and the casinos look awesome. You wont get a lot of graphical options to 
 turn down aswell. I tried turning off stuff like eye adapt and hardware skinning and it made no 
 impact on performance and very little on the visuals. All in all this game is very poorly optimised 
 so make sure its patched.
  
  The sound effects were nice too. I like the lethal sounding music although the voice acting was 
 very flat . Weapons sounded nice. Your team mates only speak to about 3-4 different lines through 
 out the entire game and it can get a little annoying.
  
  One thing i hated was that occasionally your mates just get into your way and wont budge. Same 
 is for the doctor which we have to escort, he just kept getting in the way and didnt move.
  
  The game has no health system, you automatically regain it once being shot at, and will die 
 if gets hit too much. There is no save system, it works by checkpoints. Whatever the fact maybe, 
 there is no reason to not include a save system where we can save whenever we want. There is a 
 massive gap b/w different checkpoints so play carefully otherwise you will have to start over again.
 
  
  Finally i have to admit, despite its flaws, this is the best tactical shooter PC has to offer and 
 its a must have for any FPS fan, just make sure you have a very good system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlosolavoneto
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 26, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm on the last mission, and I can tell you this is a fantastic game!!! I love the gameplay, are 
 much easy! The graphics are unbelievable... I have a 8600 XXX edidion graphic card, and I just 
 can play this game on resolutions like 1024x768... Above that the frames per seconds are terribly 
 down at some parts!! That's just my negative point to the game, I think other people have notived 
 that too. Frames per seconds in this game are a little strange .. The team work in this game is 
 fantastic. We will command your men, like If there is an enemy there, they will suffer the damage 
 . You can stay behind a door and make them enter, and also what enemys they should kill first. 
 Nice! Also the scenarios are cool! Casinos, streets, even laboratories, diversity is here! I think 
 this is a must have to all people who like a good game! But remember, you must have a good computer, 
 and good is with the most recent components, if you want to play this game with a good detail and 
 at the same time with natural movements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigyxs
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 22, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game totaly feels like some old school R6. It reminds me of Rogue Spear in may ways.
  The single player is great. Intense immersive combat. Using cover is realistic. However this doesnt 
 mean that anything is gone from the move and shoot.
  While the single player is a bit lacking in story backbone. It is made up for with hardcore head 
 thumping firefights.
  
  Multi-player is very much like Rogue Spear was. It can be explosive and over is seconds, or it 
 can turn into a prolonged pop shot contest.
  For multiplayer there are Co-op modes.
  Co-op Story: Play with up to 4 friends through the game stroy.
  Co-op Terrorist Hunt: Same as 
 old shool R6.
  Other Modes: There is the traditional DM, and TDM. There are a few others also, such as Defend 
 and Assault, Retrieval, Sharpshooter, and Team Sharpshooter to name a few.
  
  All and all this game really rocks. It's realistic. So there are some bonus points there in a world 
 of FPS endless healthbars and defibs.
  It looks great. The AI both friend and foe are above average. Anyone who loved R6 up until the 
 last few games, will be very happy to see this game. So if you've been reluctant to buy it. Dont 
 worry. It's well worth it and you will be happy you did.
  
  Get it, and host a game! I'll come in and smoke your butt!
  
  I know this game has some high 
 requirements. And I understand there were some issues with servers and PB when it first launched.
 
  I also realize that the method used to host and fetch servers is different than the standard. 
 It is old school. It's meant to have you or one of your gaming buddies actually host the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  I really hated rainbow six lockdown, black arrow and raven shield.
  I thought This one will be just like the rest , but when i played it at my friends xbox360, i was 
 really amazed that this one doesn't feel or look like the rest at all.
  Amazing graphics, great gameplay and just the fun in hiding behind some wall and shooting the un 
 expecting terrorist.
  I just had to buy it for PC.
  I had some trouble of the black sky in the game but i solved it, and that's the only thing that 
 bodered me.
  The normal difficulty is really too easy, and if you don't whant to get bored of this game play 
 it on realistic.
  For the beginners, there will be a little problem on realisic, but in the few levels they will 
 get the hang of it.
  Sound effects are great, the sound supressor doesn't sound like some cheap 007 movie effect.
 
  Just Logan's redneck accent is anoying.
  Graphics are great but the blur sometimes annoys me, but it gives a somehow flashy feeling.
  
 The easynes of the sqouad member ordering is really good, but sometimes they can be stupid.
  I recomend this game, but if you have Xbox360 buy it on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renofury
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 19, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  The feature that i enjoyed most in this game is the take cover feature, that works like that of 
 gears of war enabling u to take cover behind walls while shooting, it realy makes gunfights more 
 tense as the enemy tries to flank you. An other feature i liked is giving comands to team mates 
 by simpliy pointing at a location and press space. at that point the team mate would go to the 
 location, or prepare to breach a door according to where i was highlighted, giving orders to team 
 mates is fun quick and easy.
  
  The game features various locations all very detailed. The missions are linear, but every fight 
 offer numerous tactical choices like where to attack the enemy from, where to u should place ur 
 squad to help u. method to enter the room, weapons to use, use of smoke screens etc, all this is 
 very involving and fast paced.
  
  Only think against the game is that it is too short, and the story of the game doest have a true 
 ending which kinda left me feeling how it ended now.
  
  Overall i think this is one of the best tacticas FPS around its by far the one i liked most 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Connor42
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy games have been popular in their own rights since 1998. Since Ubisoft presented us with 
 tactical shooters, we can now experience how tactical shooters should be done, and Rainbow Six 
 Vegas doesn't show any signs of weakness. *Prepare for entry*
  
  You are Logan Keller, directing a three-man squad, and stopping terrorists from blowing up Las 
 Vegas. Now, you might ask yourself, There has to be more than that., and there is, but that's 
 not until the end of the game. At the end of the game though, there is a cliff hanger that may 
 not immerse you in the story to get the next game, but it's the game play itself that will make 
 you get the next game.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas's game play has changed a lot. There's no planning, no briefings full of text, 
 and one of the best tactical shooters out there, in my opinion. This game has a lot of new features, 
 and most of these features will help you make tactical decisions. Now you have a tagging feature 
 that allows you to tag two terrorists, and you give the order and your teammate will kill the terrorists 
 in the order you tagged them in. This comes very helpfully when you're trying to clear a room in 
 5 seconds, without hurting a hostage. If you let a hostage die, its game over and you'll have to 
 restart at one of the plentiful check points the game provides. To help you clear a room, without 
 hurting a hostage, you'll have a snake cam to peek underneath doors. You can tag people from there 
 too. After you figured out how you'll clear the room, you should be able to succeed. The biggest 
 new feature in this game, though, is the cover system. You push the right mouse button, and your 
 view will change to a third-person perspective, and you can peek around corners, lean out and take 
 some well targeted shots, or blind fire. This works well in this game, and I can't wait to see 
 how much they can improve it in the next game though it might be hard, because this cover system 
 works almost flawlessly. You'll also, be able to repel off of buildings and from there, you'll 
 be able to breach in through a window. You'll be able to hang upside down, off a sky scraper, which 
 actually sounds kind of frightening if you ask me, and take some hot shots through a window. Another 
 great thing about this game is that the AI is smarter. The enemies make good use of there cover 
 just as well as you do. They will even flank you when you're not paying attention. The Ai in this 
 game is also very aggressive, so to help you, you'll have two squad mates that are very smart as 
 well. They don't get stuck into walls, they'll watch each others back, and commanding them is easy. 
 You just point at an area, and push the space bar, and then they'll set up cleverly. I had no problems 
 commanding them what so ever. The game has bit of a trial and error feel, though, because the enemies 
 spawn in the same place, but the AI is so well done, that when you're in battle, the enemies will, 
 almost never, do the same thing twice.
  
  All these new additions for the single player are great, with the helicopter extractions, the ability 
 to strategically barge into a room after another, and what makes, most of all, into a tactical 
 shooter, is that you have to take everything a step at a time. You can't run around guns blazing 
 and think you'll succeed. That's the beauty of the game's campaign.
  
  The single player is good, but what will keep you coming back, is its multiplayer. Even in multiplayer, 
 you have to be tactical, especially in team survival, where two teams are up against each other, 
 with no respawns. This is my favorite mode, but there are also others that are really good too, 
 like, team sharp shooter, coop story, and coop terrorist hunt.
  
  In team survival, you have to be an experienced player to be able to be good at this mode. You 
 have to be just as tactical in this mode as if you were in a single player mode. You'll be packing 
 not only the guns you like, but also flash bangs, smoke grenades, and also tear gas grenades, if 
 the server will let you use those. Team sharp shooter is fun too, but it doesn't have quite as 
 that intense feeling as team survival does. That's because you can respawn after you die, but this 
 is a good training session for new comers, because team survival can be tough if you can't think 
 on how you'll survive when you know they're enemies surrounding you. Coop story allows you to play 
 the entire story with up to four players just as well as coop terrorist hunt where you hunt down 
 the terrorists in a map. These modes will train you on how to work as team, because this comes 
 in very handy in the competitive multiplayer modes. The coop mode can be desired at times, because 
 of the lack of VOIP. Most of the time, coop feels like shoot whatever's in your path, who isn't 
 your ally, and don't die, the don't die can be hard at times, because it's easier to work as 
 a team with VOIP rather than talking. It's pretty hard to communicate with your teammates when 
 you're under an intense fire fight. Coop isn't as fun as it should be, but it still is fun.
  
  During my experience, and the fact I have the lack of experience with previous games, I was 
 actually one of the worst players. People would pop out of nowhere and get a one shot kill on me, 
 but the overall experience in multiplayer is fun. I found my self playing hours of Adversarial 
 Team matches, and I couldn't pull myself away. The competitive multiplayer matches are fun, though, 
 and people will probably play this until the next game comes out. The big down side, though, are 
 the frequent crashes in this game. Sometimes, I'll be playing matches, and have a good time, until 
 the crash comes up, and then I have to restart my computer. Also, there is this one glitch, where 
 if you have the chat box open, and then the game starts, the menu screen will stay up there, and 
 you will have to kill yourself, because you cant do anything when this happens .This can detract 
 from the replay value, because, it feels like it takes forever to login to your account. There 
 are also not a lot of servers in the PC version, but I don't know about the Xbox360 version. This 
 game is still great in its multiplayer, but the bugs can bring the replay value down.
  
  Las Vegas shines brightly in this game, with destructible environments and glowing cities. This 
 game looks fantastic, the character models look human, signs glitter up, and you'll be able to 
 visit lots of good looking, fictional casinos. There are some washed out textures in this game 
 and there are frame rate issues too, when you turn on your heat vision the game will pause for 
 2 seconds, but you'll see that the game really shines in graphics. This is Las Vegas we're talking 
 about, so why not make it look good.
  
  The game also sounds great, with some gritty dialogue and superb sound effects. The gun fire is 
 very clear sounding, and the voice acting is pretty good too. You'll also here the slot machines 
 make their weird ringing noise, which is a nice affect. You'll hear terrorists talking to each 
 other, or if you unexpectedly interrupted their cozy conversation, they'll shout curse words at 
 each other and at you. Most of it can be offensive, but that's why the voice volume control is 
 there.
  
  *Enemy neutralized*
  
  In the end, Rainbow Six Vegas is a must own for long time fans of the series. Though, the few bugs 
 and crashes can bring this game down quite a bit, but if you're just looking for a really good 
 shooter, then you should check this out regardless if you're a tactical shooter fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  It' s been several years since the REAL Ghost Recon was released, but time exiles memory towards 
 oblivion -therefore, future gamers have no need to forget Camelot. That said, this new game is 
 fine and has fantastic mechanics.
  
  But big deal. Why can't somebody make an update to the original?
  I have no idea why. The original 
 was accessable to me and I have an average I. Q. I just don't get it. The original won best game 
 in PC Gamer. It was faulted by Gamespot (only because to reviewer at that time was on drugs, imo) 
 So I just don't get it.... like the Iraq war.... a mystery to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noevilism
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  This game Rock's ... for gamers who like CQB, the graph is really GOOD,
  and tactics, movement... well everything is just HooHaaa ... I have played almost every generation 
 of this game, and every new game are more impressive then the last one... The AI on singlegame is 
 pretty good, you wont see 1 event repeat itself by the computer AI players, they just act like humans, but 
 of course, nothing is perfect! I wish it could be more weapons and single maps... that would make 
 the game complete! But good job Ubisoft and everyone who made this game, and hopefully many more 
 to come... ( Just one thing, im looking forward too Crysis a. k. a Far Cry 2 to be released soon... and 
 i will be waiting to see what the next Tom Clancy's game would be like) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbihli
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I've now played and beat both Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter and Rainbow Six Vegas. Having played 
 both I am surprised that experiences are so vastly different.
  
  Rainbox Six: Vegas has some of the best squad controls of any FPS I've played. It's dead-simple 
 to tell your team to move to a particular location, stack up on a door, breach a door, repel, etc. 
 Further, your teammates will intelligently take cover and definitely hold their own against the 
 bad guys. AI is simply not an issue. Because of this implementation the game takes on a whole new 
 level. You can now have your guys stack up at a door while you scout and enter a 2nd door creating 
 a killzone of cross-fire or they can repel in while you snipe through a roof window. The options 
 are flexible and vast. For the first time, my team mattered and therefore created a new dimension 
 to the game.
  
  If this genre of game appeals to you, get this game. It's that simple. To contrast it to GRAW:
 
  
  Graphics: GRAW has better graphics even with Vegas's Unreal engine. The draw distances are longer, 
 the graphics are brighter, and the physics are more in-depth in GRAW. While Vegas is no slouch 
 and physics are pretty well incorporated, GRAW takes the cake by a nose.
  
  Sound: Good in both games.
  
  Gameplay: See comments above.... In GRAW, I patched the game to 
 the latest version and I now, in retrospect having played Vegas, know I suffered through GRAW. 
 Your teammates ARE STUPID. The tanks you command are EVEN DUMBER. Okay, let's call them what they 
 are: BUGS. Tanks don't fire when enemies are nearby. They drive the wrong path.... it goes on and 
 on. In retrospect, I would not play GRAW because it is so frustrating.
  
  GRAW is a longer game with in my opinion more varied gameplay than Vegas. GRAW is extremely fun 
 when you snipe people from hundreds of yards, sneak through city and village streets, hide behind 
 hills.... tactically there is much more variation.
  
  If GRAW's AI were fixed the game would be fantastic. Adopting a version of Vegas's squad commands 
 would make a world of difference.
  
  Finally, Vegas is a relatively short game. I take my time through it playing an hour a day, retrying 
 certain scenarios to do better, etc.... and I still completed it in about two weeks.... maybe 15-20 
 hours of game time.
  
  GRAW is longer and harder. That does make it more enjoyable from my perspective... but part of the 
 reason its harder is the AI.
  
  In summary, Vegas: Must Own. Fun factor is through the roof and yes, it's very different that GRAW. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazorrazor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Game is AWSOME but the 1 thing i dont like the Requerments couse its pretty much for only the things 
 that the game supports there isint a good control system wasent a that god at the online play it 
 basekly was only Shot Kill ore Die and not much fun i was in to the game like for 28hours but later 
 it got worser and worser and then i sold it to a nehber for 25eruo and but it like for 50Euro soe 
 the game has poor story line but if your a fan of CSS ore CS.16
  you will think that the game is amazing
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  sorry for the bad english! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacrednight01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  The game can be pretty tactical and just plain fun taking on entire buildings of bad guys, I think 
 they have hit a nerve with this one, the life-span will be very long for me and will be awaiting 
 an improvement from the rainbow six crew.
  Although some find it hard, I find it a challenge and very addictive. You just cannot expect to 
 survive most of these encounters, so learn by your mistakes and you will complete the game in no 
 time, you will be left bloody thirsty for more action. I still think that most modern games should 
 include a wide screen resolution for those plasma's and lcd's out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fricking
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 23, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is very good with the added covering technique and easy-to-use command system - linked 
 with the stunnings graphics, Vegas is all what it's cracked up to be. I admit that the levels can 
 be quite a Labyrinth at times and it IS a challenging game. For these reasons I reckon that only 
 real hardcore gamers and fans of the franchise will like this. Everyone else can just go back to 
 a p*ss easy game such as Counter Strike...
  The story line does feel a bit empty at times but it satisfies enough the need to urge you on to 
 play more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  i came back to edit my review because i played a bit more and i encountered some rater disturbing 
 details - so i reduced my score accordingly, 1st of this is nothing more then a mod of GRAW and 
 not even a good one for that, so a price tag of $60 is far to much, this game is in not 1 category 
 better then GRAW, actually i have the feeling i play the same exact game with new maps and a extremely 
 cheesy story line, i mean this is an actual quote from the game NO WONDER WE HAVE SO MANY IMMIGRANTS 
 or THIS PEOPLE NEED OUR HELP, SO WE HERE TO HELP - yeah killing Mexicans at random... seriously 
 what is UBIsoft thinking ? And why can i chose to play at the Mexican side ? Now i had no idea 
 this game was so bad when i started playing it.. this is why i update my review now ! DON'T BUY 
 IT AT FULL PRICE, not worth it !
  ....... my original review was a 9.0................
  Im normally a battlefield type of guy so my view is from that stand point, this game is really 
 realistic compared to all other games out there witch can be good or bad (for me its bad) I succeeded 
 in killing a grand total 10! Enemies after I played about 10 rounds (terrorist hunt mode) thats 
 not much fun for me I have to say, with out a cheat, in story mode I got in 30 minutes getting 
 killed over and over again to the point where I killed a grand total of 5 ! enemies, BUT could 
 not even pass the 1st alley! Now Im sure there are a lot of hardcore gamers out there that can 
 easy do much better, but Im honest Im at best average in this skill and for me this is not much 
 fun, its way to hard did I mentioned it was on set on easy : ) anyhow the grafix and execution 
 is amaising, I just wish the realism factor could been changed to low so I can survive more then 
 20 seconds in this game performance wise this game is identical to GRAW, it is very CPU and GPU 
 intensive, but for that it has to offer the most there is right now on the market, yet I like GRAW 
 just a little bit better in graphic quality (just a bit) .. so if you a pro gamer get it, if you 
 average or below - you be dead a lot in this game ; ) maybe you want to wait till its cheaper on 
 ebay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxAa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly one of the best ports to hit pc since splinter cell: chaos theory. The graphics 
 are great, but i think considering the game takes place mainly inside, they could have added the 
 option to turn off hdr and put on 4x anti-aliasing. This would have made the game look perfect. 
 Oh well, its still great. The multi-player is the best part. There are many different modes, but 
 team survival is the most popular. Great game... just make sure u have a high end machine. The 
 game is much much much better then that double agent port. At least you can run near 60 fps with 
 sli. Double agent only aloud as high as 10 to 20 fps for most high end machines even. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovimees
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  When it comes down to playing Rainbow Six , I'm always ready to play, but this time, I'm even more 
 excited.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas has added multiple new features to the Rainbow Six series, and they're not half 
 bad. First of all, one of the main things this game evolves around is how you use your cover. Without 
 cover, you're going down. In the earlier installments of RS you needed to peek behind the corners, 
 to see enemies. This has been made much easier, because you can see behind corners, while you're 
 against the wall. The team tactics are what they have been, though the interface had its own makeover. 
 You can see basically everything you need to know in the interface, but the main weapon/grenade 
 changing is a drag on the computer.
  
  In my opinion, there should be more weapons. There used to be tons of weapons, but the size of 
 your arsenal has been cut down, a lot. Though the weapons are great, I'd like some more variety. 
 The graphics are really good, but if you're running on an old computer, you'd better skip this 
 one. If you have a decent rig, you should be able to play it on medium graphics, or maximum with 
 some tweaks. The sound is good, I enjoyed everything I heard.
  
  What I loved most was the multi-player. First of all, when it's your first time logging in, you'll 
 create your character. There are a lot of different clothing and armor pieces to put on, and these 
 affect your protection and mobility levels. I didn't encounter much lag, about 2 out of 10 servers 
 had lag. I played multi-player for a long time.
  
  This game is worth trying, and playing through, since it'll provide you with a lot of tactical 
 game-play, nice multi-player, and great missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFD
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  This is the best rainbow six by far. It has loads of great things that sum up for a really good 
 game, for a start the cover system works really well and allows you to see the detail put into 
 the characters. Bright lights everywhere
  bring to life the vegas atmosphere. weapons are goods too, they are realistic and there is a large 
 selection of them. There are cool moves to do as well like hanging upside down or sliding down 
 ropes into a bad-guy filled area. sometimes the difficulty can get anoying though, it isn't a that 
 much of a hard game its just the fact you quick save and it dosen't take much to kill your character. But 
 this isn't much of a problem.
  
  Overall i thing this is a great game and well worth you cash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jud666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the old rainbows, it was a lot more tactical than the new games, i loved trying 
 whole missions just from the planning room, it was the great thing about the PC versions, setting 
 up your team, giving them routes and orders, fantastic. The dissapointment in vegas is that its 
 obviously made for the 360 experience, but unlike the older rainbow PC games, nothing was changed 
 in the PC version, the old rainbow i knew and loved was not there anymore, it felt more like counter 
 strike with nice flashy graphics. Granted the game is solid, lots of fun great graphics, it just 
 doesnt have that spark the older games did, the lack of love for the PC version, evidented even 
 more by the poor multiplayer support and maybe 1-4 played servers on the list, brings the score 
 down a lot for me. If they merged all the new features from vegas, with all the best bits from 
 the classics, they would make the perfect rainbow title, i hope the next one will deliver, if there 
 is one!
  
  P. S The normal setting bots all have ninja reactions, by the time they have spotted you, they have 
 already fired 3 rounds and scored 3 hits, i found this very annoying, hardly being able to surprise 
 my enemy at all, another example of the ninja terrorists is the blind firing, its amazing how many 
 times they have hit me in the head blind firing from 200 feet away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luka_38
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  I really hated rainbow six lockdown, black arrow and raven shield.
  I thought This one will be just like the rest , but when i played it at my friends xbox360, i was 
 really amazed that this one doesn't feel or look like the rest at all.
  Amazing graphics, great gameplay and just the fun in hiding behind some wall and shooting the un 
 expecting terrorist.
  I just had to buy it for PC.
  I had some trouble of the black sky in the game but i solved it, and that's the only thing that 
 bodered me.
  The normal difficulty is really too easy, and if you don't whant to get bored of this game play 
 it on realistic.
  For the beginners, there will be a little problem on realisic, but in the few levels they will 
 get the hang of it.
  Sound effects are great, the sound supressor doesn't sound like some cheap 007 movie effect.
 
  Just Logan's redneck accent is anoying.
  Graphics are great but the blur sometimes annoys me, but it gives a somehow flashy feeling.
  
 The easynes of the sqouad member ordering is really good, but sometimes they can be stupid.
  I recomend this game, but if you have Xbox360 buy it on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_vivek
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Tom clancy after ,Double agent took out a turn in releasing Rainbow six las vegas which is a first 
 person shooter and also modern tactical game. The plus point in the game is that u never run out 
 of ammo at any stage even in Realistic mode and another plus point is health which will regenerate 
 overtime. But as in SWAT or Conflict Global storm there aren't much commands to deal with our fellow 
 mates and there is also a lack of storyline ,climax ends abruptly.
  The game has a good AI and wide varieties of gun, there's also another age old lethal weapon Shotgun 
 .Flanking the enemies is just like haunting a mice in the trap (don't u ever get flanked since enemies 
 are not static in their position as in other games they switch places from time to time though 
 not frequently) . The game can played for timepassing and it's one hack of addiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smakkjoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  It is very surprising how a game like this, a great game... could be shunned by Ubisoft itself. 
 The 360 version has a great support but for the PC, it is a near barren wasteland. Very few players 
 online and barely any good patches. Anyways, with the good part... This game has great graphics, 
 gameplay, and storyline (Although very repetitive... Ubisoft has a thing with Mexico?) . You need 
 a very high-end PC to even attempt to play this smoothly... There are so many bugs in this game 
 (PC) that it is very ridiculous. I think this game was ruined by bad support. I would hope Ubisoft 
 eventually helps the PC community as is where Ubisoft started. Until then, we'll have to stick 
 with buggy gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BartSimpson01
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  For those of you who care about the story, you play the role of Logan Keller, leader of a three-man 
 counterterrorist squad. After completing a mission in a dusty Mexican town, you go to Las Vegas 
 to confront a group of terrorists who have basically seized control of the town. Why have the terrorists 
 taken over the casinos? I'm not sure. Is the story compelling? No. Is it nevertheless fun to kill 
 all of the terrorists? More than ever. Rainbow Six: Vegas is similar in many respects to the Splinter 
 Cell series. You are equipped with an assortment of high-tech weapons, you spend time tiptoeing 
 around trying not to attract attention, and you have the ability to execute a number of moves, 
 like inverting to an upside-down position on your belayed rope so you can dispatch enemies using 
 your Desert Eagle with your free hand. there aren't a lot of strategic options beyond flash and 
 clear, smoke and clear, and entering a room from different angles, but the successful execution 
 of a plan is enormously gratifying nonethelessThe guns are fantastic. You'll see many of the same 
 weapons you'd find in Battlefield 2, but here they feel heavier and seem to carry more punch. The 
 popular AK47 is as much fun to shoot as in any other shooter I have played, and you can even customize 
 it with a laser scope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omikron1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok so there's few first person shooters that are gonna have super story lines, and this isn't one 
 of them, its a terrorist plot (i mean come on, its tom clancy) but it is such an brilliant game. 
 I played it on the xbox 360 and the pc and while its not bad on the xbox, it really shines on the 
 pc. I have to say i had some problems with it crashing to desktop now and again, but i think that 
 was just my computer. The Good: Great use of cover, Very easy but effective squad control, Nice 
 weapons, Nice graphics, Generally good AI, Really pulls you in/Atmospheric
  
  The Bad: The odd time the AI can be a little dodgy, lack of a quick save feature
  
  I cannnot 
 put into words how much i loved this game, definitely one of the finest.... deserves more than the 
 8.7 it got (although 8.7 isn't low) and even with it being a port from the xbox it handles really 
 well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_4_Ever_7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  It is incredible I played the Demo on 360 and im sure its the same on computer. I just played the 
 demo and I was very happy with how the game turned out. This game was one of the better FPS ive 
 played. It adds a great effect how the screen blurs while turning your head. and I love how the 
 camera switches to third person while behind cover. The sounds where very realistic and the blood 
 clouds where great. Also controling your team was very easy to do and very helpful. Your teams 
 A. I. was good and so was the enemy. Blind firing was helpful and kept the enemies head down weather 
 you hit him or not. Great game over all I thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  The first real FPS game to get my non-gamer family (my father-in-law, brothers, etc.) into games 
 was the original Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear. Since then, we have been faithful followers of Clancy 
 games as a group, and universally have tried all their offerings. Of course, our favorites are 
 the ones that let us go in cooperatively against the baddies, rescue hostages and do all that good 
 stuff. The original Ghost Recon (PC only at first) was the pinnacle of their games, giving great 
 outdoor, long range combat a new look and feel (no Unreal Tournament sniper rifles or lighning 
 guns) . They followed this closely by Rainbow Six: Raven Shield, which up until now were the games 
 we played.
  
  Clancy's crew stumbled with the terrible port of Rainbow Six: Lockdown, and the buggy GRAW (though 
 now, it is worth playing) , but have finally returned to true form with the Rainbow Six: Vegas release. 
 Some of you may miss the pre-planning stage of the old games, or the more complex management of 
 multiple teams, but I rarely used those anyway, except for extremely difficult room clearing areas 
 or open shooting galleries. Now with this R6: Vegas, you have so much control over your squadmates, 
 that this is made even simpler.
  
  Let me give you the lowdown. In the single player game, you have two additional teammates (maybe 
 3 later on, I haven't gotten that far yet) , and your job is to stop the terrorists, blah blah blah. 
 The point is, I can now sneak up to a room with multiple entries, use a snake cam (ala Sam Fisher 
 in Splinter Cell) and mark targets for my boys to take down. I target another door, tell them to 
 get into position, then command them to breach and clear their selected targets while I breach 
 my entry and take out the rest. It sounds a bit complicated, but is mechanically the smoothest 
 and simplest operation to pull off. You easily point to somewhere and tell your boys to go lay 
 cover fire, then you're free to snipe or run as the terrorists scatter.
  
  Other new gimics that work well are the rapelling, and inverted rapelling (you flip yourself updside 
 down and walk down a wall to have complete view of windows) , weapon switching, smoke grenades (which 
 I never used before) combined with thermal vision - oh it is so sweet! But the best thing, of which 
 I can't believe it took them so long to figure out, is the take cover button. Basically, I back 
 up against a wall, press my right mouse, and the camera pans away as I tighten up against the object 
 for cover. If I'm close enough to the edge of the wall, I can get my crosshairs to point at the 
 baddies down the alley and shoot without revealing myself to danger. It is very inaccurate, but 
 it will make them scatter, and give me a change to poke my head around for a more accurate shot 
 without putting me in danger. Taking cover crouched next to low walls allows me to do the same 
 thing over the top of the obstacle as well. It is so easy to use, though I still miss my lean-left/lean-right 
 ability in first person view, I just can't see playing this kind of game without it now.
  
  I know I'm gushing, but the few hours I've spent with this game have gotten me really excited. 
 The simple inventory and loadout menus can be used in-mission, and take a bit of getting used to, 
 but putting on a silencer for a tight building, then removing it for an outdoor firefight is brilliant 
 (you may know silencers lower the stopping power of your shot, so having the ability to remove 
 it is so brilliantly necessary, but hasn't been done in these games before) . The enemy AI is brutal, 
 and for the most part they don't do dumb things. They use grenades so much more often than they 
 used to, and I got flashbanged at least 10 times in a mission I played last night (of which the 
 effect is so incredible, I didn't know what was happening the first time I got hit with it) . Your 
 companion AI is also brilliant, and they don't leave themselves open to fire unless you're stupid 
 enough to force them into it. One more note, you have two difficulty settings, normal and realistic. 
 Let me say that in normal, you and your guys can take a !@#$load of punishment before you die, 
 unless you round a corner and take a shotgun blast to the face (I've experienced it) . I haven't 
 tried it in realistic mode, since I haven't acutally beaten a terrorist hunt on normal yet, but 
 I'm assuming it goes back to the one shot could kill much easier kind of philosophy. I will be 
 trying it soon, though. I only wish the HUD would give me some indication of my health, for as 
 far as I can tell, my player icon starts blinking when I'm in the danger zone of death, but the 
 icon only appears when I'm crouched. Granted, I got an OEM copy of the game, so I didn't get the 
 manual, and I haven't had time, or the desire to read the online documentation yet - a testament 
 to the simpleness of the game to pick up and play, so I'll have to check it out soon. The one real 
 gripe I have with the game is the inordinate amout of swearing from the english-speaking hostiles 
 (probably from the spanish-speaking ones too, I just don't understand what they're saying) . I would 
 turn down the voice volume to 0 if it weren't so crucial to hearing the terrorists' plans and their 
 locations. At one point in the Calypso Casino, I had eliminated all but three of the baddies, and 
 I could hear one of them, seemingly stuck in an audio loop, saying Sh%t .... f$#k over and over 
 and over again. What's the purpose in that? At least give me a language filter so I can play it 
 when my wife or kids are in the room. The thing is, the sound in this game is soooo good, and important, 
 that you want to play it with your speakers blasting or a really good set of headphones or a headset 
 (using Ventrilo in multiplayer is almost a necessity) . Balancing the foul language thing is a real 
 bite for those who don't care to hear it.
  
  I haven't had a lot of time to play the multiplayer, but I was able to get it running on two of 
 my computers in a LAN game, no CD-key required for LAN, just swap the CD back and forth - great 
 news for the LAN party types. Looks like you have a lot of flexibility for configuring the server 
 matches and there are at least 8 game types I saw, though only two coop modes. In the coop modes, 
 you are only allowed one life, which may be frustrating for some, but adds to the tension, and 
 the importance of strategy and cover fire. I did manage to log on to Ubi. com and got a match running 
 with nary a hitch (didn't have to open any router ports or any such garbage to host my own game) . 
 I played for a few hours with my brother-in-law and noticed little to no lag, and connecting was 
 a breeze. I was able to customize my character's appearance, gear, etc., and keep those settings 
 between missions, too. Everything was made so user friendly!
  
  The only real drawback is the hardware requirements. R6: Vegas only runs with the latest Pixel 
 Shader 3.0 capable cards, meaning GeForce 6x or newer cards and some ATI version (I don't know 
 which, I'm an Nvidia fan) . With that said, on my older Athlon XP 2600, with 2G RAM and a Geforce 
 7600 GTS, it ran quite smoothly at 1024x768, though at 1280x960, it showed some mouse lag. My Core 
 2 Duo with GeForce 8800, I never saw a slowdown, and had all features to their max, though the 
 game doesn't ship with a native widescreen resolution - doh! (I did find a patch that does enable 
 it, though it isn't offiicially supported - it's worth it to run at 1680x1050)
  
  If you have the horsepower to run it, run and pick this game up now. It is a spectacular gaming 
 experience, and for the complexity that it is, it is so simple to pick up and play. I am very pleased 
 to see UbiSoft and Clancy return to the good stuff and do it right on the PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treety
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  First off, I've always been a huge fan of the Tom Clancy games. Got just about every one of them.
 
  The all time classic was rainbow six ravenshield. People still play it online to this day. That's 
 more than can be said for R6Vegas however. In fact, at the moment of writing this review, the main 
 server for logging onto MP has been down for 2 days.
  The small amount of remaining fans have been up in arms on the official ubi forums about it. Some 
 speculate that it could be a patch update. Why are they speculating? Because ubi has made no announcements 
 whatsoever about planned maintenance, update or other. Either they don't even know the servers 
 are down or they don't care.
  
  Since lockdown and GRAW, ubi's support of the PC platform has taken a turn for the worse. I for 
 one, bought GRAW and loved the SP, but was hugely disappointed by the incredibly buggy and unstable 
 MP. But I stayed positive and let it slide. They'll fix the problems. How could they afford not 
 to? is what I thought.
  Boy was I wrong.
  So I bought this new R6Vegas with high hopes. And sure, the SP was superb. Although much lacking 
 in the choice and customisation available in Ravenshield, the gameplay was still immersive and 
 very fun.
  Hugging walls and peeking to make quick bursts at the enemy is all very cool stuff. Graphics are 
 beautiful. Controls are quite intuitive after you get used to it. Enemy AI is very smart, able 
 to outflank and outmaneuver the player in many cases.
  
  Having finished the SP I moved onto the MP hoping for the great experience I had with Ravenshield. 
 Lo and behold. Bug upon bug, crash upon crash. There was no end to problems. In one night, I spend 
 on average 40% of my time waiting for things to load and reload after crashing and 60% actually 
 playing.
  I won't list the bugs because there's too many but here are a few:
  Automatically start firing when you spawn, killing anyone who is unfortunate enough to spawn in 
 front of you.
  Guns sounds sometimes loop continuously so you've got a continuous machine gun racket in your ears 
 until you die.
  Sometimes chat menu stays in front of you when you spawn and won't go away, obscuring your vision 
 for the entire round.
  To name a few.
  
  Don't get me wrong, when I actually do get to play, it's great. Nothing better than a tactical 
 shooter online. But when I pay &pound;25 for a game, I expect to play it with no problems and I 
 sure as hell don't expect to spend 40% of my time restarting the game. And this is with a top of 
 the line PC. C2D, 8800GTX, the works. So it's not for lack of power.
  
  Ok, so maybe they rushed a little to get it to us faster. I can forgive that.
  After release, 
 a good company would take bug reports and suggestions from the customers to put out some patches 
 to fix the problems and improve the gameplay even more. But not ubi, oh no. The last peep heard 
 from ubi staff on the official forums is a vague report saying that they are working on a patch, 
 although they can't say what it'll do or when it'll come out.
  So the forum goers are left wondering just how much they're yanking our chains.
  If you have 
 some problem with your game, you're better off asking people in the forums than sending in a support 
 request. They give you a standard answer and links to some irrelevant solution to a problem you 
 don't have.
  If you don't believe me, after reading all the tonnes of glowing reviews, just go the ubi official 
 forums and see for yourself.
  
  CONCLUSION
  So, in conclusion.
  The SP is great, if you have a great new PC.
  The MP is great, if you ignore all the bugs, don't 
 mind restarting many many times, and if the servers are actually up.
  Ubi support is non existent.
  You're better off borrowing this game off one of your unfortunate 
 friends.
  You'll save yourself money and frustration.
  The trend seems to just keep going down, so I wouldn't expect GRAW2 to be any better. Yet I'll 
 probably still buy it because I'm that naive and hopeful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3kumar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  I was a Rainbow Six fan before it ever arrived on the PC. The Tom Clancy novel was a hit for me. 
 Naturally, I likened towards the games as well. There are a multitude of those who would love to 
 bash this game for its relative lack of strategy, and its departure from the more true-to-form 
 nature of previous games in the series. To be honest, I was quite tempted to join their ranks myself. 
 Then I realized that Vegas truly doesn't pretend to be anything that it's not. Sure, gone are the 
 intricate planning sessions of yore. Vegas doesn't attempt to be a tactical game in the vein of 
 earlier 'Six' games. It's a straight up action-oriented shooter. And what it does, it truly does 
 well.
  
  The visuals in the game are gorgeous. The effects are particularly well done, and the characters 
 are among some of the more realistic in a game. Having said that, I can't honestly say how the 
 game would run on all systems. I have an average processor, (939 AMD Athlon 3500+) , with 2GB, but 
 I recently shelled out for a XFX Geforce 8800GTX XXX edition. It's more than enough for a widescreen 
 monitor with a native resolution of 1440x900. Which brings me to an annoying point. That resolution 
 isn't supported by the game. Overlooking that small quirk, the gameplay in Vegas is great. I wouldn't 
 call myself a die-hard FPS fan, but looking over my titles, that's the predominant genre. And this 
 is one of the more memorable games that I've played. Not the best, but it does what it sets out 
 to do, and it gives you a good time. Hiding behind cover as the camera pans to the third-person 
 is engaging, and the blind-fire mode (which honestly I didn't use very much) is a nice touch. Team 
 AI is not bad - I certainly find it better that Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter - and the commands 
 that you can issue your team are good. In fact, the gameplay is so good that I often find myself 
 sucked into the world of Vegas lights, along with my team, and very, very involved. Another move 
 that I appreciate is a sort of 'skirmish' mode for single player, for those looking to hone their 
 skills or just blast through a level. It adds greatly to the replay value. In my opinion, all this 
 is pretty much what I want from a game. 'Six' combines trophy-wife visuals with intense action 
 sequences and involving gameplay. Beauty and breadth. To a reasonable extent, of course. Honestly, 
 if it ironed out a few minor flaws, it could be one of the best games I've played. For now, though, 
 it remains a memorable title on my shelf - one that I would enthusiastically recommend to anyone 
 - fans of the genre, or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saman2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  its one of the best games for xbox 360 but it certainly one of the hardest ! you'll die probably 
 20 or more times in the game (on normal mode) graphics are awesome sound is perfect, game play is 
 outstanding !
  
  i wonder how the graphics are for the ps3 version!
  
  i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i ii i ii i i ii i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _-GHOST-_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I played the Demo on 360 and im sure its the same on computer. I just played the demo and I was 
 very happy with how the game turned out. This game was one of the better FPS ive played. It adds 
 a great effect how the screen blurs while turning your head. and I love how the camera switches 
 to third person while behind cover. The sounds where very realistic and the blood clouds where 
 great. Also controling your team was very easy to do and very helpful. Your teams A. I. was good 
 and so was the enemy. Blind firing was helpful and kept the enemies head down weather you hit him 
 or not. Great game over all I thought... and I only played it for a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tex_ile
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays graphic cards and software (such as directx) and other equipments have been developed 
 and improved, consequently some perfect games were developed like doom3 and half life series in 
 several years ago, but what do we have here?
  I didn't find anything new or interesting in this game, all parts were the same and boring during 
 the game so that i don't have any motivation to continue and finish it.
  It seems that you never die if you aren't injured seriously, and also your team never die too (an 
 injection will heal them completely) .
  there are lots of problem for instance :
  dead bodes disappear, enemy soldiers are killed by one shoot, bad game engine, red and brown atmosphere 
 and so on.
  The game dose not have save game and profile so only one person can play that on one computer :) .
 
  It is incomparable with some games like half life, doom3 that are released about 3 years ago.
 
  a commercial game?
  If you are looking for a game to waste your time, it will be a good one.
  Don't forget to buy 
 a powerful graphic card (because of bad engine) and CPU as well.
  I have 768 Mb of ram, AMD athlon64 3000+ and a 6600GT graphic card but it is not enough for this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abobo2000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  Although I know my review is rather late for this game, but sorry folks, I live in Japan now, so 
 whatcha' gonna do? As someone who has been playing R6 games, and Tom Clancy games in general, for 
 a good many years, it was a welcome sight to see Rainbow Six finally kicking some serious ass again. 
 After playing Lockdown (and being disappointed) , Vegas seemed to breathe some life back into this 
 franchise.
  Of course, some of the biggest features are the cover systems and guns and whatnot and I found 
 these to be a very good addition to the gameplay and made the firefights seem more action-packed. 
 Also, I do enjoy the grappling system and dropping in on the terrorists, very fun to do... repeatedly.
 
  As opposed to GRAW, which is significantly slower and deliberately paced, Vegas gets you moving 
 quite quickly and constantly. For a breakdown of attributes...
  Graphics: Very good... if you can run them. I must say this games eats up videocards like crazy. 
 I have a 256 nvidia (of course this game is designed for ATI) and I had a hell of a time running 
 above 1024... in fact I can't. But even at that, my 800x600 with moderate shadows, detail, etc... looks 
 gorgeous. In addition, I have a laptop, so of course UBI's official stance is Laptop cards MAY 
 (emphasis added) work but are not supported ... what a load of unko (if you know this in Japanese...)
 
  
  Sounds: Solid and lifelike. The script is also well-written I must say. In various situations I 
 would probably say F*** or S*** and not darn it so it seems very real. The guns are also loud and 
 got a good 'pop' to them. However, I ran into some problems every so often and needed a quick restart 
 or so. Nothing bad or worth noting further though.
  
  Value: Not the greatest, but I must say, I like the ending of the game and hope to see more of 
 it in the future.
  On a side note, I must say that there are some serious server issues and how this game handles 
 online play. As I said, I am overseas and this game doesn't like my internet service or so it seems 
 and seems to block me from joining games. I'd also note that this is not exclusive to Vegas as 
 it has happened on a hand full of games. This deflates the value somewhat in my opinion and doesn't 
 let me 'get the most' of the Vegas experience.
  
  So that about does it... written enough for today. This is very good... excellent even, but not quite 
 'epic.' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  After the series was ruined with the 4th game and Ubi making games on the console and porting to 
 PC i was worried this game would turn out crap for PC. However it's a pretty good port, some things 
 missing that i'd excpect for PC, mainly customization but overall good.
  
  The single player has some great gameplay mechanics added in and MUCH MUCH better than the previous 
 Rainbow six games. However it's not at a standard of games like HL etc etc. The story isn't all 
 that great it's the same as you've seen before and it is split over aload of random levels rather 
 than a streamlined world i'd prefer. However The mechanics added to the series just make it very 
 fun. I have to say though the AI is complete crap and i would expect better from next gen games. 
 It is still missing the whole pre planning thing before the mission though, however it's still 
 better than before.
  
  The Multiplayer however lacks maps and alot of features and really just lacks a good mod community 
 supporting it. Seems like all the Rainbow six Veterans are still sticking with Raven Shield and 
 rightly so because it just suits multiplayer soo much better and a more copetitive game. Similar 
 to how CS 1.6 players look at CSS players.
  
  The graphics are fantastic and it needs quite a beefy machine... however i run it on max with lots 
 of tweaking on my system. I do have one complaint and thats the textures can look flat and not 
 very nice at all. Compared to Gears of War which all looks perfect i'm pretty disappointed.
  
  The sounds are standard Rainbow seix here and are all good.
  
  The value isn't all that 
 good too because the multiplayer isn't as good as the 3rd. However if you enjoy it then it probally 
 is worth the price tag.
  
  Overall the Single player is subpar to other FPS games but it's still very good and a step up for 
 the Rainbow six series. It's very fun and a few new gameplay mechanics just make it enjoyable. 
 The multiplayer is down to personal preference, if you played Raven Shield then you'd probally 
 prefer it but it not then ignorance is bliss and it brings up the value.
  
  The greatest thing is the game really draws you into the game because of the graphics and you really 
 feel there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick225
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great game, but to fully enjoy it, you'll need a pretty good PC. The game 
 requires SM3.0, so if your GPU only has SM2.0, you'll need to upgrade first. It's a very demanding 
 game, and you'll probably want a high end AMD Athlon XP/P4 or a dual core to play it, and at least 
 1GB of RAM. To play it on the highest settings, you need to have a high end ATI or Nvidia video 
 card. To make it even worse, there isn't a demo, so you can't test it first to see how well it 
 runs. Also, there is speculation that Ubi has dropped support for the game. : (
  
  But, if you can get past of all that, R6: Vegas is a great game. The best part of the game is the 
 environment. I mean, what's cooler than shooting stuff up in Las Vegas?? The whole area is modeled 
 after the real Vegas, down to a level modeled after the real-life Stratosphere, the 3rd tallest 
 building in the US. In the casinos, most of the objects take damage realistically, adding to the 
 immersion.
  
  There are plenty of different guns to choose; from a P-90 to a PSG-1 to a riot shield. You can 
 also pick up guns from fallen enemies, which is good; otherwise, you would run out of ammo in several 
 of the levels.
  
  The AI is really good, and your teammates and the opfor will take cover, and fire blindly around 
 corners and over short walls. That brings me to another point, in Rainbow Six, they have introduced 
 a new system for cover. You can now take cover behind pratically everything that you can fit behind, 
 and then you can blindly fire over it or around the corner, which works good for supressing enemies.
 
  
  Rainbow Six also features terrorist hunt mode where you have to kill all of the enemies in 10 maps 
 that are the slightly altered versions of the single player levels.
  
  The multiplayer mode is pretty good. You can create your own person, and equip him/her with a good 
 selection of armor and clothing. Their are a good amount of gamemodes including TDM and Coop.
 
  the only problem with multiplayer is a lack of people playing, and lack of in-game mic support, 
 so you'll have to use ventrilo or TS.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a very good game, and features a bunch of new things that differentiate it 
 from it's predecessors. Even if you can only run the game on the lowest settings, like me, it's 
 worth picking up if you like squad-based shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddlock907
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Before we go into detail: if you like tactical shooters and the general genre of special forces 
 games you can't go wrong on this one.
  
  Story:
  The story is not too deep, but works well enough to keep you going along and wanting to know what 
 will happen next. The characters are interesting, a little stereotypical, but nonetheless manage 
 to create a feeling of guilt if one of your mates is downed. Basically terrorists attack Las Vegas 
 (surprise!) and you and your crack team are deployed to stop them. There are portions of the game 
 taking place in other places like a mexican border town, the streets of Las Vegas, but mostly you 
 are underway in casinos. The finale is set somewhere different, but I won't spoil anything at this 
 point.
  
  Atmosphere:
  The atmosphere is great, with your teammates acknowledging your orders, terrorists screaming and 
 talking to each other, background sounds in the casinos and surroundings. Your orders are carried 
 out swiftly and with an excellent teammate AI that lets your squads members move to cover, fire 
 at terrorists and give status reports on their own you really feel like part of an elite crack 
 team. The terrorists are also far more than cannon fodder, they also move to cover, flank you, 
 open doors, climb ladders to elevated positions, suppress fire and also throw grenades to kill 
 you (frags) or blind you (flashbang) .
  The game is not a hardcore tactical simulation as the first Rainbow Six parts were, but is a very 
 healthy mix of tactical game and action shooter. Sometimes the game feels a lot like an action 
 movie, but a very good one at that. Scripted sequences let ferocious firefights erupt around you 
 and force you to re-develop your tactics on the go, rather than simply planning out the strategy 
 at the beginning and following thorugh to the end. This adds a lot of atmosphere as you really 
 feel like being pitched into the mayhem and chaos of a terrorist attack without the possibility 
 to plan ahead and be prepared for each and every opposing threat. This has to be one of the greatest 
 bonuses - that you never really know what will happen once you have scanned a room and targeted 
 tangos (enemies in RB6 slang) and entered - half a dozen enemies could rappel from the ceiling, 
 come crashing through a door or start chucking grenades at you.
  This might sound chaotic or unfair, however it is simply realistic and very believable - and quite 
 simply put - challenging.
  In my opinion this is something some people might not like, not being able to plan ahead for everything, 
 however I myself enjoyed this greatly as it forces you to rethink and reassess the situation every 
 few minutes.
  Checkpoint saves are scattered well spaced and give you a fair chance of completing even the hardest 
 tasks easily.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are excellent using the newest unreal engine, perfectly displaying a realistic urban 
 battlefield. Bullet holes, particle effects, realistic object physics, realistic smole effects, 
 lens flares, etc all add to the superb experience this game is.
  
  Sound:
  As mentioned above, the comm chatter, gun sounds, casino noises and everything in this game sounds 
 awesome. Your comrades sound a little to gung-ho, but mostly keep it to professional short informations 
 and acknowledgements. The terrorists scream taunts, talk like your typical evil guy, but never 
 really drifting off into stupidity. Overall the sound is very good and you will enjoy listening 
 in on terrorists via snake cam and the mighty sound of machine guns bellowing.
  
  Special:
  What I would like to mention is the excellent control scheme, that gives you full control, 
 but is still easily manageable with a few buttons.
  Your main button for interactions will be the space bar, context sensitively reacting to different 
 objects (door - open, snake cam, open and clear options, cover - team moves to cover, ...) and 
 you will be amazed at how easy it will be to effectively direct your team through the game.
  The second noteworthy thing about the controls is that when pressing and holding the right mouse 
 button you will clinch to a wall and use it as cover which will be invaluable for your survival.
 
  
  Overall:
  After a rather lengthy review I will be brief on the sum up. If you like tactical action games 
 and elite team genre games you will get nothing better than this. The missions are various, are 
 interwoven seamlessly and keep you on your toes all the time.
  You will be challenged, even if you are an experienced gamer and this will mean great satisfaction 
 when having cleaned out a room or completed a mission on time. This satisfaction is enlarged even 
 more if you enter a room, take out the preassigned targets and thinking of moving on, suddenly 
 spot enemies rappeling down from the ceiling, call back your team, cover their retreat, get into 
 a better firing position and repel the enemy attack, and move on to the next section of the area. 
 Overall a great and challenging game, which leaves me nothing more to add, but: Enter and clear! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSGunnerDude
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  If you like Tom Clancy games you will probably like this one. I'm not a fan myself. New shooters 
 have been slow in coming out so I bought this used on Ebay. You need a really great machine to 
 run this and it's an xbox port so it's lacking in high end PC kind of graphics with antialaising.
 
  
  The gameplay is repetitive. Stack team at the door, bust in kill enemies in room... repeat. The 
 gun mechanics are like Battlefield 2 style shooter with a nifty, but fairly useless duck and cover 
 move.
  
  I could name many shooters that deserved higher scores than this one, like Doom 3 is under-rated 
 in my opinion.
  
  If your a big fan of Tom Clancy games you'll like it. If not, you probably could skip this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtylarrygb
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Once you play RB6: V no other FPS feels the same ever again, the ability to stick to cover then 
 pop up/out/around and shoot people, is the one thing the genre, has been missing since DOOM.
  
  No using stupid Q and E lean commands, just use the right mouse to stick to cover, then hold 
 it down and depending on how far you move the mouse, you just pivot out of cover. While doing this, 
 you switch to 3rd person view automatically, so you can see who's shooting you from were, then 
 you can pop out and nail them. Bookshelves/cars/walls/oil drums etc, just about everything can 
 be used as cover!
  
  I'm sure every other FPS from this point on will feature this duck and cover style. Gears of War 
 also makes big use of D&amp; C. HL3, Crysis will probably follow suit.
  
  Thumb's up on the single player level design, it's superb, some of the levels (Opera House, Dante's 
 Casino etc) are simply stunning and as a real action based shooter RB6: V has some amazing firefights 
 that you will want to play again and again.
  
  The sounds great as well. Gunfire sounds like a Hollywood movie.
  
  The thermal Vision view 
 and Nightsights are spectacular and are actually useful not just there as a gimick. There are so 
 many guns to choose from, and you can even use any gun a dead enemy drops, which realistically 
 unlike so many FPS games allow you to use the gun the dead guy was shooting you with. So if a nasty 
 terrorist is shooting you with a beefy machine gun, once you nail him, you can grab the same machine 
 gun and use it on his mates.
  
  Commading your team mates is very easy, you look at were you want them to go and click and a very 
 simple commadn system is used to make them storm a door or switch between assault mode or stealth 
 mode. Unlike many other team based shooters your squad mates hardley ever get in your line of fire, 
 which makes them an asset not a pain in the butt.
  
  Health is covered by the now infamous King Kong / Call of Duty no health bar, but you vision breathing 
 changes when injured, just hide for a fews seconds don't get shot again and your back to normal.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Single player mission will take only 5-10 hours to complete even on hard mode. The ending is a 
 bit rubbish. Multiplayer has very limited selection of maps, and most of the maps arn't the best 
 best bits from the single player game for some very strange reason!
  
  At this point with better multiplayer, RB6:6 should have been challeging BF2 and Counterstrike 
 in FPS combat PC gaming. It isn't, as the multiplayer levels are just dull, the in-game find a 
 server browser makes BF2's look good. There's no VOIP built in. Most games suffer lag, and its 
 very buggy. Often the game will bluescreen even at patch 1.04.
  
  UBI don't even appear to host any servers for the game themselves!
  
  The best bits of multiplayer 
 is doing co-op missions which allows you to re-play the game with friends online. The rest of multi 
 player is a CS clone with lastman/team standing, deathmatch and escort hostages, steal the document 
 type missions.
  
  Although the PC version should look twice as good on a high end PC over the x360 version, it's 
 doesn't, there is no widescreen monitor support (which is also odd as the xbox 360 version has 
 got 16:9 support) . Textures are limited to 256 Meg's which is odd as 512 meg cards have been around 
 for over 12 months now. Framerates vary depending on level, and unless you have a very high end 
 PC your best playing this on the X360.
  
  The UGLY:
  
  No 8800 support, Anti-Alias and Texture Transparency does not work properly on the 8800 GPU's. 
 UBI have stated on their forums that they don't support the 8800's for RB6: V. Many 8800 GTS's can't 
 even run the game.
  
  RB6: V on the PC uses the unreal engine, there is a known bug with the Unreal engine and current 
 8800 drivers. But UBI have made no effort to fix it. If you have a 7800 to 7950 it should be ok.
 
  
  UBI have also not confirmed they are going to offer any further support on this game, Only a few 
 months after it release.
  
  No SLI support. In fact this is another game were SLI can slow the game down.
  
  RB6: V also 
 has problems on many machines that have either a dual AMD 64 CPU or Intel Duo/QUAD CPU. The game 
 is really single core only!
  
  Of course if a warning sticker was on the box saying, note: dual core owners, SLI owners, 8800 owners 
 this game MAY NOT run on your machine, all would be forgiven. But as UBI's own support forums show 
 this isn't the case and many people have purchased this game to find out it runs like a dog or 
 not at all on even very high end gaming PC's.
  
  i was warned by the guy in the games shop I might have issues with the game.
  
  So with a bug 
 list as long as World of Warcraft ever had. I would recommend the PC version, as a budget or second 
 hand buy. Full price it's a rip off, budget its a great way of wasting a few days if you have a 
 single core PC and a 6 series or 7 series Nvidia card or ATI equiviliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: companyofheroes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best in the series, graphics are great, multiplayer is totally awesome. You 
 can fully customize your player's look. And for the Xbox 360 you can use your face for the character 
 you play as in multiplayer, just use the snapshot camera. Great Game period. Go out and get it. 
 Its a great game with even better graphics. The only thing to lose is 50 dollars.! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Number #1 
 da bomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I hate what Ubisoft has done to the Rainbow Six franchise. Here we are with yet another console 
 port with yet another obtrusive console interface ( LOW AMMO!! , RELOAD!! ) . Big buttons. There 
 is also no mouse wheel on the X360 controller, so you can forget about that. Your formerly 9 man 
 strong team (Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear) is now reduced to just 3 and you're typically outnumbered 
 30+ to 1 in the levels. The whole concept defies common sense. What's more: you're equiped with 
 a magic syringe of greater healing +5, to make up for all of that. Lost your lunch yet?
  
  With all that said, Vegas is not a bad game at all, really. You and your teammates are wonderfully 
 animated, and although the cover system is rather cheesy in that it lets you line up head shots 
 from behind cover, it does work very smoothly and it looks really neat. It's a shame they didn't 
 manage to tell the story any better though. The entire story-telling mechanism has been copied 
 from GRAW; you get your information via video feeds while on a helicopter between missions, and 
 during them. However, there is much less of this background story than in GRAW and things are told 
 so quickly you're likely to miss quite a bit. There is practically no introduction either, before 
 you know it you're thrown out of the helicopter and people start shooting at you....
  
  At 1024x768, everything at low, HDR on, game was running and looking OK. System: Athlon XP3200+, 
 1Gb RAM, 6800GS AGP@400/1100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastcoastskater
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is plagued with problems, simply put.
  
  First of all, when I first purchased the game I was running an x850Pro, which of course didn't 
 work due to the Shader 3.0... so I eventually overhauled my liquid cooled computer to a Conroe 6600, 
 7950Pro (overclocked) , and 2 gigs of RAM. I reinstalled the game, and it still looked like crap, 
 because the game doesn't support widescreen... which is redicilous to say the least. The brightness 
 is something that this game never even comes close to getting right, it's either too bright and 
 everything looks whitewashed or one notch below that it's pitch black. This game would be good 
 on the 360, but I noticed that it bogged down even on that... I don't understand this game at all. 
 Rainbow Six 3 still looks better and that game is over 3 years old.
  
  You would think that at least one of the four patches made available at this point would correct 
 these problems, but apparently Ubisoft had other issues to correct.
  
  I was a fan of the Tom Clancy series, but this game has totally ruined the reputation. I'm angry 
 that I wasted my money on a game that has long-since passed its prime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revert979
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  I've played every Rainbow Six game (on the PC) and expansion pack since the original came out back 
 in '98 except for Lockdown, so as much as it pains me to say, this newest installment, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas, is a really great game. But it's not a Rainbow Six game.
  
  Rainbow Six has always been about realism (at least as real as a video game can be) , and Vegas 
 feels more like a Michael Bay film than a realistic sim of tactical combat.
  
  The one shot, one kill element has been tweaked to be more laid back. Enemies can now take a few 
 bullets before dying. Yes, one bullet to the head will send them down, but not to the chest. Arguably, 
 this could be because they're wearing body armor, and that would be understandable that I may not 
 kill an enemy by putting a round or two into their vest, but I would certainly incapacitate them. 
 They wouldn't still be running around, firing away as if nothing had happened.
  
  Bodies now disappear with time. That's a first for a Rainbow game, except maybe for Lockdown, but 
 I didn't play that one. Their weapons will also disappear. And now you can also pick up your enemies 
 weapons as well, which is something you could not do in previous Rainbow games, which from what 
 I have read, remained faithful to real life special ops. A commando would never pick up a foreign 
 weapon that was not his. A faulty weapon could kill you.
  
  Scripted events. Wait, what? Scripted events? In a Rainbow Six game? Yup, that's what I said. The 
 game has a number of moments where you trigger something and terrorists will come bashing in through 
 a door or smashing through the glass ceiling and rappelling down. Predictable, cliche game stuff 
 that takes you out of the whole experience. At least it did for me.
  
  Shooting upside down while rappelling. Are you kidding me? Although I don't know for sure I can't 
 imagine this would be very tactical in real life. Again, this is the kind of stuff you see in the 
 movies, not in real life.
  
  Then there's the whole cover and shoot mechanic. You hide behind cover, the camera pulls back to 
 a 3rd person view so you can see everything around you, you wait for your enemies to show themselves 
 or for the hail of gunfire to let up, then pop out and shoot. This whole mechanic to me is a less 
 practical way of leaning, and less realistic. In order to get the right viewing angle around some 
 corner, you need to be right up on it's edge, but a lot of times gunfire can still hit you, so 
 you have to move in a bit more to stay under cover. But because you've moved in you now can't pop 
 out from around the corner to shoot an enemy, effectively making the whole cover and shoot mechanic 
 pointless in some situations. Furthermore, the whole mechanic isn't very realistic. You can't see 
 around the corner of a wall unless you physically look around the corner. In real life you'd have 
 to poke your head around the wall to see what's going on and thus you'd be risking getting your 
 head blown off. In my opinion, the lean was the most realistic, and efficient way of replicating 
 this. You could move up to a corner and lean out to see what you need to see, or angle yourself 
 in such a way that when you peak you only see the enemy you want to see, as opposed to just throwing 
 your body out there and being vulnerable to everyone.
  
  The level design is also way more linear than in previous Rainbow games (except for Lockdown) . 
 It's basically get from point A to point B. However, a lot of times you come across rooms with 
 multiple entry points that you have to breach, and that's where the game really shines. Being able 
 to recon a room, tag enemies, and then set up multiple entry points is definitely the games most 
 appealing aspect.
  
  One last thing I'd like to say that really bothered me was the Terrorist Hunt. I don't know why 
 but you can't take in your team into Terrorist Hunt. Plus, somehow the enemies in the levels seem 
 to magically know where you are and will round the corner, guns blazing before you even know they're 
 there (although this is not the case for the single player campaign) . Which pretty much takes away 
 the games most appealing aspect I just mentioned.
  
  I know it seems like I'm being more negative than positive so don't get me wrong. I don't mean 
 to say there's no room in the world for a game like this. On the contrary, this game was awesome, 
 and although a lot of the elements may be unrealistic, they sure are fun. I really had a good time 
 playing through this game. It just saddens my heart though that there is no room for realistic, 
 tactical sim games like Raven Shield (the series' peak in my opinion) and all the other previous 
 Rainbow Six games. Because since Raven Shield there hasn't been one real tactical FPS, with the 
 exception of maybe SWAT 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarFiend
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  I do agree with some reviews as the system requirements are way to demanding, tho it does come 
 with a requirement tool that checks your computer for the specs, I could run the game perfectly 
 but it was the 3.0 ghz processor that was letting me down, i have a duel core and that doent support 
 it.
  
  I found that when playing old tactical shooters that there are too many controls and actions for 
 all the items and contrling your team, with vegas its very simple, and once you have the hang of 
 it, speed becomes important
  
  get a high performance PC
  
  get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saftar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  After Rainbow Six Lockdown i was really expecting some great inprovments in the rainbow six seris., 
 and im happy to say that i got what i wanted. Rainbow Six Vegas is an exelent game. Still lacking 
 in the multiplayer but it isn't as bad as lock down was. The single player on the other hand is 
 great. it is a perfect balance of a tactical shooter and arcadey shooter. I've only played throught 
 the realistic setting (the harder one) and you will find yourself reloading from checkpoints a 
 fair bit, because on the realistic setting the game is really realistic. Vegas's weaponry seems 
 a lot more balanced then the weapons in lockdown did. The SMG's are a much better than they were 
 in lockdown. Overall Vegas has blown any Rainbow Six out of the water. Vegas has combined the tactical 
 ideas of the early rainbow six and the arcadey feel of lock down, to make a kick ass game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeTHaL1029
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  If you want a good action game you really have to buy this one. It plays good and it looks good. 
 Shooting around corners is really cool and especially if you shoot around a corner without watching 
 . When u have a shotgun and shoot someone around the corners in his head it will really give u 
 a good feeling. Being in the huge firefights is really cool. There isnt much bad about the game.. 
 The only thing that really annoyes me is that there arent much checkpoints sometimes so you have 
 to play long parts again if u screw it up. But flanking and pwning 3 terrorists makes that right 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas puts you in the perspective of Logan Keller, the new leader of the 
 Rainbow team. He's leading the Rainbow team in an operation in Mexico when all of a sudden a terrible 
 situation pops up at Las Vegas, Nevada. With the government asking the help of Rainbow, Keller 
 and his squad travel to Las Vegas saving hostages and taking out tangos. What they don't know is 
 that these events are just a set-up to something big that is going to happen soon...
  
  First of all, let's start with the graphics. They definitely look good (this game runs on the Unreal 
 3 engine) but they come at a hefty price. You've got to have a beast of a rig to run it well since 
 it's a direct port of the X360 version and clearly it wasn't optimized. Right now my 6600GT is 
 showing signs of its age and it chugs on several sections but overall it's still playable and I'm 
 enjoying it.
  
  Sound is a major thing in helping a player immerse himself in a game. R6 Vegas packs a lot of punch 
 in this department. All weapons sound different when suppressed or not, and the ambient sounds 
 are great ranging from the loud explosion of your frag grenade and the voices of the talking terrorists 
 in the next room. It feels like you're really in Logan Keller's shoes. Ubi did a good job in this 
 department.
  
  Gameplay is solid. I love the way the cover system is implemented. You click the right mouse button 
 when facing a wall and your guy puts his back on the wall. You can peek around corners and fire 
 at enemies, blind fire when you need suppressing fire and can't risk exposing a body part. You 
 can pretty much take cover at almost everything in the game, just be sure you're not leaning on 
 a wooden or a glass well or else you're toast. A gripe that I have in it is that it removes from 
 the immersion since it jumps into 3rd person whenever you use it. A. I is good, but it's not as 
 good as I hoped it would be. They use different tactics ranging from using cover like you, flushing 
 you out and flanking you. The only thing is, they're not as mobile as I wanted them to be. Sometimes 
 they'll just stay at one spot and you could easily outflank and outmaneuver them. Compared to the 
 A. I in F. E. A. R, these guys are almost up there, but not quite. Also issuing commands is a breeze, 
 you just have to press spacebar. Your teammates' A. I is not stupid and you don't have to babysit 
 them as often as you did when you played GRAW.
  
  I recommend picking up this game IF you've got a good machine (AMD A64 or Intel Core/Core 2 Duo, 
 6800 or better, 1 GB RAM) since framerates could get unstable from time to time. Otherwise, if 
 you've got a low end machine, you might want to consider other games instead of this as you would 
 not be satisfied. It's not really worth $50 right now, I recommend getting it when its price goes 
 down to somewhere between $20-40. I'd give an 8.7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse1989
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  This game is so great there is nothing wrong about that , but will talk now about what is good 
 and bad and i'm going to talk about graphics , sounds and gameplay .
  ------------------------------------
  Graphics : amazing graphics with highly detailed shaders 
 and great motion blur and HDR with good shadows , those features will give you a great game to 
 look at .
  
  Sounds : Great sound with great surround sounds will make turn your head around beacuse you heard 
 someone shoting at you from behind .
  
  Gameplay : Perfect gameplay of singleplayer and multiplayer which its similar to gears of wars.
 
  
  ----------------------------------
  The bad : is how you will need a great PC to run it with great performance
  The Good : Great 
 Graphics , Sounds and Amazing Gears Of Wars Similar Gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Two words to describe this game? Simply amazing. This game is one of the first interresting shooters 
 in a long long time. I think one of the most enjoyable parts of the game is actualy it's realism. 
 I am not talking about graphics or some looking flashy. It's the entire gameplay. You need to consider 
 what you are doing unlike for example Unreal tournament where you run in and start shooting everything 
 that moves. This game makes you look into the situation then act accordingly, should you fail to 
 do this you probarly die. Yet this games offers plenty for the real action hungry players. The 
 controls really feel natural right away when you start playing and are really simple. I kinda started 
 missing that ever since every single shooter seems to be released for console's as well. I kinda 
 started getting the feeling that nearly every game was becomming a raw console conversion. You 
 get a swift action packed tutorial of the game that lasts about 30 mins and if you pay attention 
 you know about 90 % you need to know the rest comes naturaly. Really enjoyable about this game 
 is that you can control your characters so smoothly taking cover behind objects/walls etc. For 
 example if I take cover behind a barrel I can lean left and right or go stand to shoot really fast 
 by pressing either left right or forward. By releasing these buttons the character quickly goes 
 back to cover. The AI of the opponents are well done but not as good as the rest of the game. Altough 
 it is a lot better then the average shooter ofcourse. Altough this statement is kinda disputable 
 cause maybe if they fixed it the game would be to darn difficult to play. This game comes with 
 2 singleplayer modes story and terrorist hunt. I dont have to tell you anything about the story 
 it would just spoil everything and it isn't really a very good story anyways. Terrorist hunt are 
 multiplayer maps where you have to kill a lot of opponents! This mode depending on the map is quite 
 challenging but if you wish to pollish your skills for multiplayer it is a real must! Multiplayer 
 comes with a lot of different modes wich we all know but the most remarkable is the CO-OP function. 
 Works very smoothly and is very fun to play with your friends! I really think this game is worth 
 it's money unlike a lot of games I bought the last few months. Altough I must warn you it is a 
 very demanding game when it comes to computer hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macpop
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  this game is truly amazing, dont be scared by its graphics needs, i ran it fine with my 7600gs 
 so if u have higher ur good to go. i love this game engine, there is no game where u can nade and 
 hide behind a wall and pwn incomin enemys. it just makes me want to go up and run and gun but this 
 game is not about that and all about strategy. so if ur lookin for a run and gun game this game 
 might not be for u but its still a nicely done game. the game is buggy tho but with the latest 
 patches everything is almost fixed. i get fps drops when gooing into new areas but its koo with 
 me. so if ur lookin for a gears feelin game for pc then get this game ull love ti. as a i said 
 before dont be scared because of its graphics needs since u can always lower the graphics and play 
 for longer, overall good game and a good start for the new unreal engine 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasra_showan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  man to omram bazi be in ghashangi bazi nakardehbodam
  harf nadareh
  kheli hal mideh man dar roz ageh 4 sate bishtar bazi nakonam aslan rozam rooz nist
  ba bache 
 ha mikhaim berim gameh net va koli bazi konim
  man ta hala 3 bar bazi kardam
  va ta akhareshbazi kardam
  ghesmateh terorist huanteshharf nadareh
  kheli bahaleh
  kholaseh 
 pishnahad mikonam berin bekharin va hatman bazi konid
  az dasteton mireh
  om ram, om-ram, omr am, omr-am, imam, Miriam, Abram, Avram, Mariam, Myriam, Moran, Mora, Omar, 
 Oman, Oran, overarm, pram, Amara, Emera, Omero, Ora, RAM, Ram, moray, ram, moral, amoral, Orran, 
 Abramo, Bram, Gram, cram, dram, gram, okra, oral, tram, Miran, Mirzam, arum, Ingram, Irma, Mira, 
 Moria, Byram, Hiram, Imbrium, Occam, Oprah, imams, Iran, Merriam, Priam, arm, aroma, ashram, immoral, 
 mom, momma, okras, omega, omen, scram 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdcw9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  A hard decision to make... The game is amazing, no doubt about it, but there are a few things that 
 disappointed me. First and for most. The glitches, the endless crashing. Its a console to pc port, 
 we all know that, but not enough time was taken to get rid of all the glitches present in this 
 game. Its so frustrating to suddenly get into a good server, and then find an error message pop 
 up. This only happens rarely though, but has the ability to occur during the worst possible times. 
 The graphics are good to say the least, but i couldnt help noticing that they were some what familiar 
 to GOW (Gears of War) . GOW is now famous for its strange grey scale colour use, but Vegas seems 
 to have followed the same technique, but used orange instead. Perhaps they tried to make a light 
 pollution effect. But ive been to Vegas, and the lights are spectacular, but the sky is not filled 
 with pathetic orange. The weaponry was also a disappointment. You could definitely see the xbox 
 360's limits in this game. The poor detail on handguns and other types of weaponry. And the sniper 
 rifles... awww dont let me go there. But putting aside graphical content, game play is amazing, 
 and the customizable character is a great feature, as well as customizable weaponry, another good 
 bonus. Its great for multiplayer gaming, and the single player campaign is really immersive. I 
 for one cannot stop playing this game, but it really could do with some improvements... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Before i start i would like to say that people were not kidding when they say it's a very demanding 
 game in terms of pc spec's. I tried playing it on a amd64 3500+, 1gig 3200 ram and a 6800gt, the 
 best i was getting from the game was an average of 22fps on all the lowest settings including the 
 res at 800x600 the game was basically unplayable so i put it to bed.
  
  I just upgraded the pc to a duo core 2 E6600, 2 gig and a 7900gs extreme, and thought what the 
 hell i will give it another go and to my surprise it played rather well contrary to other people 
 with better systems saying it runs terrible on better system's which leads me to think their pc 
 may be badly optimised.
  
  The game itself is as a lot of people has said is not exactly a tactical shooter like swat 4 for 
 instance and previous rainbow 6 games but more like GRAW. That said if you take it for what it 
 is you will find it a very enjoyable game. The graphics look good and run well providing you a 
 decent rig, i have seen none of the bug's and lock up's other people have reported though i have 
 not played it online yet.
  
  It's not very tactical but one of the best games i have played in a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Superb game. It offers nothing new in terms of gameplay but who cares when you can blow the crap 
 out a virtual Vegas. It looks fantastic and luckily I have a rig big enough to handle it.... just. 
 The casino interiors especially are a work of art. Certainly the best interiors in any game so 
 far.
  
  The game isn't all in Vegas though. The first chapter is in Mexico and it plays very similar to 
 Advanced Warfighter and the last chapter takes place at the Hoover damn.
  
  The best feature in this game is the wall hug which works brilliantly. You can now toss a granade 
 into a room without being exposed and with great accuracy. Finally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  I don't have an amazing PC but this game is still enjoyable. It runs pretty smooth despite my old 
 alienware and plays nicely. Single player is alright, but the real joy of playing Vegas is the 
 online play. Ranking up and aquiring new weapons and armor is motivating and the ability to form 
 your own clan in game is also very convenient. Sometimes the physics is a little wacky but all 
 around this game is worth it. The feeling of pulling a raging bull and instantly head shotting 
 someone from about 30 feet away is an amazing feeling. All in all it has nice controls, graphics, 
 plenty of guns and armor to choose, and camo. Customizing your player for combat is awesome and 
 varied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mismajor99
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series is unfortunately drastically different then it used be, as many of you know. 
 The game has some tactical aspects but it's much more inline with Star Wars Republic Commando, 
 as far as squad orders are concerned. The old days of what Rainbow Six was seem lost and forgotten, 
 but not by the community that is still vocal. As far as a shooter goes, it's a pretty good game. 
 The story keeps you moving along in a nice pace and the cover system is quite nice. I like the 
 first person aspect, and when you go into cover it brings you out to third person view in order 
 to get a better look around the corners. The weapons are nice but I would have liked to see a little 
 more choices and variety. Although, I must mention that the single player is fairly short. The 
 Multiplayer is nothing to write home about and is average at best, but when compared to CounterStrike 
 it doesn't have a leg to stand on. I would recommend this game for it's single player, and at 30 
 to 40 dollars it's not a bad deal. The Graphics are very nice and the sound is more than acceptable. 
 The game comes with a Haze effect that can be enabled, but I would recommend turning it down, as 
 it's a bit too much. I also must note that it is quite obvious this game was developed for a console, 
 but it is tolerable and should satisfy your shooter needs. Overall, I would recommend this game 
 to all shooter fans, but don't expect a true tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  *---General Info ---*
  
  In Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas, you play as the leader of a special tactical 3-man team and 
 the game requires you to execute a lot of these stealthy and... special forces moves. In general, 
 you, along with two new teammates, have to find and rescue your two previous teammates that were 
 captured during your first mission, and as you progress in the game, you will only reveal a lot 
 more. [You can read more about the storyline in the main review page]
  
  *---Player's Tilt 9/10 ---*
  
  Comparing to its predecessors in the Rainbow Six series, this 
 is perhaps the most detailed with smarter, meaner AIs. After playing side-by-side with the AIs 
 in this game, teammates or enemies, you would be very frustrated with those that were in Raven 
 Shield or Lockdown.
  
  *---Gameplay 9/10 ---*
  
  The game offers Online, LAN, and Single player modes that do not disappoint. The single player 
 mode does not only contain the campaign missions but also a terrorist hunt mode in which you have 
 to go around the map killing a certain number of enemies without dying. And as mentioned, the AI 
 teammate's cooperation throughout the storymode is as helpful as it necessary to ease many situations.
 
  
  *---Graphics 9/10 ---*
  
  This game is pretty demanding in terms of the graphics, although the motion blur option is pretty 
 nice during the game it seems a little unnecessary in this game... If you have a mid-to-high end 
 machine with about 1GB of RAM you should be able to play this. The lighting, on the other hand, 
 makes the game a lot more realistic than Lockdown, even if the character and world-build are about 
 the same. May lag during various times but this is very minimal.
  
  *---Sound 10/10 ---*
  
  All of the guns sound real and you don't hear the Mexicans at the beginning of the game speak 
 crummy English, which adds to the authenticity of the game. You can also hear yourself giving commands 
 to the team, rather than the classic point and go. 
  
  *---Value .../10 ---*
  
  Do I think it's a great game? I certainly do. But I really don't think it's worth the 50 bucks. 
 Let the prices lower in a couple months or so and $40ish is about right. WoW does not even cost 
 $50 anymore and you can play that for ever and ever... but Vegas only lasts you about a week or 
 so for the first run (with the Terrorist Hunt missions) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggiebrad
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  It has been awhile since I picked up a Tom Clancy title, but I decided to give Vegas a shot because 
 of the setting of the story. When you first get into the game, you are put into mexico where it 
 is your team's job to extract some important hostages. Teamwork becomes a major function of the 
 game as you soon realize that you cannot do this all alone. Sorry Solid Snake, even YOU would need 
 a team!
  
  Right off the bat, you see that the team tactical control is well improved over previous Rainbow 
 Six games. You know have far more control over your team than you ever did. From telling them where 
 to go to commanding them to open a separate door than the one you want to go through, flash bang 
 and kill the terrorists that you have marked. The AI in this is really well done. Very few times 
 have I had a problem with their pathfinding. And they are actually smart enough to duck and cover 
 if they are getting shot at. I cant recall the amount of times that an enemy has snuck up behind 
 me and my teammates took them out before I even turned around. Graphics are absolutely gorgeous. 
 I suggest turning down the blur effect a little, but that is just my preference. Otherwise, once 
 you get into Vegas, you will be in awe of how gorgeous and life like they made it.
  
  The only problem I had it all with the game was the odd controls. When they cross a 3rd person 
 action game with a First Person Shooter, the controls tend to get a little off. I wish they would 
 have made it one or the other. But after awhile, you get used to it and then you are good to go. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are mediocre, and demand way too much from an above average computer (A64 2.5ghz/2GB 
 of ram/7900GS @ ~7950GT performance) . I had problems running this game at a decent framerate basically 
 no matter what I tried. I really wanted to like the game, but it's hard to play when you're getting 
 vastly varying framerates thanks to next generation effects. I don't know exactly what it is that 
 bogged me down, but it seemed to be all the special 'dust' effects that supposedly make games look 
 good, but in my opinion it just makes them look bad &amp; harder to play.
  
  The AI is annoying - even if you crouch &amp; slow move, they'll still be able to detect you from 
 a ways away if you're trying to sneak up behind them. I think I'll stick to the Splinter Cell series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Trigga-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Although many die-hard Rainbow Six veterans may be offended by Vegas' continuance of the trend 
 R6 games are taking (less difficulty, more forgiving health systems) away from the old days, it 
 manages to incorporate a great combat system and a fairly enticing storyline into the production 
 of a game that is, to speak bluntly, just plain fun from start to finish.
  
  On that note, one of my only quarrels with the game is that it ended far to quickly, and that the 
 cliffhanger ending itself is somewhat unsatisfying. So although the ending might bring a frown 
 to your face, I wouldn't count on it lasting more than 20 seconds into the credits. Even as short 
 as it is, the single player campaign is a lot of fun and you won't regret the time you spent with 
 it.
  
  You play as Logan Keller, the new Rainbow team lead. And you're in the company of a brand new team. 
 Gabriel Nowak is your electronics and reconnaissance specialist, and Kan Akahashi is your heavy 
 weapons and demolitions expert. Additionally, you're aided by Joanna Torres, your information officer. 
 Joanna will be safely circling above your mission locations in a chopper all the time. She will 
 provide you with critical intelligence updates and tips throughout the game.
  
  The game starts with a prologue mission in Mexico. The beginning portion of the prologue acts as 
 your only real tutorial for the game. Luckily, the controls and mechanics of Vegas are fairly user 
 friendly and most players should pick them up quickly. Your mission is to locate and capture an 
 international terrorist named Irena Morales. After meeting up with Gabriel and Kan, you will pursue 
 Irena through her weapons depot underneath the border down you started in. After being tricked 
 by Irena, Gabriel and Kan are captured and Irena escapes with your team. When Jo picks you up, 
 you learn that terrorist forces with established links to Irena have swept over Las Vegas, capturing 
 several casinos and you are assigned to pacify the situation and recover whatever intelligence 
 you can as to why Irena and her men have attacked Las Vegas, and where Gabriel and Kan are being 
 held. Your chopper will drop you onto the streets of Las Vegas outside the Calypso Casino, beginning 
 your first mission after the prologue. Your new team are already on the scene. Jung Park, electronics 
 and reconnaissance, and Michael Walter, heavy weapons and demolitions will accompany you for the 
 rest of the single player campaign.
  
  Your crusade through the casinos of Las Vegas is an absolutely amazing experience. The casinos 
 provide a realistic and immersing environment for huge firefights, and they support Vegas' Gears 
 of War-style cover system incredibly well. You'll find yourself rappelling down the side of buildings 
 and breaching in through the windows, smashing through skylights on fastropes, and taking advantages 
 of every entry point to execute intricate squad-based strategy and clear out rooms before the enemies 
 inside even have time to react. The game does an absolutely amazing job of making you really feel 
 like you're a commando with a world-class team under his command. The AI in Vegas is nothing short 
 of great. Obviously you'll see a huge difference between the normal and realistic settings, but 
 even on normal your enemies will demonstrate solid execution of basic tactics. They will make good 
 use of cover, try to flank you, and throw grenades at your position if you allow them to pin you 
 down. Your teammates prove to be essential to your success in the single player campaign. They 
 are incredibly responsive to your orders, and are extremely proficient both at drawing the enemy's 
 fire as well as eliminating them. The sound quality in Vegas is great and there's some top-notch 
 voice acting in there. However, the terrorist phrases (both the ones they shout during combat, 
 as well as the ones they use when conversing amongst themselves when they haven't detected you) 
 can get incredibly repetitive and there seem to be only 2 different terrorist voices throughout 
 the game.
  
  I won't spoil the ending, but I will say that it is almost certain to disappoint any player at 
 the end of such a fun campaign you'll wish would've lasted longer. Still, there's lots of replay 
 value to Vegas. The online multiplayer offers team-based deathmatch and retrieval/attack and defend 
 modes as well as a co-op mode where up to 4 players can either team up to go on a terrorist hunt 
 in which terrorists are scattered amongst a given map for your team's pleasure, or play a coop 
 story where you and your team actually play cooperatively in the single-player campaign. Overall, 
 Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game to own and is a must buy for any FPS lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas gives you an awesome game play experience like never before, putting together 
 strategy, tactics and intense action, With an exciting story line, which lasts for around 8 hours 
 of gameplay.
  
  The GOOD: Awesome graphics and sound which put you in the middle of intense firefights, the gameplay 
 has changed since Lockdown and tactics come in to play more, such as many ways to play out a scenario, 
 from spotting your enemy, the entry and the ways to take him down such as come out with blazing 
 guns or taking him out silently as in not to trigger a alarm. Rainbow Six: Vegas has a great story 
 to follow which keeps the excitement. The new gameplay element of using cover to get around the 
 environment is classic and gives a movie like feeling. Most missions are played with two other 
 team mates that you can command, which kicks up the reality feeling a notch. Finally the improvement 
 in AI from your own team member who duck for cover and clear out a room intelligently to the enemy 
 AI, who use cover them selves and try to flank and ambush.
  
  The BAD: Rainbow Six: Vegas requires you to have a high end system, to play on increased graphic 
 levels, so if your graphic card is a bit old, its time to upgrade, if you want to experience the 
 motion blurs and great environmental effects in the game. The end of the story really was a let 
 down, and I thought the game could have been lengthen a bit more.
  
  Overall if you have a HI end system with a good graphic card (Geforce 7600+ or ATI X1600+ at least 
 a Geforce 6800) , and you love tactical shooters and love to experience something innovative then 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSteve120
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game really has perfected the feeling of stop and pop gameplay and gets you feeling 
 like your in the middle of a SWAT operation. SINGLEPLAYER: Excellent AI that won't frustrate you 
 and will most likely end up getting more kills than you. Story line mediocre and uninvolving, but 
 not distracting from fun. Huge amount of weapons and accesories to help match your particular gameplay 
 style. Extremely smooth team management that never feels difficult or annoying.
  MULTPLAYER: Around ten game modes including two co-op modes that are extremely fun. Very unpolished 
 feeling, major glitches that detract from online play, clunky interface, chat system, and no voice 
 chat.
  
  Graphics: Absolutely stunning yet extremely hard to run smoothly on high. Occaisonally blocky enemies 
 at long distance, Amazingly beautiful Vegas setting which is portrayed extremely realistically.
 
  
  Sound: Some of the best ever! You will feel as if you are in an intense firefight and the enemies 
 react and talk according to your actions, if you kill a friend they will go hysterical or say something 
 like damn, he owed me money and if you have terrible accuracy they will yell at you Would it be 
 easier if I ran into the bullets? Value: For fifty dollars you are getting one of the greatest 
 FPS's for the PC and with such replay value it is worth every cent.
  
  Tilt: I found this game very enjoyable and difficult, but not to the point where it becomes frustrating. 
 A great game to play with a friend, I was just dissapointed at the online multiplayer's glitches. 
 I have never liked squad based tactical shooters, but this one does everything so perfectly there 
 is little to complain about. I highly recommend this to anyone with a powerfull computer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mick_tyson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  I strongly recommend this game to all FPS fans and even for others .
  Imerssive gameplay , special effects and sound , make this game a piece of art. Being very realistic 
 and complex make it worth play again.
  In multiplayer mode is one of the most interesting games ever played by me in years ! You ll be 
 amazed by fighting in a team of professionals and command them as good as you can.
  The command of your team is the best of all games i ve ever played.
  I think is the revolutionary 
 Counter-Strike type.
  The best game in Tom Clancy series ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagg3d
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty amazing first off. I'll review it over a few categories:
  
  Graphics: Pretty much some of the best graphics out there right now and personally I like they 
 way they look. Multiplayer graphics are toned down for some reason but the customization of your 
 character still makes it look unique and refreshing. The lighting and shadows are just great and 
 add realism.
  
  Sound: Great weapon sounds and glass shattering. The terrorists yelling at each other and you really 
 add true situational awareness and scary moments. Definately great sound maybe not as immersive 
 as Call of Duty sound but still good.
  
  Gameplay: Very fluid and the put your back against the wall system was implemented very well. Really 
 holds your interest through single player and online coop. On a good enough computer this game 
 runs fine and has no major problems.
  
  Multiplayer: The reason I buy games basically, usually I don't even play single player but this 
 game was good. Anyway, the coop and terrorist hunts are back and extremely fun because now it actually 
 pays to cover each other and work as a *gasp* team. Unfortunately team ADV mode is still lacking 
 a little bit because of some patching issues, given one or two more fixes and it would be loads 
 of fun. Plus the community needs to grow a little. Don't get me wrong, I still have lots of fun 
 and if you have friends or a clan this game would be simply incredible.
  
  Overall: Overall this game is at least a 9/10, the only thing that keeps it from going any higher 
 than that is some initial issues that should have been fixed and I can't let those go by. Good 
 game overall and I'm happy I bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Im a Rainbow six hardcore fan since Rainbow Six: Raven Shield, because its represents what really 
 mean the word "tactical" with its feature like the plannig room, and the reality, if one of your 
 teamates ist killed or down, it means he's killed. .But nowadays, the Rainbow six games are changing, 
 so i played Rainbow Six: Vegas with all the interest i had in it, and then i liked it very much.
 
  
  Gamplay - Its a great action game, with some replay value, due to the many pathways you have to 
 reach on a battle, and talking about the battles, the firefights are insane, yeah, the terrorist 
 sometimes come from everywhere, and the AI for both (enemy and allies) is great, but sometimes 
 they leave something to be desired, and the cover system its totally fun, great and adictive, you 
 dont gonna let the right click been useless, and you have a lot of customizable weapons. The Mexico 
 levels are not so very fun like the Vegas ones, Vegas is explosive baby, Sin City never was so 
 fun as a close quarter battleground.
  The Multiplayer Action is great, you have too many modes and maps just like the x360 version, and 
 the rounds are great, but the bad is you have to patch if you dont wanna mess with several bugs 
 and crashes, and last but not least, another good thing for the multiplayer is that u have all 
 of the weapons and accesories unlocked, without trying to achieve and unlocking them just like 
 the x360 version, so is a cool thing
  
  Graphics - I've been impressed that rainbow six: vegas ran on my low-mid end PC.. that shows that 
 the unreal engine is very scalable and pretty at all, the textures, lights effects, anti-aliassing, 
 and HDR, everything looks great at all, if you have at least the 1gig of ram and a geforce 6600, 
 you could run it, even smooth on some spots if you configure it wisely
  
  Sound - Its great and improved, its all okay.
  
  Overall - So Rainbow Six Vegas wont disapoint 
 you if you like at least, great action firefights, so thanks to ubisoft montreal to port a good 
 game, but then R6: vegas its pure action shooter mixed with real tactical flavor, that gives the 
 good of a goodies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series has achieved massive popularity with its mix of in depth tactical planning 
 and intense fighting, though recently the latter has been forgone in favor of pure action. Its 
 last entry, Lockdown, met with harsh criticism due to a number of developmental issues, and lack 
 of any strategic value for shooting. The latest entry, Vegas, not only overcomes the problems of 
 its action-based predecessors, but also achieves unbridled success by embracing the fundamentals 
 that made the series so popular to begin with.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas, as the title may suggest, takes place in Vegas, and has you combating terrorists 
 with delusions of grandeur. The plot is mediocre and poorly delivered, but is a sufficient platform 
 to have you running between locales shooting bad guys in what can only be described as their face. 
 Thankfully the story is not the hook for this game. In Vegas, the action is king and rules all 
 with an iron fist of MP5s and flash bangs. The spark that was missing in the previous installment 
 has found a home in Vegas, and will instantly hook you from start to finish. Though the action 
 will be instantly familiar to fans of tactical action games, the hook here is that you can take 
 cover behind slot machines, cars, plywood, or whatever is between you and those dastardly foes. 
 Taking cover is incredibly easy, and with a click of the right mouse button youll be dodging around 
 like a true counter-terrorist. From cover, you can move out and aim, which leaves you vulnerable, 
 or you can fire blindly around the corner, making you less accurate and racking up quite a substantial 
 bill for destruction of property, but this function adds an amazing amount of intensity to a fight 
 when you cant lean out and have to shoot at bad guys down the hall. In addition, Vegas has adopted 
 a simplified health system that allows you to recover from being shot after a few seconds, and 
 allows you to keep up with the punishing difficulty of the game. Whats important to note, however, 
 is that while the game is very difficult, it is never cheap. The AI for the terrorists is amazing, 
 as theyll react to you in different ways depending on your tactics and the situation. The same 
 goes for your teammates, whom are just as smart and even better shots. While you can simply play 
 the game as the point man, youll also have a number of teammate commands at your disposal, such 
 as an order to clear a room ahead of you, or throw in a grenade, and so forth. The system is handled 
 perfectly, and your team is almost able to complete missions without your input.
  
  The game also features a number of instances where you must perform commando stunts to continue 
 to the bad guys, namely fast roping. The fast roping is a thrill as it may require you to dangle 
 upside down in order to get a cleaner shot at a tango before bursting through the window to clear 
 a room. Though you dont necessarily have to utilize fast roping in the game due to level design, 
 it just adds another dimension to the gameplay to give you the best possible experience. The downside 
 of creating multi-entry levels is that the checkpoint system doesnt keep up, and there will be 
 instances where you may be at the end of a level, but when you die you have to start over at the 
 beginning, which can be incredibly frustrating. In addition to the standard multiplayer fare, Coop 
 is included; allowing you to tackle the single player with some buddies taking over for your AI 
 controlled teammates. This works really well and is a blast, but the map will recycle, forcing 
 you to change it manually. Its an annoyance, but doesnt ruin the experience by any stretch of 
 the imagination. As far as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and CTF go, this game utilizes the tactical 
 aspects quite well, forcing you to take cover rather than running in with guns blazing. Your multiplayer 
 character is persistent, rewarding your continued play by unlocking different items that, while 
 desirable, dont unbalance gameplay. Its a nice incentive to continue playing, and there are plenty 
 of items to unlock. From a technical standpoint, Rainbow Six Vegas is one hell of an amazing game. 
 Graphically top notch, this game has some amazing visuals that put this title head and heals over 
 other new releases. In particular, scenes where your teams are being transported onto the roof 
 of a building are a treat, allowing you a great sight of Las Vegas in turmoil. Screenshots simply 
 dont do it justice. In addition, the sound is fantastic, with gunshots, screams, and general fanfare 
 rendered superbly. While a standard set of realistic sounding guns would have been sufficient, 
 Red Storm pulled out all the stops to deliver a terrific sounding game. This comes at a very steep 
 price though, as the game will chug on all but the high end PCs. If you arent up to date on the 
 hardware, you should consider upgrading, otherwise you wont get the terrific graphics that this 
 game was build to showcase. Few blemishes aside, Rainbow Six Vegas is a fantastic shooter, rocketing 
 the series back up to the top. While it may have spurned the tactical planning stages of its predecessors, 
 that should in no way deter fans of the original titles. As far as counter-terrorism shooters go, 
 Vegas is king. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoK-CRiTiCaL
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  The single player is good, some of the best i have seen and was really impressed. If your a single 
 player gamer get this game when it goes on sale it will be one you enjoy!
  
  The multiplayer is buggy and repetetive. If you dont play this game on a T3 Connection you will 
 have lag and get hung or stuck on lots of things during the game. Its a game you should not expect 
 much out of if your looking for multiplayer. Currently there is no competition in this game as 
 far as laddering or planned upcoming tourneys. Im really disapointed also in the poor support from 
 UBISoft for this game. The patches have been lacking any addresive content so far. The Lack of 
 a serious True Dedicated server tool makes it hard to host a quality game. This game has been out 
 more than a month and still everyone in multiplayer starts off the game firing a clip out of there 
 gun and sticking to things or hearing gun and rope sounds repeating over and over throught the 
 whole game so loud you have to disconnect to stop it. Only time i had fun on Multiplayer is when 
 i hosted my own game (No Lag for me) or when i played on a fast dedicated line. There was no lag 
 and no weird sounds just fun games. I personaly think the game is and early Unreal engine 3 game 
 and is really unoptimized.
  
  Its a cheap console port that could be alot better if someone at ubi cared about what they put 
 out on the market. This game at best is a Beta Multiplayer game and an A++++++ Single player game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelpimp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  After Lockdown the whole fan community shuddered and let out a huge cry that the loved franchise 
 had finally sunk to an all time low. Who could blame them? Lockdown was a disgusting attempt at 
 a tactical shooter, and using the Rainbow name made it even worse.
  
  However - all is not lost. There is hope with UBISOFT MONTREAL - and they've totally restored the 
 game and raised a few expectations at the same time.
  
  Vegas brings back all the favs from the Rainbow series and see's you (as team leader) Logan Keller, 
 thrown right into the thick of an all out terrorism attack from a South American militant faction 
 - who's primary target is Vegas (or is it?) . Bullets fly and skulls split open as you make your 
 way through Vegas' myriad of casino's and gaming lounge's.
  
  There are a host of great new features regarding combat and there's so much customization on your 
 weapons it's almost ridiculous. Granted, the AI can be a bit sketchy at times. It won't be uncommon 
 for you to engage in an all out fire-fight with enemies (not using silencers) and then proceed 
 into another room a few metres along, with NPC's totally unaware of the noise which took place 
 a few feet from them.
  
  But nine times out of ten, the action is paced so well, it''s a minor complaint hardly worth noticing. 
 The AI can also be cunning and in some instances totally ambush or flank your position.
  
  The levels are varied and authentic and the action is well paced. This is once again the thinking 
 man; s shooter. Going in all guns blazing will only get you and your team killed very quickly.
 
  
  Graphically Vegas is superb, although anyone without HD will notice the high contrast sometimes 
 makes it a little difficult to see enemies, and some of the levels can look washed out and blurry. 
 Everything appears to have a soft bloom effect on it too. But for the most part the graphics are 
 gorgeous.
  
  Sound wise - amazing and entirely authentic. Nothing like hearing bullets ricochet off your holding 
 position and surround sound levels. Pure bliss for the ears. Headphones are even better.
  
  All in all Rainbow Six: Vegas delivers the goods, while also leaving an opening for the next chapter 
 in the series. A chapter I'm highly anticipating. Let's hope 2008 see's a new Rainbow game. Even 
 more Next-Gen than Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadius
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  R6 Vegas is a somewhat consolized version of what R6 games used to be, still it is a different 
 twist from the tradition. I started playing R6 back in '98, when you had your teams, action plan, 
 and could entirely play the game without you controlling the operatives, and since I wasn't much 
 of a planner since I pretty much sticked with the default action plan and started a kill the terrorists 
 in the map strategy. What Vegas does is transform the original R6 game and turn it into an action 
 game, took away all the planning, realism, weapon detail, operative costumization and all that 
 made it a breakthrough in its action/strategy genre. Also, now you only have 3 operatives rather 
 than 3 teams, and for realism sake, you have some sort of Wolverine healing factor. Still for me 
 its not a bad thing.
  
  What Vegas does have now, is the ability to issue simple commands, even easier than SWAT, and a 
 really cool new feature (peeking from cover) that does put you closer to the action, and was something 
 I wished I could do in the older R6 games and that could balance out all the things taken away. 
 The game can be challenging even with the healing factor (which also applies to your team) , but 
 still the fun is there, and one should always be looking for fun on a game, if realism provides 
 it, great, if magical healing with rambo style action does it, then so be it.
  
  I like to think of it as a Hollywood style Rainbow Six, a change from Real life style from previous 
 games.
  
  So I must end this review saying that if Hollywood style action is your thing, you can't miss with 
 Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenTheJamin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved R6, and Ghost Recon, but Vegas and GRAW, I dont know how they could every top 
 these two games. It ridiculous how fun and addicting this game is. The simple format makes for 
 an instant learning curve, you can jump right into the game. As simple and elegant as the interface 
 and squad is, it makes for hours, and hours of great gameplay, MP and SP both. Well worth the money 
 and upgrades, but there in we find the only downside to this game, the upgrades. Your going to 
 have to have a good computer to play this game well, but its well worth the shell out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rbrad1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I am a Huge player with GRAW SP. After completing Two chapters of R6Vegas, I am really glad I spent 
 the mony to download the game! Gameplay is quite exciting and at time, very frustrating. Can't 
 really run'n gun with this game. You need to do some planning, but not as much as R6-3, but a little 
 more than GRAW! Since this is a port from the X 360, I have been using the XBOX guide. Game is 
 still very hard, even on normal. Learning the commands does take some time, especially for an Old 
 Fart like me. I know that the hardcore Rainbow 6 Players don't really like this, because a lot 
 of the planning and outfitting is gone from this game. However, like a number of hardcore OGR players, 
 many have come to appreciate GRAW for what it is and can be. Therefore, I believe that games like 
 this will inject new blood and refreshed blood into PC Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnyhighway
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This version offers characters motion's innovations that might become FPS standards, yet the graphics 
 are a gigantic step back. The practise of developing a game for console then to sell it for PC 
 gaming world is the worst of all. This dynamic will impede any technical innovations and development 
 of creativity for PC games. It be might profitable in the short term for the editors but it will 
 come to dwarf in the long term any innovations that have had help the console world to become as 
 big as it is now. Developers should keep the PC gaming world a priority in mind, it is after all 
 the machines on which those middle of the road console games are developed, not the other way around. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Applerod
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a much-welcome addition to the Rainbow Six family, particularly in light of 
 the previous, mediocre installment of Rainbow Six: Lockdown. Vegas does share at least one major 
 similarity to Lockdown in that they play a bit more like console games than the earlier Rainbow 
 Sixes. The entire series is in the genre of the tactical shooter , though the first games tended 
 to emphasize the tactics while the two most recent installments emphasize the shooting. But that's 
 really where the similarity between Vegas and Lockdown ends. Where Lockdown was unsuccessful in 
 blending tactics with shooting, Vegas delivers a satisfying, suspenseful experience which balances 
 strategy with reflexes quite well. It's realistic, immersive, intuitive, and just plain fun.
  
  I've only been playing single-player until this point. The commands and controls are relatively 
 simple, which is a good thing because you'll encounter some pretty intense firefights. You need 
 to be able not only to handle your own character but also be smart about how you use your team. 
 The 'main' team commands are basic: move there, toggle assault/recon mode, hold, follow. The action 
 benefits from the format of leading a three-man team. Your force is nimble but effective. You can 
 also order your team to stack up on a doorway and enter the room in different ways. The control 
 scheme is very intuitive overall and features the smallest number of the most important commands. 
 Though a few more commands probably would have made this a more fulfilling game from a purely tactical 
 standpoint, the pace of the game would've slowed. The graphics are excellent, provided you have 
 the hardware. I'm playing this game on a new computer (Intel Core 2 6700 @ 2.66 GHz, nVidia GeForce 
 7950 GX2, 2 GB RAM) . I was pretty surprised to see my system struggling at the higher resolutions 
 and settings. The game itself doesn't offer many options for changing your video settings, so I 
 did a lot of trial-and-error tweaking the global settings of my video card.
  There's not much about the game that screams next generation ; it's just one of the best offerings 
 of the current generation -- making it quite impressive all the same. The quality of the graphics 
 only serves to heighten the realism and suck you in. Ubisoft also did a fine job of maintaining 
 the Rainbow Six style of sneaking even amidst the bright neon jungle of Las Vegas. I have to admit 
 the level design is at times a little repetitive like with a console game, but it's not something 
 I've gotten distracted by.
  
  The sound is very good for the most part. The weapons sound as they should and are satisfying to 
 fire. The soundtracks of all the Tom Clancy games I've played have consistently been above average. 
 This soundtrack continues the tradition, though it's not the best I've heard. The voice acting 
 is good, but often doesn't quite gel into something convincing or captivating.
  
  There are some minor improvements or alterations I would have liked to have seen implemented in 
 the game. For example, not only does your cache of potential weapons remain on the small side, 
 but I remain confused as to why some weapons are simply *better* than others. The variables that 
 define a weapon's characteristics are damage, range, accuracy, clip size, and attachments. But 
 you'll run across different weapons in the same class that are simply higher rated than others, 
 support the same attachments, and have an identical or near-identical clip sizes. So what's the 
 incentive to use the inferior weapons? Also, I wish they'd bring back the option of equipping different 
 levels of body armor.
  
  There are two difficulty settings: normal and realistic. I've been playing on normal and it seems 
 to be a bit too easy and forgiving. I have a pretty good idea what realistic would be like, (realistic) , 
 and I'll try that mode soon enough.
  
  
  The bottom line with Rainbow Six Vegas is it's a quality game that is a load of fun. The ability 
 to address the same scenario in different ways means this game has a high replay value. It's hard 
 for me to imagine any fan of tactical shooters being really disappointed with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun, it lasted me quite a long time on single-player finishing the campaign. 
 I love how you really must plan out your attack before charging blindly into a room full of Tangos. 
 I just recently started playing on multi-player and I must say it's so awesome, I particularly 
 like the player customisation options. Although the weapons aren't that familiar, I believe, many 
 of you. I hope they add the M4 Carbine or some weapon of sort. Overall, this game is great I really 
 love it. Not for people who are not patient and/or cannot think on their feet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faheem_s_i
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas is easily my favourite next gen game. This game is beautiful. Dante's Casino has 
 to be played through to be truly appreciated. Sure there are alot of low res textures &amp; the 
 character models aren't as good as Half life but the Unreal engine is still a sight to behold &amp; 
 Ubi Soft has made amazing use of hdr which makes the entire game feel alive.
  On to the the sound, Very, very good. The background music flows really well &amp; suites all the 
 locations, hearing the terrorists chatter never gets old, The sound effects are brilliant.
  Gameplay though is where it's all at. The cover system is genius. Its hard to go back to playing 
 without the cover system. It also adds alot more tension to the game. Rushing to get behind cover 
 when you're being shot by an enemy you can't see is brilliant. The amount of enemies you face at 
 a time adds so much more to the game. Dozens at a time literally. A word of warning unless you meet 
 the recommended requirements it will be unplayerble &amp; the reason for that is the amount of 
 calculations your system has to do. Environments are destructuble &amp; everything reacts realisticly 
 to how it would in real life so don't rate the game unless you don't meet the system requirements. Finally, just 
 to end this review. If you meet the requirements, you MUST play this game. The unreal engine is great, the 
 sound superb, the gameplay, in a class of its own &amp; this is easily my game of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvramon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  So i will start off buy saying that the game run flawlessly on my computer at 1280x960 i think 
 that the resolution and everything on max i have a pentium 4ht and 2gb of ram and an x1900xt. The 
 other thing i want to tell you is that with the number of xbox360 port we are going to have i think 
 that an ATI card will be the best choice as it is gonna run better on them as Nvidia. This is one 
 of the best pc action game i have played for a while and i just finish playing FEAR Condmned and 
 Quake 4 and i have more fun with this one as the others. If i have to review it on the basis of 
 the old rainbow six games i wont give it more that a 7.5 but after lockdown i knew that this franchise 
 had shifted to a more action kind of game so i did not except a tactics game but an action game 
 and i was fully glad with it.
  The gameplayy is really good in my opinion and the cover style game with blind fire is incredible 
 i love it, i think the fact that they added the compatibility of the xboc360 controller is good 
 because sometimes i just want to lay down and play some good fps so that a good idea for me but 
 it cant replace the mouse keyboard set up. The graphics are awesome if you have to power to run 
 the game and i think that limiting the game to SM2.0 only is kind of dumb but i understand why 
 they did it. The sound is awesome on my setup and the story is average but who needs an good story 
 for an action game.
  All in all i love this game and i think that it is a good way to bring back the rainbow six game 
 under a new coat and to introduce a connection between xbox360 and pc ( we will see how thats going 
 to work i hope well) and i would recommend this game if you have the power to run it and want an 
 action game not a tactical game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtbmoto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  well I just got this game 2 days ago and i have to say its amazing. Since its a tactical shooter 
 I thought it that the controls would be very complex but they are actually quite simple especially 
 for a first timer for the RB6 series. The gameplay is awesome very intense even on the easiest 
 setting. But onto the drawbacks, im the kind of gamer who likes to toy with the audio/video options 
 and there just isnt much options to use. For instance there is just the volume sliders no XFi=) 
 or speaker settings, and there is only a few video resolutions to choose from. My biggest con is 
 that there is no anti aliasing??? however I have found a program that supposedly forces aa with 
 hdr =) Its called nhancer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc3d
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  As good as the 360? What's so great about being as good as the 360? I've got an XBOX360 on an HDTV 
 @ 1080i and I still expect better graphics from a PC game. GRAW looks better and has stronger graphics 
 options and better physics. RB6V is missing the great physics found in GRAW. It also shows it's 
 console roots. Does have some cool features, switching to third person for fighting around corners 
 and over walls is really cool. The transition to and from this view is done well and adds to the 
 game. Selecting weapons and equipment options are too tied back to the console though. Game is 
 fun to play, but I've got an e6600 @ 3.5 Ghz and an 8800GTX and with the graphics maxed out, it 
 still has jaggies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drazhar2000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  I have played some of the best shooters out there, Doom 3, Half Life 2, Prey, but they have all 
 been the same thing: Run, shoot, reload and die, but when it comes to Rainbow Six: Vegas this all 
 changes.
  
  During the first level you realise this is not like the other shooters that are out there, this 
 game is very different as cover is needed, badly! When in a gun fight the last thing you want to 
 do it stand up and shoot because if you do, your dead, now its changed and more of a tactical 
 view is needed, like taking cover. When your shot at just stand next to a wall or object and hold 
 your take cover button and it will jump into 3rd person view (quite brilliantly actually!) and 
 you can lean to each side of the object and fire, or pop over the top and fire that way, this style 
 of game play is the perfect addition to the FPS style of play and will make Rainbow six different 
 in a good way. Also the tactics you can use are perfect, like when you need to clear a room, you 
 walk up to the door, point at the bottom of it and press the space bar and you will pull out your 
 snake cam and look under neath the door, like the Splinter Cell games, then select the targets 
 you want your team mates to shoot first and then step back and press space on the door to set your 
 team mates up on the door and get ready for entry, then you run over to the other door at the other 
 side of the objective room and tell your team mates to frag and enter, so they will open the door 
 and toss in a grenade killing a few baddies, then open your door at the other end of the room and 
 run to cover, pop around it and start having some classic TV style shoot outs, while your team 
 mates start to shoot at there targets. This is what makes Rainbow Six great. When the time comes 
 for you to see what multiplayer like, you will click the multiplayer button and then click create 
 match and then a little bit of wee will come out as you discover the Co-Op option along side a 
 lot of different multiplayer modes, like different variations of Dethmatch and capture the flag, 
 but you and 4 buddies can all play the single player story at once in Co-Op and instead of bossing 
 around NPC's you can boss around your mates!
  
  There are bad things to this game, like the difficulty, its hard and its not getting any easier, 
 but if you like a challenge this is the game for you. Also the glitches in this game are a common 
 sight until you get updates, so before you play, UPDATE!
  
  
  Every time I review a game I give it my own award, this game get these awards:
  Great FPS
  
 Will Be Forever Installed
  Great Guns
  The Best Shooter I Have Ever Played
  
  So if youre looking for more in your First Person Shooters, this would be the game for you to 
 try, and if you like multiplayer shooters, then this game is the one for you! I hope more games 
 will come out like this and hope one day developers will give out great game play like this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slacker4life77
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Went into this game thinking it was going to be a strait tactical bore fest... wrong! This game 
 seems to put action shooter and tactical shooter together perfectly. Not only is it fun, the graphics 
 are absolutely amazing if you're pc can manage it. On my C2D and 8800 im in awe. There are loads 
 of weapons, u can pick off dead bodys, AI is great, you control a team of 3 so things nvr get out 
 of hand, many fun shooting techniques, like shooting over head, around a corner. U can take cover 
 by anything. Also the way you command your team is so simple, but yet it works great. And throughout 
 the game you see many different atmospheres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gxrichardson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Really GREAT! Graphics were awesome, AI was for the most part great too. All of the levels featured 
 enough challenges to keep you interested. Loved all of the gadgets and special moves (ie. snake 
 cam, fast rope, rappeling) . The game's use of cover is neat to. You don't have to strafe all of 
 the time. Simply take cover, and you can set up for your next move or track enimies without exposing 
 yourself to fire.
  
  Love the multiplayer, however the game crashes a lot in this mode. I applied both patches 1.1 and 
 1.2, still get crashes in multiplayer. The only thing I did not like was all of the four letter 
 words. I would love to play this with my sons, however the profanity is too much for younger players. 
 Ubisoft needs to let you turn off mature taunts, like Unreal Tournament. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshot19
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six is by far the best rainbow six game i have ever played i love the new weapons and the 
 ability to post your face on xbox live. the campaign itself was a little short but well worth playing 
 and i like the snake cam because it has saved my but several times from making a mistake
  
  The multiplayer is a little lacking in my opinion because they have to lower the graphics a little 
 to make it work. One thing i hate is that i keep getting kicked out because i won't do exactly 
 as they say in ranked games which is reallly getting annoying. not to menching the insults i get 
 becasue i make a mistake.
  
  the player matchers are better because people are generally less serious and it is much more fun 
 playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoDfreak38
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Intense Warfare in the place where you guessed it... LAS VEGAS BABY!
  
  This is by far the best rainbow six game in the series, and a giant leap forward. The AI is spectated 
 accuratly making the game more realistic and a nice challenge. Let's just leave it to this: Effective 
 Use of Cover, Flanking, Use of Grenades, and most of all. It Focuses on your teammates to, that's 
 right no more Why Me? My Guys Are Right There In The Open! . Oh and that's not it, the stunning 
 graphics puts you right in the place of Vegas, you can actully win a couple of bucks by shooting 
 the Slots, I guess what im trying to say is that... the Envoirment is fully destrucable.
  
  This game is Revoulutionary Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwnoodle
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  After R6 Lockdown I thought this series was all but dead. This is a good change of direction for 
 UbiSoft. They've followed the Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter path in the style and gameplay. I 
 like the changes. Pretty immersive and good plain fun. New charcters and a new situation is a plus. 
 The Vegas setting is set up well and the action can get intense at times. Though there are a few 
 frustating segments of play where it seems a bit one-sided, the fragging is good and plenty. I 
 enjoyed the AI banter and a few f-bombs dropped here and there makes for a bit more realistic dialogue. 
 The british accent on the R6 teammate gets old pretty fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest, this game is really fun, so addictive... so... I really can't say anything else 
 about this one. The things which bothered me, well, I have to say, they outrated the pros... by 
 a longshot.
  
  Graphics - 7/10
  
  Please don't get me wrong, but the graphics in the game are stunning, though, I have a brand new 
 computer, and it just chugs. The only way I can stop the chugging, is by using thermal vision, 
 which makes it not as much of an enjoyable experiance, you want to see the levels with no filters, 
 not the thermal vision way.
  
  Audio - 6/10
  
  The audio in the game is realistic, except when it comes to the AI. All they say, in their annoying 
 voices. I THINK WE HAVE COMPANY , over, and over, and over again. It is a relief when you kill 
 the jerk, only to find his clone is saying the same freakin' thing. Come on Ubisoft, you know you 
 can do better.
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  
  The gameplay is awsome, though I am very disappointed in the way that there is only really 5 levels. 
 I was thinking that you would be going through tons of Casinos, and taking out the baddies, but 
 no... there are only 5 levels. They are amazing, but I am really disappointed in how few there 
 are.
  
  Overall, this game somewhat let me down, but I can't stop playing it, so you should only buy this 
 one when it isn't $50.00, get it when it hits the bargain bin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  As i said i just bought it 2day, and its simplly Fantastic in all aspects. I honestly don't think 
 that its bad port like SCDA, just bought it &amp; having a hell of a time!! As i have a Intel P4 
 3.06Ghz HT, Geforce 512MB 6800GS OC @ 490Mhz/1.3Ghz, TwinMos 1.5GB ram. And im running it at 1024x768 
 resolution with hardware skinning and motion blur at very high, with about 25-45 Fps, and it lags 
 rarely. I also enjoyed th terrirost hunt alot. Multiplayer is also a thing and i think it has great 
 reply value, with the amazin feature of putting ur face as urself in the R6V online mode. Overall, 
 i think its amazin and its a must buy, with glamrous visuals and non-stop action gameplay and features.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Travelller
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I was already excited during the first few sections but I knew it would be best to play through 
 the game before handing down opnions. Well now that I've finished it and among other thoughts that 
 crossed my mind was that Vegas never crashed once. Not once! I had several CTDs and freezes with 
 SCDA and even GRAW crashed once or twice, but this is the first time in a while that I managed 
 to play through a game without having to restart it (or my PC) !
  
  There was only two (minor?) glitches I encounterd: first of which was the firedoor that opens when 
 you go to kill Irena, only opened half way... . Reloading that checkpoint cleared up the problem, 
 but I did spend a few minutes wasting grenades, etc. trying to open that damned door, lol! The 
 second glitch was at the very end - for some reason, the entire copter landing w/Joan &amp; pilot 
 bailing out etc, scripted in-game scene simply did not take place. So I had no idea where to go 
 or what to do after my compadres blew up the rocket. Thus, one checkpoint reload later and voila... 
 .
  
  Everyone's throwing out the o-word (dare I say it, optimization!) - well I will agree with everyone 
 that Splinter Cell: Double Agent - was a messy port. I couldn't even reassign the mouse buttons 
 without having to hack the *user. ini, some levels had missing or dumbed-down textures, etc. Now 
 that was a bad port.
  
  Vegas...? I don't see how someone can simply blame the game's performance by simply using the term 
 optimization. You may or may not remember, but Ravenshield was also a b1tch to run back when it 
 first came out, but I don't remember anyone dismissing it as a cheesy port ...! For whatever reason, 
 all R6 / SC / GR games have been resource hogs. I'm not even going to pretend to know why, but 
 I have always settled for a few frames below par with the Clancy games (even though, funny enough, 
 when it was not necessairly the same engine...) .
  
  Anyways, with Vegas, there were no missing textures, no crashes, not even an instance of model 
 collisions, etc. Not once did I even see someone's arm protruding through a wall - something I'd 
 given up on many years ago, lol! Yeah, no question, Vegas keeps my CPU &amp; GPU running hot (and 
 I mean it literally) , but I'm not willing to write it off as an optimization issue, particularly 
 when I contemplate scenes like these: http://ourworld. compuserve. com/homepages/syp/r6v12. jpg http://ourworld. compuserve. com/homepages/syp/r6v13. jpg 
 http://ourworld. compuserve. com/homepages/syp/r6v14. jpg The above screenshots were made with all 
 settings on full at a resolution of 1024x768 (good enough for my oldtimer 19 flat trinitron CRT) 
 and Vsynch OFF. The framerate is noted c/o FRAPS and funny enough, these screens represent the 
 average framerate I experienced throughout the entire game (~30fps) . Granted, my system is relatively 
 up to date - but by no means, cutting edge (so no unified shader technology or quad-core CPUs are 
 to be found here ;) ) I (re) built my PC this past September* with components that were at the time, 
 almost affordable .
  
  *That is to say that in August I had a PCI/AGP system with a P4B Northwood @2.8MHz and a ultra-outdated 
 (read: older than six months...) 6800GT. I don't even want to know how Vegas would perform on that 
 rig, so I'm really confused at posters trying to get it to run on a less-than shader model 3.0 
 environments...!
  
  So, now that the topic of optimization and eye candy have been duly noted, I'd like to say that 
 I was in general very impressed by the level design and by the efficiency of the AI. I'm still 
 dreaming of a game where restarting a checkpoint means a different number of enemies spwan in different 
 locations, but this seems to be generally* out ot the question and Vegas is not much better (or 
 worse) than the norm in this respect. But overall, really quite on par with the norm and in some 
 circumstances, even slightly better! Good enough, in any case, to keep the game moving along and 
 to keep me on the edge of my seat!
  
  *It did happen that upon a reload the AI had moved to a different location - but it was quite rare.
 
  
  Back to the levels for a sec. - the assortment of levels, from Mexico to Vegas to the Dam is as 
 much variation as you can hope to expect (just look at GRAW and SCDA for extreme contrasts) and 
 breakdown of each area into the respective checkpoints was also, imho, well done. There were times 
 when I wished there was a PF5/6 to save the day (or at least the progess between difficult checkpoints) 
 but I have experienced far, far worse than Vegas in this respect.
  
  Last but certainly not least, audio was above average with realistic-sounding weapons (when both 
 firing and loading) and although I couldn't adjust audio HW settings like I can in other games, 
 Vegas properly used my 5.1 setup - which is just as important, imo, as eye candy is! Unfortunately 
 there were a few glitches with audio, two that were really notable. The first issue deals with 
 sounds eminating from the floor above you being portrayed as if it was coming from your floor (a 
 bit muffled, but not nearly enough to represent a different floor) . The first time I was fooled 
 by it and I was going through every room on said floor trying to figure out where the baddies were 
 hiding and finding none.
  
  Second problem seems to have creeped up with the addition of v1.2 (at least the timing suggests 
 it...) where the communications support officer (Joan, I believe) is broadcasted at three times 
 the normal volume level in an almost inverted (out of phase) tone. This is extremely annyoing but 
 fortunately the occurances are few and far between.
  
  Well, that about wraps it up - it wasn't my intention to try to write up some pseudo-formal review 
 of Vegas, but to try to look at the game from a different perspective then the norm (read: unoptimized 
 port) . Vegas is far from perfect but if you have enough horsepower, it's a lot of fun and excitement 
 and not too short (good games can never be too long, you know...) . Mexico + 3xVegas + Dam, all 
 of them having a minimum of four checkpoints (some with up to 11, I think) makes for a reasonable 
 SP experience!
  
  My last point? Bring on the, to be continued dot-dot-dot , expansion pack a. s. a. p.!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Hey all you FPS lovers this game is the bomb.
  R63V is Easy and very user friendly.. love shooting over slot machines and around corners. I expect 
 that all future FPS will have this feature.
  Graphics were decent and this is the best of the TC series out so far.. at least it is my favorite. Controls 
 were as expected and no real control issues
  that I encountered. I wanted more after 20 hours of game play and i will look forward to the sequel.
 
  Sound was excellent and the look alike Vegas style environments were too cool.
  Some people had problems in the beginning of the game .. I had none and i liked this game !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1Dw1nT3r
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off saying this is by far the best example of games we get delivered to us for 
 $50.00 nowadays, games that might satisfy the people that got a computer a year ago and now think 
 they're gamers . This game is NOT WORTH 50 BUCKS PEOPLE!
  
  It seems like lately the gaming industry only spends 10% of the time making levels and developing 
 a good story, and the rest of the 90% on the graphics. Of course, I am a graphics junkie, but the 
 graphics do not conquer the storyline.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas had me very satisfied throughout the whole game, but when the game surprised 
 me with a To Be Continued in the end I couldn't believe my own eyes!
  
  If you've played any Tom Clancy game lately you'll be very familiarized from the start with the 
 graphics, the controls, etc. Splinter Cell, Rainbow Six etc. etc. And you'll also recognize the 
 linear storyline, walk to door A, next walk to door B, kill some bad guys and proceed to door C. 
 In total, this game took me 14 hours to complete!
  
  If you're all about graphics but no taste, sure go ahead, give them your fifty bucks and be happy. 
 If you're unsure about the game whether to buy it or not, I actually recommend you buy it! And 
 if you're easily aggravated by PC games not holding up to their standards, I say look elsewhere! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripfire
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  It would seem Rainbow six ended with the number three, as Raven Shield was the last great Clancy 
 title. The second they titled it Vegas, it was over.
  
  It's not even really fair to call this game a tactical shooter any more, as each title seems to 
 want nothing more than to compete with Counter Strike, but with some different features.
  
  Some aspects of the game are nice, and graphics and sound continue to improve, but the game play 
 for a true realism fan get tossed right out. You can take more damage, for one thing, and the hiding 
 behind walls, but still being able to see around corners is extremely cheap. Whats worse, is that 
 you can do the same things in multi player. I came from the original Rainbow 6 games, 1 and 2 being 
 among the best, with 3 still doing a fairly good job. And my point being that at least I've played 
 those games where as it would seem most reviewers don't know what a real tactical shooter is. It's 
 sad when a publisher can completely destroy the original developers goal, it's also sad that no 
 other companies seem to be able to put out a good game to compete.
  
  It's funny that I can get a better experience from the free game, America's Army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsenenx
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  to cut the story really or literally short, R6: Vegas was a let down... the old raven shield formula 
 was lost, lots of the original concept and gameplay from raven shield was lost from the menu, to 
 the cuztomization, even in ghost recon, ubisoft has transformed the series into a general shooter 
 for the masses. for the hardcore followers, well we have just to wish a new and better rainbow 
 six with all the fun we had from R6: 1 to Raven Shield will be brought back. and bring the real 
 tactical simulation that the formula became famous for. up to now i still play raven shield, i 
 have tried Lock Down, Graw, Vegas.. its sad that alot of the FORMULA, even the planning which was 
 the highlight of the old R6 series was removed.. bring back the old and just improve them not remove 
 the old and repolish the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syzgygy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Too many games out there choose to leave out the cooperative mode. Why? Because it would make the 
 game too good if they included it? Possibly. Years back it was normal to have a coop mode, yes, 
 I'm thinking about the older Doom, Duke Nukem, the older quakes etc, they all were games that allowed 
 players to go through the singleplayer portion of the game together as a team. They were great 
 experiences. Rainbow Six has always been a squad game, but this time I'm feeling that I'm even 
 more part of a closeknit squad than ever before. Sure, I miss the planning phase a bit like most 
 other R6 veterans, but to tell you the absolute thruth, this is a pleasant change of pace.
  
  Good:
  -The game flows along smoothly, and there's quite intense situations and firefights 
 to get caught up in. This really comes to life through the cooperative mode, fighting longside 
 other players. Great graphics overall, physics and audio/music. Nice animations for character movement. 
 Rapelling. Good AI. Tries to flank your positions, and toss grenades. It's possible to loot the 
 enemies primary weapons.
  
  Bad:
  -The best way to game squad based games is to get friends to join you, and talk through a Ventrilo 
 server or similar third-party comms. I do this all the time. But I can absolutely understand those 
 who want the comms to be integrated with the game. The lack of simple radio-commands like you would 
 find in CS could really help people out, this is something they should look into for a content 
 patch.
  
  -A fewer selection of weapons and gadgets than we've been used to. I miss the door wedge, heart-beat 
 sensor etc. However, if a team member spots an enemy, it'll show on every team members mini-map.
 
  
  -Only 4 player coop. They should allow more players.
  
  -Both in singleplayer and coop, the levels are scripted. Trigger rooms and events. Like if you 
 step into that certain room, a bunch of bad guys will storm through a certain door, or bad guys 
 might pop up right behind you out of thin air.
  
  -Lack of a combat knife, and non-lethal equipment.
  
  -No ability to jump even the smaller 
 obstacles.
  
  -No flashlight mod on the weapons.
  
  -Lack of Tagging ability when it comes to the marking of enemies in cooperative mode, ( which foe 
 the team should try to kill first that is.) KOS list.
  
  
  You should really buy this game. It's refreshing and has good gameplay that makes up for the apparent 
 lacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyBerWoLff
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Reviewer's Computer Specs:
  Intel P4 3.2Ghz (Performance Rater 4.8Ghz)
  1GB RAM
  Windows XP (SP2)
  Nvidia GeForce 7600-GS
  
  The gameplay is amazing, I'm hooked on being 
 able to use the environment for cover and lean around corners; I'm starting to wish I could do 
 this in every game! It adds a completely new layer of strategy to the game and changes the entire 
 way you play the game.
  
  The storyline is absolutely fantastic! I couldn't stand the opening in Mexico; It just wasn't the 
 environment that I was looking for in R6: V but it is part of the story and must be played. Once 
 you get out of Mexico and into the colourfully lit world of Las Vegas you are immersed into another 
 story that ties in with the beginning.
  
  The multiplayer is, sadly to say, horrendous! While still playable it is designed for consoles 
 and is in no way up to par with other multiplayer PC games. The character customization is filled 
 with many different pieces of equipment to add onto your character. I've read about Achievements 
 that are unlockable and unlock different things for you character but it seems that this is only 
 on the console versions; disappointing. My favourite online game mode is Team Sharpshooter ... 
 AKA Team Deathmatch. Why they chose to name it differently I do not know but one thing it's missing 
 is joining in the middle of a game. If you join a game and theres 5 minutes on the clock, you have 
 to wait 5 minutes before you can play; very disappointing. The games are generally about 5 minutes 
 long, this can be changed by the host but seeing as the multiplayer is designed for short console 
 games and not continuous dedicated servers such as on games like Counter-Strike; generally rounds 
 last 5 minutes or so. Another aspect of multiplayer which I would have LOVED to see is VOIP but 
 this is conspicuously missing....
  
  The graphics are nothing less than spectacular. It's amazing how beautiful the game looks and how 
 smoothly it runs, I don't know specifically what my FPS is but I haven't seen a single frame of 
 lag at all! It's amazing being in a helicopter and flying over Las Vegas being able to see all 
 the backed up traffic on the streets with police cars going flying by lights and sirens. One thing 
 though is the motion blur . I had to turn this off, it killed my eyes, the whole game looked blurry 
 at first then I turned this off and it's beautiful. Even though the multiplayer is lacking the 
 singleplayer makes this game worth every penny of what you spend on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  OMG ! Rainbow Six Vegas is a superb FPS (tactical) game. I never expected that this game could be 
 so much fun and awesome too. The graphic's , HDR , motion blur effects look's stunning in the game. This 
 time Rainbow six team has to eliminate terrorists from deserted streets of Mexico and city / casinos 
 of Vegas. The cover tactics ,posture and gunfights by the hero is simply amazing. Squad control is 
 cool. AI is excellent. The game has good sound quality. Its a fantastic action game. The game's gameplay 
 never ever bores you for a moment rather it glues you to your seat. The game has a cool multiplayer 
 feature besides its single player campaigns. I highly recommend this game to everyone and specially 
 to them who've missed this game till now. Its a highly enjoyable entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonreversebird
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  First off I play VEGAS now everyday if I can and I play it longer than I would normally another 
 game. I am single player FPS guy now. So that is what I am reviewing. UBI may be doing themselves 
 wrong by saying they recommend a 3.5 ghz processor. I almost didn't buy it for that reason but 
 I felt for sure I could get it to work with the system I just built of really nice gear. It turns 
 out that most likely due to the number crunching involved, hence the 3.5, I finally figured out 
 a problem that I and MANY others are having with the game just Locking up out of no where. You 
 can just be standing there with no action and turn and it would lock up. So after hours and hours 
 of wracking my brain from thinking its the just going to be that way because it is a port, I thought 
 the swap file may have had something to do with it. I tried varying my mouse speed. Playing with 
 the settings extensively and getting no where it just kept happening now matter what change UNTIL 
 I remembered that the game Painkiller did the same thing to me on another computer. I had over 
 clocked my CPU just a little to much. Thats all it took. The thing was is that I ran 3dmark06 over 
 and over and over and it never locked on my final stable setting of my Intel Duo Core E6700 @ 3.28ghz. 
 I manually clocked it and my memory and FSB to get my system running very nicely. So I thought 
 well maybe if I go back to using a different auto over clock method by Asus to give me just 3.2ghz. 
 Sure enough that is all it took. So again just backing off on my CPU over clock a small amount 
 enabled the game to not lock up at all. I did notice though a significant change in FPS. So without 
 a doubt this game is a great deal CPU dependent. So now I can run it at 1280x790 and all video 
 settings on there highest amount and I don't need vertical sync on. Playing this game with no lockups 
 is another world. I completely enjoy it. Its my first Rainbow Six title I have really gotten into 
 playing. I guess then I am a total noob at this type of coop FPS play where you have 2 guys to 
 take with you and order them to do dam near everything. I think UBI should make it clear to people 
 that if you over clock your cpu too much you might get lock ups like this. Well I have enjoyed 
 hours of playing so far and I am only playing this game now. I want to finish it before Vista is 
 released. I really highly recommend the game. I think as long as you have a 3.2ghz processor and 
 PCI-E system with a 7000 series card you are bound to really enjoy it. It is officially my current 
 favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  My system specs are the following:
  X2 4200+
  7800GT
  2Gigs RAM 3200
  X-fi XtremeMusic
  
  1440*900 Res. Medium settings ~ 20 - 70 fps High settings ~ 18 - 45 fps
 
  I prefer medium settings because there is a balance between quality and frame rate. Most of my 
 game play i lower shadows and blur to very low and I get a boost in fps and i still enjoy it.
 
  
  I have been waiting for a shooter to show up since HL2 : EP1 and this game was my answer. I'm glad 
 that it was not given to another developer to screw it up. The gameplay in this game is not linear 
 at all. You have a choice of how you want to clear a hall or room before you proceed to the next 
 level and firefights are just awesome. The A. I. in this game is simply amazing and surpasses what 
 you may have seen before in other games. Why I love this game is the immersion. It feels like you 
 are really part of an elite team. Character animation is extremely well done and mouth movement 
 is topnotch. I particularly like the way they move into a room and clear it of enemies with precision 
 it even scares the hell out of me. Some A. I. won't kill your enemies but these team will. Sometimes 
 i feel like i am competing with my singleplayer team mates. One of the new features to watch out 
 for is the new cover system which if I where to score it I would give it a 9.6/10. The cover is 
 extremely well done and it integrates well into the game and you will certainly need it.
  
  The graphics and sound quality is amazing from speech to the casinos. if this is what we will get 
 from the Unreal 3.0 engine then I think future games will only get better. I realized that it does 
 not use more that 165mb video RAM and still looks better than most games today. This game is a 
 real eye candy when you approach the casinos. Smoke is a real system killer but it does not bring 
 it to its knees. Sound is another feature that has been done spectacularly and it works extremely 
 well. Turn up the volume and you will hear what I mean.
  
  When you are done with the single player, multiplayer is a blast. Have fun. A must have for any 
 PC shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I will start by giving the PC specs I played Vegas on:
  
  AMD Athlon X2 4400+ 2.2Ghz
  2x 512MB PC-3200 Dual Channel RAM
  2x BFG 7900GT OC 256MB SLI
  Audigy 4
  
  I ran the game 
 with every detail at maximum, including AA and AF, at a resolution of 1024*768.
  
  Presentation:
  
  The game came in a very nice box. The art shows a lot about the style of game 
 that it is while playing it, as well as show many of the cool features that you can do in game. 
 The minimum specs required to play as well as the recommended are clearly shown on the back. The 
 manual inside gives you pretty much any info you could need. The story, weapons, tactics, gadgets, 
 online play, and tech support is all in there and easy to find. Unfortunately there also spam in 
 case from Toshiba and ATI that I could care less about. The in game menus are simple, and classy. 
 There is a roaming shot of the Vegas strip displayed in the background of the menu options. The 
 response time of the menu was good in my experience.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Rainbow Six is beautiful to say the least. It has the second best blood spray I have seen next 
 to only F. E. A. R.. On top of that Las Vegas itself looks fantastic. There are a few levels where 
 you shoot it up on the streets and those were my favorite partly due to the detail put into it. 
 The detail on the characters faces were very well done to, especially the facial hair on those 
 that had any. There is a price to pay, I had some lag here and there but nothing that made it unplayable 
 or hindered my fun. There were parts to the environment that were destructible like street signs 
 that were part glass and so on. It was a nice touch. I guess one og my few gripes would be much 
 of the levels that take place inside of a casino loom very much alike. I mean a little too similar. 
 I have never been to Las Vegas, maybe that's how it is there, but it seems like a little more variety 
 would of helped.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound worked really well. While the ambient music in the background could get repetitive at 
 times, the voice acting was superb. The terrorists conversations that they had with each other 
 at times were so funny that I had to pause the game, I mean that in a good way. It was also nice 
 that you could hear conversations through doors.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I enjoyed Rainbow Six Vegas more than any other Tom Clancy game in the past. That's not to say 
 i'm not a fan of the rest, because I am, I just liked Vegas betetr. i think it's because it's less 
 tactical and more arcade than the rest. Don't get me wrong, it's still a tactical shooter, but 
 it's more forgiving than any other. Your health regenerates on it's own which was neat, but got 
 to be easy and gave me too much of an edge I think. The new cover feature, which may or may not 
 have been borrowed from Gears of War, was awesome in this game. It truly made the game for me and 
 now any game that lacks it is somehow a little less fun. The enemy AI was a tad smarter than in 
 previous Clancy games, but still wern't anything special. The reason I died in many spots was because 
 of their original placement, not their superior skill. This was on normal difficulty, draw what 
 you will from that. I loved the weapon choices. Theres a bunch of different types, and each one 
 can be customized as well as on multiplayer being able to customize your armor and outfit. Choice 
 is a great thing.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  I completed the single player campaign on normal difficulty in about 15 hours, give or take an 
 hour or two. While it is not necessary to complete the Realistic difficulty as well, I probably 
 will because it was a fun story. Luckily even if I didn't want go through single player again, 
 theres a great multiplayer here. Theres 4 or five game types to go with a slew of different weapon 
 and gear combos to do. I will be playing this for a while to come.
  
  As a side note, I have heard many stories about the glitches and bugs of Vegas, I experienced absolutely 
 none so far. I completed the game without getting the patch because I had no internet access, and 
 I noticed not one glitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixsense
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  The first Rainbow Six game I played (also consequently the only one before this one) was the original 
 gritty tactical game released for the PC way back. For me at the time I found the game too complicated, 
 with its detailed planning screens where you could precisely plan out how you were going to do 
 each mission to a level of detail that you would expect Special Forces and other elite teams use. 
 The game was brilliant because it didn't follow the generic run and gun and be able to jump 200 
 feet into the air shooter. Because that was the only other game I have played in the series, I 
 won't be looking at this game in comparison to other later titles in the series.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  Obviously a games most important feature is the gameplay, despite what a 
 good lot of fanboyish rantings on this sites message board might imply. At the end of the day, 
 Vegas just plays well. No, it isn't incredibly tactical like the first in the series, so there 
 isn't going to be four hours of planning before each mission, but it's still tactical enough to 
 distinguish itself from the run and gun likes of Halo and other such bouncy FPSs. The first thing 
 that might strike you when playing is the fact that you die quite quickly, and there is almost 
 no room for even small mistakes. The games cover system, much like that of the coveted Gears of 
 War should help to keep you out of trouble in most instances where you would otherwise have your 
 brains splattered across the pavement, however. Also the open maps, which give you the option to 
 take multiple paths, will save you from throwing down your controller after dying a few times trying 
 to tackle an enemy mounted machine gun. Flanking will be your best friend throughout the games 
 single and multiplayer. But the comparison with Gears of War really ends there, as the game tends 
 to me more about moving about the mission very carefully than sticking yourself to cover only to 
 pop up and shoot 100 bullets into the face of a gung ho enemy. The first reason why you won't be 
 doing that is because the enemy A. I is quite intelligent and will take cover often, rather than 
 run at you and your two squaddies with little regard for their own being. The squad system is well 
 thought out, allowing you to dish out a move to command with a simple press of the A button, and 
 event specific orders such as moving to a door in preparation of a room clearing means you have 
 a good amount of control over your squad mates. Also their A. I isn't too shoddy either and many 
 times they might even save your behind if you find yourself in an explosive situation. The online 
 portion of the game, which features a create-a-character mode as well as rank progression, is quite 
 enjoyable, although I would have to point out the occasion freezing that occurs (even if infrequently 
 or not at all for most) can be quite irritating. You gain experience for each match you play which 
 contributes to your rank. Ranking up gives you access to more weapons and equipment which is a 
 nice feature, although the weapons you start off with are powerful enough to cause destruction 
 if used wisely. There are a variety of game modes which will please many. Team Survival reminds 
 me a lot of CounterStrike, and occasionally can cause the same frustration where you carefully 
 move about the map with guile only to be shot in the back by a flanking opponent. Overall the gameplay 
 is very solid and enjoyable, and even though the tactical aspect has been dumbed down from the 
 first game in the series, it still retains enough tactical nuance to keep the series' trademark.
 
  
  Story 7/10
  
  As with most other shooters, the story isn't particularly thrilling, but at the same time, it does 
 still contain enough within it to make you have a reason for slaughtering terrorists that have 
 descended on Vegas. Without going in to too much detail and spoiling it, it's basically about a 
 group of elite Special Forces who have to go to Vegas (as well as other locales) and kill terrorists. 
 You may pay more attention to the story than I did, in which case my summary might seem bland but 
 shooters are about shooting not about building a complex twisting plot line to keep you guessing.
 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  The graphics are very good, think GRAW but more detailed. This is only in the offline portion of 
 the game however, as the online mode has a graphical reduction to allow it to work without too 
 much slowdown. The guns look fantastic and I hear they are all accurately modelled. Facial features 
 of characters are clear and distinct but it seems this only applies to you and your squad, because 
 the terrorists are a bit featureless in comparison. But if graphics are what makes you rush out 
 and buy a game, then this won't disappoint.
  
  Play Time 10/10
  
  The offline game lasts at least 10 hours which is fairly standard of most shooters, but the online 
 portion of the game (if of course you plan to play it) will last a very long time, for me at least. 
 Getting to the highest rank is not easy and will take a lot of play time if you want to unlock 
 all of the online content (the idea of customisable camouflage is certainly appealing) .
  
  Final Word
  
  If you are a fan of first person shooters that require a bit more tactical cunning 
 than many on the market, then I fully recommend you buy this game. If you like playing online games 
 that give you a sense of purpose to playing a lot (i. e the Rank system) , then you should buy it. 
 However if you don't intend to play it online then I think you should rent it first as the single 
 player isn't long enough really to buy it. Otherwise I say buy this game it really is quite fun, 
 and immensely satisfying when you pull of a headshot from cover when you spy your adversary break 
 cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mill5je
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  OK - Quick and Easy - don't have 512MB RAM and expect to get anything more than a slide show. If 
 your rig has 512MB RAM, don't buy this game. If your rig has 512 MB RAM and you buy this game, 
 don't review this game. If your rig has 512 MB RAM and you buy and review this game, don't call 
 it 'broken', because you're the one who's 'broken'. I'm not saying anyone's cheap, but c'mon, people, 
 the minimum requirements are right there on the box, and minimum requirements are, say it with 
 me, MINIMUM...
  
  With that said, this game is quite fun. My original intention was to blast it in a review, but 
 I gave it a few more hours and really started to enjoy it. The game starts in Mexico (not as enjoyable) 
 and moves to Las Vegas (blew my mind!) . So, my recommendation is not to jump the gun when evaluating 
 R6: Vegas. From a gameplay perspective, I found R6: Vegas to be much more like Splinter Cell with 
 AI teammates than what I can recall of previous R6 titles. This doesn't make it bad, but it's a 
 'word of warning', so to speak, to all you hardcore R6'ers out there. The comments in some reviews 
 about the game being unrealistic are fortunately just flat out wrong. If you set the difficulty 
 to 'realistic' you WILL die in one or two shots, and even on the standard difficulty setting you 
 will die in one hit if a baddie hits you on the dome. All things considered, let's just say that 
 I recently bought a brand new rig to play these 'next-gen' games, and I have spent the majority 
 of my time by far playing this one (over Oblivion, Company Of Heros, etc.) . The only thing I'm 
 at all concerned about is the length of the single-player game, but that's just because I don't 
 want it to end. A really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biteme12345
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Again, I wish I had believed the reviews when I saw them, unfortunately I didn't. My game will 
 not even load the main menu. Despite the fact that I am running a 3.2GHZ Intel Processor, an X800 
 with 512mb of Ram and about a terabyte (yes, a terabyte) of hardspace. The game simply does not 
 run. I find this unfortunate considering the game LOOKS beautiful in all of the reviews! Please, 
 be VERY careful when purchasing this game, if your system does not EXACTLY match the system specs 
 in the required area, it will not run. The system check that came with the game is also broken. 
 It showed my x800 as NOT having shader 2.0, which, after referencing the site, and talking to some 
 techs, I have discovered that it actually does. Sorry UBIsoft, but you just took a hit in my books. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warriorlax1234
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the rainbow six series.... and I am sure all of you have been thinking 
 the things I did when playing the older versions of the series... why can't we use cover? Oh this 
 would be cool to do and much more!!!!!!!! But with this game.... the gameplay to me is what makes 
 it the best.... great graphics make this game come to life... you do really feel like you are in 
 las vegas going at it toe to toe with the nastiest terroists known to man.... the gamespot review 
 is correct the story is weak..... I would of picked a different opening level to develop the story 
 better but hey its not too bad.... The game is kinda of a system hog.... I had to move to pci express 
 myself and a x1950 pro to play the game with everyhing maxed on on a 1024x768 resoluton.... but 
 it is woth it.. unless you don't have the hardware... don't even bother with the game.... but if 
 you have the hardware... and are looking for a game that is full of non-stop action.. tight firefight 
 positions... and a solid tatical shooter.. this game is for you!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjarrideath
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is truly amazing, its not like any other r6 game or fps game. This game is kind of 
 mix of Splinter cell and r6 you can do some cool moves and hide behind walls wich gives this game 
 a really good feel! your team has a great ai. And you can take a rappel and shoot your way inside 
 some building.
  The weapons are great too alot of cool guns. And the graphics are just amazing too! Next gen! The 
 multiplayer is awesome too, especialy the coop mode i love to play the single player maps with 
 some other guys on the net! really cool **** :)
  Great game for the money, if your going to get a tactical fps then buy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anteares
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This new Rainbow Six is really a battlefield type of game. Its barely tactical like Rainbow Six 
 Raven Shield/Athena Sword were. The terrorists are the same throughout the game... which is getting 
 old... can't we get a mix instead of just mexicans like in this one? I didn't like that about Ravenshield 
 either but you think they'd actually take the time to improve on areas like that?
  
  Obviously not. Instead, what you have is a good Gears of War type game set in LV. The game is fun 
 albeit easy. I blew through with a friend on co-op in just a few hours... which goes to my next 
 complaint... the story. Why didn't they put story in the co-op game? Another potential improvement 
 sorely missed.
  
  It looks like we will continue to see uninnovative clones as long as the Xbox 360 is around. Its 
 too bad because its really a pretty decent game... but I'd rather play Gears of War if I'm going 
 to play an Xbox 360 game like this. Give us back the type of shooter we had with Ravenshield for 
 the PC. Until then, stop trying to trick us by slapping Rainbow SIx on your products Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iloveaubrey
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a fun experience, but it needs to be polished. The graphics are top notch in some 
 places, but in other places it looks sub par. Some people have frame rate issues on high settings 
 but i havent had a drop below 45 frames yet so IDK. The sound is good, until your squad mates open 
 there mouths. Speaking of squadmates they do a great job of killing tangos ( bad guys) , which is 
 the best part of the game. Vegas is a beatiful color field enviroment to fight in, but it needs 
 a little more work. It is also a fairly short game, but it does have decent multiplayer to keep 
 you entertained for a little while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikepigeo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  Luckily.... Im very tolerant of Bugs and crashes, thats why im a PC gamer! Because I know that eventually 
 a patch will fix these bugs. Sure they're are frusterating, but i am going to over look them in 
 this review just like I do when I'm Playing the game and just like other people should... just be 
 patient, a patch will fix it soon enough! Anyways, here it goes. Starting with the graphics, this 
 game blew my mind. It's the best looking PC game i have ever had. Better looking than Oblivion, 
 better looking than BF2 and BF2142, better looking then F. E. A. R., this game looks AMAZING! The 
 motion Blur effects are top notch and the shading and lighting are too good. This all looks better 
 than it does on the Xbox 360. The sound sounds great, but it does certain sounds effects at the 
 wrong times, this mainly happens in Multiplayer only but has happened just a few times in the campaign. 
 For example, on the LVU level, when you spawn on the roof, you can fast rope ( i love doing that 
 ) through the skylight, and it makes a very cool windy whistling sound once your inside, but it 
 made this sounds all the way through the game, even when i was no where near that room and the 
 skylight. Frusterating? Not really. Annoying? Defenitely. Almost drove me insane! Then again, i 
 overlook the bugs, because theres a patch that fixed all of that! See what patience will get you!
 
  OK, the gameplay is soooo neat. I love the Gears-of-War-ish, GRAW-ish-duck-behind-cover tactic. 
 Rappeling down a building and crashing through a window was fun in the Splinter Cell games, but 
 this is waaay better, and all of this great gameplay is way better on the PC then on the Xbox 360 
 because of the mouse. By the way, for my rating, the difficulty i put it on is going to be hard 
 or very hard, because i only played it on Realistic difficulty, not normal difficulty. Oh yeah! 
 That reminds me, in Realistic difficulty setting, the game is dead realistic. Its amazing. If you 
 get hit in the chest, your armor stops it, but the wind gets knocked out of you you or something 
 and your vision blurs, and if you take another 1 or 2 shots, your vision blacks out. If you get 
 hit in the chest by a more powerful weapon from far away or a weak or powerful one from close up, 
 you'll probably die. If you get hit in the head once from any distance, your dead. I LOVE IT. Wonderful 
 blood effects too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the new shooter game based on the Tom Clancy Universe of Rainbox Six Games. 
 And in my opinion, it is a great and fun game. You play the role of Logan Keller, A squad leader 
 for the world's most advanced coutner-terrorist unit Rainbow Six. The story is pretty simple with 
 some plot twists to it. Maybe one that should wow the player but thats about it. Actually, the 
 big twist doesn't really make sense if you were to think about it. But that doesn't really matter.
 
  
  Single-Player:
  The single-player portion of the game is actually a little shorter than most game lengths. I finished 
 it in about 5 sittings. But i to intend to play the game again because there are many different 
 ways to approach each and every room. Also, it has the usual terrorist hunt modes that Rainbow 
 Six fans know of. Terrorist Hunt is pretty fun and gives a good amount of ways to change it up. 
 Multi-Player:
  The Multi-player portion of the game is fun and should give the game a long period of players to 
 come. It has a couple of modes like Co-op Story, Co-op Hunt, Team Tactital-shooter, and Team survival. 
 I've encountered little amounts of lag but nothing out of hand. The multi-player Usuaully runs 
 at a great pace. A. I:
  The A. I in the game is good for most cases. They get behind cover, use grenades, smoke grenades, 
 flashbangs, they somewhat flank, and they even rappel from buildings. You can hear the enemies talk 
 about the situation of the story on their side. But some of it recycled. I've heard the same employee 
 talk a couple of times already. The only problem is that sometimes the A. I is kind of late on their 
 reaction time. Meaning, that if there were two guys in a room, and one of the got shot w/ a silenced 
 gun, the other one kinda just reply Oh i guess its clear or something like that. And sometimes, 
 they know where you are to well. The squad A. I is generally good and i didnt find any really problems 
 w/them.
  
  Your Squad:
  For about 90% of the game if not more, you will always be commanding a squad of two people. You 
 can order your squad to move to a certain position, or move them to a door to get ready for an 
 entrance. Order than to rappel down a building, break into the building. What i find pretty cool 
 was that you can order them who to take out first before entering a room using the snake cam. Also, 
 your squad really never dies, unless you unload a clip on them or they get blown up by a grenade. 
 If shot a lot, they tend to fall down and be injured. But you can come up to them and heal them 
 by giving them a medical shot. Or you can command your other squadmate to do it for you. Which 
 is prety cool. Your squad will tell you whats going on in their point of view through the radio 
 chatter you will hear. For instance, if one of your squadmates kills a bad guy he will say any 
 keeping score?! and things like that. And if they are changing mags or pinned. And if they are 
 getting shot at you will hear them pain shouts. So you know you need to help them. You can control 
 their rules of engagement to return fire only, or fire at will. Which is pretty cool.
  
  Graphics:
  The Graphics in the game are superb. The ways the casinos were made and the scenary 
 in them is just amazing. There is a lot detail in the game and physics, so everything does seem 
 lifelike. You really do a sense that you are fighting in actual vegas casino. When in those casinos, 
 its hard to pay attention at the battefield, when the battlefield is really nice. Great Shining 
 sounds, lots of lights, different settings, and beautiful art that was done for the casinos. Also, 
 the levels are pretty sick. BUT. you do need to have a pretty good graphics card and precessor 
 to play the game.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is strong, but as a some weird problems with how the spanish terrorist 
 were talking, it seemed kinda fuzzy. But other than that, the sounds of bullets and gunshots are 
 great. The Voice in works pretty well w/the game. So there is no really bad convos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaejiin
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I noticed the game allows you to choose between Normal and Realistic settings. Since 
 I value realism in tactical shooters so much, I went and chose Realistic mode. Little did I know 
 how disappointed I would be within just five minutes of play.
  
  Gameplay:
  I saw no health indicator - the player doesn't even know the condition of their own body. And no 
 sprinting? Not even a slow run? No, forced to walk everywhere. While taking cover is a nice touch, 
 as is the rappelling and snake cam and so forth, the bullet damage is horribly off. Although headshots 
 do kill in one hit (as ALL realistic shooters should have it) , it takes an average of 2-3 shots 
 anywhere else just to get a reaction out of an enemy. Sure, they grunt and spurt blood, but they 
 still act as if nothing happened. In Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, when you shoot an enemy in 
 the leg or other extremity, they drop to the ground and roll, or show clear signs of pain and incapacitation. 
 That is realistic, and how it should be. Vegas however, leaves something to be desired in this 
 VERY IMPORTANT department. I also tried shooting my fellow teammates point-blank in the face and 
 it took at least two shots. Again, they stood as if nothing happened. I tested several times how 
 many shots it takes to bring down someone. Every time, whether heart, spine, foot, elbow, stomach 
 - anywhere but the head took at least two hits. They didn't even lose fighting ability. It's almost 
 game-breaking for players who care even a little bit about realistic gameplay (especially when 
 choosing the Realistic setting) . I used to play Rainbow Six Rogue Spear several years ago, and 
 it did all of these things the right way. Vegas may have newer technology, but it fails to live 
 up to the realism of the R6 series.
  
  Graphics:
  For the most part Vegas looks good. My system can handle maximum video settings, so I know what 
 it's intended to look like. I see a lot of other player reviews talking about crashes/bad performance 
 even on dual 7900 SLi. Well I just have a 1.8GHz Athlon 64, a single 7800GT, and 1GB 400MHz RAM, 
 but it works fine for me. Anyway, the graphics are pretty decent, but zoom blur effect when shot 
 at is annoying and rather pixelated. Character models are detailed but not very lifelike; their 
 eyes are fixed in place like statues (unlike Half-Life 2, for example) . And it could have been 
 a patch bug, but my character in singleplayer has no eyes at all!
  
  Sound:
  In short, unimpressive. The Options menu doesn't even have advanced sound settings (major score 
 deduction for that) .
  
  In conclusion, I think this game is mediocre at best and a huge disappointment to fans of the series. 
 Bottom line: If realism is what you want, steer clear of R6 Vegas. I would return it to the store 
 if only they wouldn't make me exchange it for another copy of the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llflamingicell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review as i thought it deserves it in every way due to how many people are giving 
 poor reviews. I have played every Rainbow Six Game , Every Ghost Recon, and loved them all. This 
 game blows them all away, no questions asked. People can't rate a game due to it being too powerful 
 for their systems to handle it. Yes, This game is VERY demanding, but just because you don't have 
 a good enough system, it doesn't mean the game sucks. Get a banging system and then do the grading. 
 The graphics are amazing! Game play is flawless. After the 1.02 Update, i think it stopped many 
 of these 'bugs' from occurring. I just played through the game in 2 days loving every minute of 
 it being so attached to it. My game never crashed, glitched, or ANYTHING. Get a system that can 
 handle it then you can rate it. This game is so amazing with the whole thing about leaning against 
 a wall, blind firing, peeking out and firing, just EVERYTHING. The story was pretty good actually, 
 i don't see why people were hating on it. It wasn't inevitable and it was entertaining. This one 
 actually has a storyline unlike the other ghost recons or rainbow six's. In those games they give 
 you a scenario and you complete it. This, there is actually a storyline you play through, which 
 makes the game much more interesting to keep you playing and seeing what happens next. It is very 
 easy to maneuver the AI as opposed to the other Tom Clancy Games. It to me, is a flawless game. 
 So as i say again, If you have a system that can handle it, go for it and you will LOVE it. My 
 system: Pentium D 2.8GHz , 3GB Ram, 7800 GT Nvidia 256mb PCI-E, and i could handle it on maxed 
 out graphics without any lagg and very playable at 800x600. If you can handle it, go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  first, lets get the bad out the way. its buggy. crouching on the floor for too long send you half 
 way through the floor and says your dead. secondly, the game itself is a bit twitchy. ive looked 
 at my spec and what it recommends and its better or the same as what it wants and still manages 
 to throw all the power in the recycling bin.
  
  thats the bad.
  
  the good just goes on forever. totally customisable kit. my fave is the Tavor (wrongly named in 
 the game for legal reasons probably) with an ACOG scope and supressor with my secondary being a 
 PSG1 with 6x/12x scope and a raging bull revolver. its owns.
  next, the graphics. ive heard people on forums slagging off the graphics at how they were too bland, 
 all of them, and im not joking, were X360 fanboys.
  the graphics are beautiful, maybe not upto the 360, but it will give it a run for its money.
 
  gameplay, bliss. being completely supressed by terrorists, just stick your gun around the corner 
 and blind fire! the tagging system is cool to, in a hostage situatio with a terrorist pointing 
 his gun at a hostage, you want him taken out first. thsi just allows you to take out specific targets 
 before anything else.
  my only nibble with the game is its way of just getting you into unwinnable situations. in the 
 first mission where you meets up with your team mates, they lay down smoke for you (example of 
 the AI) and you run across the road. BANG! youve been owned, by a guy with a pistol. but that might 
 have just been me being careless, but if you are careless, you'll get shot in no time at all. the 
 health system is unforgiving. as you get shot, your vision blurs up to the point of blackness. 
 and this alll happens in 6-7 shots from an assault rifle. hard eh?
  and because all of the buttons and manuvers you can do with three buttons, and if your not tacticlly 
 minded, how to be tactical (sort of) it takes about an hour to learn everything.
  
  but overall, this is a game you should own. its good enough to be sitting on your desktop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Seems to be a addon to Ghost Recon with a bit better graphics in a Las Vegas setting. However leading 
 up to the Vegas graphic presentations one
  frequently is reminded of the Ghost Recon scenario quite freqently, complete with game freeze ups, crashs 
 and what have you even on a high end PC which the gamer is reminded of before he/she can even play 
 the game ! I personaly do not like a high dollar game where one is not able to save his/her progress. No 
 my brothers and sisters there is not any quick saves, the game does it for you sooo it says. However 
 this girl has not found that point in the game yet. Perhaps the cd-version has quick saves and or 
 saves. I have the online version, ie downloaded from UBI Softwares
  game site. Which is quite another experience unto its self. But that is my fault
  for being impatient 
 to play Rainbow Six again. But after I finish Rainbow Six-Vegas perhaps I can be more so impressed. I 
 always give game developers the benifit of the doubt, however I never was ever able to finish
  a great game like Ghost Recon because after level 7 it crashed my puter so many times I gave up 
 in despair. I seem to be very dissapointed in Rainbow Six Las Vegas because a developer should learn 
 from all their mistakes and complaints from a truly great game like Ghost Recon. After just finishing 
 one of the greatest games I have ever played on a PC ie, F. E. A. R and its great expansion F. E. A. R.-XP 
 one would surely think that for the PC gamers dollar and especially from Ubisoft of Montreal you 
 expect but do not get a back to back great game. Now..... if I can just get past my first level crash 
 perhaps I can write a additional review for Rainbow Six-Vegas. Wish they gave refunds cause this 
 game is a true dudd........... Unless one has a truly high end computer system with every bell and 
 whistle, don't waste your moneys on this one. Oh well maybe I can get that techy guy from Ghost Recon's 
 many months of so called non tech support to help me get Rainbow Six-Las Vegas worked out and yes, maybe 
 onto level 2 after all I was silly enough to buy it instead of waiting a few months for all the 
 lil bugs to run off into the woodwork. Sorry UBI I cannot endorse this copycat of a game I already 
 purchased under another game name. Gosh gee as I play on I hit frequent crashs in the middle of 
 some repectable fire fights, but the lack of game saving leaves a whole lot of frustration to what 
 could be a great game. Just like Ghost Recon though it needs many game patchs, like for your AI buddys 
 still get in the way and are of course never at fault. Later on in the single player games as early 
 or late as Dantes Infernal ones zoom on your weapon scope freezes up taking away ones abilty to 
 zoom with the different scopes and with the snake cam feature for under the door look sees. The 
 graphics do not meet all the hype that is proclaimed for this copy cat of Ghost Recon. All the 
 hype calls for a high end PC and expensive hardware, the digital copy of this game for the PC will 
 NOT play well on high end PC's and as usal there is no technical support or patchs to address all 
 the problems. Or is UBI even listening ? The longer one plays the game the worse the game responds 
 with graphical, sound, and lake of game saving this game should be sold for FREE ! BOOOO UBI BOOO. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJoel
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Santa brought me this game along with an AMDX2 5200,8800GTS, 2G PC6400 memory and a new Nvidia 
 590 motherboard. I can play any other game flawlessly at max settings 1600x1200 except for this 
 one. I have the settings maxxed, but I only average about 30FPS which is unacceptable !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Poorly optimized and not very stable either (frequent crashes)
  
  Dont buy this unless you have the newest and best hardware, and even then it wont run great
  
 
  Maybe with 2 8800s in SLI ? Who knowsSanta brought me this game along with an AMDX2 5200,8800GTS, 
 2G PC6400 memory and a new Nvidia 590 motherboard. I can play any other game flawlessly at max 
 settings 1600x1200 except for this one. I have the settings maxxed, but I only average about 30FPS 
 which is unacceptable !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Poorly optimized and not very stable either (frequent crashes)
  
  Dont buy this unless you 
 have the newest and best hardware, and even then it wont run great
  
  Maybe with 2 8800s in SLI ? Who knows 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenhollins
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game yesterday and have played it pretty much non stop since then. i have been 
 fully dragged into its plot which is superb. something that has taken me by surprise is the nature 
 of the gameplay: it is alot more frantic than raven shield, the last rainbow six game i bought. 
 i missed out on lockdown, but according to some of the reviews on here maybe that wasnt such a 
 bad thing lol. the firefights are alot more tense, with your opponents using flanking manouveres 
 to try and outwit you and your two teammates.
  Another thing i like about this game is the start, set in mexico. this helps accentuate the change 
 of location when you are relocated to vegas. the stark, dusty landscapes of mexico contrast brilliantly 
 with the flashy, glittering environments of las vegas.
  also the range of moves made available to you and your teammates is quite impressive. the ability 
 to rappel and shoot, fast rope and breach windows really adds to the experience of being an elite 
 soldier, as opposed to raven shield where you could open doors and thats about it.
  the addition of the snake cam allows swift, on-the-fly tactical decisions to be made and again 
 adds alot of tension to the situation, wondering if all of your planning will come off, or go down 
 in flames.
  while the weapon selection isnt as varied as raven shield, it still cuts it with some quality, 
 high tech weaponry. a nice addition to the rainbow aresenal is the riot shield.
  overall, i think this game is the best in the rainbow six series, but i can see why some players 
 have some reservations about it: its sometimes over the top action may detract somewhat from the 
 tactical roots of the series, but in my opinion it is great, easily the best tactical fps of the 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk84Senate89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This is An Amazing Game! I love it! Graphics are top notch and the controls are very easy to use 
 with realistic game play. The shooting in this game is very accurate and takes like 2 or 3 bullets 
 to kill an opponent, unlike some games that require you to unload a whole clip to kill him, or 
 maybe only injure him. This game is VERY Fun and i recommend it to anyone who like a good graphic 
 FPS. There is almost nothing wrong with this game...
  
  The only thing that even comes close to being a negative to this game is that it requires an amazing 
 computer... Like a minimum of 1GB of system Ram, and a very good Graphics card and minimum of a 
 3.0GHz processor. But I pass in all of these so it runs Great. I love my new EVGA 7950GT Superclocked 
 Vid Card! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I realy don't know why people call themselfs gamers if they don't upgrade their systems . To put 
 it another way , we , the gamers , live in harsh times . WHY ? Because the today's games require 
 one hell of a lot from the CPU , and how do you expect to run a game like this on a 7800 when it 
 was built on 8800 ? Just look at the graphics , they're freaking awesome . The game runs just fine 
 on 8800 GT and if you don't like the idea about upgrading , then you souldn't play on PC in the 
 first place. And i also saw reviews about bad tactics and **** and about how Ubi ruined the game 
 , to tell you the truth , this is the Best RB game that ever was . What tactics are those when 
 a Tango see's you and stand there for 3 second without fireing at you , and they say Who the... 
 in a very relaxed way. No dog , this is the real **** ! The enemyes take cover in a very realistic 
 way , and they scream HELP !!! or **** YOU!! like in real world. Anyway , RBV is the best the moment 
 and thank you Ubisoft for this fine product , and hope GRAW 2 is still in First Person !! :P :) ) 
 Ohh , and another thing , there is a topic about the saving system , let my ask you something : 
 if you would find yourself in a RB6 soldier skin , in real life , would you be able to save from 
 a point and restart if you die? didn't think so... THERE IS NO SAVE GAME IN REAL LIFE , and virtuality 
 can't get anymore realistic then this :P bye all . Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazmaster666
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas was a great game on the Xbox 360. The PC version is no exception though for a 
 few reasons it falls short of the Xbox 360 version. But since they are on different platforms I'm 
 not going to compare to the 360 and review this game based on it's own merits.
  
  Not too long ago, Ubisoft released a game known as Rainbox Six 3: Raven Shield. It was arguably 
 one of the best Rainbow Six games of all time, mixing top-notch tactical gameplay with an addictive 
 and highly-satisfying multiplayer mode. Now, three years later, they have released the fifth rendition 
 of the Rainbow Six franchise on the PC: Rainbow Six Vegas. Gone are the pre-mission planning sessions. 
 Gone are a significant amount of the tactical gameplay. What remains however is nevertheless fun 
 and surprisingly engaging. Now we all know why this happened: it was obvious that Raven Shield 
 wasn't exactly the game that a mainstream gamer would pick up. The tactical aspects of that game 
 appealed to us hardcore gamers, but probably alienated the mainstream gamer. Hence Ubisoft decided 
 that their next two renditions wouldn't be quite as tactical but still retain the feel of a tactical 
 shooter, even though it isn't really too tactical at all. Rainbow Six Lockdown was a failure, no 
 doubts about it. However, with Rainbow Six Vegas Ubisoft managed to pull it off. Yes the tactical 
 aspect of the game is disappointing, but I don't think it is fair to rate a game based entirely 
 on it's predecessors. While Vegas falls short of Raven Shield in terms of authenticity and realism, 
 it is nevertheless a solid game that is definitely worth checking out if you're a fan of somewhat 
 tactical first person shooters.
  
  Now the story goes like this: You play as Logan, an elite special operations agent who is part 
 of an anti-terrorist organization dubbed Rainbow Six. Something fishy is going down at the Mexican 
 border and you and your three-man team are sent to investigate. I won't spoil the plot for you 
 but it's safe to say that for one reason or the other, you end up in Vegas where you will spend 
 most of your time. Overall the plot is well done and doesn't drag on too much for those of you 
 who would just prefer to get back into the action and isn't too brief for those of you who like 
 to listen to the actual storyline. The voice acting is generally good, especially your fellow Rainbow 
 commandos, who aren't afraid to spice things up in a matter of speaking.
  
  Graphically speaking, Rainbow Six Vegas is pretty to look at and has all the features of a modern 
 FPS: High-Dynamic Range lighting, dynamic soft shadows, specular mapping, normal mapping, physics, 
 superb character models, and high-resolution textures. Several of the Casino levels in the Vegas 
 portion of the game are particularly impressive, with bright lights and colors that add vibrance 
 to the game and make Vegas just come alive. However, it's also clear that Ubisoft has rushed to 
 game and ported it directly from the Xbox 360 version instead of properly optimizing it for the 
 PC. Overall, the game runs well with most of the settings on High , except for Shadows, on my 3.2 
 GHz Core 2 Duo machine with an overclocked X1900XT, however, attempting to max the game out at 
 my monitor's native resolution will result in mostly unplayable experience as frames will dive 
 below 25 FPS quite often. Also for a game that has so much modern graphical technology it's quite 
 surprising that it lacks widescreen support, and a hack is required for it to run at widescreen 
 resolutions (for instance, running it at 1680x1050 on my 20.1 LCD required a custom .bin file) 
 Equally inexcusable is a lack of Anti-Aliasing and Anisotrophic Filtering options in the game. 
 The game clearly supports both features (as I can force them through my driver control panel) but 
 both features are absent from the video menu, which was disappointing for a top-tier game like 
 this. Hopefully Ubisoft will address this issue in a later patch. Speaking of patches, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is one of the many games this year that has had a zero day patch. It seems that almost 
 right after I bought the game, a 1.01 patch had been released. Now it's nice to see Ubisoft releasing 
 a patch so soon . . . until you realize that it probably means they knew that the retail version 
 had problems and neglected to fix them before rushing the product to stores. This is a trend that 
 I hope doesn't continue into 2007.
  
  Now, the gameplay in Rainbow Six Vegas is solid and relies heavily on a cover mechanic that is 
 similar to games such as Gears of War. The idea is simple: whenever you come across a flat peace 
 of concrete, a low wall, a guard rail, a slot machine, etc. you can press the right mouse button 
 and you will change to a third person view in which your character has ducked behind cover. From 
 this position you can do several things: 1. You can blind fire your weapon to suppress the enemy, 
 this isn't very accurate but can be useful to get your enemies to duck under cover themselves. 
 2. You can move left, right, or forward to peak out of cover and shoot at the bad guys accurately. 
 3. Throw a grenade at your enemies from behind cover. Be careful however, as options 2 and 3 will 
 leave you exposed to the enemy so it's best to remain behind cover until you are sure you have 
 a clean shot. Aside from this gameplay mechanic, the rest of the game is standard fare including 
 some basic squad mechanics (hold or follow, door mechanics, etc.) and a Call of Duty 2 style health 
 system in which the screen will get blurry when you get hit, at which point it's adviced to quickly 
 duck behind cover and your health will regenerate. The more damage you take the more blurred your 
 vision will become and the darker and more obscured your vision will become. Notice that even in 
 the Normal difficulty setting you can't take a lot of damage. A couple of well placed shots are 
 enough to kill you. So the ducking under cover, and popping out to shoot mechanic is quite crucial 
 to the game.
  
  The sound in the game is also good overall. Guns, explosions, and ambient noises generally sound 
 as they should. Terrorists often speak in their native tongues and the voice acting is decent, 
 if not superb. Your teammates are regular wise-crackers and are mostly amusing.
  
  The single player campaign is relatively short even though it'll still take you a good eight to 
 ten hours to finish it (since you'll probably die a good amount of times) on Normal and a little 
 longer on Realistic mode. However the Terrorist Hunt mode as well as the the multiplayer component, 
 while glitchy, is quite fun and will probably last you a good while.
  
  Your kit in the game is variable enough, ranging from assault rifles to submachine guns to light 
 machine guns and even shotguns and sniper rifles as well as a pistol sidearm. Basically assault 
 rifles do a lot of damage but aren't as accurate as submachineguns which aren't as powerful. Light 
 machine guns can spray a lot of bullets at your enemy but suffer from high recoil and limited range. 
 Sniper rifles are accurate and hard-hitting but have a slow rate of fire and a small magazine size. 
 Shotguns are excellent for close combat but very poor at anything else. Basically every mission 
 can be won by a combination of an accurate weapon and a weapon with a high rate of fire/magazine. 
 So whether you choose SMG + Assault rifle or Assault rifle + Light machine gun is up to the you. 
 Since assault rifles have select fire and also can be equiped with a 6x scope, it's unlikely you'll 
 ever need to use a sniper rifle. Using a shotgun is feasible in a few of the Casino levels but 
 it's more of a specialized weapon that takes a lot of skill to use. You can carry three weapons 
 at a time: 2 heavy weapons and one pistol. The amount of ammo you get is quite ridiculous however, 
 so even without the outfitting boxes you'll find throughout a level, it's unlikely you'll totally 
 run out of ammo at any given time. Also every pistol, submachine gun and assault rifle can be equipped 
 with a silencer, which will not only cut down on the noise (hence not alert nearby tangos) but 
 also suppress your muzzle flash so that your enemies won't be able to tell where you're firing 
 from. The trade off however is less damage and reduced accuracy/higher recoil so in most cases, 
 it's probably best to use the silencer for one-hit kills from a distance.
  
  You also get a standard range of gadgets such as frag grenades, incendiary grenades, flash bangs, 
 smoke grenades, C4 and breeching charges. Frags and incendiaries are good for room clearing purposes 
 and smoke is useful for cover. Flash bangs aren't too effective since it doesn't seem to have too 
 much of an effect on your opponents, unless they are in close proximity to the flash. I never used 
 C4 or breeching charges in the game but I suppose they could be used in effective ways.
  
  The AI the game is quite good, especially considering the genearally poor AI in many of these tactical 
 shooters. They'll duck under cover, blind fire, and love to throw flashbangs, frag grenades at 
 you and will even use smoke grenades against you. They'll sometimes even try to flank you and have 
 a nasty habit of lobbing a frag grenade right at your feet. Your fellow teammates are also pretty 
 smart and are capable of clearing rooms on their own though in some cases they do do some pretty 
 stupid things and will require you to save them by running up to them and sticking them with a 
 needle. Make sure you do this or else, your teammates will eventually die and that means game over 
 for you. Overall however, your teammates are generally an asset even though it may be a good idea 
 to leave them behind in a few cases.
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six Vegas captures the intensity and excitement of a tactical shooter but falls 
 short in terms of the actual tactics involved. For those of you who really enjoyed the depth of 
 earlier games such as Raven Shield will likely be disappointed with the simplified tactical gameplay. 
 However, as a mildly tactical FPS, it's quite fun and offers enough fun to be worth the price of 
 admission. So in conclusion, solid gameplay and pretty graphics are a plus, but short single-player 
 campaign and poor optimization are a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexlmt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  The Bad:
  1. Still kinda dumb AI
  2. No pre mission planning
  3. You only have 1 team
  4. Your team is now a 3 man team
  5. The levels are linear
  6. The health regen is not realstic
 
  7. Weapons are not balaenced
  8. No SAD
  9. You can pick up weapons from dead tangos
  The Good:
  1. The graphics are not that bad
  2. The cover system turns out to be good
  3. Although 
 the health regen is unrealstic, you can still get 1 shot 1 kill
  4. You can make and custonize your own charater
  5. Pretty large arsenal of weapons.
  6. Interesting 
 game modes online
  7. The campagin is long
  8. Tango hunt is good solo and coop
  9. Lots of maps
  10. The gameplay is still tactical 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willytheekid
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  This game will appeal to the simple FPS crowd and thats it!....... serious.... thats it!!
  A short, easy, mindless game that saps intelligence as it goes along.
  And the great graphics..... PFFFFFFFFFFT!!
 
  The graphics (even at max EVERYTHING!!!!) are dull hazey and lack the crispness of the modern 
 PC game image, I cant understand people rating the graphics on this game?
  And the physics engine... PLEASE! Its not REVOLUTIONARY! and even THAT feels less PC physics and 
 more...... well comical styled and over does things a wee Bit .
  The options menu is just a joke! no advanced graphic settings, no advanced sound settings, and 
 what do ya know... it has a pathetic key loader.
  The sound in this game deserves a mention to.... it clicks, cuts and generally sounds weak. I was 
 REALLY looking forward to a new rainbow six game! but now feel ripped off for buying it (I should 
 have read reviews BEFORE buying)
  I miss the tactical planing and REAL skill involved in the previous titles, so much so that i might 
 just load up one and play that instead! it may not LOOK as good! but a least my brain can join 
 the party.
  If you WANT a FPS that looks GOOOOD and has physics and AI that will impress...... DONT BUY THIS.... get 
 FEAR or something...... PC and remember...... consoles where invented to keep idiots off computers! 
 FACT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bldalyncsu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  This year was NOT a good year for first-person shooters on the PC. That all changed though when 
 Vegas hit the streets for a nice end of the year treat.
  Make no mistake, this is not a Half-Life 2 or any other state of the art FPS that comes along every 
 five years or so, but it's a very good game that any FPS fan will most likely enjoy. There's a 
 large portion of gamers out there that miss the old Rainbow Six formula with all the pre-mission 
 planning. Personally, I never was a really big fan of the previous installations. To me, it just 
 didn't feel realistic to map out every single path, move and action of your teammates BEFORE you 
 actually play the mission. I prefer to make my tactical decisions under the pressure of enemy gunfire 
 based off of a realtime dynamic combat environment. That's the great thing about this game, it 
 puts you under intense firefights and allows you to decide how you want to tackle the situation 
 contemporaneously. Executing a take down in this game can be a thrill because there's more than 
 one way to perform it. You can have your teammates breach one entrypoint while you fastrope in 
 from above. Or, you can open a door, throw a grenade, then order your guys to bust in the other 
 door to take the remaining bad guys out. The gameplay mechanics are also very fluid. This is probably 
 the first game I've played where my teammates actually do what I tell them to. Taking cover behind 
 an object (which you will need to do very frequently) switches you to a third person perspective 
 which not only looks very cool but adds a new layer of tactical gameplay that's non-existant in 
 previous R6 games. The transition back and forth from third person to first is smooth as silk. 
 The A. I. is pretty good overall. I wouldn't put it on the same level as F. E. A. R, but the enemies 
 will definitely put up a good fight and try to grenade you if you don't take them out. The story 
 is pretty much standard fare, but who really plays these games for the story? All you really need 
 to know is that you have bad guys to kill and that's it. I can't really comment on the multiplayer 
 component because with the lone exception of BF2, I usually don't play games online bc people are 
 **** and cheat like hell and I just got sick off it. Perhaps the best thing about this game though 
 is the graphics engine. I currently have a 8800 GTX coupled with an X2 4600 @2.4ghz/core and 1 
 Gig of RAM. I was able to run the game with the in game settings maxed out and AA 4x, AF 16x and 
 Transparency AA enabled via my graphics card. The game runned smooth with the occasinal slowdown 
 in certain areas like the outdoor mall right outside the Japanese casino. Without a doubt, this 
 game has the best looking character models in any game I've seen so far. The faces on your teammates 
 are so real looking it's spooky. The environments look sexy as well, with excellent HDR lighting. 
 The only negative is the occasional muddy textures on some of the various signs in the Vegas area. 
 If this game had the particle effects of F. E. A. R then I would probably go as far to say it's the 
 best looking game I've ever palyed. If you like FPS's with intense firefights, fast-paced REALTIME 
 tactical planning and sexy graphics then I highly reccommend this game. Just make sure your system 
 can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Rather large disappointment if you ask me. They've successfully taken a game that had very indepth 
 pre-mission planning and all the tactics it HAD, and they've evolved it into nothing more than 
 a first person shooter with fancy graphics and physics (for those of us who bought into that hype) 
 It does look good. And I have the best of the best hardware... no problems. My biggest problem is 
 they've pretty much taken away the team management aspect and they gave you a space bar to order 
 your monkey's around as if they were commandos... they do a hell of a lot better job than the idiots 
 you had with you in Advanced Warfighter, but still.... I've seen this advertised as a game with 
 great AI.... the AI is quite frankly, STUPID. I mean, if you were staked out somewhere with your 
 terrorist buddy and suddenly a shot in the night and your buddy's brain end up on your vest..... would 
 you search for a minute and then go back to stakeout with an out loud comment like guess it was 
 nothin'..... you want good AI, Splinter Cell and FEAR are a couple that blow this game away Throughout 
 the game you will hear the same damn voice tracks as well so the random conversations that unsuspecting 
 enemies have turn out to be the same quite often. How much work could it have taken to lay in some 
 more vocal tracks.... random ones at that ..... All in all I give this game a big BOOO..... disappointing, 
 this company never gets everything right.... if the game rocks, the interface sucks, if the interface 
 rocks there will be gameplay bugs.... hell I couldn't even get the damn game to start for a minute 
 there because they frickin use Securom which hates my ipod video conversion software and refuses 
 to run my game until I oust the software... and they wonder why everyone hates securom.
  
  One last warning, if you are expecting a nice long game to get involved in... this ain't it. I beat 
 the same day I bought it and I am not that much of a hardcore.... SC: Double Agent went too fast 
 as well but that one took me a week so there you go, I'm not one of those people who likes to bust 
 through the games....
  
  Bottom line: this game took away valuable time that I could have been using in a better way., like 
 playing the entire Double Agent game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Fade
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great game the plot ain't all that but the gameplay itself is real good 
 I love the whole Vegas scenery.
  
  The gameplay is rather good as the game is really cool and fun. But it can be quite frustrating 
 sometimes due to the f*cked up auto save system, Since everytime you get killed you have to start 
 at the latest checkpoint Again! And that means you have to fight dusins and dusins of terrorists 
 all over again and that is a true pain in the ass. But all of that measures up in the ingame experience 
 which by the way is Great! iv'e been sitting and playing this game for about 3 hours now and i 
 still can't get enough love the game it's probably one of the best tactical shooters this year.
 
  
  Now over to the graphic parts of the game: The Graphics in the game is Amazing! (if you have the 
 best PC in the world) the system requirements raises through the roof i barelly maneged to play 
 the game lagg free on medium graphic but i can still sometime sense the lagg in the game.
  But if you have a real great and expensive PC and you like tactical shooter you should definetivly 
 go and get this game since this game is real cool when you play on the best graphics. The sound 
 in the game is as usually great but there are sometimes sound glitches in the game due to lagg..
 
  
  If you like games like GRAW or other tactical shooters you should definetivly go and get yourself 
 this game its like a revolution in Tactical Shooters with Extreme cool realism..
  
  with that i end my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igurman10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  A played at my friend's computer, a REALLY nice game with a lot oftactics, almost perfectly smart 
 AI, alot of action, thinking, gun fight, and fun, this is an amazing game that feels like a true 
 swat simulation.
  
  but oh my, since when a game requires such minimum system specs?! the minimum computer is a monster! 
 1 GB ram minimum? pixel shader 3? minimum?! you will need a very strong computer to play this great 
 game, if you have it you will enjoy, but come on, some people with average computers, and good 
 computers, not the BEST, want to play as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Being a Rainbow Six fan since the beginning, I always loved the tactical element, as well as the 
 full on, quality FPS that these Tom Clancy games offer and I can safely say, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 marks a return to the series' much loved roots and won't disappoint fans.
  
  After Raven Shield, RS6 Lockdown was without a doubt a kick in the teeth for RS6 fans as they created 
 an arcadey, generic and mindless shooter. We all thought it was the end and when the next title's 
 name was released, I think many of us assumed the worst, that the series had been lost forever 
 to just an arcadey fps.
  
  Fortunatly, however, Vegas gives new life to the series as it's fantastic visuals, great sound 
 and addictive gameplay give veteran fans, and new ones alike a truely great game. Despite the game 
 being somewhat unoptimised and what many would consider a port from the Xbox 360 version, the PC 
 version of Vegas boasts impressive visuals, arguably on par or above the likes of similar games 
 such as Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter and FEAR. It does require a very good PC, however, to 
 be able to run this game fully maxed out, but if you can, you definitly won't be disappointed. 
 Unfortunatly, similar to GRAW, Vegas doesn't offer any anti-aliasing and we hope it will be released 
 in a later patch, again like GRAW, and the other graphical disappointment is the fact that the 
 game doesn't support any widescreen resolutions; but these are small problems compared with the 
 truely astonishing visuals that this game can offer.
  
  Sound is another great aspect of this game, featuring many sound effects from previous Rainbow 
 titles, the impressive booms of C4 to the crackling of walking on broken glass all add to the tense, 
 and somewhat gritty ambience. The range of music is slightly limited although it is very appropriate 
 and really adds a sense of paranoia and adds to the already tense gameplay the Vegas offers, so 
 on the whole the sound effects in the game are outstanding and the music, although similar, is 
 very appropriate for the game. The actual gameplay is not disimilar to the likes of Raven Shield 
 and Lockdown although the key new feature is the cover system. A simply holding down of the right 
 mouse button next to an object, be in a oil drum or a car, pushes you against it allowing you to 
 shoot from cover. This system works extremely well and is very fluent during gameplay. From cover 
 you are able to blind fire over or around your cover or lean out and shoot more accuratly, this 
 proves to be a great deal of fun and offers a totally unique and extremely fun single, and multiplayer 
 experience.
  
  Finally, with around 15 hours of gameplay, Vegas is a super return the the Rainbow Six roots and 
 although it still doesn't have the tactical element of Raven Shield or previous titles, you, and 
 your two team mates breach and clear rooms, take cover behind cars and rappel down skyscrapers 
 to elminate a terrorist threat. One other disappointing factor is that it offers no support for 
 dual core processors, which is somewhat irritating, but a minor problem. The multiplayer aspect 
 was almost completely broken on release, however with 2 patches now available, the online mode 
 offers a great variety of game modes which are all fantastic fun. You are also able to create a 
 customised character with varying abouts of body armour, different clothing and a huge range of 
 colours and camoflauges for your gear as well as over 35 weapons. Vegas is a fantastic game that 
 i highly recommend to veteran and new fans alike and i gurantee it will not disappoint.
  
  Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lugias
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  I never seen a rainbow six like that it's amazing, not like the old boring rainbow sixes... It's 
 a revolution for rainbow six series! I The gameplay is simple and awesome, graphics are really 
 amazing, unreal engine 3 rocks, and sounds are as good as the graphics, with a 5.1 sound system 
 you're feeling like in the game, but the saving system driving me mad, the checkpoints should have 
 been closer to each one , when you die at the end of the mission, you start from beginning and 
 that makes me crazy but after all it's an amazing game.. Hope ubi soft continue making rainbow 
 sixes like this, Good Job Ubi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I dont recall ever playing a rainbow six game ( though I have heard of it before) till now. I have 
 been playing graw on pc and it got me interesting in tactical shooters so after watching some videos 
 I decided to pick this one up. Graphics wise it appears to be better than graw with the candy maxed 
 and all the blur effects look cool. Playing with a 8800gts and e6600 it has some slow downs in 
 certain areas though I could fix this by overclocking the card and processor but I can live with 
 it. I am only about an hour and a half into the game but so far I am really liking it. I havent 
 had any real issues with it ( no crashes) and I am still learning the hotkeys. This will be a game 
 that more than likely I am going to push everything else aside and complete it. If you are a hardcore 
 pc gamer like me you need to pick this game up, support pc gaming because our numbers are dwindling 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I never thought that i will be a fan of the Rainbow Six series. The first games looked quite boring, 
 but some time ago i have played Rainbow Six Lockdown. Nice game. Now i got my hands on Rainbow Six 
 Vegas and i have to say that it really is a pleasant game. the graphics are totally amaizing ( 
 if you play in Max details ) , the moves of the characters are also outstanding ( for those who 
 played Star Wars Republic Commando i think you will like that marvelous team action and the way 
 your comrades move in battle, that if you liked it in Star Wars) . Lots of guns and also very much 
 realism in the game. Not a big, great story, but if you are bored because of the recent, not too 
 many or so good FPS you have to try this, i think you will like it. A very nice game that will 
 make this end of the year a better one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skywalkerhan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  very nice, gameplay, very nice story and very nice team :) Game system monster, but v.1.1 pacth's 
 some problems the oversome. Specially ram usage and frame ratio ..
  
  perfect action, perfect gameplay, but this is game system monster !!!! Team element very competent, 
 The orders inplace of to bring
  
  Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
 Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, Perfect, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Another great shooter game from Ubisoft . Before , I adore game such as SWAT 4 which have a good 
 AI engine but TCR - Vegas has a much improved AI engine than any other Rainbow six series . Storyline 
 and gameplay is quite decent . Intense and much challenge environment . You
  won't have time to idle and constantly you need to stay alert ,if you don't want to get yourself 
 being hunt down easily . Sound and background effect is equally well done . The main core of the 
 game is at Vegas but first you need to get thru Mexico
  mission .Should not pose any problem . As the intense and delicious part of the game land at Vegas 
 . That's where you skill and vigilant count . Just stay cool and alert . But make sure your system 
 have a strong heart to take it or else you won't enjoy the game . Especially , during Vegas mission
 
  as you expect heavy resistance , gun fight and strong background demand .
  Overall , its should give a good value for money for those followers of Rainbow six or new comer 
 to the series . Negative point is that you need a
  good processor and a strong video card in order to enjoy the game fully .
  Another point is that 
 ,I don't quite like the idea of check point save game method . Imagine , you spend hours getting 
 thru that tough situation . Finally, you manage to reach for the door and before you aware . A stray 
 bullet hit you from behind and there goes all your whole day effort down the drain . As you will 
 find yourself starting all over again . Quite frustrating indeed. Especially , Vegas mission . 
 Stay forcus .....
  
  Nows day game are becoming more demanding . Before you even notice , your system might already 
 been outdated . Therefore , think at least 2yrs in advance, if you want to DIY a set . Happy gaming.....! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Playing the first half hour or so of this game, I thought wow this is great, but dont be fooled 
 by the fancy bells and whistles of fantastic graphics and good sound. The real issue is gameplay 
 and this is where Vegas falls down.
  
  It strikes me as an improved rehash of the very poor Ghost recon advanced warfighter rubbish that 
 hit the shelves earlier this year. Whilst this game has the potential to be great, it uses the 
 checkpoint gameplay system which means you end up playing the same bit over and over and over again 
 (prolly to string the game out) . Checkpoint is so annoying and frustrating !!!!
  
  With regard to multiplayer it is very much a counterstrike clone but the graphics are much worse 
 than the single player game
  
  As said above graphics and sound are great, some good cut screens too, but the game is buggy and 
 checkpoint saves put me right off.
  
  If it wasnt for the checkpoint system this game would have got a really high score. It's a shame 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have just completed the game on Normal mode and I am a little bit disappointed with the game 
 although I will play it again on realistic and see if the extra challenge makes me like it more. 
 The game just didnt draw me in like other games in this genre like swat 4 which had me getting 
 frustrated playing the game but at the same time enjoying it. The game isnt really a tactical shooter 
 at all, its more like a fps with a squad which isnt neccecarily bad. I havent played the older 
 Rainbow six games so i cant really compare the changes but i would say they must of simplified 
 it alot. The cover system is fun to use and makes this game stand out from alot of other games 
 and it works very well though. The AI on this game has its moments but its not all that great. 
 The graphics on this game are a mixed bag, i found the earlier shadowed sections of the mexico 
 levels looked very drab and uninteresting but on certain levels like the beginning of dantes casino 
 it looks just spectacular. (I was playing with everything on high 1024 res and experienced no major 
 slowdown) The character models are all very well done and look fairly realistic. The sound effects 
 and voice acting are all good with lots of swearing throughout it. One thing that sucked is the 
 games length, It was really short I thought it would be much longer and the ending is very unsatisfying 
 leaving you with a To be Continued before the credits :/ The game is a good game no doubt about 
 it but its not as great as i thought it would be. Note my opinion may change after the multiplayer 
 portion of the game is working better and I play on realistic mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  Firstly I'd like to lead out with what a decent system is. For all new games, you can't run a 9800 
 Radeon, or a 6800GT Nvidia card. That's not a formidable system, period. You need at least a x1000xt 
 series card (x1800xt, x1900xt/xtx, or the 7000 series from nvidia ( (7800gt etc) . You can't call 
 a system full of 2 year old gear a good system when you are refering to how well it plays next 
 generation games. Hell, even the next-gen consoles have more power then that, thus they can play 
 these games...
  
  Now on to the review from someone who can run the game flawlessly for hours on end without a single 
 bug or crash, with every setting on, and on their highest settings...
  
  ---
  
  Firstly, I think they are really trying to step up and innovate the tactical shooter genre, while 
 still making it different then the new Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter series. It adds a bit of 
 fantasy, with the very sweet blind firing from behind walls, taking cover, and the oh so sweet 
 upside down rope hanging shooting in windows action.
  
  Even on the highest settings the game doesn't look quite as good as some of the other games, it 
 is definitely designed for the consoles, because there are plenty of PC titles out now that look 
 better. But the graphics do suffice, and keep the immersion of the game in tact. The immersion 
 is however limited, and the levels aren't as free-roam as the Ghost Recon sister title. Which is 
 refreshing to an extent. After playing games like Elder Scrolls, GRAW, and other next-gen titles 
 that thrive on giving players a huge environment to do what they wish with, its nice to have a 
 bit more of a guided direction. But if you're looking for the immersion of Warfighter then you 
 will not find it. The Team-AI isn't genius, but its an improvement from the blithering idiot teammates 
 you have to deal with in the first GRAW, and due to the well put together tactic system, if you 
 plan things right, you shouldn't have too big of a problem. The GUI is a tad bit confusing at first, 
 but the tutorial in the first few levels, if you pay attention to such, should cover all of the 
 basics. Just play with the light on for the first few hours, because you'll be looking down at 
 your keyboard a bit until you get the hang of things. Those that lack the virtue of patience, should 
 stay away from this game, because it will take a while for you to get to the point where you can 
 plan out your iniltration of areas at first.
  
  I do agree that the tactics feel of the Ghost Recon/Rainbow 6 series have been tainted for a while. 
 Concentrating a bit too much on gadgetry and technology, they got away from the true essence of 
 the first two Rainbow Six titles. However, in this one I think they tried to get back to it. However, 
 I think a lot of the criticizing this aspect comes from the lack of understanding. Don't judge 
 it by the first few levels, you're in a very spread out area and tactics are hugely different. 
 It will remind you of most of the levels of GRAW because you're in an urban area of Mexico. You 
 won't get into that close quarters tactics of the old R6 games until you head to Vegas.
  
  Overall I think the game has its flaws, such as the AI is still a bit dull, though it has been 
 improved since GRAW, the graphics could use a boost on the PC release for those of us with decent 
 rigs. If you can't play GRAW 1 then don't even bother with this title, and save the money you'd 
 spend for it on a decent GPU. Just because you can run Source doesn't mean you have a good system. 
 Keep such in mind in the future.
  
  As far as I can see the game is pretty clean, I haven't ran into any crashes, or technical problems 
 as of yet. Since you can do many different things the controls are different, but nothing that 
 play-time can't fix. Overall I think they really improved, and are on their way back to having 
 the best tactical shooter title around with the Rainbow 6 franchise. I recommend you play past 
 the Mexico levels before giving this game a review. Vegas will eat up your memory with the environments 
 being so glittery, but if you have a truely decent system you should be able to run it fine. Ubisoft 
 has great customer support so if you run into hardware conflicts it shouldn't be too big of a deal 
 to get it running. The truely biggest problem I found, and I've found it with a lot of newer games, 
 is the sound code being truely inconsistent. Sometimes you can hear gun fire right, othertimes 
 you have to turn so that its behind you before you can hear it. This shouldn't be a problem for 
 console runners, but for those of you running surround sound setups on your PC, you may need to 
 look for some tweaks and fixes and such for the sound to truely be optimal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owenjf
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game shouldn't have been released under the rainbow 6 banner. R6 is supposed to be a tactical 
 shooter, not some fantasy FPS. Ubisoft have gone for the mass market console appeal and used the 
 rainbow 6 name to sell a different game from what R6 is supposed to be. They might as well have 
 made a sports game and called it R6, same difference! Why did they not simply create a new brand 
 or kept it under the ghost recon brand. The PC made rainbow 6 what it is &amp; the fans made the 
 reputation, ubisoft should have given some respect to that. I wont buy another game they are involved 
 with now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I am reviewing this game as a longtime fan of the Rainbow Six series. I was pumped today when I 
 picked up my copy, rushed home and installed the game. After install, I went to the menu and noticed 
 lag right away. Lag? I have a fairly beefy system and didn't understand why it was lagging. All 
 the settings were set to medium and the special effects turned off. The game ran a bit better but 
 still not great. I thought SLI 7900GTX's were still considered powerful. Not for this game. I campained 
 in single player mode and wondered why the heck does it run so crappy when the graphics are just 
 substandard? After playing a bit, I started comparing this game to my favorite in the series which 
 was Rogue Spear. The graphics were not as flashy, but the fun factor was there. What is this hiding 
 against a wall crap? Peek and shoot in my opinion was way better. For those who played a lot of 
 Rogue Spear multiplayer, know that many servers even banned peeking in the game. It doesn't seem 
 quite as fun as Rogue Spear. You can't name the servers which really sucks because you cant title 
 specific game types like pistols only. I miss the ability to do custom patches, maps etc. There 
 is no audio setting controls. A big aspect in the enjoyment of a next gen PC game is also in the 
 audio. With no settings like EAX or surround settings, It keeps me wondering if I am missing something. 
 Yes, the graphics are flashy, and there are a couple of cool additions of equipment, but where 
 is the fun? What is the point of playing a game with cool graphics when most people have to result 
 in running it low with eye candy turned off? One of the big reasons I bought this game was the 
 multiplayer element. Yes, many game modes are there, but yet it seems unfinished and incomplete. 
 It's missing critical info like ping, selectable server info priority and clan creation. All I 
 can say that it is a great almost attempt at a continuing franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezlivn
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I just wanted to pass a long this little tidbit. I have a decent system.. AMD 3800 with a nvidia 
 6800 ultra. That being said I couldn't run the game on my system. I've never had a problem prior 
 to this and I have read that others were having the same problem. The characters were cloudy and 
 the sky was just black pixels. Anyway that's a lot of money to blow so I wanted to warn anyone 
 I could. I was lucky. The guy at bestbuy let me slide and actually gave me a store credit. That 
 is after I talked myself senseless with the manager. Cya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreyarHunter
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is one of those games that turned out really well on the Xbox 360, but just 
 as Splinter Cell: Double Agent the port turned out about as bad as a bargain bin game. Issues ranging 
 from crashing, to poor visual quality plague this release.
  
  Video:
  Unfortunately the FrameRates are a very big problem even on my machine it is running at a poor 
 12 to 15FPS. Sometimes it can get up 30, but that's in rare cases. Even worse part is that texture 
 filtering seems rediculously poor especially on the Prologue. It's bad enough that the blur causes 
 a blue tint past that Sphere , but there's also a major problem with clipping. Pressing up against 
 an iron railing, they end up going through the character. There are no options to change various 
 filtering options for the textures and the like.
  
  Audio:
  There aren't too many options in the audio department, causing some sounds being missed when someone 
 fires from behind. I use a set of headphones, and therefore I can't actually hear anything from 
 behind me. On top of that, the grenades seem to be lacking in audio punch.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer seems a lot more fun that the single player, mainly because of the 
 stupid AI in single player. However, the lack of VIOP integrated reduces the ability to work as 
 a team.
  
  Stability:
  Unfortunately trying to play the multiplayer component has major issues. Trying to join a multiplayer 
 game with the basic settings (Quick, or Custom) causes an instant crash. Not only that, certain 
 actions on servers causes a crash as well. These generally crash five to ten minutes of play, and 
 it seems to generally be almost all the players in the server crash at the same time, as well as 
 the server itself.
  
  Other bits also include the failure at actually making sure that walls that look like they should 
 be able to use aren't limiting tactical positions.
  
  All in All, Ubisoft is rediculously failing in the PC markets. There is no reason for no multi-core 
 support as the 360 has three cores, and the PS3 has seven. I really did want to like it, but it 
 fails generally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsharad007
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game sucks big time. If ever there is a FPS i am ever excited about its the Rainbow Six or 
 the SWAT. Well since this is technically not a Rainbow Six (more like Rainbow Three) i am just 
 gonna think this game never happened.
  
  Well business login dictates that make the game more accessible for the younger and stupider (its 
 a fact that your brains don't increase with your fathers wallet size) so the developers have just 
 dumbed it down to the point of absolute stupid. Maybe you can make big bucks with a truly great 
 Heritage and Higher Budget to Marketing than to the game development as shown by the recently hated 
 NFS: Charcoal (everyone hated it and yet everyone bought it on the D-Day) but i am not buying this 
 crap with my hard earned money. i will not even waste time trying to get it illegally.
  
  People this is just another Crap pushed down our throat by those guys in armani suits and porshes, ferraris 
 and astons. Say NO to Bad Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrianWerner
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  This is a hard game to rate. As Rainbow Six title it; s a total failure, it has little little realism, 
 no pre-mission planning, the team got smaller, you have extremely limited control over them, the 
 game got much easier, no more one-hit and you die , it has regenerating health (Clancy must be having 
 a heart attack :) ) and the whole game basically took tactical elements and threw them away and 
 replaced them with fast-paced action. So if you loved Rainbow6 before, this one won't be loved 
 for the same things.
  
  Now. It's that bad if you treat is as separate game, without all the hopes and expectations fans 
 of team Rainbow have. On it's own the game is quality shooter, the locations are good, the weapons 
 are very nicely done, the enemy AI is pretty average, altough your team members AI is better, the 
 shoot-outs look spectacular though and are fun to take part in. The game unfortunatelly is horribly 
 unoptimized. It takes a beasty PC to run, and it doesn't look anywhere near as good to rationalize 
 such performance. Especially textures are mediocre quality and the blood is seriously overdone. 
 Animations are amazing though.
  
  To sum up: horrible tactical shooter, very good arcade shooter that doesn't reach it's full potential 
 because of rushed code.
  If you wanted new Rogue Spear or Raven Shield forget about Vegas, but if your'e looking for fun 
 shooter this might be just for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmtaylor75
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  Raven Shield was the best I thought, I bought Lockdown and was very dismayed. I decided to try 
 this out and now I'm very happy I did, the cover
  system is so cool, something that the previous versions did not have, the terrorist still lack 
 brains but they are not retarted anymore. I 'm just so happy they did this game some justice. The 
 graphics are just so awesome kind of look better than xbox 360. I could run it just fine at 1280x960 
 smoothly with my X2 4400+, X1900XT and 2gigs of ram ; you just have a dual core or a fast single 
 core processor, and a video card with 256 and above. With that said,
  This is the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Generally speaking this is a very good FPS game - highly addictive, realistic and immersive. I 
 played it for 7 hours straight on the first day and had lots fun.
  
  I give gameplay a 9 mostly because it has the best AI compare to all the First Person Shooter games 
 i have played. The enemies in the game are smart, flexible..... they will use most things you can 
 use like frag, or smoke grenades...... and they will move around when engaged. Once, it was incredible 
 that one single terrorist flanked my team and killed 3 of us (though i loved it) However, I didn't 
 mean that your AI teammates are dumb and retarded. As a matter of fact, they are SO good that they 
 kill enemies faster than you do. Believe me, they don need your help . Most things in the game 
 will respond realistically to your movement, and the recoil from guns is nicely done too.
  
  The missions are fun and tactical. Although not as tactical as Raven shield , you Will need 
 a plan or you can easily get killed. The story is not divided by missions but checkpoints, and 
 the loading is fast (around 10~15 seconds with my intel core E6400) which means basically you have 
 a single long mission.
  
  The sound adds immersion to the game. Least i think so. you will notice the difference if the sounds 
 are coming behind a door or wall, and i loved the all the swearing and screaming.
  
  Despite all the fun the game delivers, it has some major issue with the graphic, and the system 
 requirement is way too extreme. I don't know about the X360 version, but in the pc verion, often 
 you will notice how ugly and blurry the texture is on some buildings and objects. Obviously, UBI 
 just rushed it out for some more profits while didn't bother to do any optimizing (for pc) . This 
 is also reflected by the unstable frame rate. With a Geforce 7900GTX, i'm ok most of the time with 
 settings on low and some options off.
  but often i experince noticable lag in open area, although still playable. Even though the graphic 
 isn't as good as people expected, but the system requirement is sky-rocketed. I do believe least 
 70% of pc gamers will be either unable to run this (including all those who only have SM 2 video 
 cards) , or have a nasty time struggling between quality and performance. My pc is 1 month old. 
 with..
  
  Intel core E6400
  2g ram
  7900gtx
  Asus mother board and a 450w power supply
  
  GUESS WHAT, I didn't even pass the minimum requirement, 
 lol.... because my cpu didn't have enough frequency! I can still play, but i don know how will this 
 affect my gameplay. SO.... if you think your pc can handle it, sure try it out, otherwise wait until 
 you have a nice pc with a 8800GTX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arathogorn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is , with no doubt, a mark on the Rainbow Six Series, it's a great 
 game , and you can't compare this to their previous version Lockdown .
  
  Some of the new features on the game are :
  
  Take Cover ( I just loved it ) - You can take 
 cover and once you press the basic keys ( W , S , A , D) your character just shows your face out 
 of the cover to aim your gun, but you can still do the blind fire , without showing any part of 
 your body. Amazing!
  
  Auto Healing - Like Call of Duty 2 , there's a new auto healing system, your vision gets kinda 
 weird until you're fully healed.
  
  Many more features.
  
  Performance : I can't say its very good, It requires a very good system to play it. Like SM3 GPUs 
 only... Graphics : Not that pretty, but it's ok, models are good but, not that good if compared 
 to other games, the graphics on the maps are good.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's tactical like all other Rainbow Six games, but on Vegas, it looks more simple than the others, 
 not much different tough but those new features which I wrote on this review makes the gameplay 
 better and lovable.
  
  I enjoyed it even without using the max quality of the game, I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsammut
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  i just installed the game here and im am probably the first guy in malta to have vegas since i 
 got it from england. well from first impressions the game is awesome. the first thing i noticed 
 is that the characters are not so slow like it was in the previous installment lockdown. the game 
 is now more fast paced and action packed and it really feels more like a commando game. even though 
 my pc is not top notch and i barely meet the min requirments i still have fantastic graphics thanks 
 to the unreal engine which is simply fabulous. hdr in the game is also very nice, along with sound. 
 this game is inovative and it includes many new features. basically combining splinter cell with 
 rainbow six. a surely must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameswatson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  You can do everything from previous games except crack open doors. They've added rappelling and 
 being able to pick up guns (great feature) . The interface is better as well because they've made 
 it very easy to control your team.
  
  However, HUGE requirements cause my AMD 3500+ to run choppy with 1 Gig RAM and 6600 256MB video 
 card. Ouch! It's no fun playing a choppy game.
  
  The feature they added where you can hide behind cover is very neat and a great idea. It is a lot 
 of fun.
  
  The game comes with no paperwork to speak of. Nothing explains any of the settings in the game 
 and there is no training. They just throw you into the game and it's a sink or swim attitude.
 
  
  No damage meters to let you know how hurt you are. That's good and bad, I suppose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I would like to start this review with the bad things about Rainbow Vegas
  
  1. - High requirements (3.0 GHz P4, 1Gb ram, 128 VGA)
  2. - the story (for me) is too simple, 
 but it is good enough for some player.
  3. - Short!!! only 6 missions, and the first mission is like a beginning mission
  
  BUT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  there are 6 missions but long enough to finish this game about 8-12 hours
  the graphic is awesome, beautiful, the Unreal Engine is Great!!!!!!
  The game-play is impressive, 
 and near the best!!!
  The tactical movements is great, and as good as they can good
  
  I play Rainbow Six VEGAS on 3.2 GHz P4 1 GB ram 128 MB VGA the settings:
  Shadow: very low
 
  Blur: on/Very high, 1024*768 and it run good (about 18 FPS but the fluently run is about 20+FPS)
 
  
  Try this Game because it's fun to play, and the Sounds is also perfect, but only few really good 
 musics are in the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_emi_xxxxx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  It's true that R6 Vegas is really the best Tactical Shooter available on
  PC now only if u got A LATEST GPU in ur PC. according to me the PC Owners have been cheated again. 
 Nowadays noone really cares about the PC Version of a game that's also available on a Next-Gen 
 Console.
  
  R6 Vegas delivers the best Tactical Combat i ve seen till now.. taking cover is simply outstanding 
 and this is where R6 Vegas pwns any other Tactical shooter in the market. The gameplay is totally 
 different from what we've been playing till now. The Gameplay is really addicting.
  The A. I. is dumb as ever. Dumb enemies... The enemies look somewhere else and shoot somewhere else, 
 Start Camping... easy to kill.
  Sound's superb. Great voice acting.. your teamates repond realistically according to the situation. ( 
 their A. I. is really good) . also your footsteps volume is louder/better this time... lol
  The Graphics may be good on a MONSTER PC but not so good on my 6600GT. Not so many options in the 
 video settings. you can only change the resolution from 640-480 to 1200-1600. I run GRAW in Medium 
 settings and successfully get 50-60 FPS. R6 Vegas is an awesome tactical shooter. But I got some 
 questions to the developers.. what should we do when we can't get even 20+ FPS in some areas? why 
 do we need to buy a new GPU to play this game... lol ? why there are no options in the video settings 
 to change/lower the texture resolution? why there are no options in the video settings Like Lowering 
 the textures, Disabling Dynamic/soft shadows?
  Ubisoft has created a Masterpiece but only for X360 owners and all those ppl who are able buy those 
 expensive GPUs. well.. WD Ubisoft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvoStvO
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Great job by ubisoft... but another game that requires a good graphic card to get the best of the 
 best graphics... I have an 8800gtx on my personal computer.. my friend has a 7900gtx on his and his 
 7900 has a difficult time with all settings on high... I run consistant 60-70fps gameplay is good.. and 
 the wepons are great..... My guess is if you want the best this game has to offer you will need 
 a dual core setup and @ least a 7900GT or GTX or Radeon x1900xtx or x1950xtx.. Sli or Crossfire 
 would be just about right... Love the game Ubisoft great job and keep'em coming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tegtegson
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Highly anticipated tom clancy game that has a lot to live upto . Now im not one for rating a game 
 on gfx but they help create an atmosphere. R6V might not be as polished as the xbox360 but its 
 controls on the PC are more intuitive. There are not many options which sometimes can be a good 
 thing but a few more graphical tweaks for the diverse PC gamer isnt too much to ask for.
  
  The game, single player, is definately addictive and always seems to entice you into that 'JUST 
 ONE MORE GO !!!! but it wasnt until you reach Vegas that the game starts to shine, rewarding gameplay 
 that allows you you to complete an objective or level at your own pace and personal choices.
  
  I found the game had some intense fire fights but every now and then id get fustrated as to 
 how i was suddenly shot dead with one bullet by an invisible enemy, only to realise i hadnt been 
 covering or planning my route carefully enough. This might dampen some players spirit as you cant 
 save as and when you want, you have to complete or arrive at a pre-determined save point.
  
  theres a lot of compatability problems reported but for us lucky gamers , its a worthwhile 
 purchase and is a lot tougher than the 360 version, great sound and okay gfx
  
  thx for reading, tega 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpiliotis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  I've been playing for a few days now, and for the most part, I am pleasantly pleased with RS: V. 
 Th graphics are for the most part very well detailed and seem to run fine on my low end 7900GT 
 (CPU=P4 3.0Ghz, RAM = 1GB DDR2) . Albiet, I'm running it at a very low resoulation that doesn't 
 really bother me.
  
  The game almost feels like this is what GRAW should have been. Better AI, better weapons, and lots 
 of new views, such as peeking around walls and rapelling. The level design has a much more realistic 
 than GRAW's Mexico.
  
  Last night I got to play Co-Op terrorist hunt and I must say I was somewhat disappointed. What 
 happened Tango Down! This was the best damn part of the rainbow games! No going prone? that kinda 
 stinks too. And if you don't have any options for respawning, why not add a difibulator or something 
 to revive your fallen comrades? It sucks that you have to wait while your friends have all the 
 fun.
  
  And the gripes continue - the multiplayer menu system is flat out bad. It's too simple and doesn't 
 have a wide variety of options. These are things that we just shouldn't see in games anymore. This 
 should be a thing of the past - perhaps I'll blame it on the console port.
  
  Also, I would have like to see roles for each member in your multiplayer team. How bout a squad 
 leader who can issue orders? Or a medic loadout who can heal your team. Speaking about team - how 
 about just being able to fill out your team? Bad Ubisoft BAD!!!!
  
  All in all, its a good game, but the muitiplayer lacks greatly, which is unfortunate. While I like 
 the addition of the Co-Op modes, I wish they would have taken a card from NOLF2 and made the multiplayer 
 more interactive, and more.... well fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  The game graphics on the 360 is quite real, it plays through smooth. It's way easier to control 
 than Gears of War and it slightly plays better as far as co-op... It's a keeper but I rather have 
 rent it before I bought it. I mean, if I would have rented it first, I would of played the crap 
 out of it, but because I bought it and like it I will keep it and maybe down the line trade it 
 in to Game Stop where I bought it. The thing about FPS is that you have to be more than just the 
 player, you have to be the character and make decisions based on your game play interacting with 
 real-time-game scenarios... As any Tom Clancy plot, It's a thriller! and I for one am glad to own 
 it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerPonyPatrol
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series is a great series overall, and I have enjoyed many of the games since day 
 1. However, this game is not one of them. I would rate this game at most a 7, if in fact it ran 
 properly. After installing the game, I discovered many errors and glitches just in the graphics 
 department. And I have a hard time believing my system would not run it just fine. I have an Alienware 
 Area-51 with the Intel Core 2 Extreme processor with the GeForce 7950 GX2. One of the graphical 
 errors is that the textures become transparent and you almost seem as if you're a ghost. Might 
 seem cool at first, but deems the game unplayable. Another matter is that every random minute or 
 so while playing the game, it will just lock up for about 7 seconds. I was about to restart my 
 computer because I thought it was locked up completely, but then it continues to go.
  
  Aside from the graphic problems the game has, there are also many gameplay issues that I see. First 
 thing that's immediately noticeable is the fact that this game was just plain out not made for 
 PC, because it wasn't. I'm sure this game is a pretty decent game on XBox 360, so you'd probably 
 be better off playing it on there. But I prefer it on PC, and when I think of Rainbow Six on PC, 
 first game that comes to my mind is Ravenshield. That game looked good, and played good. If you 
 agree with me on that, then you will be highly disappointed with this one.
  
  The game lacks in the control department. You can no longer lie down, it seems frustrating using 
 the cover action, it doesn't work that well and is hard to use. It's easier to just use the peek 
 keys, but those are not available. The game is also missing quite a few things I expected to see 
 as far as equipment goes. The gun selection is fine, a little change all good. But there are a 
 lot of accessories missing. Hi-Caps from all guns except pistols, silencers, gas grenades, heart-beat 
 sensors (fun to kill someone with those stuck to their face) , and some other minor things.
  
  The game does offer a few different modes of multiplayer which is all good and everything, 
 but hard to play when the game struggles to run. The menu for multiplayer seems butchered to me, 
 and is horrible. Also, there are a few customizable things I thought were pretty cool that I don't 
 see as an option anymore. Like making your own custom arm patch, well too bad. As far as your name, 
 I didn't see a way of changing it from the default user name of your Windows login.
  
  Overall, this is just not a game meant for PC; it's definitely stuck in the 360 realm. Try it out 
 on there; I'm sure it might be a little better. But if you truly love Rainbow Six on PC, then wait 
 for Ubisoft to release one that is meant for a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jupakipal
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  This game runs like dung on pc, i have a top spec machine : conroe 6600, 2gb gskill ram, x1900, 
 etc, and this game is like what? unreal 2 engine modified? it has serious running issues, not to 
 mention the lack of options in graphics settings. Doesnt support widescreen resolutions either.
 
  
  I expected better, since originally the rainbowsix game series where out for pc, i'd thought they 
 would have supported them better, guess there just after the mainstream market now.
  
  One of the worst games ive played on pc in a long time, RUSHED PORT TBH.
  
  Bring out the patches, 
 waste of 25 pounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duhman02
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Not much a fan of the previous Tom Clancy games, I admittedly only wanted to play this game because 
 of the graphics. As a hardcore fps-er, I always found systems like duck and cover, and regerative 
 health as very... unchallenging.
  
  I am proven wrong.
  
  First off, this game is brutally difficult and isn't very kind to people just getting into it. 
 Hell, if you've never done fps-es before, you'd probably won't be able to get through the very 
 first enemy. Thankfully however, as you get used to the controls and just how much duck and cover 
 is needed, it gets easier.
  To clarify however, the game isn't so much difficult as like... Unreal Tournament, but it has quite 
 a lot to blame on the fact that it's still just a console port with relatively sluggish controls. 
 Expect to encounter lots of situations where you go I could've made that shot or argh... stupid 
 cursor moves so sluggishly .
  
  Also, the difficult can be attributed to the time it takes to reach one checkpoint to another. 
 This game really needs more checkpoints. Be prepared for endless repeats of certain firefights.
 
  
  I don't think it's an exaggeration to say that sometimes, your teammates will own even you in gunfights. 
 Efficient, and just fun to watch, you don't really have to worry about them too much. and if they 
 fall in battle, just stab them with a needle.
  
  Anyway, graphics are excellent, just make sure your PC is decent. I encountered no crashes so far, 
 and it's pretty stable. Try to get the best framerate though, as a slow framerate feels like you're 
 constantly being flashbanged.
  
  One gripe I have is the continuity of the gameplay. One moment you're having a ferocious firefight, 
 next few minutes you're just fumbling about figuring out what to do next. Not that fun. Also, eventhough 
 the graphics are beautiful, sometimes it seems a bit overdone and repetitive.
  
  I highly recommend this to anyone who has a good computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome and strong singleplayer. It could easily be the best tactical FPS singleplayer 
 on the market. However, the multiplayer mode is ... well ... can't say since it crashed almost 
 every time I tried it.
  
  Great stuff:
  - very nice and exciting maps
  - excellent gameplay
  - enemy AI works great
  - unlike GRAW that was too hard, the difficulty 
 levels here are just about right. The game is difficult enough to challenge you but not to discourage 
 playing
  - it looks like a mix of the best things from Lockdown, GRAW, and some gadgetry from SC compiled 
 in a very creative way
  - excellent weapons feel and plenty of them: 6 pistols, 4 shotguns, 4 snipers, 9 assault rifles, 
 6 submachine guns, 5 light machine guns
  - compared to its closest and most recent relative, R6 Lockdown, in Vegas you can combine various 
 scopes and silencers at the same time rather than just one or the other as in Lockdown
  - character creation is nothing revolutionary here, but it's a nice touch -- face features barely 
 modifiable, but personal armor, clothes, etc. plenty
  
  OK stuff:
  - sound is very good and in some parts excellent. - graphics ... well, some say excellent and I 
 say about average with lots of jagged edges and some serious blurring (and I use one of the best 
 graphics cards on the market right now)
  
  Bad stuff:
  - multiplayer (needs a patch ASAP; for all practical purposes the multiplayer is currently dead)
 
  - parts of console porting to PC too obvious -- selecting a silencer with directionally moving 
 the mouse as mimicking a gamepad controller; video options obviously made for a standardazed xbox 
 hardware with no variations in hardware options present on PCs, etc.
  - limited resolutions and no support for widescreen -- I don't use widescreen but would expect 
 a very common 17" & 19" LCD rez of 1280x1024 to be included
  - video options: no AA, and HDR doesn't do enough
  - AMD dual core processors may not perform 
 very well without the optimization patch (November 2006 patch available at AMD site)
  
  Overall, this is a great game (I'll give Ubi 2 weeks to fix the multiplayer before coming back 
 here and reducing this score; funny tho, they issued 1.01 patch even before the game was released 
 but unfortunately it didn't fix multiplayer) . Exciting maps, loads of weapons combined with some 
 tactical thinking and planning makes this game shine. If you are primarily a multiplayer person, 
 you may want to wait and see till this malfunction is fixed, but if it ever gets fixed the multiplayer 
 with ranks and points and multiple modes should be very exciting too.
  
  Original Post: Posted Dec 14, 2006 7:34 pm PT
  Revised: Nov 12, 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nle801
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Game is flawless and decent in a good way
  
  Pros: Gorgeous graphics depending on your rig, new ducking system, for those who do not own gears 
 of wars this game is as close as you get to it when it comes to the PC. Online coop campaign.
 
  
  Cons: Sometimes the sound skips when a video in the upper left comes up. Some of the missions are 
 ridiculously difficult which can make the game almost impossible to beat. Sometimes the blurr vision 
 can get in the way if you are getting shot and the screen turns pitch black.
  
  Thoughts: need a very high rig in order to play with low lag latency meaning more money to spend 
 during the x-mas holiday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigolon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing rainbow six games for a very long time, so I guess in that way I would be considered 
 a veteran. I never stopped playing ravenshield until the CD broke as I brought it back from playing 
 together at friends house only a few months ago. When I heard about Vegas I eagerly looked up every 
 bit of information I could find. I wanted to know everything. I wanted to know if they were going 
 to abandon the lockdown model of crappy game play for a more traditional and fun style. I saw a 
 lot of nay-sayers and complaints which made me skeptical, and I also saw good reviews from professional 
 companies. So, I spent 13 hours straight playing Vegas yesterday. I have some very firm opinions 
 of my own now.
  
  First, When I installed the game and loaded it up I was impressed by the load times. Both in single 
 player and in co-op the game loads very quickly. This wasnt because of the massive machine I was 
 running. It has a 128 AGP 8x nvidia 6800gt video card and one gig of ram. The processor is a sempron 
 2800. The game still loaded quickly. So, I started with a little co-operative play because that 
 was what I always loved. A buddy and I started at the mexico streets and played until our eyes 
 bled. As we took turns covering one another moving down the streets, listening to the faint Mexican 
 music I was impressed. The atmosphere made you feel like you were there. I watched dust blow around 
 on the road and I heard a baby cry. I watched a terrorist listen to a latin radio show and I loved 
 it.
  
  The firefights I got into were a true experience. A lot of time has been focused on talking about 
 how the new cover system is unrealistic and destroys the tactical feeling of this game. I can only 
 assume that they people who say that have not used it. When you stack opposing corners of a hallway 
 and sweep around the corners, when you have your friend open the door so you have a clear shot 
 at the terrorist in front of you, or when you get into a fire exchange and take cover before finishing 
 them off its hard to say much bad about it. Its different, yes. But it makes this game. It provides 
 an opportunity for a tactical feeling that is far beyond anything I had ever gotten from previous 
 rainbow games. Blind firing has been another point of concern, and it shouldnt be. Blind firing 
 is useful to give cover fire. Its not a way to kill people aside from when they are right beside 
 you. While playing through the game I can think of only about 3 times when I used blind fire, all 
 of which were with the goal of providing a light cover fire. Having aimed shots and shooting the 
 weapon hand of a man holding a hostage, now that has an effect. Blind firing doesnt. Its can 
 be useful, but its not something that a lot of time needs to be spent on. As an added bonus, you 
 can have your arms shot while theyre exposed during a blind fire. While were on the subject of 
 fighting, the AI is good. In RvS the bots were dumb. The clearing of rooms felt more like just 
 a blanket execution. These bots move and react to you. They use grenades well. They smoke and flash, 
 they flank, and they work together. Of course, if youre smart and you silence your weapons- they 
 may not have the chance. I loved the sound and look of putting it on. I loved the decrease in bullet 
 velocity, making it less damaging.
  
  So do I have nothing but positive to say? No. I have my gripes, but most of them are patch worthy 
 issues that dont effect the long term gameplay. I had trouble editing a custom character and then 
 returning to a lan game, it simply wouldnt find it. I had to exit and restart the game. That was 
 annoying, but not the end of the world. I experienced two crash outs to desktop. I was disappointed 
 with the co-operative terrorist hunt game mode. The map spawns you in the middle of the battle 
 and there is no room for tactics. It also removes the snake cam from your arsenal, turning that 
 mode into a much more run and gun style mode, which I didnt enjoy. It stated you pinned in a corner 
 somewhere on all of the maps we tried (about 6 of them) . Im still disappointed that certain weapons 
 didnt make it into the game. I wanted to see an m4 series rifle, a 1911, and a 226 pistol to name 
 a few. I felt that the balancing of the pistols was off. The 92fs had more range and damage than 
 most of the other guns aside from the raging bull and the desert eagle. It also had more rounds. 
 I think this greatly mistakes the USP 40 which has a larger and more damaging round it in to start 
 with.
  
  Overall, I think that this game takes a leap in the series that needed to be taken. RvS, no matter 
 how great it was, didnt bring anything new. This game does. It gives you the opportunity to do 
 infiltration in a wonderful way. For the people who claim there is no tactics in this game- they 
 may simply be trying to avoid seeing them. For the people who say it isnt pretty, Im not sure 
 what to say. Overall, this is a good game and its a worthy sequel to any of the old rainbow games.
 
  
  So, overall
  This game is around a 9.2 or 9.3 in my opinion. Its well put together and it has great offerings 
 for online co-operative play in attack and defend. It has the sounds and feel that I wanted. The 
 guns and stages are beautiful and most of all, its a real pleasure to play. And finally, if someone 
 cynically asks why I was able to write such a long review if i couldn't get off the game- I'm installing 
 it back at my house instead of on my friend's computer. The game is installed, and so this review 
 is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollafront7o2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  this is one of the greatest fps i ever played.. graphic are just gorgeous
  my computer spec are not high but i could run this game at high setting the only thing i didnt 
 like was not having widescreen support
  my spec are amd64 3500 o/c to 3.0ghz 7600gt o/c 600/750 1gb of ram...
  run pretty smooth.. this 
 game have very nice lighting.. i also have it on xbox360 i think it look better on the pc and control 
 is alot easier since i live in vegas it made it alot more fun i cant wait for unreal 2k7 and hope 
 they release gOw on pc... i give this game a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephenstoneinc
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I now see why there was no demo release. Very dissapointing. Why the bother to hasten the release 
 other then hoping very little word gets out to the public before Christmas. I should have waited 
 for someone to gift this to me or for it to price drop to 20 bucks like GRAW has. That was a much 
 better game. Not a fan of the Killswitch like duck and cover. Even with the first patch the game 
 crashed twice so far under heavy action. Definately wait if you can on this game for a price reduction. 
 Not worth the 54 I shelled out. Fool me once shame on Ubi... fool me twice... aint gonna happen. 
 From now on only reduced price games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talnick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  I got a AMD 64 Athlon 3500+, a Ge-force 7600 gt 256 mb 1 gig of RAM. which surprisingly runs this 
 game pretty smooth. The only thing I am waiting for is people to hop online so that i can try out 
 MP. Cant wait for Ubisoft and Nvidia/Ati to make patches and driver updates to make this game more 
 enjoyable on people's systems. i would like people to post their system specs and how the game 
 runs for you. Now i just have to wait for GRAW 2 and Splinter Cell Double Agent. For now i will 
 stick with Bf2 for online shooting fun. maybe bf2142. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  At the bottom of this page is my original Review.
  
  Anyways I want to say this is a better game then I thought the first 4 times I installed it then 
 uninstalled it.
  
  Graphics and performance are horrific but game play is actually fun. They need to come out with 
 some tweaks. Anyways if you have a horse of a computer then you will like it more then regular 
 Joe Schmo who's 300 dollar video card still can only run this game at 800 x 600 with super jaggies
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  This game is barely playable on a 6800 Dell 9300 that runs many other FPS , COD2, Far Cry, Doom 
 , Fear at 20+ FPS 1280 x 1200.
  
  I set this low to 800 x 600 and it was like staring a a blurred jagged mess of puke. Jack up the 
 quality you get 7 FPS for a game that you move slowly!! This isn't an action scene just walking 
 around.
  
  Just a bad looking game. Probably great on the 360. I don't have a super gaming system but I know 
 what my system can put out and the quality of graphics this game put out is pretty bad.
  
  Its a port so thats that. If you are a lover of the series and care more about strategy then enjoying 
 the visual experience then go for it.
  
  Poor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay, here's the lowdown. This is definitely a port of the 360, graphics and all. No high resolution 
 textures on most objects, with the exception of the character. Performance? Exactly what I'd expect 
 of a ported game. On an E6700 with 8800 GTX in SLI this game runs like........ crap. I had to lower 
 the res to 1920x1200 to play it at a respectable framerate and even then, in some areas the fps 
 makes it difficult to aim at high speeds if too much action is going on. Looks like a port, feels 
 like a port, and runs like a port. UBI must be cutting corners seeing as they are losing $$$ left, 
 right, and center. With that said, having played both version, I enjoy the PC a bit more as I've 
 always been a fan of tactical shooters. The action is great and the gameplay immersive. 360 offers 
 the same immersive action with vibrating gun recoil at much better framerates, and with almost 
 the same graphics if you can run it on 720p or higher. At the end of the day, it's a toss up. I'd 
 go PC just because I'm a fan. 360 however is equally as good.
  
  I am somewhat disappointed in ubi though as this is a sellout. PC gamers are looking for high resolution 
 graphics at decent frame rates and ubi didn't even attempt to modify the pc version whatsoever. 
 It's an exact copy of the 360 and hardcore pc games know that shooters don't play well on consoles. 
 The game is a bit too easy on the PC under realistic settings because you can move and aim so quickly 
 (maybe they balanced it by not optimizing frame rates.... heh) . Regardless, it's a cheap money grab 
 and if I knew it was a dupe I would not have bought it. Continue with business strategies like 
 these ubi and you will lose your dedicated pc game customer base along with those revenues you're 
 looking for to get you back in black. Next time I'll be downloading the demo first.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas PC aka Rainbow Six Vegas 360 in disguise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sj420
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  after the little training romp in mexico, you'll laugh when you finally fast rope into a dodge 
 sales event in vegas.
  
  this game is fun. yeah, its console roots are showing, and the SM3 requirement is leaving a lot 
 of people behind (i barely made it w my 6800gt) , but this is a game that must be experienced. although 
 i do agree with the other review about the franchise having changed into a more arcade experience, 
 it's nevertheless still a good game on its own merit.
  
  the game needs...
  1. quicksave (?!?!) or more checkpoints
  2. cqc quick kills
  3. prone stance
  4. smarter 
 ai (the great level designs make up for this, but please no more deaf guys in the next room)
  5. better grenade use (rolling, cooking, distance meter)
  6. ability to hop more obstacles
 
  7. WAY better use of the vegas setting.
  8. keep the audio guys cuz it's excellent
  
  i'm running the game 1440x900 on a 2.4ghz p4 w/ 2 gigs of ram, and although i have to run low quality, 
 it still looks great. widescreen hack is avail out there, although it's not perfect. the game is 
 also kinda buggy, at least on my end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssinghucla
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  r6 has sold out. No longer attempting realism - you can't hide behind cover and simultaneously 
 see everything in real life - its become a waste of time. Real men like to engage in goal directed 
 behavior - analyzing the scenario, formulating a plan, executing it under conditions that have 
 consequences (no health boost , quicksave, etc.) . The lot want to feel unwarranted satisfactions 
 - invincible, super-human lethal, dangerous, etc. pretending its not so bad/ (forgivable change) 
 that their path is already predetermined by someone else.
  
  The hollywoodization of r6, once THE tactical simulator, is now complete.
  
  Peaking is the 
 new element introduced into this game. Nothing could be more pathetic. Now we will see master peakers 
 in multiplayer. Showdowns will be between to wimps peaking at each other. Laughable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Few months ago, when Lockdown was released, most of the RS fans were disappointed. And I can see 
 why: Lockdown was an arcade shooter, whereas RS is known for being as realistic as possible.
  
  Vegas tried to bring this realism back, but along with that, it tried to make itself enjoyable 
 for console gamers, with limited abilities (lack of a whole set of keys, aiming is problematic, 
 and the list goes on) .
  
  Did Ubisoft suceed with that? Yes. The game is one of the best First Person Shooters of the year.
 
  
  First of, the gameplay is very intense, and you won't find a boring moment. The game has an interesting 
 story too - nothing big - but it's there, and it's interesting enough to keep up your interest.
 
  
  In the game, you fight against terrorists. Mostly in Las Vegas. Mostly in casinos and... mostly 
 with a team.
  
  The realism, as I mentioned is there. You won't be running around the battlefield. Run and gun 
 'tactic' is something you should forget. Even on normal difficulty 3-4 bullets can take you down. 
 Also, a new cover system is introduced. You can basically use anything as a cover. A car, wall, 
 table, whatever. When you jump into cover, the camera switches into 3rd person view, so you can 
 have a nice view on the terrorists, but you cannot be shoot, because you're hiding. Pretty clever. 
 And it works well too, the 3rd person view isn't annoying. At all.
  
  Graphically, the game is a mixed bag. It uses Unreal 3 engine ,which is brilliant. But the developers 
 didn't bother polishing it very much - the game looks like Lockdown at some places - but then, 
 at other places, it looks so 'next-gen'. Unfortunately, that's not enough to make up for the horrendous 
 system demand: the game runs at 18 - 25 fps on a 7800GT paired up with an A64 3200. What's worth 
 mentioning is the physics. Awesome. Most of the stuff is destroyable, and, the guns act just like 
 they SHOULD act. Great recoil.
  
  The music is top-notch, it definitely boosts the adrelaine at some places. However, the sounds, 
 especially the voices are a little low quality here and there, but that's ok.
  
  The only negative thing I can think of besides system requirements is the save system. Simply put: 
 it sucks. There is checkpoint-system, which normally works well, but in Vegas... it just doesn't. 
 The saves are not before, but more likely AFTER big firefights. I tell you: it's incredibly frustrating 
 to play 30 minutes, survive a huge firefight, then you get one bullet in your head - you die, and 
 you can re-start the whole mission. 30 minutes again. Besides that, the game is excellent, and 
 a must have if you like FPS games, and if your computer is beefy enough! [Note, the game does not 
 run on videocards supporting SM2 only: Radeon 9xxx series, Xxx series, Nvidia Ti series, Nvidia 
 FX series] . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
