-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Island Thunder
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tomclancysghostreconit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.2, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 427 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Red Storm Ent.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Sep 25, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Island Thunder offers more than enough in the way of a challenging single-player game and new multiplayer 
 maps for players who are serious about tactical shooters. 

 If you're looking for an action game that you can start playing quickly and easily, you've got plenty 
 of choices, thanks to the impressive number of excellent action games released just this year. 
 But if you're a fan of more-realistic games, you might be more interested in a tactical shooter 
 like Ghost Recon: Island Thunder. For its modest $20 price tag, Island Thunder offers more than 
 enough in the way of a challenging single-player game and new multiplayer maps for players who 
 are serious about tactical shooters -- but anyone else may find the game a bit too frustrating.  
          The Ghosts are back in action.    

  Island Thunder is the second expansion pack for Ghost Recon; the first, Desert Siege, was released 
 earlier this year. Like its predecessors, Island Thunder is mainly focused on realistic, covert, 
 team-based military operations -- in this case, in the jungles, swamps, and grasslands of Cuba. And 
 like its predecessors' single-player game, Island Thunder's single-player game generally consists 
 of cautiously guiding three squads of soldiers out into the field, encountering enemy soldiers 
 at set points, and picking them off as cleanly and from as far away as possible, avoiding any messy 
 firefights that can get your computer-controlled teammates killed.   

  However, Island Thunder puts more focus on group conflicts -- unlike in the previous games, you'll 
 find more groups of enemy soldiers clustered together on the game's wide-open maps. Fortunately, 
 you'll also find a lot more cover for yourself and your teammates. Most of Island Thunder's new 
 single-player and multiplayer maps offer a good mix of open spaces and cover, so you'll often have 
 multiple ways to take down a group of enemies. Enemies hiding in a building can be taken out by 
 tossing a grenade around the corner or by ambushing them from the back door, for instance. Enemies 
 stalking around a mountain range can be taken out from the front by a good sniper shot or can be 
 flanked by assault and support groups. The single-player game uses the same improved team AI as 
 in Desert Siege, and you'll appreciate the fact that although they'll occasionally stumble into 
 enemy sights or react slowly to an order, your teammates generally do what they're told and don't 
 get in the way.   

  The single-player game consists of eight new missions on eight new maps. That may not sound like 
 much, but each of Island Thunder's missions takes place on an extremely large map and has multiple 
 objectives. You'll most likely take a trial-and-error approach while playing, since you may be 
 caught off guard by a group of enemies, get killed, and end up reloading your last saved game. 
 It should take most players at least 30 minutes to an hour to complete each mission the first time 
 through.   

  Island Thunder also adds five new multiplayer maps, new weapons, and new multiplayer modes to Ghost 
 Recon, and these are enjoyable enough, or would be if it weren't for the game's poor multiplayer 
 support. Island Thunder has a built-in server browser, but unless you know the exact IP address 
 of a specific server, it's useless. Your only other options are to use either a third-party application 
 or Ubi Soft's clumsy, unreliable Ubi. com online player-matching service. Though Ubi. com now has 
 chat and buddy-list features, at the time of this writing, it can't properly set up a game of Island 
 Thunder. The browser often incorrectly lists open slots on servers that are actually full, hangs 
 on a connection and then disconnects, or incorrectly lists game modifications you'll need to join 
 a particular game. In all three of these cases, which happen far too often, Ubi. com will drop you 
 right back to Island Thunder's multiplayer screen, and you'll have to restart Ubi. com and browse 
 for servers all over again. When you finally make it into a game, you'll find that multiplayer 
 games of Island Thunder play out much like single-player games; they have the same sort of terse, 
 erratic pace characterized by long periods of silence as you scope out the field in search of your 
 enemies, occasionally interrupted by lightning-fast exchanges as the player who sights and draws 
 a bead on his enemy generally kills first.   

  If you enjoyed the pacing of Ghost Recon and Desert Siege, you'll definitely enjoy Island Thunder, 
 though if you're looking for a more-accessible run-and-gun shooter, you probably won't have much 
 fun with this new expansion pack. Like in Ghost Recon and Desert Siege, you'll often take fire 
 from completely unseen opponents. In multiplayer play, these shots may be taken from skilled sniper 
 players who may be hiding far out of your field of vision. In the single-player game, these shots 
 may be fired by the one enemy soldier in that one group you didn't account for. While this challenge -- and 
 the fact that a single, clean hit can kill you outright -- is certainly realistic and can be very 
 exciting, it'll also be exceptionally frustrating for new players or players who are looking for 
 more of a pick-up-and-play game. This is especially true of some of the especially well-guarded 
 choke points in Island Thunder's single-player game -- you'll be assaulted on all sides by groups 
 of unseen enemies, which means there are that many more ways for you or your teammates to take 
 a hit and lose the mission. You'll need to be patient enough to replay through certain fights multiple 
 times until you get it right.           Island Thunder has some impressively huge outdoor environments. 
    

  Fortunately, Island Thunder looks and sounds quite good. The game uses the same graphics engine 
 as Desert Siege and recycles many of that game's player models, though they all look good and are 
 fairly detailed. Soldiers that remain stationary for a long time will twitch, adjust their backpacks, 
 and occasionally turn and scan their surroundings. Island Thunder also does a good job of rendering 
 large outdoor areas -- the terrain integrates different topography and objects (including hills, 
 valleys, lakes, caves, and large buildings) seamlessly. The game's pixelated trees and grass might 
 not look that good on their own, but they look considerably better when they're swaying in the 
 wind in a huge outdoor jungle in a rainstorm. Island Thunder also reuses a great deal of Desert 
 Siege's and Ghost Recon's sounds, including your teammates' voice samples and sound effects for 
 weapon fire. As with the previous games, most of Island Thunder's sound is sparse, but effective. 
   

  If you prefer your action games to be easy to pick up and put down, you probably won't get much 
 out of Ghost Recon: Island Thunder. Specifically, the single-player game's group skirmishes require 
 a great deal of patience to conquer. But if you're already a fan of tough tactical shooters and 
 you're looking for a real challenge, you'd do well to invest in Island Thunder -- its substantial 
 single-player campaign and new multiplayer maps and modes (when you can get into a game) are definitely 
 worth it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  I did not enjoy this one as much as the first two games probably due to its sprawling map sizes. 
 It gets tedious every stage trying to cover the perimeter picking off the guards, and also, playing 
 the trilogy in a row makes my experience with this 2nd expansion an overkill.
  
  Not only is the map size a little too epic for a comfortable play, the dense jungle set design 
 and the enemies dressed in green makes everything an eye-strain. There can be a lot of tactical 
 decisions for most of the setups, but for me, it ultimately boils down to clearing the map for 
 a sure-win way to complete the stage. Due to good A. I. and incredibly realistic mission setups, 
 it will take a lot of time to clear each stage trying out the various tactics the previous Ghost 
 Recon games have taught you. The gameplay in Island Thunder is one of the most challenging in the 
 trilogy, and if you've already played the first two games, there's no reason to give this one up.
 
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Island Thunder isn't so much a sequel as it is a collection of new missions that didn't 
 make it in the first game, tied together by a paper-thin plot. As such, many of that game's problems 
 still remain. 
  
  Castro is dead, and the Ghosts are going to stop the first free elections in Cuba for decades from 
 being sabotaged by a drug lord. Island Thunder lets you select two fireteams and clear Havana's 
 house in a blaze of glory. 
  
  While the "plot" may be new, the missions are not  this is more of the same, with nothing really 
 added or removed since the original Ghost Recon. For fans of this series, this is probably an omen, 
 but those who thought the original was too painfully slow for their tastes won't be converted by 
 this new installment. Make no mistake about it  this is an expansion pack that doesn't require 
 the original to play, not a brand new experience. 
  
  Like its predecessor, Island Thunder's online modes are a blast. There's a wide variety of maps 
 and game styles here to keep you interested for some time, and while the multiplayer menus are 
 a bit lacking in areas, they do their job. 
  
  The standard tactical-shooter approach to audio that has been in place since the first Rainbow 
 6 still applies here: very little sound is heard, and that which is present generally is that of 
 footsteps, gunshots, and radio chatter between teammates. Similarly, the graphics in Island Thunder 
 are generally crisp and clean, though oftentimes very bland and poorly textured. This is not to 
 say that the game looks bad, it just doesn't look "Cutting-Edge", or anywhere near it. 
  
  Fans of tactical shooters, or those trying to diversify their Xbox Live gaming choices would do 
 well to give Ghost Recon a second look with Island Thunder. It's not that pretty, there are some 
 clunky controls to be found, but the game does grow on you if given a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Ubi Soft Entertainment has done yet again, bringing us players a new expansion pack for Ghost Recon, 
 Island Thunder. This pack provides veterans and new players alike of Ghost Recon eight new missions 
 to play through. New maps include lush, detailed jungle environments. One new feature of Island 
 Thunder is that you will witness the insertion and extraction of your squad members via helicopter 
 or jetty. It adds more to the realism of the game, as in the previous two Ghost Recon games, you 
 would just start out at a certain point, but you really didnt know how you got there. Not too 
 many new weapons will come up, but one in particular, the MMI grenade launcher, will add more power 
 to the arsenal. Similar to the last expansion pack, Desert Siege, you will be able to add experience 
 points to the soldiers, but the change from four points to five will symbolize that yet another 
 year has passed between the two expansion packs, giving them more training and experience. The 
 eight new missions will be a challenge, as the foggy forest environment makes it hard to pinpoint 
 enemies, thus testing your skills of stealth and strike. Overall, like its two predecessors before 
 it, gameplay hasnt really changed too dramatically, but AI has been improved, as enemies will 
 try to flank you in attempt to take you out in the battlefield. I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed 
 listening to the new soundtrack that was part of the Island Thunder package, as it really adds 
 to the atmosphere of the game, and it breaks the shell from the classic Ghost Recon music. Several 
 different new tracks to accompany the eight new missions available in Island Thunder, and I really 
 liked the campaign ending music, as that perfectly portrayed the mood in that moment. Sound has 
 definitely taken a boost in Island Thunder. Like Desert Siege, Island Thunder does not come with 
 too many extra features, but does include five new multiplayer maps. A plentiful addition to the 
 online action, and it also improves the amount of fun youll have with fellow players as you push 
 your way through them. All in all, the five new multiplayer maps and several new weapons makes 
 multiplayer a little bit more fun for everyone. Well, like all the other Ghost Recon games before 
 it, the hardware requirements still havent changed. Intel Pentium II 450MHz, 128MB RAM, 16MB 3D 
 Accelerator, 4x CD-ROM drive, 1GB disc space. Still the same low requirements so that the player 
 base can be broadened, and I think Ubi Soft still succeeds in bringing high quality gameplay to 
 those who cant afford a high-end PC. The storyline of Island Thunder now shifts from the Eritrean-Ethiopian 
 conflict to the Cuban theatre. Its been four years since Fidel Castros death in 2006, and now 
 the Cuban government is holding free elections to determine who will be the new ruler. The FDG 
 (La Frente Democratica de la Gente or People's Democratic Front) is an anti-American political 
 faction, which is using violence as a mean of coercion, and now the Ghosts have been sent in to 
 stop the FDGs plans. The story overall is probably the most interesting out of the entire three 
 so far in my opinion, since its fairly easy to understand and is very linear to follow. Good solid 
 base storyline, and Im sure that people will enjoy it. The graphics in this game arent too differently 
 structured from the previous games, but all in all, its still the same. The major difference is 
 that the game switches from a desert environment to a jungle one. The new jungle areas are impressively 
 mapped out, and they are very nice to play through, as they are very rich in detail. Rag-doll still 
 hasnt been mastered in this expansion pack, but hopefully well see it in action when Ghost Recon 
 3 comes out in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  I love the GR series and played the original game and its expansion pack Desert Siege over and 
 over again using new tactics or a lone-ranger sniper hero from time to time. I was glad Ubisoft 
 came up with another expansion pack to providing me even more gameplay.
  This time, your Ghost have to go to Cuba to knock down rebellions who want to disturb democratic 
 elections. Again, new weapons and new specialist ate introduced in the game. The graphics and AI 
 improved a little and the sound is still rather plain. To my opinion, the game is quite hard to 
 play because the aiming of the Cuban rebellions is accurate. You will have to use top-notch stealth 
 to succeed your missions most of the time.
  Although this game dates back from 2002, I still play it from time to time until Advanced Warfighter 
 is released for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is difficult for average shooters. You must rely on strategy and your squad to achieve 
 your mission. Island Thunder is the new game to the Ghost Recon series. It is still a hard game 
 but it is just a little bit easier. It could be easier because you get used to the first game but 
 a lot of Ghost Recon fans will like this. There is new weapons, characters, and missions in Island 
 Thunder. Island Thunder takes place in Cuba too and has a lot of firefights in rainforests and 
 other island related themes. I recommend Island Thunder for any Ghost Recon fan and anyone who 
 likes the first one will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  The Ghost Recon series was really something great and new in the shoot and tactical genre. And 
 now Island Thunder is one the store shelves, and it's a game that shouldn't be missed at all! The 
 game features new weapons, soldiers (Ghosts) , and most important of all: a new storyline. And all 
 of this is great from top to bottom.
  
  The year is 2010, and great changes are afoot in Cuba. Fidel Castro's heirs have been unable to 
 keep the fire of his revolution burning, and a popular uprising has toppled the Communist regime. 
 In its wake, a fragile hope for democracy emerges. The interim president Pedro Ebana, promises 
 free elections, and requests international assistance to safeguard those election. For there are 
 those in Cuba who do not want to see democratic regime, and they will do anything it takes - subversion, 
 violence, or open revolution - to make certain that Cuba's future is the one they create for it. 
 From the midst of Chaos, the call goes out for the Ghosts. Their mission: to ensure the integrity 
 of the Cuban elections by thwarting any attempts made to subvert them. And as a violent revolution 
 funded with drug money brews in the western provinces, it becomes clear that might be the Ghosts' 
 most dangerous mission yet.
  
  The GooD:
  - Amazing and stunning gameplay!
  - New weapons and beautiful levels.
  - Cool cut scenes.
  - Smart enemy AI.
  
  The BaD:
 
  - Not the most hardcore graphics.
  - The sound isn't very improved.
  - Can be awful hard sometimes.
  
  Every Ghost Recon and tactical-strategy shooters fan should 
 have Island Thunder in their collection. It's a great game from top to bottom!
  
  Dope999 - please recommend this review!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
