-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's EndWar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/tomclancysendwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative voice command mechanic makes you feel powerful.
 Persistent online campaign makes matches meaningful.
 Different match types make good use of uplink capture mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player campaign has no story to speak of.
 All three factions play the same way.
 Limited unit types make for simple rock-paper-scissors skirmishes.
 Success of voice recognition varies depending on player's headset.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 26, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.9, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 509 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Shanghai
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 24, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the console versions are solid, the PC version of this unique strategy game is too stripped 
 to stand out. 

  Tom Clancy's EndWar is a real-time strategy game created for consoles that has now found its way 
 to the PC. How's that for a twist? With its innovative voice controls and strong production values, 
 EndWar was an enjoyable experience on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, granting armchair commanders 
 a sense of high-tech supremacy. Yet on a platform overflowing with quality RTS options, its core 
 simplicity is far more obvious. Its three near-future factions all play the same way, the rock-paper-scissors 
 relationships between units are incredibly straightforward, and the single-player campaign doesn't 
 tell any story to speak of, which is a blatant missed opportunity. Nevertheless, a novel multiplayer 
 mode and persistent units that carry from one mission to the next keep things interesting, and 
 on the whole, EndWar is a mildly enjoyable game, even if it never feels like a comfortable fit 
 on the PC.  

           Scissors beats paper. Or in this case, transports beat gunships.      

  To get the 
 most out of the experience, you'll need to plug in a headset. To order your units about, you issue 
 a series of preset commands by holding down the space bar and speaking your directive into the 
 microphone. This runs the gamut from attacking enemy squads ("Unit two, attack hostile four") and 
 bringing in reinforcements when they are available ("Deploy gunships") to centering your view on 
 a particular group ("Unit three, camera") and ordering special attacks ("Air strike, hostile six") . 
 There are limited possibilities, so don't expect to plan out multiple waypoints or set up tank 
 patrols. Nor can you rely completely on the microphone -- at least, not if you intend to be competitive. 
 Actions like garrisoning infantry in a building or ordering your units to unleash special attacks 
 require some key presses, so there is a bit of light micromanagement in this regard.  

  If you'd rather take a traditional approach, you can use a mouse and keyboard, but doing so makes 
 EndWar more frustrating than fun. Because the camera must be focused on a particular unit, you 
 can't scroll across the map and issue orders with ease. You can enter a "sitrep" view, assuming 
 your command vehicle hasn't been destroyed, which makes issuing orders with a mouse more feasible 
 but is visually unappealing. Should you decide to use a headset (which you should, if you want 
 to experience EndWar at its best) , you may need to mess around with settings in Windows and within 
 the game menus to get your hardware to work properly. A standard Logitech headset recognized most 
 voice commands, while others were less successful (or completely unsuccessful) in consistently 
 recognizing instructions.  

  The units themselves are products of EndWar's World War III setting. In the game's version of near-future 
 events, The United States, Russia, and a unified Europe have become superpowers, and the US plans 
 to launch a military space station to tip the worldwide balance of power in its favor. Unfortunately, 
 terrorists destroy the station upon liftoff, thereby igniting global conflict. Yet as interesting 
 and far-fetched as the setting is, it's mostly backdrop. The campaign is just a series of battles 
 against the AI that emulates EndWar's main multiplayer mode, so don't expect much exposition, larger-than-life 
 personalities, or political intricacies. You can play as any of the three factions, but while your 
 own commander (and his or her blatant accent) will change, there's no story to involve you, aside 
 from mission updates and news blurbs. Thus, there's no reason to play the campaign with another 
 faction if you've finished it once already. This lack of narrative is a big disappointment, given 
 Tom Clancy's pedigree of political page-turners.  

           Capturing every uplink leads to the sweetest kind of victory.      

  Nevertheless, 
 EndWar has a way of drawing you in, not just because of the unique control mechanism, but because 
 it lets you closely follow your squads into battle. Regardless of your faction, the basic units 
 are the same: Infantry comprises riflemen and engineers; tanks and artillery have the armored advantage; 
 gunships take to the skies; and transports not only whisk your infantry about the battlefield, 
 but offer necessary antiair support. Most of the time, you'll be switching your view from squad 
 to squad, and the camera's close-up vantage point has quite an impact when you're engaged in combat. 
 Bullets fly, gunships fall from the sky, and artillery fire rains from above, and some visual glitches 
 aside, it's all exciting and cinematic in a way that most other strategy games just can't accomplish. 
 Using sitrep view lets you get a quick overview of the battlefield, which is useful but not particularly 
 dramatic. The rapid zoom of the camera when you move in and out of this mode and from one unit 
 to the next, however, is slick.  

  While it may be authentic to have so few unit types and no striking difference between factions 
 given the setting, it doesn't make any side worth playing more than another. The relationship between 
 units is always the same -- tanks beat transports, gunships beat tanks, and so on -- so there's little 
 subtlety to the gameplay. Instead, strategy is delivered on a broader level, starting with the 
 mission objectives. There are four main mission types: assault, conquest, siege, and raid. Assault 
 is the simplest (kill your enemy) , while in Raid, you must either destroy or defend certain buildings 
 on the map to achieve victory. Conquest is the most interesting mode, taking its cues from the 
 Battlefield games in addition to EndWar's closest RTS cousin, World in Conflict. Here, you must 
 use infantry to capture control points, called uplinks, scattered across the map while fending 
 off the enemy and sabotaging their attempts to do the same. Siege battles are much less common 
 than other types and involve an assaulting player attempting to capture a critical uplink while 
 the defending player struggles to maintain control of it.     

   

  Tactics are generally obvious in all of these situations, but they can still generate a tense tug-of-war 
 between players as each jockeys for position. Uplinks are present in all modes, and they are a 
 critical part of the gameplay. Most importantly, they help you earn command points, which you need 
 in order to call in reinforcements and perform other actions. However, uplinks can be taken only 
 by infantry, so even if you aren't playing a conquest map, you'll still want some riflemen or engineers 
 in the field. Uplinks also hold a second key to victory: upgrades that allow you to engage support 
 powers like air strikes and electronic attacks. These powers are invaluable in a sticky situation 
 but also cost command points, so you'll need to weigh the advantage of bringing in another transport 
 to defeat your gunship-heavy opponent against a quick strike that could do immediate damage. There 
 are even short-range nukes to deploy in certain circumstances that can immediately turn the tide 
 of battle and produce a spectacular explosion.  

           Why is Russia always the bad guy?      

  All of these battles are given context within 
 a larger turn-based map called the Theater of War. The offline theater is good for practice, but 
 it's the online theater that provides the meat of the experience. This semiglobal map is persistent, 
 so as opposing players engage one another, the results of an entire day's matches represent a single 
 turn within the theater. Once the day's turn is complete, new battles open up as each faction spreads 
 its dominion. This is a great idea that may remind you of a similar mode in the mech action game 
 Chromehounds. But while the sameness of each faction makes it hard to feel particularly loyal, 
 it's involving to watch your faction's color spread across the map, whether that means establishing 
 your presence in Florida or burning Paris to the ground. A few days after the game's release, however, 
 relatively few players seem to be participating in the theater, making EndWar's long-term viability 
 unclear.  

  Your battle prowess has global consequences, but success brings more than a victory for your faction. 
 You'll also earn a supply of credits after each battle that you can then spend on upgrades for 
 your units. Surviving units gain levels, which gives them access to purchased enhancements, which 
 could mean faster movement speed, new support powers (being able to designate a new drop point 
 for reinforcements is ever so helpful) , or additional attacks that can be triggered when you are 
 following the unit that can perform them. Like the Theater of War, this feature seems like it's 
 supposed to make you feel emotionally attached to your faction's success, and it works to an extent, 
 giving you an incentive that functions on a more personal level. While new attacks open up some 
 minor micromanagement options, they don't bring drastic changes, because most battles are still 
 won or lost with quick uplink securing and a basic understanding of rock-beats-scissors dynamics. 

  While EndWar's tactics were designed on a broader scale, its presentation attempts to throw you 
 into the midst of battle. When firefights get heavy, the screen fills with units and explosions, 
 and it's fun to watch the destruction on the ground from the vantage point of a gunship squad firing 
 at tanks or engineers from above. Some smaller touches make an impact, such as the authentic-looking 
 behavior of engineer squads as they enter a building or a transport. However, the PC version looks 
 much less impressive than its console counterparts. Textures are bland, while lighting, shadows, 
 and other aspects are simply average, so even with all settings turned up, the quality of the visuals 
 doesn't seem to justify the relatively high system requirements. EndWar also suffers from occasional 
 performance problems, which affect not only the frame rate, but the speed of the entire game, which 
 can suddenly start chugging for no obvious reason.  

           EndWar looks like your prom backup date: pleasing, if not quite beautiful.      

  
 The sound design does a better job of immersing you in battle. This is partially due to the din 
 of combat -- perfectly appropriate for World War III. However, it's the constant radio chatter and 
 responses of your units that have the greatest impact, making you feel as though you really are 
 in the role of a military commander. The sound effects aren't just cosmetic, however: EndWar's 
 constant feedback is an important tactical tool, letting you make split-second decisions that could 
 mean life or death for your squad. Unfortunately, there are too many times when crucial feedback 
 ("Check unit nine") comes far too late for it to do any good.  

  EndWar's voice command mechanic makes it unique among strategy games, and it's this innovation 
 that stands out above all of its other features. Strip it away, and you'll find an RTS game that 
 can be fun but is ultimately too simple to stand out in a crowded genre. But even if strategy veterans 
 won't find all the complexities they'd expect, there's something to be said for EndWar's smart 
 match types and persistent campaign. Hopefully as its community grows, so too will the game's long-term 
 possibilities.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Wings_008
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  well Tom Clancy's game were always fun and unique, but not this one though because this game needs 
 a lot of work like:
  
  1- ths sound recognition is really clunky and it doesnt work as well as you would've hoped even 
 its a pleasant idea
  2- the rock-paper-scissors relation is too simple and makes the game somewhat shallow
  3- the 
 cut scenes are a joke, for a game in this magnitude and with all this hype
  
  That been said the game doesnt really have much to offer and the gameplay is average at best, the 
 problem is that you cant feel hooked like other RTS games while this game tries it fails because 
 of the annoying voice thingy and the fact that your units arn't named such as, M-1 Abrams, or such 
 rather than that they show up as numbers under their units type like tanks or transporters
  besides the campaign mode is almost identical with all factions.
  The story on the other hand 
 has a potential, but the way its told is what makes it really shallow and derivative, some cut 
 scenes will explain your role in the war as well as give you a background, but its just feels cheap 
 and not convincing.
  bottom line is this game could've a lot better if its 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsonting
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, saw many reviews on this one which are mostly negative. But when i look at some of the gameplay 
 videos, i'd thought i could give it a try, so bought this game yesterday and tried it out. And 
 actually, it impressed me.
  Yeah, few things to improve in this game like, camera. I can't navigate other places around the 
 map except the surroundings of my units. Which means i have to order my unit to the place so i 
 can see what's going on there. Pretty unconvenient. And the voice regconition could sometime misunderstand 
 what i'm ordering, but heck, it's a pioneer engine, so of course they will improve the technology 
 in future.
  Okay, these are the bads that the developers should work on, but on the other side, it's a great 
 game!! Honestly, it is. The new idea is of using our voice to give orders is fantastic. I get to 
 feel really like a commander because i don't just click and click, i command them! lol. And who 
 would've thought it's a lot more intense that way. All the time i could hear myself sayingunit 
 one retreat." "all units attack hostile four"unit three secure alpha". And that really feels 
 good.
  Anyway, hope this would be a headstart for the next gen of gaming and improvements to come. All 
 the best Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ariboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:56 am PT
Review:  I don't agree with the people giving it 9/10 and 10/10 but I also don't agree with people giving 
 this crap reviews. I don't really give a flying rats ass what those people think cause as far as 
 I'm concerned this is an amazing game. I've barely unlocked anything and that's just cause I'm 
 bad at it but so far from what I've accomplished I can safely say that I think this game is great. 
 I love the squad based tactics and I love the way that you have to actually wait for units to arrive 
 and the fact that they can be shot down before they reach their destination because it introduces 
 an element of difficulty into the game. Yes the tactics may be rock beats scissors and all that 
 crap they're going on about but it's the best looking scissors I've seen in a while. Although this 
 game is great I still want to try H. A. W. X. so I'm probably going to trade it in. Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DABhand_UK
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I had heard about this game so much from console players who said its a great game and a great 
 experience. Blindly I followed their advice to buy it since its release on the PC. Ouch!
  
  Firstly when starting the game I was presented with option of setting up a mic. Which I did do 
 even though I was not planning on using it, but I did and found it to be well, awkward in some 
 ways, it does not help I am scottish with a bit of an accent so you can imagine the game going 
 "what he say?", and orders that did work took a little bit of time to acknowledge to the point 
 of it was probably easier and quicker using the mouse and keyboard option . Which I do have to 
 say is not too bad, but the constant behind your units is very awkward to say the least.
  
  But graphically the game is decent enough, even if the games graphic options is kind of limited. 
 And sound is fairly decent and lets you immerse into the action. But annoying and awkward (wow 
 im saying that word a hell of a lot) is the "Your soldiers are not in cover"... yes I do realise 
 that as I sent them to another place to get into cover, it is annoying to say the least from cover 
   1 sec away from cover   audio warning (can continue depending on how far they have to walk) .
 
  
  And talking about sound, the poor guy who voiced the french commander for the European faction 
 cant read specific words correctly, I noticed one in particular the word was supposed to be irreversable, 
 but the poor voice man pronounced it irreverkable, which is not a word well.... perhaps to that 
 guy it is.
  
  And onto the story of the game... which is well err, umm hardly any. It started ok in a way, defending 
 a little town in croatia and in a couple of missions later finding out the name of the bad guys 
 and then it kind of goes downhill from there. This is no C&C-esque story lines. World in Conflict 
 which didnt have a real story line was better than EndWar.
  
  So into the game, and a few missions in you soon realise --- Engineers kick ass when in cover especially 
 a building, they shoot at everything. But the love-hate triangle of vehicles makes the game lack 
 in strategy in a way. Tanks love to fight Transports but hate helicopters. Transports love Helicopters 
 and Helicopters love Tanks. Its not really rocket science, and bang goes the send in everything 
 C&C style or even WiC style to get the early upper hand. Not to mention every unit has groups of 
 4, which can be promoted if used well in previous missions, but the promotions are not visibly 
 noticable.
  
  Online can be fun, but single player is best avoided if you wish to buy this title. You have been 
 warned.
  
  Oh yes to the people complaining to Ubisoft, do realise they are the publisher and not the developer. 
 But they have been lax of late and letting this get bye without beta testing and also letting the 
 horrendous CSI: NY out also. They have started to slip standards.
  
  Thank god for Splinter Cell :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiKeX-Crom
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay, those people who said the game sucks, they really have no idea how really cool it is. I will 
 start off with the negatives though. The camera is the biggest pisser in the game. Comon, you can 
 only focus on one unit and its surroundings. And sometimes, you have a hard time getting a good 
 look at what you really want. Also, yes the fact that there is no diversity between each faction 
 does suck, but how could you do it, with out the whole microphone thing getting really confussing. 
 So that's the bad. But the truth is, you can actually interact with your troops. It's awesome. 
 They do what you say, and that, for a fact, has never been done before. Really truely, it's not 
 as bad as the people say. Yes, it is a rock-paper-scissors game, but the bigger the scissors, the 
 better the rock falls. And imagine this: If you like Risk, or Star Wars Battlefront, or Command 
 and Conquer, or all three, this is your game, because it's a mix of all three. Give this game a 
 chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace29au
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:51 am PT
Review:  Firstup you will be lucky if the voice commands are recognised even with quality mic
  camera view is either tied to a unit or location giving only line of sight
  the game physis are 
 laughable with tanks passing through walls but infantry not
  graphics are ordainary ..
  
  just set your units up in positions and order them fire on enemy whilst you have the freedom to 
 go make a coffee cause there is no gameplay, tactics or strategy required with this game 
  
  missions are so repetitive and bland im sure you could train a monkey to play this game
  
 
  its such a shame cause this game had the makings of ball-tearer of a game .. but the developers 
 stood back and literally threw this game together and put zero effort into making run on a PC
 
  even at half the asking price it will have you wishing you had not wasted money on this looser 
 there is far too much competition from good PC games out there to even bother giving a 2nd thought 
 to Endwar ...
  Edit: another ten hours and its still disappointing but less so ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infamy245
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed when I started up the game is that it's capped at 30 fps, it looks horrible 
 despite some of the reviews indicating otherwise. Anyone with half-decent hardware will want a 
 refund immediately after starting the first mission.
  
  the controls while very basic and 'simple' are completely unresponsive and unintuitive for a RTS. 
 you will have to camera constantly following your units at all sorts of odd and unworkable angles 
 that kills the ability to manage your units effectively. The voice commands are frustrating to 
 use and borderline broken (I thought my mic was pretty good too) 
  
  This is one of the worst, most over-hyped RTS I have ever played. Despite being hyped as a PC RTS 
 over a year ago, this feels like a cheap console port. 
  
  and finally the boring and droll tone of Tom Clancy games doesn't help make this game likable either. 
 same military jargon ridden jack bauer-esque lines. BORING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whatelse73
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  Good Points:
  
  1. Very interesting unit system, I like the motions and movements of the infantry units. I like 
 that units can actually shoot other units farther than 10 feet away as is the case in some other 
 games, it takes some getting used to but it works well. I like the level of detail on the units 
 too.
  
  2. Maps are interesting, I like the scenery and makeup, good use of buildings and trees and other 
 structures that are useful for strategic setups.
  
  3. Unit power-up system is useful. I like being able to choose which unit gets more powered up 
 first, as opposed to the computer doing it.
  
  4. The voice control system is interesting, takes some getting used to, but it can be quicker for 
 actions, especially across the battlefield and during a significant engagement. Perhaps in future 
 updates they can add more control options?
  
  Needs improvement:
  
  1. Rock-Paper-Scissors doesn't really work as it should. Tanks can still beat the crap out of helicopters, 
 transports can still shoot up tanks as well. Yeah there's still an advantage, but what's the point 
 if you have two tanks left after beating down an APC platoon? Plus you can put a rifle unit into 
 a building and sometimes they blow the heck out of tanks? Huh? I can understand engineers, but 
 not riflemen. Not to mention infantry can get into some buildings and you can have 5 units, including 
 artillery attacking and it takes 5 minutes to blow them out.
  
  2. On the single-player campaign, its not really a "campaign" its just a war of skirmishes. There 
 is no real story, let alone even a bad one. I'd expect better from a Tom Clancy game. Adds to the 
 argument that this is a poorly-ported console game and PCs get forgotten during the creation.
 
  
  3. Voice Control just becomes useless sometimes. Once in a while it doesn't understand anything 
 I say, no matter how simple the word or how clearly I say it. (Literally, sometimes I say "one" 
 and it thinks I'm saying "eight") That can distract significantly, especially if you're trying 
 to manage your units at a heavy action point and you're wasting time trying to get the voice control 
 to select what you want.
  
  4. Different battalion makeups are pretty useless. Might as well just be a tab for what special 
 perk you want. If you only have two tank platoons, you can still ask for a third and it lets you 
 have a third. Yes, those extras aren't persistent thru other games, but big deal.
  
  5. By the time you get to about 18 turns, you have enough credits to buy every power-up option 
 for every unit type, so what's the point?
  
  6. Once again, I'd expect more from a Tom Clancy labeled game. Tom Clancy is famous for novels 
 about the military, but this game has no story whatsoever. Feels like it was rushed a bit too. 
 They lost an opportunity to make a better game because someone wanted to get the game released. 
 At least I "hope" that's how it happened.
  
  Overall: Its a decent game, just not what I expected it to be. I love a good single-player campaign 
 story, like World in Conflict. The voice control option is great, just needs some adjustments and 
 could use a couple more command options. I'm sure there'll be updates to include fixes for the 
 glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtRay
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  But here is my take on EndWar: 
  Ok lets do this First things first: This will never replace Supreme Commander, Call of Duty, World 
 in Conflict, or Dawn of War. 
  
  But I love the concept of this game! A working voice command. For all you who think there is nothing 
 new in RTS well this is yet another chance for you to not see what is right in front of your face. 
 
  
  After playing the demo on PS3 I thought it was kick ass! It actually caught my voice on most of 
 the commands. And who doesn't like WMD's!! I even read mister Clancy's book Endwar 
  
  Well I'm sad to say although the voice commanding is great and maxed out on the vid it's great 
 to look at. But game play wise it seems to be about as deep as the blondes in playboy. 
  
  One: All of the units of the same type are the same for the different sides (which there are 3) . 
 So there is no reason to pick one side over another. This game was made for kids mostly. Which 
 means that it's Tact & Strat lite.. Due to the fact they have short attention span disorder. The 
 units are slow with a capital S! The shooting ranges are close as hell even for the Arty, so all 
 the units will be together when the fighting starts. 
  
  Now with that being said in solo it's fun. I mean buying unit upgrades and taking care of you units 
 to ensure their career path. But after about 10 games I don't think the computer gets combined 
 attacks. But I enjoy going through it if only to get to release the WMD's!!!! 
  
  Here is how my first net game went: 
  I enlisted with the Russians, not cuz they were better 
 cuz they're all the same. But at the time there was a bonus for doing it! So with my new found 
 loot I toddle off to the online store "Weapons R Us". Man I had fun!! Missiles Bombs and Bullets 
 oh my! 
  So once I was ready I went into the games online persistent war zone. I got into the war, "Down 
 with America and Europe! For the mother land!!" 
  The game opens I send out a chopper to do some quick spotting and first killing. I find that he 
 was thinking the same thing but this game is just Rock Paper Scissors. So I also had and APC close 
 by (chopper killers) ok now he's down one chopper. My Chopper found his tanks. Down one tank. It 
 went like that for a hot min. Now I was seeing glory and humming the Russian anthem. But in this 
 game the loosing side gets the first WMD strike. Note: all ranges in this game are close. So while 
 about all 8 of my units are laying waste to him and his homeland, I hear "Kinetic strike pending" 
 that is the first and last warning for you to leave the party area. But there is no time, so with 
 one hit I lost almost every thing! I had been doing the mission and taking uplinks and I had the 
 win game count timer going. I hit him back and took out all of his ground forces! "Take that Yankee 
 dog!" Two min to go I got 1 command vehicle 1 infantry unit. He had 2 choppers. One min and one 
 command unit down my infantry learn why it's good to stay in out the rain. I lost cuz I didn't 
 have a rock to throw or arm to throw with. "Lost another one to Ditec!!!" 
  
  So you see you can enjoy a game even though a game isn't the best (and it ant) , isn't the most 
 challenging (and it can't) , by being a new way of playing (and it is) , it could just be fun (and 
 it is) . If it's on the top of your list, Shame on you!! If it's on your list, You go boy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedthegeek
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  I do not mean to be cynical (and I could be wrong about this) , but I am wondering why is it that 
 in the earlier player reviews, most of the ratings were 5.0 and below; then all of a sudden, just 
 to fill up the review page of End War on the right, there were successive ratings of 10, 9, and 
 8.5 effectively pushing down or "covering up" all the other earlier poor reviews.
  
  I just hope that it was not the developers who posted such high reviews, pretending to be gamers, 
 deliberately using grammatical errors, just to influence unwitting players to buy End War, for 
 let's face it- not even half of the players of the PC version of End War are willing to give it 
 a review of 8 and up.
  
  The visuals of End War, particularly the units, look great. There's not doubt about that. But we 
 cannot deny its numerous bugs, like the fact that it is not compatible with many headsets, which 
 may prompt other players to buy a Logitech headset just to be able to issue voice commands with 
 ease. It is irritating when one has to spend more money just to accommodate the needs of a game. 
 It would have been understandable if End War's manual or its Read Me file would tell us to use 
 a specific product as a headset, but no such info is given. I am absolutely certain that the developers 
 know that not all headsets are compatible with the game, but they were mum about it.
  
  It is not enough that just because a game can be controlled by our voice, it is already a great 
 one at that. It is not enough that a game's units look spectacular just to remind people that it 
 is worth the wait. What makes a game a great game is primarily the gameplay (World of Goo proves 
 this)
  
  How can one call this an RTS game if the camera is fixed on the units one chooses? How can you 
 call it an RTS game if there isn't much reflection on the strengths or weaknesses of the units 
 in relation to those of one's opponents? The fun part of an RTS game is strategy, which is really 
 bland in End War.
  
  The camera is a common complaint of many players, and such dismay is valid. Sure, you can see the 
 entire map using the "sitrep" view, but nothing compares to seeing the actual units moving on the 
 battlefield which intensifies the thrill of the game. It is irritating that the camera is fixed 
 only on the units one chooses as they move, since there is a lot going on in battle. If only the 
 camera were more user-friendly, the average rating by players would probably go up by 1 to 2 points.
 
  
  Game developers make games for gamers. Most gamers are not a bunch of stupid guys and gals who 
 do not know what they are talking about, since we are willing to sacrifice our money on games which 
 are truly worthy of our time. Sadly, for many of us, End War isn't.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rafaelmgs
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Well, Endwar is the kind of game you kinda expect to come out, new innovative ideas are welcome. 
 but the PC version is really bad, controls are awful, the rts mechanics don't really make life 
 easier in the battlefield, among other problems.
  
  I've played the ps3 version of it, and it's a lot better, flows quicker, is more addictive and 
 fun. 
  
  Don't recommend the PC version to anyone, gonna give back my copy to the store... I would say it 
 was the worst RTS game I've ever played, controls, camera (being stuck with units kinda go against 
 the idea of RTS games, at least for me) .
  
  Not to mention the non working should-be-great voice control system. Funny thing is that the ps3 
 version worked beautifully...
  
  I think I managed to play it 3 or 4 times, in a total of 30 minutes. 
  
  Conclusion: I'll never 
 waste another minute with it, just wrote this review to warn all others...
  
  I'll go back to World In Conflict, That's what I call a Modern RTS Game.... See ya all later... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y512516
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy had been famous for its FPSs. But RTS was never its specialty .But a nice try though.
 
  You can see that from the movement of infantries on the battlefield.
  The troops are almost Rainbow Six smart.
  The environment really makes you feel involved in the 
 war.
  But it lacks the motivation the WIC series gives you.
  You just fight fight fight upgrade die die die fight fight win,
  Whats the purpose of using all 
 those time fighting. What makes a game great is that you want to know what happen next. Just like 
 reading a book or watching a TV show.
  Yes the WMDs are very nice ,but they are over done ,the graphics get choopy sometimes. need a new 
 patch to fix it.
  If you ask me should you buy this game?
  Sure buy it if you want to try something complety different!
  But !If you are a hardcore rock 
 like RTS player go for something else more intellectual ,like Brother in Arms or something.
  But still nice though.
  I think I might stay on this game for 3 weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zach290
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:28 am PT
Review:  this is the alsomist game ever that is a strategy its fun and a little bit hard and a long campain 
 but i have been play stragey games most my life (11) so i kick but on them and i know just about 
 ever tactic so this game may be veryhard for new player to this type of games so if you need any 
 help i can train you i am zach290 or zacharygorby oh and its free it just take up your time and 
 my time to learn to be a pro (this could take up to 2 weeks or 1 day maybe a weekend) oh and please 
 do not use cheats there for noobs only use cheats if your are stuck very bad or if you have betan 
 the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRC000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  SYNOPSIS
  EndWar reminds me a lot of the old board game 'Risk.' There are locations marked on the globe, 
 and each turn you choose where to attack/defend on your way to global domination.
  
  INNOVATIVE VOICE RECOGNITION
  This game is especially innovative because of its embedded voice 
 command structure. It's so integral to playing the game, you are totally going to miss out if you 
 don't have a microphone (preferably on a headset) . The accuracy of the voice command -- the chances 
 of the order matching what you actually say -- is very good. I'm getting over 90% recognition, 
 nearly 100% when I'm not trying to speak quickly so I can get multiple orders processed. If the 
 wrong order is interpreted, it's easy enough to correct the order on-screen with the mouse to select 
 from the drop-down menus. ... A final word about the voice recognition in this game; off and on 
 for years I have tried voice recognition with software (dragon dictate) and have never had better 
 than ~30% accuracy. so I'm really amazed that EndWar implements it so successfully.
  
  GAME PLAY
  The game play is fast-paced, there isn't a lull in the battle where you can catch 
 your breath, so your tactics and strategies might need to quickly adapt to a changing battlefield. 
 Some of the timed missions make you rush to the extreme, even on the easiest difficulty setting; 
 you'll be attacking one structure, defending another structure, seizing control of yet another, 
 ordering reinforcements, and fine-tuning which unit is attacking which enemy at each battle. It's 
 a bit overwhelming at first, before starting a mission you might want to juice up on energy drinks 
 and caffeine until you get a bit jittery in order to be able to do everything at once. 
  
  The upgrade system is very nice, you can buy upgrades for battlefield units, and individual units 
 get stronger if they survive each mission. The truly unfortunate part here is that it seems whatever 
 upgrades you put on your units, the enemy gets the same. This doesn't really make sense since you 
 earn money for upgrades by winning battles decisively -- the more you beat down an enemy and upgrades 
 you earn, the more superior your units should be.
  
  The unit balance is simplistic and odd. Each unit is strong against one or two other units and 
 weak against at least one other. This dictates (more or less) that in order to take a fortified 
 position you need helicopters (to kill tanks) , tanks (to kill armored personnel carriers) , riflemen 
 (to secure up-links and to kill engineers) , etc -- and when your units arrive, you need to tell 
 each of your units what to attack, before they get blown to bits... Riflemen and engineers can 
 fortify buildings, but they have an extreme knack for entering the building at the point closest 
 to where the enemy can see (and attack) them [use the back door, duh!] so by the time they wander 
 into the building they tend to be reduced to half in number. It takes so long to enter a building 
 that it seems strategically to be best to do only if you can figure out what path an enemy will 
 take, and occupy a building along that route. Once a building is occupied it would be fantastic 
 if you could leave some of that unit in place and move to occupy another building, but you can't. 
 : (
  
  Units can earn special commands based on upgrades, but unless you keep this knowledge in the forefront 
 of your mind, the action will be too harried to dink around with fine-tuning the control of each 
 unit. You'd need some sort of 'pause' feature to be able to issue individual commands to units 
 to tweak them.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are good and on par with today's gaming standards, especially considering the game 
 focus is pointed toward managing the battlefield, instead of fine-tuning individual units. The 
 ability to move the camera to see the battlefield is severely limited, you see only the surrounding 
 area of the unit you have selected. A control vehicle can see the entire battlefield, but the action 
 is so fast-paced that while you are viewing the battlefield your units are getting a good beating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienwareOne
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:20 am PT
Review:  This game is quite a good one .. the voice command is something never seen before in any games 
 so yeah that's revolutionary and also the visual range and complexity are very good, of course 
 if you have a pc that can handle it. But the camera ,the view of the battlefield and of the units 
 are not so enjoyable, the camera could have been a little bit higher so that you could see more. 
 But it's worth playing if u're a RTS lover , maniac or whatever because you'll love it, sure. I 
 want to re-mid again that the graphics are stunning and the game play is fair .. the unit selection 
 method could have been better. In the end it's a good RTS with some revolutionary features that 
 are worth trying  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesilentkiller
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  Is the game fun? The answer is yes!! The concept of integrating voice command into the game is 
 ambitious and UBI/Tom Clancy deserves tremendous accolades for this endeavor. The voice commands 
 in conjunction with the games voice's over give a sense of realism and immersion that is unparalleled 
 by any other game that I have ever played (including World in Conflict) . This new gaming concept 
 allows ENDWAR to set itself apart from its peers. After playing the game for several hours I am 
 addicted. Is there room for improvement? Of course there is. It is obvious that the majority of 
 the programming was dedicated toward the voice command interface, because the game is overly simplified 
 in several areas. For example, there is a method reviewing the entire battlefield called a "SITREP". 
 This is a live view of the field which you can give commands to all of your units. In the future 
 version, I would like to see this map contain live objects and terrain as opposed to just moving 
 icons. But gain, this does not take away from the fact that this is a fun game. Most games that 
 hit the stores release patches based on customer feedback. Even though, I agree that UBI should 
 listen to everyone's feedback to improve on this product; most of you are really slamming this 
 game without the foresight to see that this game is very unique and is the start of a new gaming 
 era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AxeEmAll
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:23 am PT
Review:  I was honestly expecting a lot more out of this game, since it plays well in the consoles, but 
 it feels rushed for the PC.
  
  There are some ground rules that developers need to remember before they ever transfer a console 
 title to the PC:
  
  1. Graphics should be better. Let's face it: PC video cards are old six months down the line. The 
 PS3 and Xbox 360 are about three years old. That's why I doubt that Crysis can run in a PS3 or 
 an Xbox 360 format. 
  
  Now back to End War. Only the vehicles and infantry look awesome. Forget the rest. World in Conflict's 
 single-player campaign features a lot going on in the background, like civilians panicking, infantry 
 parachuting from the skies and explosions everywhere. My point is, at least match a PC's capacity 
 for stronger visuals. 
  
  2. Voice commands make the game a lot slower. How can one stand a chance against someone in a multiplayer 
 game whose foreign language uses shorter words than English in issuing commands?
  
  Look, I know that End War scores points as the first PC game which can be controlled through voice 
 commands, but cajoling PC gamers to try an RTS game just because of such innovation, which in reality 
 slows gameplay, means that voice controls are nothing more than a fad. 
  
  3. Camera movement should be fluid in an RTS PC game. It helps players create strategies on what 
 to do next when they can see things from a different vantage points. End War's camera is stuck 
 with the units one chooses.
  
  4. It won't hurt to get the help of thousands of gamers out there to do beta testing of the game. 
 True, it was already released in consoles. But the PC platform is unique. The speed at which one 
 moves units around in a PC RTS game makes a huge difference in winning a game. Stardock had as 
 much as 4 beta tests of Sins of the Solar Empire Entrenchment before they released the game on 
 Feb. 25th. That is why there are very few complaints about it when it was finally released. 
  
  Bottom line is that the developers of End War are aware of all the above. Based on the reactions 
 of many of us, it is pretty obvious that the devs were lazy about meeting the expectations of what 
 a PC game title should be. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppetts1000
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:54 am PT
Review:  Worls in Conflict has been there done it and what more done it much better than this poor console 
 port, which is a blatant rip off, somehow touted as 'unique' (can that word be used for any games 
 these days?!) .
  
  The lack of variation in tatics leads to the inevitable mass rush method and the lack of any single 
 player story leaves little to be had as you may as well just play the Multi.
  
  Big talk, big media hype but this is at best an Average game, alright, not bad but after 15 hours 
 not appealing or a challenge.
  
  The graphics are good but as so many developer forget these days (much like Lucas in SW) it is 
 the gameplay that makes the game and there is simply not enough here
  
  5/10
  
  Since WinC is coming back with more in the coming expansion I feel the lack of a good follow up 
 to the original, which I hoped this would fill, is coming anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ascanu
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:33 am PT
Review:  I will skip any intro's, we all waited months for this game and from what I see, we got really 
 disappointed!
  The only things I like in this game are: The Barracks options where you can upgrade your units 
 and the voice command option! Everything else I dislike!
  First of all I don't buy the story, I don't like Russia beeing the bad faction again, I don't agree 
 with the United Europe fighting against the USA (and led by a black General with African Accent... I 
 mean WTF is that?!) , I don't agree with the heavely armed terrorist in the US back garden (thanks, 
 helli's, armored transport) . Then, at one point after fighting with all factions you got to choose 
 along wich side you like to be. My choice was USA and a verry low voice General annoys me before 
 every battle. You have a map in the Earth's shape, and 3 different colours, one for each nation. 
 I found this game to be also hard not only annoying. You have Russians attacking in the North and 
 UE in the South from 2 different directions. When you move and try to conquere land in Europe, 
 Russia attacks and wins in the North, after this you go and defend the North, but lose a battle 
 in South... the other Generals must be retards cause almost everytime you don't fight a battle personaly, 
 they lose it. And you can't be in 3 different battles at the same time. I never lost a battle personally, 
 and I reaced Rank 9, but the opposit Generals that lost against me everytime have the same Rank 
 as I have, even if they started with 2-3 ranks behind me; they were promoted for loosing battles 
 I guess! But the biggest promblems are on the Battlefield: you simply can't destroy with the helicopters 
 an infantery unit that hides in a building! But they CAN destroy you choppers if you try killing 
 them. After you destroy the buildin, they are still in cover, so it's useless to try. Same if they 
 are hiding in the middle of the street behind a concrete wall... and this problem takes different 
 shapes for every other unit... hellis that fire for ages in a tank, so on, so on, so on!
  90% crap, 5% new stuff, 5% fun... for 5 hours, not more! Good luck!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeslider173
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the Tom Clancy's Games, i've played almost all of them. After reading Red Storm 
 Rising, i hope it'll have some games about ww3, and World in Conflict did very well, so i was expected 
 EndWar could do the same. But I was TOTALLY WRONG. This is a big disappointment for the Tom Clancy's 
 fans. First: The graphic is not good then i expected, thought the model of infantry, tanks, gunships,... 
 very good, but is still not perfect. Second: The painful camera. Why don't you make a free camera 
 like WIC? It's not free man! It sticks to the units we choose, we just can adjust around them. 
 Third: The boring gameplay. During all the game, u just point and click, or use the voice command 
 to order units to attack from here to there, there to here, it'll be repeated all the maps. So 
 my advises for you: If you like the ww3, try the WIC or also the WIC: Soviet Assault. If you like 
 strategy, try Company of Heroes or Dawn of War. Again, it's a big disappointment for all the gamers. 
 One last warning for u Ubi: u better make the HWAX better then this crap or i'll never buy any 
 Tom Clancy's Games anymore. End of story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 25, 2009 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok when I read the intial reviews of the pc version on this site I was ready to say it was hardcore 
 pc RTS heads not giving a console RTS port a chance. Ummm... I was wrong. Holy crap. 
  
  Ok first off... I dont know what they did to the voice command on the pc version but it suuuuucks!!! 
 It took me 20 minutes to finish the voice recognition training. On the console it was muuuuuuuuuuch 
 smoother. When I finally finished I hopped into a quick skirmish. Eeek. The graphics are poo. The 
 camera is I dont even know what to call it. One reviewer on here was right. It does look like World 
 In Conflict's retarded little brother. They f***ed up this port.
  
  Now I played the hell out of the console version and I was addicted. Voice command was smooth... occassional 
 missed commands but nothing serious... frame rate was smooth.... graphics looked good. On pc though? 
 ugh... wtf??? Now i'm running the game on a 9550 yorkie oc'd to 3.8ghz with 4gs of 1066 ram with 
 a 4870 vid card. Granted this is my back up rig but dude... wtf??? I expected more then this crap. 
 
  
  You know what? I'm not even gonna go into greater detail on why this port bites d**k. If u like 
 the game stay with the console version. DO NOT COP THIS GAME ON PC!!! At least unless they come 
 out with some patches. SMH @ Ubi for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devilness
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The Great Trailer around the internet it make me belive End war is gonna be a great game with its 
 advanced system of voice recognition and the outstanding graphic, but after 10 minutes of playing 
 I realized i wass one more of the advertising trick of the delay like happen with GTA 4.
  -Slow fps count in high-end computers and mid-hig
  -Poor Gameplay
  -Repeated history in videogames
 
  What about build, create troops , diplomacy , economy... just press 1-4-6-7-2...
  You have some little bit of fun playing this but you get bored after some time, my wass 10 minutes.
 
  I that all we waiting for some title with the action like of Battlefield 2142 or World In Conflict.
 
  For a fan of RTS this title is very disappointing in firts place of have the name Tom Claney's 
 on it, second for the long wait
  Dont waste your money in this game, buy or play a real RTS game like WiC, CoH, AoW, C&C... even Dune 
 2000
  Sorry My Bad English I'm From Chile 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenga123
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I want to review this game based on such titles like Company of Heroes and World 
 In Conflict. Both these games provided us with the best graphics and gameplay of the genre.
  Well, now about EndWar. Man, the hype of this game made me (and not only me?) drool months before 
 the release date was even announced. Having already played CoH and WiC I thought that EndWar will 
 be a mix of the two plus the mind blowing Voice Control. But boy, I was wrong. Ever had this nightmare 
 where you don't have ANY control over tactics and strategies of your units in a RTS game? Well, 
 this is EndWar baby. The only thing you do in this game is control the movement of the units on 
 the map and the attack/don't attack feature with your voice. THAT'S IT!!! THAT IS IT!!!
  You don't build a base, you don't have to think what reinforcements you should spend your points 
 on, you don't have to think WHICH TYPE of units you should send against a specific enemy, hell, 
 you don't even need a brain to play this game. Seriously! ALL YOU DO IN THIS GAME IS VOICE POINTING 
 WHICH ENEMY YOUR UNIT SHOULD ATTACK! THAT'S ALL!!!!!!! Any unit of yours can kill an enemy unit, 
 you don't capture strategic points that provide you with resources with which you can expand or 
 create new units. Your units just attack the enemy and simple shoot at the enemy units for minutes 
 just to destroy a tank. I mean, WHERE in a game have you seen a helicopter shooting missiles for 
 3 minutes against a single tank? I MEAN WTF??? I don't have words to describe this stuff. No! Wrong, 
 it's bullcrap!!! You get also a click-to-move option for your units but that's just the same as 
 voice control. Infantry has no special abilities, cannot hide in buildings or run, tanks and helicopters 
 only attack with one attack option and don't have any abilities either. Physics are non existent. 
 Tanks pass through walls, infantry DOESN'T get blown to bits and helis fly through buildings. Wow, 
 that was long. Can't believe I wasted 10 minutes writing this. Bottomline: Over-mega-ultra hyped 
 game, NO INNOVATION, NO CONTROL, NO CORE ELEMENTS OF A RTS GAME! I am sorry I didn't pirate this 
 game. Have a nice day, play World In Conflict or Company of Heroes, REAL RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:07 am PT
Review:  yeah... just like many other games, there are tons of trailers, screen shots, movies to show how 
 good the game is "suppose" to be, but when you are actually playing it, you start to regret you 
 even spent time to install it. 
  
  Surely EndWar has the most up to date graphics, but that's about it. After playing the sp for about 
 an hour I simply just wana get rid of it from my pc. Let's make a long story short. This game gives 
 me the feel it's jsut another poorly made console port that targets the market of 10 years old. 
 Some people may like the fast-going actions, but if you are looking for any tactics, strategy, 
 don't even bother with this. As i said, the infantry maybe the only thing that's very well done. 
 Their actions are smooth and realistic. Watching them taking cover is a lot of fun, but they are 
 just too small of a part to make this a good game. EndWar has all the features for a console, but 
 almost none for pc.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryPalms
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I had some notion that this might be bad but I had no idea just HOW bad. This game gets nothing 
 right. The story is pretty standard but what a shameless lean over Massive's shoulders it is. The 
 mood of the game is pretty bland, very standard. 
  
  The controls are the super simple variety console gamers need. And the voice control sorta works 
 but it will never be nowhere near as fast as using a keyboard. Think about this: 
  
  Time to press 4 keys in a sequence: 4 ms
  Time to say "Unit Seven Attack Hostile Five. UNIT SEVEN 
 ATTACK. ugh, U N I T S E V E N..." Forget it. It is a lame gimmick.
  
  The AI is useless at basic military tactics. You helos attack tank platoons by sitting right on 
 top of them and wearing em down with guns. Your armor will turn their backs to the enemy even if 
 told to back up just a little.
  
  Avoid this game like the plague if you:
  
  Have the slightest notion about modern military tactics.
  Have played any RTS the past 10 year, 
 then you don't need this.
  
  DO play this game if:
  
  You dont have any fingers.
  Are serving long-term in prison. You'll build up great frustration to take out on some poor schmuck 
 in the showers.
  Have a console.
  
  This turd of a game may make you insane from irritation. This is a prime example of those incredibly 
 dumb but pretty console games. To make an analogy: This is the bimbo where WiC is the hardcore 
 dyke working in the DIY store. Oh hang on. WiC looks infinitely better than EndWar. So EndWar is 
 the ugly, retarded chick and WiC is the supermodel working in the DIY store.
  
  This pointless addition to the Clancy brand more than disappoints. Avoid at all costs.
  
  The 
 expansion to WiC is around the corner and so is the next installment of Total War. Save your money 
 and buy a real PC game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
