-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tomclancysrainbowsix3rs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.5, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,260 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Mar 19, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its minor flaws, Raven Shield is still a very impressive addition to the series and a very 
 worthy heir to the Rainbow Six name. 

  Since its debut in 1998, the Rainbow Six series has been an outstanding example of how exciting 
 sophisticated tactical shooters can be, thanks to its challenging "one-shot kill" gameplay and 
 complex mission planning. And even though the tactical shooter subgenre has become even better 
 thanks to great games like SWAT 3 and Operation Flashpoint, fans still eagerly look to each new 
 Rainbow Six installment to see what the series has in store next. While Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield 
 does little to push the tactical shooter genre forward, it's still an exciting entry in the series. 
           Raven Shield lets you outfit your operatives with the latest gear and firearms.    

 
  Just like the previous Rainbow Six games, Raven Shield lets you lead a group of elite international 
 counterterrorists known as Rainbow. These guys are equipped with high-tech gear and high-powered 
 firearms and are itching for an opportunity to shout, "Tango down!" In Raven Shield, you'll help 
 the Rainbow operatives on a mission with a rather forgettable plot that involves a James Bond-style 
 madman and Nazi loot from World War II. In fact, as you play the rather short single-player campaign, 
 you'll find that storytelling isn't one of Raven Shield's strong suits. You'll receive clear text 
 and audio mission briefings and see a few well-directed but brief cutscenes, but these sequences 
 don't quite create a strong sense of drama or immersion. Rather, the storytelling feels like merely 
 a flimsy framework to hang the tactical combat on.   

  Also, the mission goals sometimes tend to blur together into a repetitive string of "Kill the terrorists 
 and rescue the hostages." This sometimes makes the Rainbow team seem like a regular SWAT team instead 
 of a truly elite international organization. And unlike the classic SWAT 3, Raven Shield rarely 
 creates any real emotional connection with the hostages. In many cases, they'll essentially be 
 a mission goal, similar to the hostages in the extremely popular Counter-Strike -- you won't even 
 see them until the very end of a mission.   

  Still, whatever their flaws, Raven Shield's missions provide lots of intense tactical action. Each 
 map is filled with lots of cover and sniping spots, as well as a seemingly endless number of places 
 where you could be ambushed or caught in a brutal crossfire. In the first mission, for instance, 
 you make your way through a Venezuelan oil refinery at night, creeping around railroad cars outside 
 and then wending your way through a maze of heavy machinery and catwalks inside. Later, you'll 
 shoot your way through an airport in the Cayman Islands, battle in the streets of Brazil, and cleanse 
 a London bank of terrorists. Overall, the missions provide really diverse and interesting settings, 
 though a few missions reuse the same maps, merely changing the basic goals or switching from daylight 
 to a night setting.   

  With so much happening tactically in each mission, preparation and planning are vital. After a 
 mission briefing, you select up to eight operatives to take part in the coming mission. You'll 
 get to fill out up to three sub-teams, choosing from specialists in assault, sniping, demolition, 
 and so forth. Each operative is also rated in observation, leadership, and other general skills, 
 and these stats will rise over the course of the game, particularly if an operative takes part 
 in and survives a mission.           A contextual menu lets you issue basic orders to your team 
 during a mission.    

  After you've chosen your team, you get to equip your operatives individually. Real-world weapon 
 buffs will love this part of Raven Shield, as the game's extensive arsenal includes assault rifles, 
 shotguns, sniper rifles, and more. Experimenting with all the different weapon capabilities, ammo 
 types, and optional attachments is almost like a minigame in itself. Along with the firearms, you 
 can equip your troops with breaching charges, flash-bang grenades, tear-gas grenades, and other 
 special weapons and tools. In addition, you can choose from a wide variety of different uniform 
 camouflage schemes and body armor types.   

  Once you've outfitted the operatives, you head to Raven Shield's planning room. This is the trademark 
 feature that helped put the Rainbow Six series on the map, but it's also the one that's caused 
 players a lot of grief because of its complexity. Here you'll see a schematic map of the mission 
 area, along with a 3D view window of the area currently selected on the map. During a mission, 
 you can only directly control one operative at a time and only give simple orders to your currently 
 selected team. So, you'll need to set up a complex string of waypoints for each team on the planning 
 map to ensure that all your operatives know what to do on their own. You'll choose from available 
 insertion points, set rules of engagement, and assign special actions for particular junctures, 
 like throwing a smoke grenade to cover an assault.     

  As in the previous games, mission planning can be very rewarding in Raven Shield, but it's nevertheless 
 laborious and might seem a bit confusing at first. Trying to make heads or tails of the game's 
 convoluted maps and determine how best to coordinate up to three groups of operatives is no easy 
 task, especially for a beginner. Plus, the planning screen isn't as user-friendly or as sophisticated 
 as it should be.           Mission planning can rewarding but cumbersome.    

  If mission planning isn't your thing, you can always load a preset plan for each mission, and these 
 usually work well enough. You can also just forget planning altogether and jump into the action 
 with one four-person team. Of course, this means you'll be skipping the intellectually rewarding 
 side of the game.   

  Whatever plan you end up using, you'll find most of the in-game action to be thrilling. Raven Shield's 
 focus on stealth and one-shot-kill realism helps build enormous tension. You might slowly sneak 
 through a luxurious mansion, with only the gentle ticking of a grandfather clock to break the tense 
 silence. As you round a corner, a fierce firefight will suddenly erupt, leaving a pile of bodies 
 and shattered glass on the floor when the smoke clears. This repeated shifting between methodical, 
 tense sneaking and lightning-fast gun battles keeps the game exciting almost all the time, though 
 it also makes it unusually difficult. In fact, since Raven Shield doesn't actually let you save 
 your game in the middle of the mission, beginners may find this difficulty truly daunting -- if you 
 slip up and lose half your team to an ambush, you may have to start over from the beginning. Then 
 again, tactical shooter veterans may very well relish that sort of challenge; a better compromise 
 might have been to include lower difficulty settings that offered you the choice of being able 
 to save within a mission.   

  Unfortunately, one of the long-standing problems of the Rainbow Six series sometimes rears its 
 ugly head in Raven Shield: friendly and enemy AI can range from extremely smart to extremely stupid. 
 Enemies will sometimes flank you or run for better cover if they feel too threatened, but other 
 times they'll simply stand around in the open, ignore nearby gunplay, or just walk casually into 
 your line of fire. For the most part, the Rainbow operatives cover each other well and react to 
 threats fairly quickly. But sometimes, they'll blow themselves up with grenades or overlook obvious 
 threats. You'll also run into occasional bugs and pathfinding problems that can cause your teammates 
 to get lost or refuse to follow you as they should.   

  If the teammate AI gets on your nerves, you can always go back and play the missions in the lone 
 wolf mode, which sends you in without any support. This and a few other "custom" modes, which use 
 the single-player maps, extend the game's replay value slightly, though not as much as they should. 
 You can also head online for a variety of straightforward cooperative and competitive modes. While 
 none of these are innovative, they can be a lot of fun because of their sheer intensity.   

  Like the gameplay, the production values in Raven Shield aren't perfect, but they're clearly 
 above average. The terrorists all conveniently (and unrealistically) speak English, even when shouting 
 for help, but the game's voice-overs are otherwise mostly well done, and the music lives up to 
 the high standards of the various Tom Clancy games. The weapon sound effects are quite possibly 
 the best ever featured in a realistic shooter. Get the game running on a computer with a good audio 
 setup, and you might be shocked at how the assault rifle fire in an enclosed area will be so intense 
 that it almost knocks you out of your chair. Thanks to Raven Shield's stunning implementation of 
 EAX sound support, even the sound of other operatives shooting it out with terrorists in adjacent 
 rooms or buildings is also remarkably convincing.           These terrorists were no match for 
 the Rainbow operatives.    

  Raven Shield usually excels visually, too. The game is powered by Unreal technology, and has minutely 
 detailed textures, generally convincing animations, and great special effects like bullets kicking 
 up snow or chipping concrete off walls. Also, Raven Shield gives you the option to see your weapons 
 in the first-person view, which is a welcome change. Little artistic touches and careful attention 
 to detail help bring the levels to life, too. You'll see the northern lights in the sky above a 
 Norwegian shipyard and gumball machines and a tire promo display in the waiting room of an auto 
 dealership. The only really significant issue with the game's visual presentation is the way dead 
 bodies often slump in bizarrely contorted postures.   

  In a way, this minor problem exemplifies Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield. The game suffers from a number 
 of small flaws (and sometimes bigger ones, where the AI is concerned) , yet it still does many things 
 exceptionally well. It's a shame that Raven Shield doesn't help redefine the tactical shooter genre 
 the way SWAT 3 did, but despite its minor flaws, it's still a very impressive addition to the series 
 and a worthy heir to the Rainbow Six name.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Toomsuba2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  RAINBOW 6: Raven Shield is my personal favorite RAINBOW 6 game. I play with all the settings maxed 
 out, other than terrorist and hostage shadow detail and I play on 800x600 resolution on a RADEON 
 9200. That said, lets get to the review. 
  
  This game has great graphics. The faces behind masks look great, the armor and environment look 
 great, the weapons look great-the only thing that doesn't look phenomenal are the hostages and 
 terrorists. While it isn't exactly creative with the environment, it looks real. The RAINBOW operatives 
 look like Delta Force. In other words, they look like counter-terrorists, and they should. The 
 gameplay is great. Featuring 1-5 shot kills, depending on where you hit the enemy, it is excessively 
 realistic. The weapon selection is extensive, with over 50 real-world weapons. In addition to these 
 weapons, you can equip scopes, different types of rounds, silencers, high-capacity magazines, thermal 
 vision scopes, and just about everything else. You can get tear gas grenades, heartbeat sensors, 
 frag grenades, etc. The only problem with the weapons is that you can't pick up ammunition or weapons 
 of the ground. The only other thing that the gameplay lacks is that sometimes the squad AI gets 
 bugged-up. RAINBOW SIX 3's objectives are usually: neutralize terrorists, rescue hostages, or disarm 
 explosives. Basically, your average counter-terrorism objectives. One of the cool things about 
 the game is that to everything there is a disadvantage. A shotgun is great at close range, but 
 sucks at long-range. Silencers mask sound, but you have to use sub-sonic ammunition, which isn't 
 as good as normal ammunition. Scopes are great, but they're bulky. Running is fast, but makes a 
 lot of sound. Tear gas is great, but you can hurt yourself. Heartbeat sensors are useful, but they 
 have limited range and they take forever to switch back to a weapon. Hostages are obnoxious, like 
 they should be. I love that. However, the enemy AI is not that great, but its not bad at all. In 
 shooting games, the first squad of bad guys you fight won't alert the second squad. But in a realistic 
 game, wouldn't you think they would alert the second squad. The enemy also tends to be either to 
 accurate, or not accurate enough. RAINBOW SIX 3 is a great game though, and is my personal favorite, 
 along with Call of Duty 4, F. E. A. R., Crysis, Gears of War, and HALO (Duh, Halo) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up Raven Shield, I was kinda regretting this move. I said to myself about a 
 million times on the way home, "Why am I getting this game. Why am I getting this game?"
  
  I kept on saying that, because of the experiences that I've had with the Rainbow Six 3 series. 
 Before when I was much younger, I would get so frustrated that I could beat this level, or it would 
 require too much brainpower to outwit the A. I. It was pretty much a nightmare that I couldn't help.
 
  
  So I lost a great interest in the Rainbow Six 3 series, even though it's a fantastic series. 
 
  
  Now, present day, I decided to give it a try again.
  
  After installing it, I figured out that I liked it first off. 
  
  When I actually started playing 
 the game, I found out, just how fun it was. I figured out that the Rainbow Six 3 series isn't like 
 Halo or some fast paced first person shooter. This was a game based on using your squad. I didn't 
 realize that at first.
  
  When you first off Raven Shield, you get the mission overview spoken by a women working with the 
 Rainbow Six team. She gives you the basic thing that your going to do in this mission. From there 
 you can click on another person that could talk to you about the mission. Each person has a specific 
 thing that there good at. One guy is gives you all the information you need to know on how many 
 bad guys there are, and how you will need to take this mission. (Slow, more fast paced, cautions 
 etc...) So that's a really cool feauture that's available to you. 
  
  When you get past the information part of preparing for your mission, you can plan with your team. 
 You can choose the kind of guys that you want to take with you in the mission. You choose two squads. 
 Red squad and green squad. There's a various amount of stats that you need to look at when deciding 
 who you want to take with you in the mission. Assault for example, is the stat that you mainly 
 want to look at, since this is the accuracy and the overall shooting of your teammates. This is 
 probaly the most important thing for most missions. On more stealthier missions you might want 
 to look at the stealthiness of your teammates, oberservation, and other non combat attributes. 
 You can also choose the weapon that you want for every single person, along with other accessories, 
 such as silencers, and high capacity magazines. There are a number of weapons that you can choose 
 from, from assault rifles, and pisols, to sniper rifles and light machine guns. 
  
  When that is all said and done, you go to the planning room where you plan what you want each team 
 to do. You can choose which route you want the green team to take, or if you want them to just 
 stay there, you can do the same for the red team. This is not a extremly crucial area of the whole 
 planning process for your mission. The only thing that you might want to do, is make the team that 
 your not controlling and make them go to a safe location or something that is near where your fighting.
 
  
  Ok, so now your done planning. We can get on to the real action, right? 
  
  When you start a mission you start out in an area that's not near the area of combat, just because 
 your tema is highly smart like that. :] . Anyway, this is where you just... play. You have to be 
 stealthy most of the time, so it's a good idea to not run all the time, and to nod stand up all 
 the time. Stay behind cover and just a pop a few rounds on some guys, get back to cover, order 
 your guys around corners to scout ahead. You've probaly done this before. 
  
  The whole gameplay of Raven Shield though is superb! The graphics, when set up to thier very best, 
 are amazing. You don't even have to have a very high end PC to do this either.
  
  The sounds of Raven Shield and the entire Rainbow Six 3 series is what make it so popular. The 
 guns sound like thier right next to you, being fired in real life. The footsteps that you hear 
 play a decisive role in whether you die, or succedd. So, it's actually pretty important to have 
 a good pair of speakers, or surround sound if your so highly inclined.
  
  Basically, if you have been a fan of the Rainbow Six 3 series, then you should of already bought 
 this by now. If your a fan of shooters, you should of already bought this by now. Basically if 
 your a fan of video games, you should at least rent this game. This is a game that does a great 
 job of making you feel like your in the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  A great, slow, tactical shooter to counter all of the run and gun games that have saturated the 
 market recently.
  
  While I didn't have the patience to create my own plans, I enjoyed using others, analyzing their 
 strategies, and then attempting to perfect each mission (not losing a team member) .
  
  The freedom to choose the gameplay for myself was entralling. Some missions, I would run and gun 
 with two assault teams. Other missions, I would employ a sniper pair as a third team to provide 
 cover. Still other missions called for slow, corner-by-corner traversing, with silencers equipped. 
 You can even create a mission plan, step-by-step, and then observe your team follow orders.
  
  I lament that the latest Rainbow Six games leave out the planning portion of each mission, 
 as I can see how much fun that is for some players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianguy7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  While "Lockdown" was popular on consoles, and "Vegas" was also very popular and technically amazing, 
 "Raven Shield" will probably go down in history as the chapter of Rainbow Six that was the most 
 true to form and fun, simultaneously.
  
  This is the last RS game to allow you to plan missions beforehand, instead of on-the-fly contextual 
 commands. It's the swan song of Clark, the original Rainbow Six himself, before the series went 
 "arcade" in the next iteration, and then put Ding the helm as the new Six in Vegas. This will scratch 
 anyone's tactical shooter itch, and it's a nice piece of gaming history at the same time.
  
  This game still runs well on XP machines with almost any sort of hardware. My only complaint 
 is that because it is so "realistic," it can be very frustrating (read: "you will get killed, a 
 lot") . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatriotX_6
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I like playing the game because it allows you many of the options involved in preparing for raids 
 like that of special ops. The story line is pretty much realistic, which is to be expected comming 
 from Clancy. I just wish the follow on games like Vegas allowed you the same options of equipping 
 the squad and planning the assault routes of the operatives like Raven Shield and Athena Sword. 
 
  I would make a few different suggestions on how the terrorists react to a squad like this hitting 
 them for more realism. I'd have a few more options in the game where you could have a wider base 
 of options during mission planning, for instance methods of insertion, such as air, or underwater, 
 choosing extraction zones, methods of extraction, allowing more options to where you could interact 
 with the surrounding environment. To balance things though, I would allow those terrorists or bad 
 guys the ability to use more of a variety of options to oppose you with. This game has a lot of 
 potential to expand and improve it's overall realism to special operations if the people who wrote 
 it are willing to try. I know I, myself, would be more than willing to give them suggestions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  The third game in Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six series of tactical shooters features an original story 
 line that has Team RAINBOW embarking on a 15-mission campaign to protect the world from criminal 
 and terrorist behavior. As in previous installments, players must select up to eight personnel 
 best suited for the task at hand, outfit them with the latest in weapons technology and equipment, 
 then carefully infiltrate various buildings or enemy strongholds to neutralize the threat before 
 it is too late. Players will visit locales set in London, the Caribbean, Rio de Janeiro, Switzerland, 
 and more. For the first time in the series, Ubi Soft Montreal (Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell) takes 
 the reigns over from Red Storm Entertainment for development duties.
  
  Missions in Raven Shield range from protecting a bank to daring hostage rescues, locating a biological 
 weapons cache before the enemy, and defusing bombs in the nick of time. The graphic engine used 
 in Raven Shield is based on Epic Games Inc.'s Unreal technology, which allows for weapons to be 
 viewed onscreen, a first in the Rainbow Six series, and offers more variety in texture detail, 
 background activity, and character animations. A total of 56 weapons and accessories (such as sound 
 suppressors and thermal scopes) are available to outfit teams with, while six dedicated multiplayer 
 maps encourage online competition via LAN or Internet. LAPD Medal of Valor recipient Mike Grasso 
 helped design the tactics employed by the non-player characters in the game as well as some of 
 the gadgets and character reactions.
  
  Gameplay is tense and exciting. Successfully completing a mission is very satisfying every time. 
 Playing the game with friends increases the enjoyment as you work together against the terrorists 
 or battle against each other.
  
  Between the release of Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear and Raven Shield, Ubi Soft and Red Storm produced 
 a number of Tom Clancy titles: an add-on for Rogue Spear as well as a stand-alone Rogue Spear expansion, 
 Ghost Recon, Splinter Cell, and a tie-in to the movie The Sum of All Fears. The Sum of All Fears 
 game plays very similarly to the Rainbow Six series with some influence from Ghost Recon (another 
 game similar to Rainbow Six) , but with an emphasis on expansive outdoor environments. Raven Shield 
 incorporates some of the new features found in those earlier titles, such as the improved waypoint 
 and command functions, and comes across as a more polished, upgraded version of Rogue Spear.
  
  Once again, Team RAINBOW receives its orders from John Clark and intelligence reports from 
 Kevin Sweeney. Following the mission briefing, players enter the team screen where they can select 
 which members (up to eight in non-recon missions) will participate, how to divide them into teams, 
 and which weapons, body armor, and items they will use. New to the series is the ability to make 
 slight alterations to weapons, by choosing a silencer or high capacity cartridge when available. 
 In previous Rainbow Six titles, silenced weapons were available, but the influences outside of 
 silenced gunfire were not obvious. Now each weapon has statistics in eight categories, such as 
 stability and range, and those statistics change when a silencer or high capacity cartridge is 
 added. There are also many more firearms to choose from, including a selection of machine pistols 
 for a secondary weapon along with the usual assortment of regular pistols.
  
  After setting up the team, players are taken to the planning stage. A pre-set plan is available 
 for every mission if users do not wish to create their own. Creating a mission plan has not changed 
 very much from Rogue Spear; select a team, provide waypoints, and choose "Go Codes" with more detailed 
 actions to take place at specific waypoints. The only major change in regards to planning is a 
 map insert that displays a first-person view of what the team will be seeing when a waypoint is 
 selected. Once the team and plan are set, it is time to send RAINBOW into action.
  
  The action is more under control than in previous Rainbow Six titles, thanks to the improved implementation 
 of commands and movement of the squad. Players can easily give orders on the fly to team members, 
 having them perform such actions as opening a door, clearing a room, or climbing a ladder. When 
 moving, the last person in a squad will walk backwards to prevent enemies from getting the drop 
 on the team. They will also alert the team by shouting out when the squad is taking fire from the 
 rear. Teammates are quick shots and often take out hard-to-locate terrorists before you can even 
 react. Since one shot can easily eliminate a player, it is very important that the computer-controlled 
 RAINBOW members are effective. Enemy artificial intelligence (AI) isn't always sharp, but opponents 
 are very accurate shots and most players won't last long without their backup.
  
  Although enemy AI is typically good, there are occasional glitches. An enemy may run into an object 
 (or a RAINBOW member) and continue to run in place until eliminated. Once in a while, the enemy 
 might stand completely still, staring at you from a few feet away without firing. Others may hear 
 a noise, but turn their attention to the wall rather than the only doorway someone might come through. 
 Along with these bugs, there are a few that can also affect your own team. If two friendly teams 
 cross paths in a tight spot they can become entangled, pushing against one another with neither 
 able to progress. Fortunately, players can usually push up against stuck teammates and clear the 
 traffic. Another bug had a computer-controlled team getting stuck on a ladder about one out of 
 every three times the mission was tried.
  
  If a player has the team hold up and then continues without them, the player can later command 
 the team to regroup on the team leader. One such time the commander of a team passed through an 
 open door and stopped just outside a closed door on the other side of a room. The rest of the group 
 was just outside the open door but when asked to regroup they decided to circle the map and approach 
 their commander from the other side of the closed door rather than simply entering the room. Though 
 none of these bugs ruin the game experience, they can be frustrating if they lead to the failure 
 of a difficult mission that was nearing a successful completion. 
  
  Mission difficulty can range from "not too difficult" to extremely difficult, depending on the 
 circumstances. A mission where an objective involves rescuing hostages can be much more difficult 
 than one where the only objective is to neutralize all of the terrorists. Having a successful mission 
 outcome primarily relies on the success of the teams the user is not controlling, which can lead 
 to some frustration. That every mistake is costly leads to a bit of repetition, replaying some 
 maps for a few hours until everything goes just right. Also, keeping all of the team members alive 
 in each mission is a bit more important now, as their statistics will improve over time. Recon 
 missions -- those that involve zero gunfire and not being seen at all -- can sometimes be the toughest 
 for Rainbow Six players. However, only one of Raven Shield's fifteen single-player missions is 
 a recon mission and it is actually one of the easier missions in the game. 
  
  The story line of the game isn't anything that will keep players on the edge of their seats. For 
 two-thirds of the game the missions will appear random, until intelligence can put all of the pieces 
 together and determine how they are linked. Settings are interesting, ranging from a London bank 
 to a meat-packing plant in Argentina, but of the 15 missions there are only 12 different maps. 
 All of the locations look great and contain a number of background details, such as ringing telephones 
 and televisions with the game's credits scrolling on them. Unfortunately, other than a few exploding 
 barrels and the ability to shoot a few static objects (such as a radio) , background interactivity 
 is limited. Animations are much improved over previous Rainbow Six entries; the stiffs that used 
 to tip over and fall through walls are replaced with corpses that flail as they fall off of a catwalk 
 or slouch while sliding down the closest wall. Although the new animations are well done, the final 
 result can be quite bizarre. Apparently enemies lose their complete skeletal structure when killed, 
 such that when they finally collapse to the ground their limbs are sometimes bent in ways that 
 only Gumby could imagine.
  
  Technically, the biggest issues are frame rates and an occasional crash. Of course, things will 
 vary greatly depending on the hardware, but the frame rates can be sporadic (jumping at times between 
 5-40 frames per second) . The game runs smoothly enough when indoors, but can sometimes struggle 
 outdoors, even with the recommended system requirements. Turning down many of the options may help, 
 though lowering the texture quality will make the game appear rather ugly and washed out. Expect 
 to need at least the minimum recommended system requirements to see the game at its best. At the 
 time of launch, CD key errors that prevented some users from playing the game's multiplayer mode 
 were also a problem, but this issue has been addressed in the game's first patch (released April 
 10, 2003) . 
  
  Raven Shield fits well into the Rainbow Six series, featuring the tactical, tension-filled gameplay 
 for which the series is known. With the expected improvements in graphics, sound, and AI, along 
 with a tweaked interface, Raven Shield is essentially a better-looking, better-playing version 
 of Rogue Spear. A few more single-player missions, a deeper story line, interactive backgrounds, 
 and some additional tweaking on the technical front could have pushed the game over the top.
  
  Environments, characters, and weapons all feature a lot of detail. Night vision also looks 
 quite good, as the screen size is reduced and everything is viewed through a translucent green. 
 The smoke grenade effects are a bit weak however.
  
  Background sounds fit each setting well, while weapons' fire effects accurately reflect the objects 
 each bullet hits. The same voices and some of the same lines from previous Rainbow Six games can 
 be heard. Dialog shouted by squad members adds to the urgency of each situation.
  
  Length of the game is dependent on how many times a mission has to be replayed; a successfully 
 completed mission normally takes anywhere from 5 to 20 minutes. Single-player missions can be played 
 in a variety of ways outside of the campaign mode, including cooperatively with friends or solo 
 in Lone Wolf mode. There are also a variety of multiplayer modes to keep players busy, such as 
 Survival, Team Survival, and a Bomb plant/prevent mode. 
  
  The manual covers each aspect of the game and features short weapon descriptions. There is also 
 a reference card included with all of the controls displayed on a keyboard layout and listed separately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  rainbow 6 is really good!... i used to play it all the time before i got my ps2... and u can also 
 have 3 people playing on i computer each controling 1 team!
  rainbow 6 has good graphs and really good gameplay, the weapons jolt if u shoot for too long and 
 accurecy is best used with 1 bullet....
  the terrorists react 2 ur moves such as surrendering, throwing granades and go and look for u.. its 
 quiet spectacular.....
  now some bad points... u cannot go hand to hand combat... but then again who will run out of ammo 
 unless ur a fool........
  u can select ur team, weapons and upgrades which is much like the other 1s like rouge spear.....
 
  but truely its very good.. u should bye it.... (im going 2 bye it on ps2 to c if its any different!..=] )
 
  oh.. add me on myspace my url is;
  
  so.... we can be friends and u can ask me anything!!!... (i may not be of any use... but... yes..)
 
  
  so... i may hear from u later!...=] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  from the onset, raven shield comes out as a great tactical shooter. only down bit is the complexity 
 it presents to the newbe to this kind of game.
  story line is pretty straight forward, you head a team of elites to clean up the baddies.. this 
 might make it seem dull but once you emerse yourself into it the realism is mindblowing.
  for the most part, diving straight to a mission and eliminating your target is the easiest option, 
 this however has the disadvantage of leaving you particularly vulnerable to enemy fire and you 
 might find yourself all alone with your men dead.
  so the next best but rather complex option becomes setting waypoints and jumping into a mission 
 with different teams.. if you bother to go through the tutorial lessons, this becomes a bit easier 
 to do.
  the technicalities aside, raven shield presents great game play with even greater sounds.. it feels 
 like playing a bond movie with you in control.
  the various guns and ammo offered in the game each have their own qualities, from sound, shooting 
 range, precision, damage and so forth.. choosing your amunition wisely would make the difference 
 between surviving till the end of your mission or being gunned down in the first exchange of fire.
 
  tactic counts immensely in the game as simply walking out thea guns blazing wouldnt get you anywhere 
 but dead.. use of cover and scoping out for enemy snipers gives it a great feel.
  for the newcomer to the tactical shooter, ravenshield will throw it all to you and leave you begging 
 for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakazoto
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  At first, I didnt like this game at all. The learning curve was a little steep for someone like 
 me, who their first tactical shooter experience was Rainbow Six Vegas. However, this game grew 
 on me in leaps and bounds. It has rapidly become my favorite shooter and I play it all the time. 
 Not much of a story here though, or at least not much of one to care about. Some bad guys do some 
 bad things and you are the ones to stop them. Thats about all you need to know. The graphics are 
 very good, even for an aging game I still think they are fantastic. Player models look great and 
 environments are crisp. It does lack some of the movable/breakable props of newer games but this 
 fact has no bearing on the gameplay at all so you barely notice it. The only drawback is no Iron 
 Sights, only a Zoom thats the same as SWAT 4. But a little realism mod available at rvsgaming. com 
 takes away the cross hairs completely, adds an iron sight and puts the icing on the cake. The sound 
 is also very well done. Suppressed weapons actually sound like suppressed weapons shooting subsonic 
 bullets while the loud weapons are just that. And of course the wonderful Tango Down! sounds 
 as fantastic as ever.
  
  With the realism mod installed this game is by far the most realistic game Ive ever played (and 
 enjoyed) . Many small things add up in a big way to make the realism so good. For example, when 
 laying prone you can only turn your field of vision around 45 degrees instead of in the full unrealistic 
 circle that many games use. The time it takes to switch weapons is spot on as well as the animations 
 for doing so. The fact that you have to holster your weapon before you climb stairs is also a very 
 nice touch. The list goes on and on. The tangos drop very quickly (as Id imagine anyone would 
 when you put 3 Full Metal Jacket .223 rounds in their chest) . And you as a Rainbow will drop equally 
 as fast. There also is a massive amount of weapons to choose from when planning each mission, such 
 as a UMP 45, M4, AK-47, MP5SD, G3A3, and the PSG1. You can also plan routes and go-codes for each 
 mission as in previous Rainbow titles or use the pre-designed ones (which are actually pretty good) . 
 You have a massive versatility in how you approach each mission and while they can be sometimes 
 very frustrating a simple change can sometimes make all the difference in the world. There are 
 plenty of missions and lots of replay value if you are into planning missions and seeing how different 
 routes work for clearing missions.
  
  All in all a fantastic game and certainly, in my opinion, the most realistic. I highly suggest 
 picking this one up (I got my copy from direct2drive for a very cheap price!) .
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  When the first Rainbow Six game came out in 1998, its spectacular blend of action, stealth, and 
 real-world tactics single-handedly created a new genre  the tactical shooter. For the third installment 
 of the series, Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield, the entire package has been overhauled  instead of 
 using an internally developed engine, the game sports the flashy Unreal technology, and welcome 
 tweaks and changes can be found everywhere.
  
  Unfortunately, none of the those changes have been applied to the games core gameplay, and the 
 result is a slightly stale experience that harkens back to the original games genius, but never 
 recaptures its freshness and pure wow factor.
  
  Set in the year 2005, Raven Shield pits Rainbow against terrorists funded by Nazi money secreted 
 away at the end of World War II: the fascist terrorists want to unleash a devastating blistering 
 agent and only you can stop them. As stories go, this one is pretty lame, especially when you consider 
 the current state of world politics and that the Clancy brand has always been cognizant of real-world 
 conflicts.
  
  Its probable that Ubi Soft didnt want to risk offending any ethnic groups by portraying them 
 as terrorists, but the game really suffers because the villains dont seem all that threatening 
 and the story fails to drive home a sense of urgency as the campaign rushes toward its conclusion. 
 It wouldve been much better to see Rainbow facing off against a threat that seemed real rather 
 than going the James Bond route, battling valueless blue-eyed crackpots who are funding their efforts 
 with plunder from a war thats nearly 60 years old.
  
  ITS ALL IN THE PLAN
  The single-player campaign consists of 15 missions set in a variety of locations, including the 
 Cayman Islands, Switzerland, and Brazil. The mission-planning section is essentially the same as 
 before, with a variety of characters, including Control and John Clark, supplying intel reports 
 while a high-tech schematic of the missions setting shows you key positions and objectives. One 
 of my favorite bits is the Newswire, which reveals how the media is reporting your previous mission. 
 Watching the lies-and-propaganda machine spinning out its fabrications is rather entertaining.
 
  
  The team-selection screen will be immediately familiar to anyone who has played the previous RS 
 games. The biggest change is that each weapon has five ratings, which show you its range, the amount 
 of damage itll inflict, accuracy, and so on. You can also modify them with a small scope, a silencer, 
 or a high-capacity magazine that impacts the weapons ratings in some way  the silencer, for example, 
 decreases a weapons range and power. So a critical strategy is ensuring your loadout is appropriate 
 to your objectives and the environment.
  
  The Planning Room has gotten an upgrade, and now features a live, fully-3D window that lets you 
 simulate a squads movement through the level. The default plans are very effective, but creating 
 your own is easy and lets you define how a squad moves and reacts.
  
  As for the missions themselves, theyre enjoyable, if not particularly ambitious. The majority 
 have you and your team storming a location, killing all the terrorists, and rescuing hostages or 
 protecting sensitive information. This process was still refreshing when the first two games shipped, 
 but now its starting to get a bit stale. The series really needs to evolve beyond hostage rescue.
 
  
  GO CODE ZULU
  Three of the maps are recycled in the latter stages of the game, and only one mission involves 
 a true test of stealth infiltration. Not only does this repetition diminish the tension during 
 those missions  you already know the layout of the location, so there are no real surprises  
 but it also seems a little implausible. I seriously doubt wed have the most elite special force 
 in the world secure a location and then leave without fully inspecting the place.
  
  Thankfully, the games final two missions, Whisper Blade and Steel Rose, are sensational. Whisper 
 Blade is set in a garage/auto dealership in Rio de Janeiro, and its an intense running battle 
 as you blaze your way through a seemingly endless stream of terrorists. I wont ruin the final 
 mission, but it starts off with a bang and features some hellacious firefights. Truly great stuff.
 
  
  During the course of the fighting, your AI teammates are rather adept at fending for themselves, 
 gunning down any terrorist scum that crosses their view. The movement of your teammates is much 
 more realistic-looking now, with one buddy always covering your rear, and your boys form defensive 
 perimeters before storming a room.
  
  Using a simple icon system, you can now give basic orders to the squad directly under your control. 
 When the move icon appears on the screen, you can click and send your squad to that location. Multiple 
 orders for storming a room, including open and clear and open, grenade, and clear require strategic 
 thinking and add to the tension. When ordered to clear a room, you can even set what type of grenades 
 to use.
  
  All of the go codes are still intact, which makes managing your other squads a breeze, and a new 
 Zulu code has been added to the mix. With this code you can issue your orders  such as storm a 
 room  but then delay that order until the Zulu code has been given. This pause lets you prepare 
 your teams for simultaneous assault on the same location, and is essential in some of the missions 
 where you must storm a room from multiple entry points.
  
  Alas, Raven Shield suffers from the same schizophrenic AI that has been present in all of the Rainbow 
 Six and Ghost Recon games. On one occasion, an AI squadmate and an enemy looked straight at each 
 other and neither of them fired. In another instance, I entered a room with three terrorists and 
 shot two of them  and then watched the third one turn and walk away as if nothing had happened. 
 Frustratingly, my squads on occasion bunched up and got caught on each other.
  
  Yet, at other times, the enemy AI behaves very realistically, with multiple enemies backing away 
 from grenades, responding to the sound of gunfire, or wiping out half of your team with one well-timed 
 (and -placed) grenade.
  
  TEAM KILLING
  The real joy in this series has always been the multiplayer modes, and thats still the case with 
 Raven Shield. Three cooperative modes (mission, terrorist hunt, and hostage rescue) and five adversarial 
 modes (hostage, survival, team survival, bomb, and pilot) are included. The most enjoyable of the 
 adversarial games is pilot, which emulates Team Fortress Classics The Hunted (actually, it completely 
 rips it off) . One player is a downed pilot, armed only with a pistol and a grenade, and one team 
 escorts him across the map while the other team tries to kill the pilot. Its great fun.
  
  My only real complaint with Raven Shields multiplayer portion is the new interface  a convoluted 
 series of screens and sub-menus. Before starting a server, you define the game length, the number 
 of rounds, the map rotation, and so on. Once people have joined the server, they have a pre-set 
 amount of time to select their weapons. The host can still modify the server settings on the fly, 
 but the systems not as elegant as the old interface, especially when youre playing co-op games.
 
  
  Given the brilliance of the previous games in this series, Id be lying if I didnt say I was ultimately 
 a little dissatisfied with Raven Shield. Its received some great tweaks and additions, but it 
 definitely plays it safe in terms of gameplay and doesnt try to break new ground, which is disappointing. 
 Still, for fans of the series, itll provide a lot of entertainment, especially in multiplayer 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blairstheman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  This was a great addition to the rainbow six collection. The AI is good and the squad AI is also 
 pretty good if you know how to command them. The sound is good. My favorite peice of this game 
 is deffinatly the multiplayer. You have so many great battles coop or adversial. The graphics are 
 so-so but the gameplay makes up for that. On single player, you can have a squad of up to eight 
 men, and you totally costumize every bit of them and you from weapons, camofluage, grenades, silencers, 
 ect. This game deserves a pat on the back because even today many many people still play online 
 (including me) . There you have it, Raven Sheild is an awsome game and no one can say different. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australians
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Its good as its like the new generation of game Exelent can't make it better even you can't complain 
 who ever read This grow on you can't coplain Thats most of it also The Australian puplic sevice 
 Message: Do not try this at home your friend might get hurt same as you do not im not kiding ok 
 laugh but don't say i didn't warn you! well bye bye also read horrible historys books
  Its good as its like the new generation of game Exelent can't make it better even you can't complain 
 who ever read This grow on you can't coplain Thats most of it also The Australian puplic sevice 
 Message: Do not try this at home your friend might get hurt same as you do not im not kiding ok 
 laugh but don't say i didn't warn you! well bye bye also read horrible historys books
  Its good as its like the new generation of game Exelent can't make it better even you can't complain 
 who ever read This grow on you can't coplain Thats most of it also The Australian puplic sevice 
 Message: Do not try this at home your friend might get hurt same as you do not im not kiding ok 
 laugh but don't say i didn't warn you! well bye bye also read horrible historys books
  Its good as its like the new generation of game Exelent can't make it better even you can't complain 
 who ever read This grow on you can't coplain Thats most of it also The Australian puplic sevice 
 Message: Do not try this at home your friend might get hurt same as you do not im not kiding ok 
 laugh but don't say i didn't warn you! well bye bye also read horrible historys books 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnipeYou
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Its addicting, intense, and fun either way.
  I dont even care if im playing alone online- its that great.
  Multiplayer is kick a$$, and tango 
 hunt is good to, as long as its not on recruit. Mapping for this game is fun, and easy.
  Great guns, sound, effects+ the killing looks real.
  Man, this is my fav game to this date 5/7/07
 
  I cant get enough of it, I crave it like something a Pregnant woman would lol.
  Great game- AWSOME!
  Team is okay- they do good most the time, there are a few **** here and 
 there- but the commands are great.
  Weapon selectiong is enormous and sweet, as well as gun attchments.
  Effects are great- blood, 
 bullets in the wall, dirt kick up, smoke.... all very great. This game is still very competitive 
 with most of the current 1st person shooter in my opinnion- maybe not in AI, but it rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d4588
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that could be great if only the squad AI had half a brain. Don't get me wrong they 
 are all sharpshooters as well as the enemy AI which seems to take away from the game play in my 
 opinion. However the AI can be made tolerable if you go over the mission with a fine tooth comb 
 in the mission editor. This is still only passable. For example when a squad is stacked up against 
 a hostile door and the order is 'flash and clear' the lead guy will:
  *open the door
  * stand in the doorway while removing the pin from the grenade
  * toss the grenade in the room 
 * begin clearing the room
  
  Clearing the room consists of the entire squad taking approximately three steps into the room, 
 shooting all hostiles and declaring it clear. With the mission editor some of this can be fixed 
 by having the unit perform an 'open and clear' without using grenades and using the editor to ensure 
 they do a full sweep. However, you lose the element of surprise since there are no flashbangs or 
 gas thrown and you sometimes have to go back to the editor since the AI units tend to get stuck 
 on corners. The multiplayer is one of the best due to the mod community keeping things fresh.
 
  
  Even with all of these shortcoming I have played and beaten this game countless times and spent 
 hours on multiplayer. This is an excellent game but there are several crippling factors which could 
 have made this game the benchmark had they been addressed properly. So we're left with 'what could 
 have been'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield is a mouthful so I am going to call it RS. Raven Shield 
 was a hit on the PC thanks to it's smooth flowing action and tactics in game. The maps range from 
 Large to small with enemies in different spots each time you play through. This adds to the replayability, 
 I played through it about twice, once on the PC and once I on the PS2 Equilavalent. With it's advanced 
 tactics and teamplay Raven Shield set a standard for future Team-Based FPS games. The only fault 
 I can see in RS is the A. I. that can be frustrating when they aren't even looking at you and down 
 you or your team. Raven Shield is definately an old school hit that any fan of the genre should 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepperlander
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games ever to be made. The gameplay is much like Star Wars: Republic 
 commando except the life you have got and the guns and ammo. Enemies die in only 3 shots........ but 
 so do your character and your squad members. that makes the game harder and because of that it 
 is best to play as stealthy as you can. there are only two guns at a time ond two grenades: a pistol 
 w/sound dampener, automatic gun or a shotgun, smoke grenade or flash grenade, and a frag grenade. 
 this game is beautiful work and has everything you expected. great game from Ubisoft and I'm looking 
 forward to see every new Rainbow Six game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson-_-Tears
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Let me just get this out of the way If you're getting this game for just the offline mode you're 
 in for a little disappointment since the offline doesn't have that great touch like within the 
 online part of the game they limit you to three other AI in you're team to kill Terros. In the 
 online part of the game you have eight witch makes alot more fun since you're interacting with 
 other humans and its more tactical and realistic. You have other modes to like Operative witch 
 is all the Terros come towards you're team trying to eliminate the one that is selected as a target 
 and he dies before everyone else dose then you have to restart the round witch it pretty fun my 
 favorite one too. you got Adversial its were you have an all out shoot out with other people trying 
 to be the last man standing. Hostage rescue, and one were you have to dissarm bombs and maybe a 
 few others.
  
  Graphics are pretty good for an old game.
  
  The sound in the game just sounds great everything with the gunshots and the environment is spot 
 on.
  
  The only cons I have about this game is the Friendly Fire in online Terrorist hunts is this game 
 should of had FF permanently off, makes me kind of pissed that people do that. Also when you die 
 online you have to wait til everyone dies to restart another round they should have made it to 
 were you can play as a Tango but only can stay in rooms when you become a Tango and not leave that 
 area, or make you're ammo very short and only can walk, hell at least put in a mini game till the 
 die!
  
  The game dose have some flaws here and there but it worth it that any PC gamer that likes FPS' 
 should own this awesome title in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Raven Shield was my favorite game.. that i played within 2 years.... why?.... because 
 it has an engaging single player tactical action.. that you can play again and again and again if 
 im bored even.... now that my second cd was broken... i let rainbow six: raven shield take a trip 
 to heaven and give a try to other tactical games...
  
  Gameplay - Here you have everything you can expect from a really tactical game.... the health system.... the 
 weapons characteristics and customizations... the teammates loadout too.... and the great planning 
 room..
  
  Graphics - I loved it simply.... because it ran smooth and visually great on old machines... because 
 they showed great special fx effects and solid textures... without requesting too much....
  
  Sound - Great... every weapon and reload mechanic... has its properly and own sound.....
  
 
  Overall - This game was my favorite most of the time... and i considered it a classic and Greatest 
 game of all times ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  It's got good qualities and really bad ones at the same time. Graphics are good but thats not a 
 big deal anyway. Has a good planning tool when you get used to it. The guns sound real good along 
 with the rest of the audio. But right there is where the game stops being good.
  
  For an elite counter terrorism unit your team mates behave stupidly they'll stare at a enemy before 
 getting blasted, get in your way repeatedly and just not perfom like an elite squad should behave. 
 The enemy AI out right cheats with it's one shot your dead when all it could see was a tiny piece 
 of you. The one hit your dead system isn't bad it's the enemy AI that hits you with only one bullet 
 from very far away that makes this game difficult hell there shouldn't even be difficulty levels 
 in this game as it clearly does not matter.
  
  Also the enemy AI likes to execute hostages with even the slightest sound which is annoying to 
 the point where you want to uninstall it. The soulution is to put silencers on everyone's weapons 
 but then you can't hear the good audio then and even then it still may not help.
  
  Sniper rifles are useless in the game cause none of the levels are really built to allow a sniper 
 to do anything but kill one person. Some of the other mini gadgets you will never use like the 
 thermal scope.
  
  Planning is almost useless thanks to the inept AI of your team mates and the sniper shot terrorists. 
 Same for the armor in the game you might as well just set everyone to light and what ever pattern 
 cause it does nothing. There was only one time it did anything but that was the only time.
  
  But there are some fun moments in the game it just takes awhile to find them and if you can 
 get past the difficulty and enjoy it then it's fun and keeps the good Rainbow Six gameplay going.
 
  
  So you'll either like it or hate it same with anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The new Rainbow Six games have lost what made the originals Rainbow Six games. They are no longer 
 particularly more realistic than other 1st person shooters of today. The new R6 games have also 
 lost what made them so much like the book of the same name.
  
  Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield is possibly the most realistic game I have played to date, your enemies 
 go down in one or two shots and you do the same  even on easy mode. So mistakes count in Raven 
 Shield, very rarely will you get away with strolling into a room with two men either side of the 
 door and one behind a desk, which is where the planning phase of the game comes in. From the start, 
 you get 50-odd weapons to choose from, each with their own traits and accessories to play around 
 with, there is nothing to unlock here  its all about picking the right tool for the job. After 
 outfitting your men (including armour types and camouflage) youre ready to plan the mission at 
 hand. You are faced with a planning screen where you can load up a pre-made plan or go ahead for 
 yourself. Although this may seem daunting at first youll soon get the hang of it. So no longer 
 will you stroll into the room but youll come in from two entries with two different teams at the 
 same time with flashbang grenades to go with you.
  
  Although it is realistic, Raven Shield can be as realistic as you want it to be, you can play with 
 different degrees of auto-aim and choose different things for your HUD, personally I play with 
 no HUD, crosshairs or auto-aim, but thats just me and my lust for realism. This can make the game 
 pretty arcadey or a thoroughly realistic experience; both are fun despite your preferences. The 
 graphics feel dated but they are more than bearable even now, there is not much to comment on except 
 that the game is still great to play despite its, now flawed, graphics.
  
  Overall, Raven Shield is a fun experience from start to end, and although it will only take you 
 a couple of days to finish, there are plenty of extra modes to play around with, a map maker with 
 the game and I still havent used every weapon. There is also online playnot that anyone actually 
 plays it anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  I loved everything about it from the maps to the guns and it's all just done to perfection :) The 
 single player however is pretty poor, but that said this is strictly made for multiplayer. Similar 
 to what you'd say about BF2.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are ok but nothing special, and now they are pretty much dated.
  
  Sound:
  
 
  Sounds of the radios and the gun are great.
  
  Value:
  
  should be a bargin now, altho less and less people play it by the day : (
  
  Just buy it, very 
 cheap and you wont feel left disappointed i promise, though CSS has taken some of it's fans away, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit turned off by this game on the Xbox. I got this game only because they threw it in 
 when the PC was bought. The gameplay can seem a bit sluggish at first: you have to get used to 
 commanding a 4-man team. Eventually the missions will turn harder with more enemies and stealth 
 missions where you must infiltrate an area by yourself and do so undetected. On the Xbox, the stealth 
 missions were near impossible. On the PC, its more of a game of patience. Once you get the hang 
 of switching between team members, you then want to home your skills on switching between two teams. 
 Eventually to three, although you may never need three teams. Theres always the alternate route 
 of just cheating and breezing through the game, that will only take about 10 minutes. Your teammates 
 are something straight out of the Rainbow Six book. They can kill an enemy even before you notice 
 them. Although if you play a solo mission, you realize that the enemies sometimes notice you even 
 when their backs are turned away from you.
  After youre done with the main mission, you can go online and play in several different game types, 
 although I never have. You may find some user-created maps online, but good luck getting them installed.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing. The Unreal engine running this game is well done. I never would have 
 thought that one of the bloodiest games out there could also run one of the smoothest looking. 
 The environments are very well mapped and there are never any glitches, you never get caught up 
 on something that isnt there. The weapons are, of course, different. And with a wide variety to 
 choose from, you might want to practice with each one to find just the right one for you. The amount 
 of things to choose from on the weapons menu is vast. But some of them are completely pointless, 
 such as a false heartbeat puck and a heartbeat sensor jammer. The enemies never have heartbeat 
 sensors, so these serve no purpose in the game. The explosive effects, such as grenades and exploding 
 barrels, are nicely done and can take out several enemies if you are lucky enough. The ragdoll 
 effects, however, just look pointless and can really look stupid when you kill an enemy. Just to 
 see the guy bend over completely backwards and fall down lets you know that they didnt really care 
 about the death effects. But on the other hand, it does make for a good screenshot fest and laughs 
 afterwards. The sound is clear and never clouded with useless radio chatter. The weapon sounds 
 are recycled ONLY in the weapons with the same base names (ie MP5, M1) . Other than that, each one 
 sounds different. The terrorists, despite whether you are in Poland or in South America, speak 
 Spanish or English with a Spanish accent. It doesnt matter because eventually they all shoot at 
 you or are dead. Footsteps can be heard and what I like about it is how the sounds change along 
 with what you are stepping on and how real it sounds.
  
  The game can be completed in less than a week if you keep at it. Theres nothing to unlock but the 
 levels. So like I said, you may want to look around for user-created maps or map packs. Try and 
 get the Iron Wrath expansion or the Athena Sword expansion. Both are free and may add something 
 more to the experience. I was a little turned off by this game due to the Xbox version. But once 
 I realized that there are major differences in the two, the PC version seemed more fun for some 
 reason. Maybe because I can actually get past the stealth level. With enough horsepower running 
 this game, the load times are small, but one thing Ive noticed is how it changes from a small resolution 
 in the menus to a large resolution during gameplay. Its not noticeable, but if you get a message 
 on Xfire while playing you notice it. This game is higly recommended for people who love Rainbow 
 Six or tactical shooters. Others who are just looking for a fragfest will be turned off by it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIAIP
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  The tactical shooter R6: Raven Shield is a hard game for beginners to play. It has a "1 shot 1 
 kill" feature which makes it even harder to play. But once you get your tactic down its much fun 
 to play. Raven Shield is highly additive and can give a adrenaline rush. The AI could be better, 
 over time you learn how the AI reacts and can predict its moves. Once you get tired of the AI and 
 know the maps there is always the multiplayer part. This is a totally other experience and gives 
 you a challenge because of the "1 shot 1 kill" factor. The graphics and gameplay is look good og 
 make Raven Shield worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Raven Shield is a game that many fans of the series will enjoy. Others may find this 
 game a great challenge. The graphics are pretty well done and the gameplay is challenging but if 
 you use a pre-made tactical map then it is easier. Raven Shield has pretty good replay value but 
 it really depends on how big of a fan you are of the series. The only thing that is upsetting about 
 Rainbow Six: Raven Shield is spending an hour of planning your mission for about 15 minutes of 
 gameplay. This isn't really bad though because you have pre made plans to use so it is a lot faster 
 this way. The AI is a little questionable too but other than that this game is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w_chiong
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Basically the formula of the game is: first two rainbow six + modern fps shooter = raven shield. 
 Its really worth while I can say, even though I've only played the coop type of mission play. It's 
 really immersive like you're the one in the game. And the tactical variation of the aspect in the 
 game is really superb. Many guns to choose from: SMGs, SGs, ARs and Rifles.. it really rocks. plus 
 the mission planner even though its only for single player. I hope they add that in the multiplayer 
 so that it would be easy to assign each players task, assignment and waypoint. It's really tactical 
 and one hell of a Rainbow Six game. Worth buying. If hungry for more. I recommend buying the expansion: 
 Athena Sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphawolf_0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow six 3: Raven shield is the next installment in the long running Rainbow six 
 franchise. This version of the game is actually very well made, and designed. They only need to 
 tighten up a few aspects and the game would be perfect.
  
  Raven shield has you playing as the experienced team Rainbow, out to stop terrorists from their 
 evil schemes. Each member of Team Rainbow has their own exclusive stats, abilities and heritage. 
 If one of the Team members die, then they arent coming back to help you, so here Raven shield does 
 a good job of trying to make you care about your teammates. What is difficult however, is finishing 
 a mission without a casualty. Rainbow six sports the realistic One Shot, One kill mantra, that 
 can cause many deaths, very quickly because of a bad decision on your part.
  
  Before you start the mission, Your team will recieve its objectives and an overlay of the area. 
 Here you have the chance to bring out the master tactician inside of you and create plans that 
 can deal with the situation at hand. Here you also choose the equipment of your teamates, and there 
 are many things to choose from. Ranging from high powered pistols, Rifles, Shotguns, snipers, and 
 machine guns, Raven shield gives you so many options on which gun to choose, Youll have a hard 
 time picking one out.
  
  The missions in Raven shield basically boil down to either killing all the terrorists or rescuing 
 the hostages. The missions themselves can be difficult, because the terrorists are smart, they 
 have theryre own patrol route and can react to sounds. If you burst through the door, guns ablazin, 
 not only will you die, but the terrorists will kill the hostages, or set off the bomb right away. 
 This can lead to many frustrating boughts of trial and error, until youve got the right strategy 
 down.
  
  The story in the game is its weak point, beacause playing through this, I found the story boring, 
 and uninteresting. Nothing that you havent seen before in other games, but its the gameplay itself 
 that delivers. 
  
  The sounds of the guns are all accurate and the music is your typical Rainbow six action music. 
 The graphics in the game look great and at the highest settings, The sky, details, shadows and 
 textures all looked fantastic. 
  
  The multiplayer in the game is another strong point for the seris and raven shield is no different. 
 The action here is even more fun, thanks to the people playing behind you. 
  
  This is a strong title for the Rainbow six franchise and is a definate buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are a counter terrorist team called RAINBOW sent to deal with terrorist activities all 
 around the world which range from hostage rescue to bomb defusal
  
  Graphics: Pros-Models look pretty good, weapons look really realistic, some environments are well 
 detailed
  Cons-While some environments are well detailed others just look bland (first mission for instance)
 
  
  Sound: Pros-Voice chatter from teammates and during briefings sound great, gunfire sounds very realistic, nice 
 tense music to keep you on edge
  Cons-None
  
  Game Play: Pros-Very good realistic one shot one kill game play which forces you to use good team 
 tactics and not just run and gun, terrorists AI is pretty solid, game play helps you to keep on your 
 toes which makes playing the game a great rush, nice planning screens to help plan your mission, great 
 tactics brings some educational value to the game
  Cons-Team mates AI can be very spotty at time (for example one team mate dies and the others dont 
 move and get shot too) , the stealth mission can be a real pain at times
  
  Replay Value: There is a 15 mission campaign with 3 difficulties that should keep you busy for awhile, then 
 you can play any of the missions with customisable modes (playing them alone or just killing all 
 the terrorists for example) and finally theres a great on line mode with a few modes of play (DM, TDM, CO-OP 
 etc) so theres plenty to get into
  
  Overall: Rainbow Six: Raven Shield is IMO one of the best tactical shooters of all time next to SWAT 
 4 and is definitely better than its sequel Lock down which removed some of rainbow sixes biggest 
 and best original features and just turned it into another run of the mill arcade shooter but i 
 guess that happens when you make it for both the consoles and the PC at the same time :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostsinner
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield...
  
  Compared to the other Tom Clancy inspired video games, this beats them all in the first person 
 shooter genre. With a easy interface with controls easily set up to your enjoyment this game will 
 run as smooth as you operate it. 
  Entering the games main screen is practical and if you have played other Rainbow Six titles you 
 should be able to navigate with ease. Compared to previous games the video quality in Raven Sheild 
 is superb. The hud is easily changed through the main menus options but the only down fall is that 
 every time you change certain options you have to be out of a mission for the new settings to take 
 their effect.
  Upon entering the first mission you will notice the Rainbow Six basics. You will receive information 
 on the mission through a brief and fire team squad set up. Then Followed by equipping your elite 
 task force with a wide variety of modern weaponry and making your final plans for engagement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syphoncell
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Let's just start by saying I am a die hard tactical military shooter fan. I play Ghost Recon, Medal 
 of Honor, Rainbow Six, The sum of all fears (PC) , all that stuff. So I was disappointed when I 
 couldn't play it on my outdated computer, but now I have a Dell, Pentium IV, XP, XPS 400 (Whatever 
 that means) And I can't stop playing it.
  
  I loved RS, and RS: Rouge Spear, and RS3 (PS2) . But this game ruined it for me. Now I can't play 
 those without thinking "Geez, I wish that I could do that thing from Raven Shield"
  
  Now, enough about my un-interesting life, on to the review:
  
  Graphics: Wow, there is roundness 
 in the world. No more blocky animation and glitchy graphics. This is top of the line S***. Maybe 
 that's why I needed a friggen supercomputer to play this.
  
  Sound: One thing that has always been there in all the Rainbow Six games, was realistic sound. 
 Explosions, Gunfire, dialogue, it's like Im lisining to an A-Class war movie
  
  Plot: Actually has one this time around
  
  Gameplay: The Grace of it all. Phenominal. Tactical. 
 Challenging. Realistic
  
  Replay: Custom Missions
  
  Simply put, this game needs to be played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billypooped
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this is the #1game you can find. I dont think athena sword (the expansion pack) is as 
 good as raven shield .I love going on line and killing terrorist. I really liked the way the terrorist 
 arent stupid they call for back-up when they need it and can take down 1-2 people easily. I think 
 this is the best game tom clancey has ever made .Good job tom. If any of you guys play online, My 
 name is *DD*SGT._Elroy. I came into *DD* a srg XD. But this game is the best game. It ranks rite up 
 there with warcraft and with guild wars.
  
  
  Signed
  
  Elroy Mc Fatson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  Rainbox Six 3: Raven Shield... The name really didn't appeal to me especially as i was told it was 
 just like counter strike which i really found too repetitive and monotonous to my liking (to the 
 disagreement of many) so i didn't buy it but it was passed on to me so i thought i might aswell 
 try it out. 
  
  It really surprised me actually, i find the single player missions OK mostly because of the fact 
 that you can command squads around, set waypoints and wat-nots but i found that the story line 
 asn't that great it was basically kill all the terrorists and rescue the hostages (if ther was 
 any to be rescued) for the missions on single player so it didn't impress me although it was quite 
 fun.
  
  What i really like about raven shield is the online play especially if you can get teamspeak from 
 ventrillo or some other teamspeak program, you can play intense missions against other players 
 or a terrorist hunt (which is kill all the terrorists) or others but i find playing with friends 
 going round in small squads really does make it exciting and realistic. I like the one or two shot 
 kill which makes it really much more realistic than other games because you can quite easily die 
 to a terrorist as it is in real life so you need to keep yourself hidden. 
  
  I also like the range of weapons, gear and additions which you can include onto your weapons for 
 example silencers, scopes, larger clip size, thermo scopes and others. It really does mean that 
 you have to think which weapon to use on each map.
  
  the glitches you get are funny too and u can have a few amusing moments in the game where you see 
 a guy bent over backwards from the power of your shooting or someone dangling through the roof 
 by their head or someting.
  
  Overall I think it is a very good fps for realistic counter terrorist, close quarter combat players 
 (although there are maps which are larger to cater for snipers) and i would recommend the game 
 to anyone who wanted a game of this type and was disappointed with counter strike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  i have had th9s mgame for ages, i got it off ebay for about 4 like 1 and half years ago, i installed 
 it on my old pc and it was sooo slow, so i never even tried it online and after a few attmepts 
 at the missions o got bored of the lagg. now with my newer pc i can play it at high online no probs.... and 
 its awesome!
  i recently reformatted my pc so only got round to playing this game again like a week ago when 
 my matew got it, now im on it all the time.
  from the technical side this game is very good, the graphics are decent, at least they are good 
 enough and it isnt exactly a brand spanking new game, the gameplay is ok as well, some slight problems 
 like the fact that it doesnt always let me reload as im strafing etc but nothing major.
  the single player campaigne is nothing new, but it isnt bad, the mission are simple, you either 
 have to kill everyone or rescue hostages, there are also some other mission types every now and 
 then i think. the computer Ai is good too, on elite the comps aren't slow, you hesitate for the 
 slightest moment and you get a face full of lead, so you need to be fast. the range of equipment 
 too is a good side to this game, claymores, breaching charges, numerous assault, sniper and heavy 
 machine guns are available as well as shotguns and sub-machine guns. all sorts opf frags and explosives 
 are also at your finger tips, how you use them is upo to you.
  as for online, well, this is where the game really shines. with it on elite playing a terrorist 
 hunt or hostage rescue this game is sooooooooo fun. even if you lose and do the map over and over 
 again there are so many ways of doing things, killing people and your route can change every time. 
 a good team deathmatch is also good fun and there are many other types of games online, there are 
 usually a pretty good range of servers too.
  
  if you are only buying this game for the single player experience dont expect too much from it, 
 its good but not great, if you want it for online then i urge you to get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho_FreakX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six 3 is a tactical shooter that requires the right plans & movement to complete the various 
 missions. Rainbow six 3: raven shield is the best in the series in my mind. RBS3 puts you in control 
 of a team of anti terrorist to hunt down terrorists & save hostages. 
  
  Features 
  -------------- 
   Single & multiplayer campaigns * 
   Rated Mature * 
   Rag doll Physics* 
 
   Very detailed planning map * 
   Over 57 weapons (including Pistols & shoguns) * 
   Over 12 missions in the single player campaign * 
  
  STORY / PLOT 
  ----------------------------- 
 
  Terrorists are up to no good; they have taken over many locations all over the world and got hostages. 
 So its up to team rainbow to take the terrorists down & rescue the hostages. Based on the Tom 
 Clancy book lineup. 
  
  GRAPHICS 
  ---------------------- 
  The visuals are pretty impressive in this title I have one complaint there is some clipping. Also 
 the character faces look stupid looking. I love the deaths of the characters when they die. I wish 
 there were more blood in the game. That would make deaths look better looking. The areas look very 
 impressive in the game & beautiful to look at. 
  
  SOUND 
  ---------------- 
  The guns sound very impressive everything sounds so right in this game. I have no complaints about 
 the sound in this game. Your teammates sound very realistic like from a swat movie or something. 
 So I have no complaints about the sound. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  ---------------------- 
  The game planning is quite frustrating at first then after practice it can be picked up easily. 
 The teammates commands are easy cause there is only a few to learn. The single player campaign 
 is just too short once the game starts soon after it ends. The terrorists are smart but sometimes 
 they same they seem a little stupid. I wish your health were bigger only a couple of shots and 
 your dead but it is realistic though. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL 
  ------------------------------- 
  ~ THE GOOD~ 
  ----------------- 
   Your team can be up 
 to six members * 
   The game sounds are very realistic * 
   A Great gun selection * 
   A great selection of outfits for your team * 
   The environments are great looking * 
   
 The game produces good graphics * 
  
  ~THE BAD! 
  ----------------- 
   There is one stealth mission in the single player campaign* 
   There isnt enough missions 
 in the single player campaign* 
   There isnt variety of missions either terrorist hunt or save hostages * 
   Not enough blood 
 in the game * 
  
  ~ THE FINAL VERDICT~ 
  ------------------------------------ 
  If you are a fan of realistic squad based shooters then this game is right up your alley. I would 
 wait for the game to drop price before picking up. The single player experience is just too short. 
 There is some online play but this might not be a good idea for 56K & under Internet users. Overall 
 this is a good game not great but pretty good. This is definite my favorite Tom Clancy Rainbow 
 Six game to date. 
  
  I Recommend It! (I recommend waiting for the price to drop before picking up) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: voyager007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six has always been a great tactical shooter and with Rainbow Six 3 Raven Shield Ubi has 
 perfected it. Raven Shield is a tactical shooter that emerces you in the world of anti-terrorism. 
 Forming a SWAT team known only as Rainbow you guide your men through various missions (including 
 many urban locales) eliminating terrorists and rescuing hostages. Occasionally you will get a little 
 taste of disarming bombs and (the most difficult part of the game i think) planting bugs in stealth 
 missions which can prove quite hard at times. There is an excellent assortment of real-life weaponry 
 as well to the game. Modifying them as you go and adapting them to the type of mission you are 
 on is alot of fun in itself. The multiplayer aspect of the game is great. Not to mention you meet 
 a ton of nice people that you will most likely find a friend or two while playing. This game is 
 for everyone. Young or older Rainbow Six Raven Shield won't dissapoint. I have convinced several 
 people to play this game that won't give games the time of day and now they are addicted. With 
 the $20 or less price tag that is on the GOLD edition of this game right now GO BUY IT NOW!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Finally rainbow six has got back to making good games. Raven shield really impressed me with its 
 awesome gameplay and tantalizing graphics. This game has gone beyond many peoples expectation and 
 has really struck a new era in gaming and shooters. The games gameplay is simple but complicated 
 at certain levels and killing your enemies is the easiest part but as many games i9t does get tougher. 
 Rainbow six has impressed me and now i am just waiting for Rainbow six: Critical Hour, so i hope 
 the game is more better and more sucessful and i also congragulate ubisoft for this Innovative 
 game.
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield has ressurected my faith in TOm CLancy, let me tell you how it had 
 been butchered in the first place; one sultry summers day while i was lazily lounging on my leather 
 couch i decide to play rainbow six 3 for the Ps2, let me tell you! this game was crap crap crap! 
 , anyways, back to my topic the pc version has excellent graphics, sound QUALITY, and gameplay, 
 i purchased this game thinking it would be a waste of money, BUT HARK! i loved it, you take on 
 the role of RAINBOW a counter-teeroist squad tracking down and killing every bad guy in sight! 
 IF YOU ARE NOT A BELIEVER OF TOM CALNCY BUY THIS GAME AND BE PREPARED TO BE WOWED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksyme99
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Raven Shield is the latest installment in the PC rainbow six series (until Lockdown :D) and it 
 is very close to being the best. It has that same original and great concept we feel in love with 
 in the original, and it backs it up with smarter enemies, great graphics and immersive sounds to 
 give you the complete Raven Shield experience.
  
  For the most part, you play as part of a squad, and can either control the one person all the way 
 through a level, or jump between people and do everything yourself. It seems a waste not to use 
 the AI though, as it is pretty good now. I have only gotten them stuck once when coming up some 
 stairs.
  
  The graphics help a lot, being able to get yourself into the environment helps you to find your 
 way around and enemies stand out against the background much more. The enemies themselves are much 
 smarter, they run away when outgunned and quite often try and flank you, although most of the time 
 you hit them so hard so fast the best they can do is fire off a few shots before being taken down.
 
  
  The only downside to this game is the length - far far too short - and one solo mission, which 
 while great fun in itself, really did not fit into the pace of the game. They needed to either 
 leave it out, or add more like that... it really impeded the flow of the game. Thankfully you get 
 past that very early on, and you flash and clear your way through the rest of the levels.
  
  But fear not! This game has a great multiplayer system. I can only comment on using it with 
 one other person, but that was GREAT! Each taking command of a squad, you feel much more confident 
 in the other person, and can usually make the level much harder as you are able to work better 
 together. Maybe not as good with a stranger, but still better fun than a lot of multiplayer games.
 
  
  A great game, with a solid but short singleplayer but it is made up for by the great multiplayer 
 action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyzilla
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  After looking at Tom Clancy's games, deciding which one of them i should get, i stumbled upon Raven 
 Shield. I read some of the reviews and gameplay information, and i was hooked from there already.
 
  
  At first, I didnt really think that Raven Shield would be THAT good, i thought it was just like 
 True Combat Elite (great mod for ET) or CS. But after playing for about 10-20 minutes, i was amazed. 
 There are a whole bunch of weapons and gear to choose from. Also, the weapons can have added things 
 such as scope, silencers, larger magazine clips. 
  
  Squad controls were hard to get used to though, but when you go to training, it will be much easier 
 to control your squad. 
  
  Overall, YOU MUST GET THIS GAME. I loved it, and i've played it for only about 3-4 hours and i 
 got it today too. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  This review is for both Raven Shield and Athena Sword.
  
  Gameplay: Very challenging. Killing is very rewarding in this game, because one little mistake 
 and you're dead. Once you have beaten all the missions on lone-wolf mode on the elite setting with 
 auto-aim off and 35 terrorists you feel as if you have really accomplished something! (9)
  
  Graphics: Not cutting-edge. Nevertheless, there is a lot of detail and they do not disappoint. 
 (8)
  
  Sound: The weapons sound great, although they are considerably quieter than the real ones. Not 
 very many other sounds in the game though. (7)
  
  Value: Cheap with lots of missions and mods, an 8.
  
  Tilt: It doesn't get much better than 
 this. (9)
  
  The Good: Varied and interesting level design. Tons of real weapons, each with a different feel.
 
  
  The Bad: Brain-dead AI. Rambo enemies that know no fear and can out-shoot Annie Oakley. Silly death 
 animations. Not nearly enough destructible objects.
  
  Bottom Line: This is what we need, more creative, inventive and cerebral games. Not the run-of-the-mill 
 dreck most developers churn out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane_F
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  Raven shield, other than the Tribes franchises, is one of the games I love to play now and again 
 just to get my heart racing with action. While I enjoy this games because it brought me the control 
 of controlling squads. Unlike most RTS games I play, Myth 1 through 3 and so on, it's cool to be 
 able to control the units.
  
  Now I know there are many games like this, but I have tried them all, and I have liked Raven Shield 
 the best. SWAT and Ghost Recon were below average, the game play was not like how I envisioned 
 'special forces' commando's.
  
  This game is top notch, and will continue to be in my game pool. Now only if my laptop could support 
 this game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubbiefan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  I have played the rainbow six series from the very start on the classic pc versions for windows 
 95 and I must say this is the best of the series. 
  The graphics are a stunning leap ahead of previous games and the detail on the weapons are amazing. 
 The terrorists still all look pretty much the same but the detail is much better. The gameplay 
 is rock solid with lots of varied missons and different types of single player modes. The online 
 play works well and my freind and i have spent many hours blasting away at AI controlled terrorists 
 in coop mode or trying to kill survive in death match.
  This is a great addition to any pc gamers or shooters library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 4:52 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game in the series and it is a great shooting game.
  
  Gameplay: Again like in the last titles you are a soldier who tries to protect the united state 
 and battle the terrorists. You have a ton of missions, tons of weapons and tons of areas.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful. The terrorists and your self look fantastic and the weapons 
 are unbelivible.
  
  Sound: The sound of the weapons are fantastic but I still wish that they are going to put music 
 when you fight terrorists. you know what I am saying.
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours in the single mode and the multi mode.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: 
 Overall this is an awsome shooting game and you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resistance_8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Although outdated, Raven Shield is a surprisingly fun game. It isn't your average shooter, it requires 
 a great deal of carefulness, caution, tactics, skill, and precision to complete your missions. 
 
  It is probably one of the most realistic shooters I have ever played. Missions can either be skillfully 
 planned using the easy-to-use mission planner, or taken on free-form, whichever you desire. 
  The singleplayer is followed up by a simple, but fun multiplayer, in which players can compete 
 in simple deathmatch, or a team vs. team structured game.
  If you don't quite enjoy "shoot 'em up" action games, this one may be for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  I've always been interested in the rainbow six series, but I've never bought any of the games before 
 now, I figured that's a shame. 
  
  
  This game features some great graphics that must have been awesome when the game was released. 
 There are some cool effects for your eyes to eat, but I'm a bit dissapointed that the Thermal Vision 
 didn't come in colors, but that's nearly not even worth mentioning. 
  
  The sounds are very realistic and the commands sounds great. There are many different sound effects, 
 and the music the game use is very patriotic and action like. 
  
  The gameplay in the rainbow six series has nearly always been the same. Top realism and some very 
 cool levels filled with terrorists. It's surprising to see that one of the missions are in Bergen 
 in Norway! Cool! Maybe it's a secret message saying: Don't keep those massmurder terrorists in 
 your country cause they cause trubble!! But that's just something I've figured out all by my self! 
 The game is as said, very realistic and you don't get shot without beeing injured or killed. The 
 game features many missions, which is good, and most of them are really hard on the "normal" difficulty 
 level. The multiplayer in Raven Shield is also awesome, and many say that that's the only reason 
 they actually bought the game. You can team up with other online players and complete all of the 
 missions featured in the single-player campaign. You also have dathmatch and other online modes. 
 This game is recommended for every fan of the Rainbow Six series, and for fans of realistic games 
 or other games in the Tom Clancy series. 
  
  + 
  Good graphics. Realistic sound effects and some patriotic music. There are many mission in the 
 campaign. The multiplayer works fantasticly good. 
  
  - 
  The game repeats itself to much I think. You don't get any new weapons or equipment throughout 
 the campaign and that becomes a bit boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LurkingAssasin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. One reason why is I have read all of Tom Clancy's books and Rainbow Six was my 
 favorite. I was amazed with the first two games that were released in 1999-2000. Now they kick 
 Rainbow Six up a notch. First reason why it kicks butt is the realism the game offers. Second reason 
 is the weapons and how you can customize them. I love games that have a variety of weapons and 
 Rainbow Six 3 sets the record. 57 (And Increasing) weapons is a dream come true for me and makes 
 me happy to see the long list of weapons on the planning screen. I dont think I have played a game 
 with this kind of array of weapons in a game before. Third reason is you are in command. You map 
 out where you want your team to go or plan as you go. You can tell your opratives to do anything 
 you want such as clear a room or blow the room up to kingdom come. The last reason is the first 
 person weapon. This is what makes the game exciting because it makes you feel you are actually 
 there. Compared to SWAT 4, Rainbow Six 3's weapon on the HUD is way better because you're constently 
 staring down the guns sights. Unlike SWAT 4 where the gun can be at the bottom of the screen or 
 the right of the screen. In my opinion, Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield ranks up there with HALO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTuff
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 6, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Having never really played any of the Rainbow Six games, or owning them, I decided to get Raven 
 Shield with the Anthena Sword add-on pack, at a brilliantly low price for the two.
  
  While I found some of the first levels easy, going up in difficulty until I, myself, found it nigh 
 on impossible. 
  
  It looks beautiful. Every level is well designed and looks fabulous, with tense music to top it 
 off. Every level is unique in it's design, has its well placed hiding points to surprise the enemy, 
 and has its weak areas where you can get caught out if not careful, which makes it a great game 
 in the sense of concentrating and working things out.
  
  Maybe this isn't my type of game, but I found it to be so realistic that I couldn't do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have never played a Rainbow Six game, here's what to expect: Lots of close-range, 
 heart pounding, bullet-dodging, clip-emptying, threat neutralizing fast paced action. 
  Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield, is a true sequal of it's predecessors, Rainbow Six and Rogue Spear, 
 as an elite team of paramilitary specialists: Team RAINBOW, it is your job to respond to world 
 class terrorist threats throughout the world.
  In and of itself, the game elements are just like dozens of other first person shooters out there. 
 But here's the catch: One bullet and you're soldier is dead. No health packs, no ammo pick-ups, 
 no gun collecting and absolutely zero room for error means you have to quickly calculate the consequences 
 of every single move you make-which is sure to make any gamer's pulse quicken.
  Action game fans can bypass pregame menus and head to the fragging while strategists can tediously 
 tweek every aspect of their squad-based raid by plotting the map coordinates for one, two or three 
 teams of elite troopers, as well as dress them up with hundreds of special issue paramilitary weapons-perhaps 
 the largest selection of any first person shooter game ever.
  The amount of control you have over your squad of soldiers is impressive. A universal action command, 
 which changes depending on what you focus on, allows you to easily manuever your team where you 
 want them. You can make them climb ladders, hold position, open doors or you can issue no orders 
 and your team will simply tag along, often shooting at enemies you do not notice.
  The enemy AI is challenging in that they aren't always predictable, they often notice you before 
 you see them and they are quick at getting to the trigger. Unfortunately, after playing a map a 
 dozen or so times, you get a good idea of their locations and of how they react which does make 
 them rather... predictable. However, the AI is still challenging, even after you've played a while 
 and Elite mode is almost unbeatable.
  The world looks convincing enough. Nothing terribly impressive about the graphics except for the 
 realistic movements of your character and some environemental interaction. You can finally see 
 your weapon in Raven Shield, which differs from any other game in the series.
  All in all, this is the best DirectX 8 game to date, with unmatched play control and a welcomed 
 break from respawning that will keep you on the edge of your seat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Games that feature shooting, SWAT teams, terrorists and hostages appear all the time. This is nothing 
 new. Rainbow Six 3 does little to redifine the genre, but nontheless Rainbow Six 3 is still a good 
 game with minor flaws found in most FPS games.
  
  The first thing to note is that Raven Shield has great sound and generic weapon sounds. Hostages 
 and terrorists have dialouge that don't repeat too much, and the sound of footsteps on the terrain 
 changes according to what you step on.
  
  Also, another thing to note is the graphics. They are powered by the Unreal Engine, and generally, 
 looks great. You can even read the signson the walls and shatter the glass with your gun. But, 
 there are still several animation flaws, like when some of your teammates gets stuck and keeps 
 running at an open door, forcing you to free him and sheperd him through obstacles he'll probably 
 get stuck on. Also, pathfinding is horrid. Your teammates will often go through dangerous areas 
 filled with terrorists and get shot.
  
  But, however great the graphics are, there are sometimes plenty of slowdowns when you go to big, 
 outdoor environments. My machine went from 50 FPS to just 5 in a few minutes because of the strains 
 on my machine to render the large, outdoor effects and increased when I went back in.
  
  Gameplay is filled with obstacles and things that could take you out with just one hit. This is 
 the most difficult obstacle in the entire game. Most of the time, you'll be trying to navigate 
 yourself though and level and not getting hit instead of killing enemy terrorists and freeing hostages 
 or disarming bombs. The story behind Raven Shield is very flimsy, and it's probably just to keep 
 the gameplay together. 
  
  Enemy AI can be extremely smart, or downright dumb. They'll often try to flank you, or call for 
 backup. Other times, they just ignore the incoming gunfire, and continue to stroll around like 
 nothing has happened, then get hit.
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six 3 is a game that looks great, sounds great, and plays well. There are several 
 animation flaws, but, hardly anyone is going to notice them too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codgamer2004
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 5, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping it would be good, but it just wasnt. If you must get it, get it. You will be sorry, 
 and wish you had lisened. I just plain didnt like it. There are much better games out/ coming out. 
 I would reccomend Call of Duty or Brothers in arms when it comes out. Even Battlefield 2, those 
 games could own this game with its eyes closed. Im telling you, dont do it. So stop wasting you 
 time, and look at another game, so you can play it and be happy. This game is very hard, and there 
 wasnt one thing that stood out to me. Not one single thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joao_sousa
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2004 10:24 pm PT
Review:  While being a little bit hard, made to patient minds and skilfull gamers, raven shield gets to 
 be a whole lot rewarding. In fact, anyone who might be interested in this type of game will find 
 this one cleverly done. its challenging, intelligent and has a huge tendency to increase players 
 will to play, by adding substancial details that will fulfill the most demanding people.
  
  I would like to recommend it to anyone who search for a complex game, full of different choices, 
 different pathways but, on the other hand, its somewaht plausible to unaccept this game, bearing 
 in mind that almost all gamers are too worried about action, and less oriented to embrace a difficult 
 and hard-learning game such as this one.
  
  As a final note, if u are into this type of game, go on and acquire it. If u like action packed 
 fps like painkiller or doom 3, leave this one in the shelf. its not a game designed for u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2004 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun, but the multiplayer is where the game is at. Single player is decent, 
 nothing special. This game can be quite addictive and has good graphics with LOTS of guns.
  
  Gameplay 9 - Gameplay is great. It's not fast paced like UT2004, it's actually pretty slow. 
 But it's still very fun. The maps are pretty good, and there's a HUGE list of guns and gadgets 
 that you'll be expirementing with for a while. This game is a lot of fun, make sure you play multiplayer 
 for this!
  
  Graphics 9 - Graphics are pretty good, self-explanitory.
  
  Sound 8 - Sounds are fine, not as good as Counter-Strike's, but they are believable.
  
  Value 
 9 - This game is very addictive. There's loads of maps and guns. The teamplay is very crucial, 
 so make sure you play with friends! I played this game for a while, and I still play it on occation. 
 The single player is good practice, but nothing revolutionary or out of the ordinary. There's plenty 
 of servers to play on ubi. com, this game is fairly popular. This game will appeal to anyone who 
 likes realistic, team-based shooters.
  
  Tilt 9 - A solid game indeed. Ubisoft Montreal is a great developer, and this game is quite fun. 
 You won't play this game forever, but you'll enjoy the times you played it after. Worth the buy.
 
  
  Pros - A solid and addictive multiplayer with lots of guns to choose from, lots of maps to play, 
 and great team strategy that you'll learn as you play.
  
  Cons - Single player is really nothing special. This game can get boring sometimes. There are few 
 guns that will be worth using. You won't play this game as long as you will others.
  
  8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truthseer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 8, 2004 9:05 am PT
Review:  High points: Awesome assault-planning and mapping features that allow you to see 2D and 3D representations 
 of areas before you actually even send your squads in! Great array of weapons to choose from, covering 
 the gamut from reconnaissance to heavy weapons. You can be as meticulous or as general as you want 
 to be with your orders, and there are quick-start options for those who would rather not plan to 
 the very last detail. You don't have to worry about getting lost, because a HUD that follows your 
 planned path is always available. Good tutorial.
  
  Low points: Soldiers not under your control have a bad habit of not taking cover and not reacting 
 to obvious attacks. This game does have a very high learning curve, and you've probably already 
 learned the hard way on several missions before you really start to get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PubaLeRaccoon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2004 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for over a year and a half and I still play it as much as I did when I first 
 got it. There's I think like 80 weapons, or something like that, plus usually 2 or 3 attachments 
 (but you can only attach one at a time) . All of the weapons are really good and everyone is completely 
 different from another (except for the CZ submachine gun, that gun sucks so much, stay away from 
 it) . I like this game this much without even playing the multiplayer. For some reason it doesn't 
 work for me, even with the patches. But if you like the XBOX one, you'll probably like this one 
 even more because it's not a port and has much better weapons. The graphics aren't that great, 
 even at really high resolutions with everything turned all the way up (I gave them an 8) , the sound 
 is really good because if you play it for a little while you can recognize every gun's gunshot 
 sounds (silenced, non-silenced, and big magazine gun sounds too) , and it's value is a 10 because 
 of all the different combinations of guns and equipment you can make and open endedness of the 
 levels. Jesus, I sounded like a huge geek in that sentence. But I'm not a geek, I'm too dumb, I'm 
 failing all of my classes except one but I only pay attention in that one because my Italian teacher 
 is  hot. Anywho, try out this game.
  
  ~~PubaLeRaccoon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2004 1:56 pm PT
Review:  yes  
  I love this game because it has the right amount of run and gun action. It also has the right amount 
 of stratagy. its perfect!
  
  go buy it now!!!!!!!
  
  (do not listen to my other review because it was describing my view of the single player aspect 
 of the game i recomend not playing the single player and only play the multiplayer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madhjo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 7:54 am PT
Review:  When you play the first mission and you will think:"Ooh, this is just another basic shooter", but 
 as you progress through the missions you will love it. The AI are just awesome and not to mention 
 the excellent enviroments. You will play missions in villas, oil factories, warehouses and in many 
 more cool places. Your team consists of many people with different abilities that are useful on 
 difefrent missions. Now to the part of the game that I really enjoyed the most - the multiplayer. With 
 over 350 maps and still growing this game has gotten many hours from my life from me. I don't know 
 how to describe the multiplayer it's just so awesome and fun. Go get this game if you have not already, 
 because it is one of the best multiplayer FPS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabbuki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2004 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The core of this game is the gameplay. The game is a tactical shooter, and it is a very serious 
 game. The game puts you into the heat of tactical international counter-terror missions where you 
 have only a limited number of men and have to take on a variety of seemingly impossible tasks against 
 terrorists. You have to plan out every single detail to the highest extent to be successful. You 
 have missions where you'll have to take out all the terrorists in an airport, rescue hostages, 
 prevent bombs from exploding, etc. 
  
  The game is very tactical, and I mean TACTICAL. Sometimes I spend hours on one level using trial-and-error 
 techniques to find out terrorist hot-spots and plan out a mission plan on the map. One of the most 
 satisfying parts of this is using go-codes (alpha, bravo, charlie, etc) . You can synchronize attacks 
 on hot-spots by breaching through multiple doors at the same time on a certain go-code, confusing 
 all the terrorists inside and thus winning the firefight. It is very satisfying to see a go-code 
 work to its best potential.
  
  The gameplay makes you feel like you are actually a Rainbow member. You can't run very fast (you 
 have heavy armor on) and you can't sidestep at hyper-speed like in other shooters. You can peak 
 around corners, set firing methods, change the rules of engagement, and coordinate your men on 
 the battlefield. The gameplay is awesome if you spend the time to coordinate and plan out the missions 
 before you go into them. Trust me, it's fun.
  
  The graphics are amazing too. All of the textures are very hi-res and the terrorists in different 
 levels look very unique. Plus, the terrorists aren't stupid. They have good AI, which is also a 
 gameplay factor that makes the game experience good. The problem is sometimes the AI can seem extremely 
 dumb often getting stuck walking into a wall (rare) or emptying clips into a wall while you are 
 at the other side (also rare) . 
  
  In addition, some of the rainbow AI is bad. The AI often gets stuck on ladders and in doorways 
 if multiple rainbows try to go in at once. It's funny to watch, and luckily you can choose to help 
 them out by "jumping" into their bodies via the teammate selector.
  
  The sound is great (watch the sound recording movies here at gamespot) , and the guns sound like 
 they should sound. 
  
  The value is superb. Each mission plan can be improved to a point where there is no loss of Rainbow 
 life. That is the ultimate goal, and finding the right spots to put go-codes and discovering terrorist-infested 
 hot-spots takes time and effort. However, in the end it is very satisfying to watch your men to 
 follow your orders and achieve mission goals for you. This game can keep you playing for HOURS 
 and HOURS with its addictive gameplay. 
  
  In addition, the multiplayer isn't that bad. In fact, it's very fun to play. The only thing I can 
 complain about is that there is no co-op mode. A mode where 8 people can get together and carry 
 out a mission with go-codes and all would be AWESOME.
  
  I love this game, and I suggest you get it if you like strategy and realism in your shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikest21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2003 1:14 am PT
Review:  I love this game. It's incredible. The only thing it lacks is being entirely original because it 
 seems very close to the same idea as CS but still keeps a lot of things for its own (customizable 
 weapons, much, much, much better graphics, and a much huger selection of weapons) .
  
  Gameplay: Same idea as CS but still retains some originality of its own
  
  Graphics: The graphics 
 are outstanding if you have a good enough graphics card (mines a GEForce FX 5200 128 mb and it 
 runs with rare lagging)
  
  Sound: The sound is good music based on maps, very realistic gun and grenade noises, great sound 
 for gadgets, just great sound.
  
  Value: If your computer can run this well and you like fps' you will enjoy this game.
  
  Tilt: 
 I love this game but many people will want to stick with the less realistic counter-strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlaursen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 13, 2003 12:18 am PT
Review:  The Only thing i didnt like about this Game is the AI Structure...
  
  1 Terrorist Took out my Entire team... ALL of them...
  He had a Mac 10 at Long Range.
  The 
 Enemy AI is TOO Good. And TOO Smart. I compare it to a Hacker in Counter-Strike.
  
  Using Aimbots and wallhacks.
  Somtimes u can not even move. and they know u are there.
  Then 
 the Team AI is too Damn Stupid to Shoot a Terrorist when they are shooting at you.
  
  That is the only thing i have ever seen wrong with RS games... IS the damn AI...
  
  And better 
 Ragdoll structure would have been nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wytefang
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Beautiful-looking game with amazing sound. HOWEVER, one big, huge, gigantic mistake they made with 
 Raven Shield (and it's the reason both me and my friend have returned this game) is this:
  
  No Respawn during multi-player matches. This leads to yawn-worthy minutes of watching other 
 people have fun while you sit out waiting for the next round to begin. The common reply to this 
 complaint is, "Well don't die then!" However, everyone, from the best FPS expert to the worst, 
 is going to die sometime and we play games to, well, play games - not sit and watch. It seems badly 
 short-sighted for Red Storm to not allow the ability to respawn.
  
  Unfortunately for Red Storm, we've moved on to better, more flexible multi-player FPS games - ones 
 that DO allow a free respawn during MP matches. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2003 10:18 am PT
Review:  Raven Shield is a great game.
  The gameplay is very orginal and can be either simple or complex, considering the ways that you 
 can play this game. The good news is that you can have up to a eight person unit running the show, 
 going their own little ways and doing their part in which they take in order to destroy the Terrorists. 
 Also, there are many different kinds of missions. There are also custom missions in which you give 
 yourself your own scenario. The bad parts about this game is that the ai can be either annoying 
 or destructive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdonoug
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 15, 2003 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed 1st person tactical shooters ever since the release of the first Rainbow Six game, 
 but this release leaves me feeling a bit disappointed. To be sure, the graphical qualities of the 
 game are terrific and the fact that the developers took the time to integrate the actual sounds 
 of each weapon into the game is a nice touch. Overall, however, the game is at best mildly entertaining. 
 As mentioned in the review, the plot is forgettable. You often get the sense that there is no real 
 purpose to what you are doing and I feel this is a failure of the game. Add to that the amusing 
 ease with which a supposedly ragtag band of untrained terrorists is able to easily eliminate a 
 group of the world's finest counter-terror operatives. Most importantly the utter lack of mission 
 diversity is a real detractor. A fictional group of operatives like Rainbow would surely be used 
 on a wider variety of missions than simply storming the bank. Or the shipyard. Or the garage. The 
 game is repetitive and dull, similar to the book that inspired the series. 
  The game has strong points to be sure. The realistic modeling of the wide variety of weapons is 
 a nice touch, but there is usually little to no need real need for the ligfht machine guns nor 
 the s****er rifles. One can usually get the job done with an assault rifle or the the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk887
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2003 10:05 pm PT
Review:  With many Tom Clancy games previously released, Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield adds a delightful game 
 to the overlooked series. I have personally encountered about 2 or 3 bugs in total. In the single 
 player portion of the game, you are of course playing a terrorist-hunter character, and this game, 
 in my opinion, somewhat redefines the tactical shooter. For starters, it actually lets you see 
 the gun. But, along with that, this game is actually very fun to play. It's not a very fast paced 
 game, as that's not what you would expect in a tactical shooter, but it has some ties with some 
 traditional first person shooters. However, it also pleasantly adds the realism it requires to 
 have the name Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six. The multi-player portion if by far the best of the game. 
 Not a huge community, but great to play online and compete. The graphics for Raven Shield are superb. 
 The game also runs rather smooth, and multiplayer servers do not have much lag. The sound can be 
 described in one word: magnificent. This game is a great buy, since a guy like me, who plays FPS's 
 such as Medal of Honor and UT 2003, enjoys this game to its full extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2003 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The best part about this game is the graphics and sound. The single player campaign is far too 
 short and like many games in recent past the software creator is banking that youll play multiplayer 
 more then single player.
  
  The custom campaign creator is very nice and helps to pick up the slack where the single player 
 game leaves off. I personally dont have all the time in the world to play online so I count on 
 some good single player action thats why Im harping on it a bit.
  
  Overall though it is a good quality game and if you are a fan of the Tom Clancy series of games 
 this is a must for your collection.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
