-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tomclancysghostrecon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,566 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Red Storm Ent.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Nov 13, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ghost Recon offers some excitingly tense moments, but problems often rear their ugly heads just 
 when the game gets interesting. 

 These days, when shooter fans prepare to enter virtual combat, they're more likely to reach for 
 an MP5 submachine gun than some futuristic plasma rifle. Games like SWAT 3 and Operation Flashpoint 
 have offered realistic situations, weapons, and tactics that create deeper alternatives to pure 
 fantasy shooters like Quake III Arena or Unreal Tournament. Of course, if there's a game that's 
 synonymous with the tactical shooter subgenre, it's Rainbow Six or its successor, Rogue Spear. 
 With these games, developer Red Storm set an unprecedented standard for realistic gaming combat. 
 One shot could kill, and stealth and planning were the order of the day. Now Red Storm is back 
 with a new tactical shooter, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon, which is big news for shooter fans. News 
 on the game itself is mixed, though. Ghost Recon offers some excitingly tense moments, but problems 
 often rear their ugly heads just when the game gets interesting.           Ghost Recon lets you 
 command a highly specialized assault team.    

  Ghost Recon puts you in command of a platoon from "The Ghosts," an elite Special Forces unit operating 
 at the vanguard of the US military. Set in the year 2008, Ghost Recon imagines a near future in 
 which ultranationalists have seized power in Russia and begun a campaign of aggression against 
 the former republics of the Soviet Union like the Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan. With the situation 
 rapidly deteriorating, your team is inserted into hotspots like Georgia and the Baltic states to 
 help bring about stability. It's not a very original premise, but it serves its purpose.   

  The main game consists of a story-driven 15-mission campaign. After you unlock missions in the 
 campaign, you'll be able to play parts of them again in a quick mission mode. Ghost Recon also 
 offers fairly promising co-op and competitive multiplayer modes like last man standing and hostage 
 search and rescue.   

  Before each mission, you'll get a text and audio briefing on your team's goals, as well as a rudimentary 
 map of the mission area. After the briefing, you'll carry out tasks like assaulting enemy camps, 
 rescuing downed pilots from their captors, blowing up bridges, ambushing an enemy tank column, 
 and fighting through a bombed-out town. The missions involve a lot of slow, stealthy movement and 
 scanning of tree lines and buildings for enemy activity. This regularly veers between excitingly 
 tense and rather tedious. When combat ensues, it's usually lighting quick, and casualties on both 
 sides are high. Don't expect extended firefights, but do expect piles of bodies.   

  Prior to each mission, you'll get to assign soldiers with particular specialties like sniping or 
 demolitions to three fireteams to create a balanced force. Each fireteam can include up to three 
 men, but you can only enter a mission with a measly total of six men. Each soldier is rated for 
 weapons skill, stealth, leadership, and endurance (hit points and the ability to carry heavy gear 
 quickly) . As soldiers complete missions, they earn extra points that you assign to improve their 
 various abilities. If you complete the special optional mission objectives, you'll get access to 
 specialist characters with higher stats, as well as weapons that are otherwise unavailable, like 
 the advanced OICW assault rifle.   

  Overall, you'll get quite an arsenal of equipment and weapons, including assault rifles (such as 
 the M16/M203) , carbines (M4) , submachine guns (MP5, MP5SD) , light machine guns (M249 SAW) , sniper 
 rifles (M24) , pistols (M9) , hand grenades, and antitank rockets. There are around 22 weapons and 
 items in all, but you won't become some unrealistic walking tank since you can only equip two weapons 
 per soldier at a time. You'll also encounter a number of vehicles, but these only act as window 
 dressing or targets. You can't ride in or drive any vehicles, which is a real shame. Recent games 
 such as Operation Flashpoint and Tribes 2 have shown just how dramatic and tactically interesting 
 that possibility can be.   

  Once in a mission, you'll directly control one soldier at a time while commanding the rest of your 
 squad indirectly. Instead of the elaborate and perhaps overly complicated premission planning of 
 Rainbow Six and Rogue Spear, you give orders to your team members in real time during Ghost Recon's 
 missions. The superlative SWAT 3 arguably perfected this sort of system already. You may find Ghost 
 Recon's command system awkward by comparison.           Your AI-controlled teammates are prone 
 to foolish mistakes.    

  At any time during a mission, you can call up a command interface panel that lists your soldiers 
 and provides a rough map of the mission area with waypoints designating mission objectives. From 
 this panel, you assign movement waypoints and firing arcs for each fireteam and issue their rules 
 of engagement. You can tell your troops to hold position, advance and then hold if fired upon, 
 or advance at all costs. You can order them to shoot on sight, lay down suppressing fire, or avoid 
 firing unless fired upon. Overall, the commands are too limited. Surprisingly and unfortunately, 
 there are no commands to withdraw or take up full cover and concealment when available. Also, you 
 can tell a fireteam to cover a general arc, but you can't instruct them to cover a certain building, 
 bridge, or other specific area. You'll need to move them into the perfect position by hand.   

 
  You'll find that the poorly detailed map in the command panel isn't as useful as it could be. 
 A good full-sized topographical map would have been more suited to the sort of finely detailed 
 movements necessary to keep your men alive. You really need elevation markings, not just generalized 
 references to clumps of trees. The command interface has other problems. With the game set to high 
 resolutions, everything on the panel appears rather tiny. Also, the panel seems unresponsive -- you 
 often need to click things multiple times to get them to work properly. There aren't enough hotkeys 
 to really circumvent the interface panel, and you need to temporarily assume control of a fireteam 
 to give it movement orders, which is very awkward, particularly during a firefight.    

 In fact, the overall game interface has a number of problems. For instance, during a mission, you 
 can access a menu with a save game button but no load button. There are hotkeys for saving and 
 loading, but the load key will only restore your last save, not the particular one you might have 
 wanted. You'll have to quit out of the mission and campaign to load a particular saved game. For 
 that matter, you can't name save files as you choose, which makes finding the right one difficult. 
 These problems may not sound like much, but you'll need to save and restore a lot in Ghost Recon 
 because of its high difficulty.           The tactical map doesn't provide as much detail as you'd 
 like.    

  During your missions, you can assume any soldier's role directly at any time. You'll need to do 
 this a lot since sketchy pathfinding and a somewhat buggy command system can split up your fireteams 
 or send them where you didn't mean for them to go. Plus, the stupidity of your men gives the Special 
 Forces a bad name. That's a real problem, given the skilled enemies and tough missions. By default, 
 your men will crouch when reaching a destination instead of adopting a safer, less revealing prone 
 position. They'll bunch up, making good grenade targets. They'll mosey in front of open doors, 
 only to get shot by an enemy inside. They'll walk in front of a friendly machine gunner laying 
 down cover fire and perform other foolhardy acts that will have you tearing your hair out. Get 
 ready for a lot of babysitting. Of course, you can avoid these problems in multiplayer, assuming 
 you can find teammates who know what's going on and understand basic tactics. Real teamwork is 
 happily a must in Ghost Recon.   

  Compared with all the sneaking around, the actual combat in Ghost Recon can be uninvolving or downright 
 frustrating. You'll get a radio message from a nearby fireteam telling you they've come under fire 
 or have lost a man, but you often won't hear a shot. Your men will frequently die before you can 
 switch to their fireteam and control it manually to prevent the slaughter. You'll take fire yourself, 
 with bullets kicking up dirt right next to you, but sometimes all you'll hear are the distant reports 
 of scattered rifles. Good luck finding the shooters before they can kill you. Your HUD threat indicator, 
 which shows the general direction of your enemies, is of only limited use.   

  The recent and excellent Operation Flashpoint similarly moved combat away from the in-your-face 
 style of many shooters by setting it outdoors and often at long ranges. Nevertheless, you still 
 stood a reasonable chance of spotting and eliminating enemies. You usually felt like you were an 
 important part of the action and that your actions made a real difference. In Ghost Recon, that's 
 less frequently the case. Having your troops instantly gunned down by concealed assailants might 
 be realistic, but it simply isn't much fun. Realism only matters in a game if it adds to the entertainment 
 value. Realism is a means, not an end.   

  On the bright side, being able to assume the roles of different soldiers in Ghost Recon during 
 the same mission can add tactical interest, and it lets you try out many different weapons. At 
 the same time, though, it weakens the sense of immersion. Whether you're an element leader in SWAT 
 3 or a lowly private at the beginning of Operation Flashpoint, those games create a sense of continuity 
 and personal involvement by keeping you in the role of a single central character throughout a 
 mission. Both of those games have a far better sense of drama and storytelling than Ghost Recon. 
   

  Like much of Ghost Recon, the game's visuals are above average but not incredible. Yellows and 
 greens dominate the color palette, making it look as if you're viewing everything through colored 
 lenses. Still, little details like swaying pine trees, soldiers' hand signals, or the shaggy camouflage 
 ghillie suits of your snipers help create believable scenes, just not really exciting or memorable 
 ones. Oddly, you can't see your own weapons through the game's first-person viewpoint, which is 
 unusual and unfortunate for a shooter. The weapons themselves are obviously a major attraction 
 and focus of the shooter genre, and it's rewarding to witness the power of your firearms up close. 
           Some of Ghost Recon's issues are mitigated in the multiplayer mode.    

  Ghost Recon's audio is solid but not amazing. Most of the weapons sound convincing enough, though 
 they're not in the same class as those of, say, Counter-Strike. They lack that extra visceral punch. 
 Sometimes weapon sounds might suddenly fade out inexplicably, or you might hear a static popping. 
 Ghost Recon takes good advantage of 3D positional audio, though -- when a teammate says, "Right behind 
 you," it really sounds like he's right behind you. The soundtrack features noble orchestrations 
 in the style of Hans Zimmer ( Crimson Tide ,  The Rock ) , though the music isn't used for establishing 
 the mood as much as it could have been.   

  Ghost Recon has some real strengths, but handholding micromanagement, an awkward interface, bugs, 
 and other problems and weaknesses often sap the fun out of the game just when it starts to get 
 entertaining. Ghost Recon's missions draw you in one minute, putting you on the edge of your seat, 
 only to draw you out of the action the next minute with the game's problems. Compared with similar 
 games, Ghost Recon unfortunately doesn't fare as well as it might have. Rogue Spear, SWAT 3, and 
 Operation Flashpoint usually offer more immersive situations, more interesting and better-balanced 
 missions, better storytelling, better teammate AI, or smoother interfaces. Hopefully, the multiplayer 
 modes and possible fan-created mods will bolster Ghost Recon in the long run. As it stands, it's 
 not an exceptional or groundbreaking game, but it's still an above-average tactical shooter worth 
 checking out if you're a hard-core fan of the genre.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  This is not your trigger-happy shooters like Painkiller or Quake, even the Medal of Honor series 
 is a no-brainer at times. If you haven't played shooters like Swat or Rainbow Six before, Ghost 
 Recon might be a good intro game to the tactical shooter genre. The reality of it kicks in when 
 you have to decide what kind of team to have for diverse objectives like explosive engineering, 
 sniping, or heavy arms support, which games like Doom and the MoH series wraps them up with a super 
 main character. It is until I played Ghost Recon that I slowly appreciate why in the world you 
 need teams of soldiers rather than a solo dude for the Gulf War. The realism of solving objectives 
 in Ghost Recon via careful planning and multi-tasking becomes the charm instead.
  
  Of course, when I mean it is a good intro to tactic shooters is because of its relative lower complexity 
 than the Rainbow Six series in terms of team and resource management. The two-character based theme 
 in this game serves very well in introducing what it's like managing a team without being too taxing 
 on your micro-management skills.
  
  Maybe you thought it would be a sissy thing, but the limitations of your characters' abilities 
 and its close reflection to real world operations bring a whole new depth to your gaming senses.
 
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's franchise of highly realistic action games put a great spin on the classic shooter 
 model. No longer were missions just a matter of staying one health point above your competition. 
 The Rainbow series of games adhered pretty clearly to the "one shot, one kill" philosophy. By emphasizing 
 episodic mission objectives and not allowing any saves, it created an amazing tension that can't 
 be equaled by the likes of Quake or Unreal (for the record, I am fans of those games too -- let's 
 skip the part where you send me hate mail, okay?) . And now Ghost Recon has taken the model of Rainbow 
 and placed it in a special forces, military-style game. Once you've got a handle on the objectives 
 you'll proceed to the platoon selection screen. Here you'll pick six characters and assign them 
 to one of three teams. There are four main classes: riflemen for shooting people, snipers for shooting 
 people, support guys for shooting people and demo guys for blowing things up (and people) . If you 
 complete a mission's extra objectives you can be rewarded with specialists that possess higher 
 than normal abilities (easier people killing) . But you can improve the abilities of your own basic 
 soldiers by spending combat points earned in each mission. You can increase each soldier in one 
 of four performance areas: marksmanship, stealth, endurance and leadership. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: belvucker
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon, a classic and the grand daddy of military based tactical shooters. This 
 game is amazing, the environments are very well set to make you feel like you are operating with 
 the best in the forest of Russia. Gameplay:
  
  Non Linear missions, which means you can find different ways to complete objectives, and you can 
 complete them in any order. Controls are well laid out, features a quick save and load which helps 
 in difficult situations. Weapons are limited, but there is a flavor for everybody, from the deadly 
 accurate M24 sniper rifle to the crowd pleasing M16A2 Rifle. The new command system is awkward 
 to use at first, but once you get the hang of it, you will love the ease of use as the AI is not 
 as smart as a real person, but is smart enough to defend himself and take cover.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The animations of the characters are very smooth and fluid, looks close to real 
 life, the graphics are aging compared to what we have presently in 2008, however it's not so bad 
 that it doesn't look like my butt, but surprisingly this old dog's tricks still can please the 
 audience.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound of Ghost Recon is what really makes this game shine, it actually compliments the graphics 
 to make it seem better, the environments look promising enough already, but add the ambient sounds. 
 Imagine that your a Special Forces operator, it's a cold, windy, foggy night, the full moon is 
 shining along the forest, you are crawling towards the enemy patrol, you fire your M24 killing 
 one of the patrolmen, they zone in on you and fire at you, you take them out one by one, while 
 they struggle to reorganize and are desperately looking for cover, then suddenly one of your team 
 shout "Watch out!" BANG a grenade explodes right next to you. You recover from the frighting blast 
 and you eliminate the threat. THAT is what you will feel in this game, of course results may vary, 
 this game must be played with a headset or on speakers on high.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Ghost Recon, definitely deserved the title "Game of the Year". Ghost Recon is an "instant classic" 
 and there are not many games that are like it. If you are looking for a good military tactical 
 shooter and tired of close combat, but willing to sacrifice graphics, give this a shot.
  
  Note: This game is quite hard to find now a days, but if you are really interested, you can get 
 it on Steam for $9.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyranasaurus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  First of all, the original reviewer really doesnt know how to play Ghost Recon. Some people might 
 find switching to whatever character you want, (which was the aim) using whatever weapon that character 
 is carrying to take down the enemies frustrating and horrid. 
  
  Ghost Recon is about assessing the situation, planning where your guys are going to go, holding 
 and covering your position while you take point. Simple rules of engagement AND they work in Ghost 
 Recon just aswell as any other game provided you place your team in Good positions.
  Well I really enjoyed having that kind of hands on approach to ghost recon, because i could see 
 the enemy, fix the enemy, and If i felt 1 team was in danger i could quickly switch from player 
 to player to deal with the situation myself. The reviewer raved on about SWAT, your team in SWAT 
 was worse than your team in ghost recon often rushing into rooms and flashing themselves or turning 
 in the wrong direction and getting themselves killed. Even through thorough planning. You often 
 had to do things yourself in SWAT anyway ( just as much as ghost recon anyway) .
  
  I loved setting up the attack then switching from player to player to view the situation from any 
 angle, making sure everybody was in the right position, then attacking, GREAT FUN. And you could 
 do it from ANYBODY'S perspective which made this game even better. 
  Yes sometimes your guys dont position quite properly and you have to hold thier hand sometimes 
 but once I got use to it, it didnt take to long to sort out.
  
  1 of the coolest thing in this game was when you succesfully kicked a missions ass with the whole 
 team, you could replay it. And you could see exactly how those decision's effected the entire battle 
 in a whole replay of it, never seen that in another game yet and would love to see this kind of 
 thing in the future.
  
  This game is more about long range tactics or cover tactics and crossfire than anything else. And 
 if your the type of person that like the game of Chess i cant see Y you wouldnt like this, because 
 there are many elements of offense and defense in Ghost Recon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbdweeb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have played.
  Baught it when it first came out and love it still.
  There are many Mods and downloads and extras 
 for this game you can get to change it when you get bored. It does not take long to figure out 
 the controls and it is easier to play once you get the hang of it. You start with a 6 man team, 
 cut into 3 squads if you want, usually a sniper, a few riflemen, support and demo. and you get 
 sent into all different types of combat situations whether it be destroy planes at the airport 
 or plant demos onto submarines. Or kill everyone at a base leaving no survivors or recon and rescue 
 POW's.
  This game can start off kinda hard to play and really hard not to get killed, and a lot of times 
 you can get very aggravated at it, But once you play it and figure it out you become addicted to 
 it and learn it is easier to play, 
  Once you can play the single player mode good, you should try the multi player mode it is even 
 better, cause you aren't going against the PC, you are playing other real people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  ghost recon is a originally FPS game which first born in pc. with advanced game play and excellent 
 A. I make the game to be success.
  
  =game play=
  
  iam very interesting about the game play, u can choose ur team in Alpha Beta and Charlie. with 
 any specifications riffleman, support, sniper, and demolition team. u can choose ur team max 6 character. 
 and choose ur team support such as greenade or anti tank or more than clips can u carrier. u can 
 playing all of ur team. if u lost the alpha team u will playing with beta and charlie team. u will 
 managed strategy 4 ur team to completed mission. there are 15 map mission, with different place, 
 wheather, andd others. but this game have a few expansion such as island thunder, jungle storm, 
 and desert eagle. with new map pack, fixed bug, a new weapon, also a new characters and ability. 
 ghost recon have a few hidden hero characters which will unlock if u completed the mission one 
 by one. enemy A. I and ur team advanced, u must kill ur eemy in one shoot or ur enemy will kill u 
 easily. it's hard to completed mission if u not managed ur assault team very well.
  
  =graphics=
  
  there are a few bugs who can annoying u, but isn't major problems. graphics very 
 standard in the era (2001) . almost we must keep our eyes in sight to identified the enemy. but 
 it makes the game hard even in recruit mode. it can play with pentium III cpu with 500 mhz or higher. 
 with vga card geforce mx or radeon 9700. with 512 mb ram much better. i'm not say a lot about the 
 graphics, is enough to make ur team recon and completed the mission!!
  
  =all performance=
  
  advanced gameplay and very hard difficulty make the game became interest. just 
 all. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: syk_gutt
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I found this game in a local thrift store, and bought it for 3 bucks, along with the expansion 
 and another game. I had played it for the Playstation 2 back in 2003 or 2004, and had a lot of 
 fun with it, so I figured I'd buy it.
  
  The first thing that happened was my platoon got wiped out completely, on the first map, in the 
 first few minutes. I was used to just about every other FPS, where you can rush into combat and 
 kill everyone. But in this game, you die on the first or second shot. And that was just on Recruit 
 (the easiest difficulty) . It got really frustrating.
  
  Then I realized you have to take things slowly, send a sniper ahead to scope things out, then move 
 in for the kill. You are able to command 3 squads, though I only used the 3rd squad for my solo 
 sniper. After taking out all the enemies piece by piece, I completed my objectives and the level. 
 When you complete the secondary objective, you get a specialist. A specialist is a soldier with 
 above average attributes and a different weapon. Let me explain.
  
  Before each mission, you choose the soldiers you want to use. You can choose up to 6, between 3 
 squads. Each squad can have 3 people in it, though you can't exceed a total of 6 players throughout 
 all of your squads. There are 4 classes: Sniper, demolitions, support, and rifleman. Each soldier 
 has a class, and their weapon depends on the class they are in. They also have attributes: Weapon 
 (how accurate they are) , Stealth (how easily detected they are by the enemy) , Endurance (how easily 
 they can carry heavy equipment and how many shots they can take) , and Leadership (enhances the 
 attributes of the whole squad when soldier is appointed leader) . 
  
  I haven't tried the multiplayer, because I couldn't find a game to connect to.
  
  The game 
 has 15 missions and 3 difficulties. The whole game is set in Eastern Europe. Overall, it's a lot 
 of fun, though at first it isn't at all. You just need to get used to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodcow666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Like many other Tom Clancy games, Ghost Recon follows an elite team of military commandos code 
 name "Ghosts" in the near future in a war between the U. S. and Radical Ultra nationalists. Though 
 not an original concept, it gets the job done in terms of story. The "Ghosts" will tackle many 
 missions ranging from intelligence gathering, capturing important members of the terrorist organizations 
 and everything in between.
  
  The game play itself is similar to Rainbow Six in which you select your forces and divide them 
 into 2 or 3 different squads and command them via an overhead map. Unfortunately, the map lacks 
 any sort of detail, with only general icons representing houses, forest and roads. This makes maneuvering 
 squads a chore as you don't know whether or not that blank space on the map is an open killing 
 ground or a form of cover.
  
  That aside the game has some excellent moments. As I maneuvered my team around a terrorist infected 
 jungle, I stumbled across an enemy emplacement. Quickly diving for cover the shooters opened up 
 and my fellow team mate fell as high velocity shredded his body. After careful maneuvering I was 
 able to lay down covering fire and get another team into flanking position. Changing to a soldier 
 on that team, I stormed the enemy position. In a brutal close range firefight the enemy lay dead 
 on the ground. I let out a sigh of relief, that is until enemy reinforcements showed up. 
  
  This highlights another important aspect of the game, the ability to change between any of 
 your soldiers at any moment. This allows you to personally position teams and adds a layers of 
 game play that Ghost Recon was otherwise lacking.
  
  Although an old game, Ghost Recon has its moments and is worth at least picking it up from the 
 bargain bin at a local EB Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has once again set the new standard for first-person shooters, as it takes gameplay 
 to a whole new level. There is now a revised HUD, with a threat indicator at the bottom acting 
 as the guide towards your enemies. The outer circle will point in the general direction that a 
 threat is in, and the red circle in the middle will light up if there is a threat within 100 meters 
 of your location. It is an interesting basis, and serves better and more challenging to ferret 
 out enemies than in Rainbow Sixs heartbeat sensor, where you could pinpoint an enemy easily. Having 
 this system also trains your skills to stay covert and out of sight, while still being able to 
 strike at the enemy from both close and long range. There are four different types of military 
 classmen available to choose from: rifleman, support, sniper, and demolitions. Each class comes 
 with its standard weapon: rifleman- M16, support- M249 SAW, sniper- M24, demolitions- M4. Each 
 individual gun has its own limited range and is able to penetrate through certain levels of armor. 
 Every individual soldier also has their own skill levels in certain areas: weapon, stealth, endurance, 
 and leadership. The weapon skill has to do with how fast the reticule will close upon a target, 
 thus increasing weapon accuracy. The stealth skill is the ability to remain undetected by enemy 
 forces, and to remain quiet will moving across enemy-occupied areas. The endurance skill focuses 
 on recovery time after taking hits, and also affects speed. Lastly, the leadership skill will give 
 a skill point boost to his/her surrounding teammates for every two points they have. Building on 
 the skill points basis, you have the ability to unlock specialists, soldiers that are more experienced 
 than the Ghosts and thus are an essential part of the team. Each specialist will carry a special 
 weapon, such as the Objective Individual Combat Weapon (OICW) assault rifle and the L96A1 sniper 
 rifle. These new weapons give Ghost Recon a sense of excitement, as it adds more potential to your 
 abilities to take out enemies swiftly on the battlefield. Squad gameplay is also realistic, as 
 they will receive commands and carry them out accordingly. With three different movement commands 
 and three different engagement modes, you can formulate strategies and outwit your enemies to eliminate 
 them quickly to be able to advance further into the map. The computer AI is smart, as they lay 
 down cover fire to keep your head down while they make a break for cover. Your squadmates also 
 have the intelligence to do the same. The entire game is about 12 maps long, so youll have quite 
 a time fighting your way through all of them and reaching the last mission. All in all, this new 
 type of gameplay has the capability to give players more realism and more choices in letting them 
 choose their own tactics to complete the objectives, instead of leading them through a programmed 
 amount of predetermined steps by the developer. Ghost Recons gameplay has definitely taken tactical 
 shooters to the next level.
  
  The musical background that supplements Ghost Recon is beautifully composed by Bill Brown, and 
 he has definitely brought out the best of Ghost Recon by providing excellent background music to 
 supplement those tense gameplay moments. Ghost Recon would not be the same without the amazing 
 soundtrack that accompanies you in every moment that youre on the ground, running through the 
 shadows and into enemy territory. I truly enjoy the music that adds to another key element that 
 composes Ghost Recon into a truly fantastic game. Another item to discuss about is the foley. Foley, 
 for those of you who dont know, is a technical process by which sounds are created or altered 
 for use in a film, video, or other electronically produced work. Even though you might not hear 
 the background sounds, they add a bit of realism in the back of your mind. The footsteps as you 
 run across the field, the trees rustling as you bump into them, and the heavy breathing of the 
 soldier as they run. They all contribute to make your Ghost Recon experience more realistic, and 
 they most certainly succeed in doing so. Extra features in Ghost Recon arent abundant, but Ghost 
 Recon has a nice, solid multiplayer system that can play online or on the LAN and supports up to 
 36 players. Its fun if you play with your friends in co-op, where you have the ability to play 
 missions together, or face off in a death match in versus mode. The Ghost Recon package comes with 
 an online player service, aptly named ubi. com. You must have an ubi. com account to use this service 
 (which you can usually get at the Ubi Soft website) . A warning to dial-up users: this system has 
 to patch almost a full version (from v4.3 to v4.4.1 or something) so it might take a while to update 
 in the beginning. A second option it to input the server IP into the multiplayer game list in the 
 game itself, and filter out all the different servers until you find the one you want. That is 
 usually quick and easy, if you have a specific server you want to join in mind. Other than that, 
 Ghost Recon is simply just another standard first-person shooter. The hardware requirements for 
 Ghost Recon are not too taxing for the computer, and should even be able to run on some older computers. 
 Requirements are: Intel Pentium II 450MHz, Windows 98/ME/2000/XP, 128MB of RAM, DirectX 8.0 or 
 greater, 4x CD-ROM drive, 1GB hard drive space, 16MB graphics accelerator. As you can see, these 
 system requirements are very good, and definitely increases the player spectrum, since some cant 
 afford an excellent gaming PC. Unless youre into politics and continental conflicts, the story 
 doesnt seem like the most thrilling thing to partake in. Although you might understand some of 
 the things that the briefing will tell you, its not required to understand it to progress in the 
 game. Understanding the plot behind it might be interesting, as its classic Tom Clancy type of 
 storyline. Listen to the briefings if you have the patience, but they dont really gear it toward 
 you in too much of an interesting way. I have to say, the graphics are extremely well done in this 
 game. The trees and bushes ripple with the wind, and guns and player models are mapped out accurately. 
 Silencers are no longer just a black cylinder at the barrel of the gun, but accurately detailed 
 down to scratch marks. The one thing that downplays the graphics is how you dont see your gun 
 in front of you. Although the developer might have designed it this way to lessen the amount of 
 graphics rendering for the computer, it downplays the realism factor, as you only see the reticule 
 thats pointing to someone (or something) , but not the actual barrel of the gun itself. It doesnt 
 seem that developers have mastered the model rag-doll effect either. If a guy gets killed in 
 a trench, hell be laying about 3 feet off the ground, floating, rather than in contact with the 
 actual ground of the trench. The blood is another interesting factor in the game. It is designed 
 to be very realistic, as there will be a blood pool around a dead NPC or player once theyve been 
 killed. All in all, this games graphics are pretty high-quality, if you have the computer to bring 
 it out to its full potential. It is definitely a game that has set new standards and raised the 
 bar for first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raoul_haa
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is a reality-based game that offers scens that are very close to reality but fails 
 in the other things.
  
  The good things about this game:
  Very realistic , offers a few kinds of soldiers-support, sniper and others. Digital body reactions 
 are great too. You can kill an enemy with one shot if you hit his head, but you'll need three shots 
 (or more) if you hit his hand. To die is very impressive, when you die all the world is going upside 
 down (you fall to the ground) and then the screen is getting red (from blood) .
  Easy-to-control command board, you can choose on each stage in the game to be someone else from 
 your squad (example: if I'm a support soldier and I want to snipe I just click the right button 
 on the command board and I became to be the sniper) . 
  
  The bad things about this game:
  It's very easy to get killed (one of the negative sides of reality) . The environments are not enough 
 detailed and graphics are not something After each mission you get a super-soldier with special 
 abilities, those super-soldiers are getting killed quickly too. Multiplayer is weak, could be better 
 if somebody will create a room, and that isn't so simple too.
  
  Summery:
  Good game, could be greater then what it is. 
  
  Stay in contact,
  
  Raoul_haa.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Fans of the Tom Clancy games will love this game beforehand. It provides many hours of good gameplay, 
 but I have to mention some problems (some of them have been improved with the patch) . First of 
 all the AI has a problem. When you open fire, the enemy will take cover. When you are patient, 
 you will see the enemy sneaking up to you from exactly the same place where you spotted them last. 
 Your sniper rifle will do the rest. Secondly, your team members (esp. the support class) can be 
 a little trigger happe, even though you put them on 'recon' mode. Finally the game is very difficult 
 in on elite level. 9 out of 10 times, they will spot you before you spot them. In that case, THEIR 
 sniper rifle will do the rest :-)
  The single player is worth playing. For multyplayer it's a good recommendation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salwanmax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  The best of it's kind, makes the likes of rainbow six look pale, you should know its hard though, 
 really hard, and as usually followed by tactical shooters, one bullet kills.
  
  Also, it's graphics could've been much better than it is, but the real value comes from playing 
 the gaming and not "watching" the game.
  
  If you can play this game up to the end, you will really appreciate it, it's a little bit sad to 
 know that no other game followed the same style.
  The realistic world that the game projects, and realistic combat situations is where it really 
 shines, I keep coming back to this game even today.
  
  Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Out in 2001, bought by me in September 2002 and played up to this very day; Tom Clancy's Ghost 
 Recon (or just GR to me) has been and will continue to be one of the greatest military tactical 
 squad based shooters EVER!
  
  Once I had this baby on my harddrive it was only removed ONCE and that was to fix an "arm-tremors" 
 glitch that seemed to afflict my Ghost team members. It went right back on my PC along with the 
 10 GB worth of attained MOD's that the great GR community have come up with over these last 5 years!
 
  
  We all know the backstory and premise of this game by now. In the year 2008 WW3 begins with a newly 
 ultra-nationalistic Russian Federation invading Belarus, Ukraine, the 'Stans (Kazak, Uzbek, et 
 al) and next is the Republic of Georgia where the US sends the fictional SF team known as "The 
 Ghosts". Their mission is to take the edge off the Russian armored thrust and take out various 
 targets spread out over a 15 mission campaign. The end has you even fighting it out in the Russian 
 capital, Moscow.
  
  Gameplay is outstanding, calling up your soldiers in small fire teams you can move practically 
 anywhere on the map you choose to go. The maps are both indoor and outdoor (mostly both) and you 
 have to fight it out in some bad "Deathground" (AKA Urban ops or MOUT) especially in the city maps. 
 I will say this is what is lacking in the subsequent GR game for the XBOX- GR2. That game was mostly 
 just on rails and never had the complexity and emotion that this game packed.
  
  The US soldiers are mostly dead on renders of actual US Army. Though the fact is by 2008 the real 
 soldiers will not look too much like these guys did. The cammo and gear was mostly circa 1999-2001 
 (right when the game was developed more or less) From the goggles on their K-pots to the Camelback 
 logo on their hydration system these soldiers looked BAD ASS. Not alot of games can get the "Fritz" 
 helmet just right but this game does!
  
  I've heavily modded my version of this game by now: New skins, new CHr models, augmented sound 
 effects for weapons etc, and different game modes too made this game STILL kick buut to play! The 
 original version was no slouch either. The enemy AI can surprise you and they are readily known 
 as the "Olympic class marksmen" even though they might be from 3rd world militias! ha ha
  
  The main point of this game is RECON like the name says! Sometimes you would have to keep silent 
 and still otherwise the enemy is alerted and you are dead. GR2 was nothing like that, and it appears 
 GRAW 360 is more of the same. Playing as a sniper was tremendous fun and it was cool to be hidden 
 in a bush while an enemy soldier just walks right past you. Well not right NEXT to you but you 
 get the point!
  
  All in all, I could go on about this classic but I think I have written enough, if you have never 
 bought this great PC game BUY IT NOW! And throw in the Desert Siege and Island Thunder expansions 
 plus the great mods available from sites like "ghostrecon. net" and you will have a flippin' BLAST!!!
 
  
  "Moving out!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  **If u dont want to read this u dont have 2, scroll down to the pros n' cons**
  
  In ghost recon you play as a special forces squad known as "The Ghosts" they were named that because 
 of their stealth tactics.. Its 2018 or something like that. the U. S. is at war with who? Russians 
 thats who! Lets get to the point, mainly this game is very frustrating, the controls are easy but 
 snipers can hit you from all the way across the map or hiding in a nearby bush!!! This also gets 
 boring after a while. I hate (and my friends and buddies agree 2) the way the scree is a HUGE crosshair 
 (could it get any bigger?!)
  
  Pros
  + Interesting storyline and locations
  + A few kits to choose from and characters
  + You can command squad mates and haev 2 otehr squads 
 to assist you (You are squad Alpha, the others are Bravo, and Charlie)
  
  +/- This game is VERY challenging, and when i say challenging i mean like finding a grain in a 
 needle stack!!!
  
  Cons
  - This can get very boring
  - The camera is really not that great
  - Not very many weapons
  
  Cons
  - Sometimes levels 
 are very boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMZ41486
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I know Gamespot found tons of faults in this game, but thats what they do for a living. They play 
 games and find mistakes in them. Every game is going to have problems, but I really liked this 
 one even though the AI was stupid at times. The best way to avoid that problem is to just use the 
 sniper the entire time. But overall the game is good, the levels are large and for the most part 
 entirely outdoors. Unlike the rainbow six games, there is not much close combat fire fights. But 
 i prefer the outdoor levels. The graphics could use some tightening up though. The map does not 
 help much as it does not tell you elevations. Despite all that, I loved the game and still play 
 it to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIG_PLAY3R
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Cmon u guys u gotta get into the game to like level 3 or 4. That's when the fun really begins. 
 I can't ever get tired of this game. The only downside I see is that the AI's a really hard on 
 you at times and the characters are kinda the same. If you don't like it then you're just hard 
 to convince what's a good game or not. It's suprisingly good. I thought it was a pretty boring 
 game at first. Just learn the controls then it'll be a breeze. That's probably the problem, the 
 controls. I just got this game and im pretty far into it. When you buy Ghost Recon, get the Gold 
 pack. It includes 2 more Ghost Recon expansion CDs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeloader12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This is pretty good. Its impressive graphically and sound like. The is not much to do but it can 
 be very addicting. The only problem with this game is that there is so many in its genre. Another 
 problem is the fact how difficult the game is, even in recruit you have to play this game if your 
 life depended on it. I personally was not able to beat the last difficulty. But there are cheats 
 that make it super easy and that lowers the difficulty. Both online and offline its great. So if 
 you dont have internet do not worry you will still have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:36 am PT
Review:  The good: Great single and multiplayer; very addictive gameplay.
  
  The bad: Some bugs in the singleplayer; extremely hard sometimes; unattractive graphics.
  
 
  Ghost Recon offers many hours of intense gameplay. In both single and multiplayer.
  The single player campaign let you play 15 intense, exciting and fun story missions, in countrys 
 like Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. Lead your team to complete the missions objectives, which can 
 be planting a bomb, destroy an enemy camp or rescue a hostage.
  The multiplayer is even more fun. I think that the co-operate play is the funniest. It's so intense 
 and very cool. 
  
  The graphics isn't very attractive. And that's kinda sad, because the game is just so great. The 
 gameplay is really something revolutionary. You can play this for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Set in 2008, Ghost Recon is about an unpredictable Russia rampaging across Europe. You and your 
 small band of 6 or so men must go into enemy lines, blowing up bridges, attacking tank convoys, 
 etc.
  
  This all sounds exciting, and it is. But, first, about the flaws.
  
  So, you are on mission. You walk slowly, trying to blend in with the vegetation. A shot rings out, 
 and kills all of your men. This always caused by nearly superhuman AI, who know where you are instantly 
 if you make a wrong move. Your teammate AI isn't so hot either. They make stupid errors, such going 
 right into the open and attacking, instead of going for cover. You can control all of your characters, 
 switching, but this takes away all the appeal. And sometimes, even babysitting your friends don't 
 work often, due to the enemy AI, who always knows where you are.
  
  Sometimes, you'll often see vehicles driven by enemy AI. Sad thing is, you can't drive vehicles. 
 This also takes away some of the appeal. You fighting on foot, and suddenly, and idiot and his 
 few friends in a jeep eliminate you. What gives?
  
  Graphics are okay, and often have good vegetation effects and so on. The character and vehicle 
 models are done very well also. The water effects are amazing to watch also. But the explosions 
 seem pasted on and very fake.
  
  The best thing about this game is sound, although weapons sound a little underpowered, the death 
 cries of the enemy, recently hit by an M16, sound very good and authentic to anyone screaming after 
 they have been hit by a bullet. Ambient sounds, like rain, are done very well also.
  
  So, what is Ghost Recon? Well, first, I would say, it's a game of patience and constant rememberance 
 of the maps. It's an okay game, although Red Storm could have done a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  i am fascinated by both single and multiplayer levels but find multiplayer more satisfying and 
 engaging experience.
  GRAPHICS: graphics may not be very good in the original game but with several mods like brajobravo 
 G8 available online it should settle that part.
  
  SOUND: sounds are just appropriate to the surroundings, occassional rustle of leaves and chirps of 
 birds will add to the excitement of guerilla type combat.
  
  GAMEPLAY: gameplay is thrilling particularly in levels like embassy, moscow, nereda swamp, arctic sun 
 etc. any type of combat be it in jungle, streets, snowcovered mountains and  
 think of it and its there, new and rocking weapons are available online so u can expand ur kits 
 to great extent be it rifleman, demo expert, snipers, support etc.
  
  OVERALL: MUST BUY GAME, PLEASE IF U ARE LOOKING FOR A GAME WHICH IS DIFFERENT FROM OTHER CASUAL 
 FIRST PERSON SHOOTERS AND EXPERIENCE REAL TIME COMBAT WITH NIGHT VISION GOOGLES ON, BUY THIS. I 
 RATE IT 7.9 OUT OF 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2005 11:47 pm PT
Review:  i own all three of the ghost titles, and i must say they are not for anyone, heck i wouldn't have 
 gotten them if it wasn't for the great deal i got. this game is 13 missions long and very tedious.
 
  
  the goods: some ok AI not overly great, cool selection of weapons, from the mundane to the extrodinary, 
 manigable graphics, ok level design, good production values, great story, but the story telling 
 unravles in typical tom clancy fashion. great sound.
  
  the not so goods: gameplay
  
  ok so i had read amazing things on all sides about this game, till i came to gamespot. now in the 
 past i've been hard on them for not recognizing great game when they come along, like bf1942, but 
 this one they called right. i love tactical strategy, rainbow six three is great, but ghost recon 
 is so just boring. first the long range combat is rediculous, it's as if every AI enemy has sharp 
 shooter capabilities, weather they are using smg or rifle, i've had them counter snipe my sniper 
 with an ak, now that isn't right. now i must say the AI is good, taking cover, using and fleeing 
 from grenades. but they are unnaturally accurate, and the word cover doesn't mean anything, so 
 you have a guy hiding in the bushes and they shoot him without line of sight, because they were 
 alerted some how by another of my guys on the other side of their base. execution of the gameplay 
 is pretty horrible, you are playing in huge outdoor elements, without a actual sprint button, and 
 your guys are slow as molasus, so fire and manuever tactics are out of the question, the only way 
 to take down alot of guys is too, set up a bunch of snipers and grenaders to ambush the from a 
 distance, so that they take a few secs longer figering out where you are, they only way to go unnoticed 
 is as a sniper in a gily siut on the ground, other wise your guys will get shot. the fire fights 
 are lame, your in huge out door levels, and when un silenced sniper rifle lets one go every enemy 
 on the map should realisticly know where you are but they don't if they are a certian distance 
 away they are none the wiser. operation flash piont is much better, you can use fire and manuever, 
 your squad is much easier to command, the fire fights are more than 2 secs long. when is tom clancy 
 going to give us iron sights for realism darn it. rainbow six 3 is so much better. in ghost recon 
 you pu$$ies only carry two things on them at a time, like grenades and a rifle, or a rifle and 
 extra amunition, what the hell. this kills the game because. also weapons are so limited in the 
 fact that they are un costomizeble, really this game is lame. since the fire fights are so unforgiving 
 the best way to play the game is save a load alot. if you want a realistic fps get operation flash 
 piont or americas army, or wiat for bia, if you want a fun realistic fps get america's army or 
 fashpiont, this game feels like a step backwards with the carrying limit and gun battles, really 
 don't pick up any of the games, the best part is the multi player, but the ubi online thing blows 
 horribly i'm still having issues with pandora tommorrow, and rainbow six multiplayer doesn't work 
 unless it's on your c drive. god, redstorm and ubi need to step up and make a effective online 
 experience, and a good singleplayer game, on technology that is good.
  
  gameplay: lame but not the worst, atleast there is a little, strategy, but the command system is 
 lame so i give it a five.
  
  graphics: good character models and explosions, but tracers are no wear to be seen for some reason, 
 and the out door enviroments feel empty. the static cars are ugly. 8, and that is being generous.
 
  
  sound: best part of the game. weapons sound awsome.
  
  value: get the gold pack for like 20 bucks, its amuzing. don't pay anymore than that.
  
  reviewers 
 tilt: i played this thing on my rig without a challenge, i'm really let down by it's linear boring 
 nature. 7
  
  personaly if you want a redstorm game get rs3 it's better and the ability to costom a gun is awsome, 
 plus the command interface is great and context sensitive. online is cool too except for ubi doesn't 
 intigrate punkbuster so i have to work really hard to get this thing working. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_GUNN_man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 23, 2004 12:25 am PT
Review:  I think this game is underrated. Maybe it is because I haven't played more military style games. 
 I really liked this game. I have all 3 expansions to this game and can't wait for Ghost Recon 2. 
 I like the sniper in this game. It has a good feel to it. Of all the Tom Clancy games Ghost Recon 
 is what I favor. I like the wide open settings of alot of the maps. If you can pick up the golkd 
 pack of this game I think it is defintely worth it. I play it over and over and nevr get tired 
 of it. The multiplayer is pretty good. I don't know hwy the XBOX version ranked so much higher. 
 I think the PC version blows away the console version. You really need the better graphic power 
 of a PC to appreciate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 11, 2004 3:41 am PT
Review:  In 2008, ultranationalist Russian militants look to expand their territory through force, and a 
 team of US Special Forces is called upon to hinder their efforts. This is the general story behind 
 Ghost Recon, Red Storm Entertainment's follow up to its tactical FPS series Rainbow Six. Where 
 as the Rainbow Six games mostly took place in indoors and confined areas, Ghost Recon features 
 wide open outdoor maps. While this is a fresh take for Rainbow Six veterans, the lack of a true 
 planning phase, a small selection of weapons, and simplified squad control functions adds up to 
 a pretty average tactical FPS.
  
  Ghost Recon's main mode is its single player campaign, which consists of fifteen missions. Prior 
 to starting each mission, you are given a briefing and then proceed to select your soldiers from 
 your team of riflemen, support, demo experts, and snipers, each with their unique weapon choices. 
 The game limits you to six soldiers per mission, in a maximum of three teams, Alpha, Bravo, and 
 Charlie, with a max of three soldiers per team. The planning phase of Rainbow Six, which at first 
 seemed irritating and cumbersome, but you grew to embrace, is nowhere to be found. You are only 
 given a general overhead map of the level, not 3-D blueprints that you can rotate and scale to 
 your heart's content. Gone also is the system of setting waypoints before jumping into the action 
 phase of a mission. In fact, the only planning you'll do is selecting your team and the weapons, 
 but even this lacks the customization found in Rainbow Six, since you are unable to select your 
 team's clothing and weapons are limited to predefined weapon kits for each soldier.
  
  Once the action phase starts, you'll be thrust into large outdoor maps. The missions take place 
 in swamps, woods, at night, in rain, in snow, and objectives are generally what you'd expect. There 
 are assault missions, hostage rescue missions, recon missions, and demolition missions. While you 
 only control one team member at any one time, you can assign waypoints and rules of engagement 
 in an in-game map. This is all fine, but at times, your team will oddly fail to respond to your 
 commands, and you'll wish you had better control of your teammates. You'll spend a lot of time 
 moving stealthly through and accessing your situation, locating enemies and targets with your night 
 vision or binoculars. A threat indicator at the bottom of your HUD shows the direction of nearby 
 enemies and the direction of hostile fire. As you'd expect from a tactical FPS, action comes is 
 small doses. In addition to short firefights, you'll also destroy enemy tanks with your demolitions 
 expert's M136 rocket launcher, and a couple of missions put friendly tanks and soldiers alongside 
 your own soldiers. The enemy AI is usually good at aiming and at most a few shots is all that will 
 take you down.
  
  One gameplay problem that arises from navigating in outdoor areas is the difficulty in aiming your 
 weapon once you've decided to take down a target. You may be able to discern a distant enemy, but 
 because he's so far away, he'll occupy so little of your screen that it makes it practically impossible 
 to put your crosshairs on him, unless you're using a sniper and use the zoom mode. You may be able 
 to switch to another team member, thus allow the computer to control your original soldier. Fortunately, 
 the computer controlled teammates don't seem to have as much difficulty shooting down distant targets. 
 Another problem is that when advancing, you'll scout an area with your binoculars, and then decide 
 it's safe to proceed, when in fact, it's not. This kind of makes scouting a bit less useful, as 
 it's much easier to rush into an area and allow unseen enemies to alert you of their presence by 
 firing your way.
  
  However, even with some gameplay gripes, missions are satisfying to play and finish. After each 
 mission, surviving team members get one point to upgrade one of four stats: weapon, stealth, endurance, 
 and leadership. Soldiers can also earn various medals depending on how many kills they get. These 
 make no impact on gameplay, but are cool nonetheless. If you complete optional mission objectives, 
 you'll also unlock specialists that have access to weapons you won't be able to use otherwise.
 
  
  A nice feature is the ability to save your game while on a mission, something absent in Rainbow 
 Six. While this does reduce the frustrations of restarting a mission from the beginning, it makes 
 the single player campaign much easier and reduces the overall suspense and tension. A better implementation 
 would be a limited save system, such as checkpoints. As for Ghost Recon's technical aspects, its 
 graphics generally are passable. Some of the graphics are beautiful, like the glare you from the 
 sun, or the mist from a distant river. Grass is well done, but other times you'll be wondering 
 why rocks have so many straight edges. The sound is top notch, and you'll hear it from all around 
 you. There is no in-game music, however, and music is limited to the mission briefing screens and 
 status screen upon completion of a mission. 
  
  Overall, Ghost Recon feels like a stripped down tactical FPS. With no planning phase and limited 
 teammate control, it seems less like Rainbow Six and more like an action FPS. It's a good game 
 for FPS players who are accustomed to games like Quake and want an introduction to the tactical 
 FPS genre, but to those who have played the Rainbow Six games, Ghost Recon will seem like an ordinary 
 tactical FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehrankane2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2003 9:53 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this is one game that no self respecting Tom Clancy fan should 
 do without. Ghost Recon is both challenging and addictive. I generally play through single player 
 games once and then put them is my CD cabinet to sit and gather dust. With Ghost Recon, I have 
 found myself playing through the levels multiple times even after successful completion just to 
 see if there is a better way to finish the mission. The only annoyance that I found was in the 
 friendly AI (which I think should stand for Anti Intelligence) . There were multiple times where 
 one of my squad would walk in front of me when I was shooting, or just remain in one spot when 
 the rest of the squad would move on to another part of the map. After I figured out how to overcome 
 that minor setback in the game, I had nothing but fun. With surprises and challenges around every 
 corner, It is hard not to highly recommend this title to anyone who enjoys a good tactical shooter.
 
  
  -Traveler
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
