-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Lockdown
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tomclancysrainbowsix4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Detailed character and weapon models, intricate environments.
 Slower, more tactical pace to gameplay.
 Sharp, compelling sound effects.
 Great variety of weapons and attachments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still too arcadelike for old-school PC Rainbow fans.
 No mission planning.
 Artificial intelligence can be inconsistent at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 6.2, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 1,484 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Red Storm Ent.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Feb 16, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lockdown for the PC is more tactical than the console versions and definitely a lot of fun, but 
 it's still got a noticeable arcade flavor. 

  The newest game in the Rainbow Six shooter series, Lockdown, has finally arrived on the PC. What 
 you won't find in this version of the game are elements of a straight console port. The game's 
 environments are as large and detailed as you'd expect from a PC shooter, while extraneous elements 
 from the console versions, like the hokey cutscenes and hidden briefcases scattered around the 
 levels, have been toned down or removed entirely. Most importantly, the game feels like a PC shooter, 
 with all the precision in aiming and movement that mouse and keyboard control can afford. While 
 the developers have done a great job in ensuring Lockdown for the PC didn't end up just being a 
 sloppy port, it bears mentioning that the game has definite arcade underpinnings. Lockdown is still 
 a lot of fun, though.  

          Lockdown for the PC is most definitely not a straight port of the console versions.    

  As in all the other Rainbow Six games, you play the squad leader of an elite counterterrorist force 
 called Rainbow. You'll start each of the game's 16 single-player missions at a nicely presented 
 briefing screen where you get the lowdown on the situation, some maps of your objectives, and an 
 equipment setup screen for your four-man team. Lockdown includes a great variety of assault rifles, 
 submachine guns, combat shotguns, and pistols to choose from, many of which are based on real-life 
 guns such as Kalashnikovs, MP-5s, and Desert Eagles. You'll also be able to outfit each operative 
 with frag or flash grenades and entry tools like hammers and breaching charges. The best part is 
 that each gun can be outfitted with one accessory, ranging from red-dot sights and scopes to silencers 
 and high-capacity magazines. There's a noticeable difference in feel and utility between the various 
 weapons, so choosing the right tools for the job is not just a cosmetic feature in Lockdown. What's 
 missing from the mission-prep screen is the tactical planning portion that used to be such a staple 
 of Rainbow Six games on the PC. However, with the ability to direct your team to do room-entry 
 maneuvers in-game, there's less need for a planning phase.  

  The missions in Lockdown for PC are based on the same missions in the console versions of the game 
 for the most part, but the mission order has been jumbled around a bit. You'll see a variety of 
 different environments, including desert towns in the Middle East, the Parisian catacombs, the 
 Scottish Parliament building, and a French ferry ship. You'll also ply through lots of underground 
 terrorist bases. (Anarchists hate sunlight, apparently.) All of these areas are similar in layout 
 to the ones on console, but in many cases, the levels are much more expansive and intricately detailed, 
 with sharp-looking environment textures. But you won't participate in any shooting-gallery sniper 
 sequences, which played a big role in the console versions. In many of the terrorist base levels 
 you'll find lots of interconnected rooms to clear out and more than one pathway to get from one 
 side to the other. There are also a lot of knickknacks and debris that can get knocked over by 
 gunfire. In one level featuring a shootout in a police station, we were actually able to shoot 
 boxes and other obstacles off a desk in order to get a clearer shot at the terrorist hiding behind 
 it.  

          Some missions will have you disarming bombs.     

  Some levels require hostage rescue and escort or bomb defusing, but in every case you're going 
 to be taking out terrorists, and lots of them. Even on the normal difficultly level you'll be taking 
 out upwards of 100 or more terrorists on a single mission. Most weapons you carry come with just 
 under 500 rounds of ammunition. Do the math, and realize that if you're not relying much on your 
 teammates to do the shooting, you better be thrifty with the number of rounds you're expending. 
 You could easily find yourself down to your pistol at the end of a long mission. You and your teammates 
 can survive several glancing shots before dying, but it's very possible in Lockdown to go down 
 in a single hail of gunfire if you get careless.  

  The threat of immediate death adds to the tactical nature of the game and encourages you to go 
 at a slower, more measured pace. Aside from your quicksave and quickload keys, you'll rely a lot 
 on your motion tracker in Lockdown, which lets you see behind walls. You can also use your tactical 
 commands to have your teammates peek around corners or stack up on doors for dynamic entry. Your 
 teammates can open doors in a variety of ways, ranging from simply opening an unlocked door to 
 placing an explosive and blowing it open, or using a shotgun to blow off the hinges. They will 
 then toss in a frag or flash grenade before going in to clear the room. In most cases this works 
 well, but from time to time you'll see your squadmates screw up a dynamic entry. We've seen team 
 members muff a grenade throw and blow up the whole squad. We've also seen teammates take more damage 
 than they should when entering a hostile room. Flashbangs and violent entry don't seem to have 
 the stun duration and stun radius that you'd expect either, so you can't rely on these measures 
 entirely. The enemy artificial intelligence in the game is pretty decent, seeking cover when possible 
 and peeking from around corners. They'll pop smoke grenades to obscure their positions, or even 
 throw frag grenades. They're not always very perceptive at detecting you if you peer around a corner, 
 though, so it's possible to get quite a few cheap headshots on unsuspecting bad guys.     

 
  Online multiplayer action in Lockdown is handled over Ubi. com, which keeps track of various stats 
 and rankings. The PC version of the game doesn't include the persistent role-playing PEC mode that 
 was in the Xbox version of the game, but you can still choose from different classes like assault 
 and sniper, which have different bonuses and weapon restrictions. As far as modes go, there's free-for-all, 
 as well as team-based games like adversarial and retrieval, which are basically like deathmatch 
 and capture the flag, or rivalry mode, which has been tweaked a bit in the PC version. In rivalry 
 mode two teams battle over map objectives that spawn and change over the course of a match. The 
 game might start with a hostage walking around the map. The teams will then battle it out, trying 
 to grab the hostage and bring him back to a rescue area to score a point. After that's done, another 
 objective will start. The other two objectives are static -- one is simply a bomb that needs defusing, 
 while the other involves a satellite uplink station that needs to be hacked in order to gain access 
 to a computer station that spawns elsewhere on the map. The idea of dynamically changing objectives 
 that aren't always in the same spot is interesting, but it can be frustrating sometimes when one 
 team gets lucky with a hostage that spawns close to its rescue point.  

          The motion sensor lets you see through walls and doors.     

  The true highlight of 
 Lockdown's multiplayer action, though, is cooperative play. You can play cooperatively with up 
 to four players on LAN or online over Ubi. com. There are two game types: Mission mode lets you 
 play out the 16 single-player missions with friends complete with objectives, while terrorist hunt 
 lets you simply take out a bunch of AI-controlled bad guys on any of the maps. The co-op action 
 is pretty fun, and the ability for players to respawn if they're killed keeps the frustration level 
 down if one of the players just isn't very skilled.  

  The graphics in Lockdown are excellent all around. We already mentioned the heavy detail put into 
 the levels and environments, but it's clear that great care was put into the character models as 
 well. Each Rainbow operative looks great, with well-defined accessories clipped to their suits 
 like pouches, pistol holsters, tactical glasses, and headsets. You can even see the treading clearly 
 defined on the soles of their boots. Enemies aren't quite as well detailed, and bodies do disappear, 
 but it's still fun to see the rag-doll physics in play as they go down after getting shot. The 
 gun models in the game are also really intricate and nice to look at, and in rainy levels you'll 
 see a cool effect with raindrops sticking to the screen and rolling off. Those with beefy computers 
 can probably turn on dynamic lighting and shadows, which adds a lot to the ambience of the game, 
 as you see character shadows stretching and contracting as their position changes relative to a 
 light source. The model even throws off the correct gun shadow depending on what you're carrying. 
 The biggest complaint we have is that the character models jitter when they get stuck colliding 
 on each other or on parts of the environment, which can happen often in crowded levels like the 
 ferry ship mission.  

          Detailed environments are one of the game's many highlights.     

  Sound effects in 
 Lockdown are also very good. Each of the different guns has a different sound, and if you play 
 long enough you might even be able to recognize the guns by sound alone. Even silenced weapons 
 are fun to listen to, with the subdued clicking of the firing mechanism as the only noise. Footsteps 
 are a prominent sound in quiet hallways, and these sound different depending on the surface. You'll 
 even hear your own character breathing hard if you've been running around. There's not much music 
 to speak of aside from the menus, which is a good thing, as in-game all you want are the sounds 
 of battle to concentrate on as you hunt down more terrorists.  

  Lockdown is certainly a well-polished game, and even though it shares a name with games released 
 earlier on console, the developers at Ubi have done a great job at ensuring the game truly looks 
 and feels like a PC shooter. With dozens upon dozens of terrorists inhabiting each level, the game 
 still feels like a departure from older PC games in the series. But if you enjoy the modern counterterrorist 
 theme, you'll still have a lot of fun playing Lockdown.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (114 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: naosediz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:05 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six Lockdown opened my heart an soul to tactical shooters.
  The great gameplay and control made me like this genre of games, witch until that moment I never 
 gave an interest.
  Starting easy with wannabe terrorists to get the fealing of the game, but got real hard to the 
 end, as it should be! It's hard, but not frustrating hard, near impossible as you see in some other 
 games.
  Various tipes of play make time fly and the fun is awesome.
  A great game to start enjoying the Rainbow six series. After this I got Rainbow Six Vegas and Rainbow 
 six Vegas two. AND KEEP THEM COMMING!
  It has some minor issues regarding NPC's but nothing that with a litle pacience and persistence 
 you can't handle.
  If you don't have it... Get it. It's an "Oldie" but it's still a lot of fun.
  Recommend it without 
 hesitation!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 1:19 am PT
Review:  LOCKDOWN was my first venture into the Rainbow Six franchise. I really enjoyed the experience. 
 I'm now playing Vegas and have Raven Shield/Athena Sword and Iron Wrath awaiting. 
  
  I did enjoy playing the SP missions and campaigns and the ability to customise the team's weapons 
 loadouts and uniforms (usually something reserved for multiplayer games like Bf2 and Delta Force) . 
 Missions are entertaining and I guess give a feel for the types of missions: hostage recovery, 
 information collection or terrorist elimination that the "free worlds" anti-terrorist teams must 
 deal with. The depicted scenarios, names of the terrorist organizations aside, are plausible. Missions 
 usually span 2 - 3 maps with intermediate cut scenes and perhaps updated objectives. The campaigns 
 do seem to get slightly harder as you progress towards breaking the back of the disparate enemy 
 organisation.
  
  Getting used to these different "style" FPS games ... after the WWII themed COD and MOH. I played 
 the game on the "Normal" difficulty mode, which is analagous to "medium" on other games ... the 
 most noticeable difference in Challenging mode is the absence of your cross-hairs ... so you need 
 to use your iron sights, scope or red-dot for accuracy until you get the feel of the weapon so 
 it is harder from that viewpoint. That is, yes, you do need to aim like the real guys do and, yes, 
 that indeed is challenging!
  
  The SP solo "Lone Wolf" missions are essentially single map excerpts from the campaigns (allows 
 you to bring out that inner James Bond or Rambo) . The terrorist hunts use the maps from the campaign 
 and you can play solo or with up to 3 AI team-mates. I feel that the friendly AI is much better 
 if you only select one extra team-mate as it "seems" to follow instructions more intuitively than 
 with the normal team of 4 (you plus 3 others) . You also get to choose what type of enemy you will 
 be taking on: militia, terrorists or mercenaries. Mercenaries are the "toughest" in the sense that 
 they are the mirror of Rainbow Six ... they have neat weapons, good comms and body armour. Militia 
 are basically guys in T-shirts with SMGs and Terrorists are in-between. Enemy AI is pretty good 
 ... they do use cover and try and out flank. Only rarely can you stand a few paces away from the 
 enemy and have it not react ... unlike many other FPS games (eg. "Code of Honor") .
  
  It is funny to see ads for other Ubisoft games on posters around the various maps ... but in an 
 art gallery ... hmmm? What is strange however is that you will usually find that your previously 
 eliminated (or perhaps just badly wounded) reappear in subsequent missions ... this give you that 
 wierd "I thought I lost Lofquist back on the ferry" feeling. Quick saves (especially before entering 
 rooms) are very helpful and autosaves occur reasonably frequently in case you get caught up in 
 the moment and forget to save. I looked at thsi with some relief after playing "Men of Valor" that 
 did not allow quick saves.
  
  Gameplay is good. My approach was to scout ahead for the team and bring them up in support ... 
 though as noted with 3 team-mates the orders got muddled at times and occassionally a team-mate 
 would go AWOL (usually running at a wall a few rooms back and not "follow" as requested) . AI team-mates 
 are good got set pieces like room clearing ... always do a check with the motion sensor goggles 
 before opening any doors ... at least you get an inclining of what you are in for. I tried to protect 
 the team rather than using them as cannon-fodder by sending them in alone (plus the AI is not that 
 good, they will die) ... though expect in game terms as long as you succeed in the mission the 
 loss of your team-mates along the way is acceptable. Depends how you want to play.
  
  Pre-mission briefings are good for flavour ... but do not really help, nor do the maps as they 
 are not particularly detailed nor are the maps accessible during the mission. Nevertheless the 
 game does "guide" you along to the next "waypoint". There is still however scope to enter rooms 
 or parts of buildings, streets, etc in different ways so you are not locked into one path only 
 (as was the case in the recently played "Men of Valor" and MOHPA) on most occassions.
  
  I think this is a game I can happily play again and again ... and plan another run through on the 
 "Challenging" mode soon. I only wish "Code of Honor", a modern era Foreign Legion themed game was 
 this good. C'est la vie.
  
  There is no seperate "training" mission, except that you do get in-game hints during the first 
 2 or 3 missions. Don't, however, forget to try out the weapons at the shooting range ... I prefer 
 assault guns that can fire a short burst equipped with a scope (rather than red dot) for most missions, 
 coupled with frags and phosphorous or smoke grenades. Equip your AI team with a mix of assault 
 guns and SMGs, flashbangs and explosives for room clearing. Some of the other weapons, like portable 
 HMGs and shotguns, while fun to try are not that effective in the situations faced by the team.
 
  
  OVERALL: Highly recommended (and low cost) FPS set in our troubled times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  the rainbow six series has always been about tense tactical action with an emphasis on teamwork 
 within your squad. rs3 was a white knuckle, sweat soaked lesson in creeping, intelligent combat 
 so it would perhaps be too much to expect ubisoft to repeat this level of gut-wrenching gameplay. 
 instead the focus is shifted to the action.
  among the new additions that foster this change are the health bar that often allows you to take 
 up to 6 or 7 rounds before kicking the bucket and the pure number of enemies in each level (usually 
 around 60-80) . the planning phase before a mission has also been done away with but not the enjoyment 
 of weapon and gear selection that was always a thrill before starting a map. many of the tools 
 that we came to love in rs3 are still intact such as weapons attachments like silencers, scopes 
 and enhanced clips and by default you will always have night vision and a motion/heat sensor view 
 that can detect through walls the presence of enemies. these core features that made one feel particular 
 awesome when sweeping through a bank or prison looking for terrorists are still here and still 
 very useful. 
  graphically there isn't much to complain about in this game. reflections and post fx looks fantastic. 
 excellent character models, lighting and gritty textures really bring the environment alive around 
 you and are just a pleasure to notice as you move from area to area. unfortunately, there are elements 
 that detract from the immersion that these pluses could have created. firstly, the animations don't 
 look overly polished. there is a certain jerking, robotic quality to the movement of team members, 
 hostages and terrorists alike that sucks the realism from the gameplay and even the cinematics 
 so unfortunately this game is dazzling in screen shots but not quite as impressive in motion. 
 
  another problem that is rampant in this game is the ai. in fact, at times the ai is downright 
 deplorable and you have to scratch your head and wonder if the team commands were play-tested at 
 all. telling your team to stack up outside a door for example, a standard maneuver since the series' 
 inception, is often a quick death sentence for at least one of them as they will simply be shot 
 as soon as the door swings open or lean their entire body into the room to toss in a flash bang. 
 the team seems reluctant to fire back in many situations regardless of the roe state, sometimes 
 for the simple reason that your team doesn't seem to know when they are behind cover or not. despite 
 the fact that you are the team leader they often run ahead of you when they are supposed to be 
 following and frequently head right into your line of fire. after the first couple of levels i 
 found myself leaving them behind most of the time to tackle the situations solo. the terrorist 
 ai is equally daft as you will see them leaning out from behind nothing or repositioning themselves 
 in the middle of a room rather than behind any cover but they do attack consistently and accurately 
 enough to provide lots of enjoyment. 
  the sp game modes consist of the regular campaign and the opportunity to replay completed levels 
 in lone wolf and the classic terrorist hunt mode. personally, i'm a huge fan of this mode and it 
 is no less enjoyable than in the previous titles, however, the settings to be chosen before starting 
 a terrorist hunt have been trimmed down to picking a level, difficulty, and the size of the rainbow 
 team. 
  after thoroughly enjoying the sp game modes i attempted to join a multiplayer match. after a quick, 
 trouble free activation of an ubisoft account i generated a rather skimpy list of servers. this 
 game is a couple years old now so i didn't expect to see too many servers but the disappointing 
 factor was the latency on the 4 or 5 servers i could get to show up. there was only one server 
 with a ping below 200 and even after updating i was simply unable to join the server. i have no 
 trouble playing other mp games and get pings as low as 30 in most of them so i was not impressed. 
 the official ubisoft server that was running was giving me a ping of 280. disappointing. 
  overall, i would definitely recommend this game. although the ai is occasionally infuriating the 
 core gameplay is priceless. the campaign isn't too long. probably around 10 hrs but its worth every 
 second of flash bangs and door breaches. a fine addition to an excellent series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnumPI
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Improved graphics but the game has been removed. Anybody who played Rainbow Six since the original 
 or Rogue Spear will be greatly disappointed. It's console oriented for rubes and newbs. That's 
 why they need to STOP porting rainbow six spinoffs to the PC. Either that or put a warning on the 
 box. I give it an 7 out of 10 because it is good in it's own right. It's a satisfactory shooter 
 with good multiplay but ultimately it masquerades as a rainbow six game which duped the Rainbow 
 Six fanbase into buying a game they normally wouldn't be interested in. A scam more or less. On 
 the brightside it's far better than Rainbow Six for the PSX. Lockdown reminds me of SWAT 4. It's 
 all for a new fanbase. They want to eliminate the gameplay and replace it with something simple. 
 It's no no longer a strategical game it's now a shooter. No more coordinating teams to making entry 
 clear the level within 2-5 minutes. It's straight foward now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixe1999
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Just imagine, after you save hostages and he keeps loitering around. Your team will suddenly stand 
 in front of you while you are aiming. Your team always failed to deploy flashbang/grenade - the 
 throw in instead of throw out - everybody injured - d amn!
  
  Enemies likes to stare at the wall. Look at you for a few second, and start attacking. Enemies 
 likes to jog around. running here and there. Stupid!
  
  Enemies from different floors/levels likes to stand ontop/underneath of you. There's no initiative 
 to look for you - very lazy.
  
  Graphics - normal. everybody can do that kind of graphics. Bad things: shadow appears from the 
 light at the ceiling - from the lower floor. Dead body disappears (at least please use dead body 
 low polygon proxy) .
  
  Sound - okay. Whatever. Nothing special.
  
  Gamplay - su cks! Swat 4 Gold much more better. Totally FPS. No strategy. No planning. Just point 
 and shoot. Lame.
  
  Rainbow Sick :Lookdown - should be as tactical as Rainbow Six. Can't even compete with other FPS. 
 Stupidest AI I've. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snow_typhoon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  I play It on a 1.6ghz athlon with a ati hd2600 with 1.5 ddr ram on windows Xp Media -- Full BLOWN 
 !
  awsome grafix and Pay only 20 $ for the game has it abit outdated -I'm a radical when playing on 
 a pc I like to get game that came out a year or 2 back so they can be played full blown - WITH 
 NO NEW TECHNOLOGy ISSUES !@!!
  
  The only minus I found in this one was that you don't have has much weapon customization as the 
 previous title Ex: You can't put a scope + a silencer on the M4 just one of the two will fit + 
 they Forgot My favorite Heckler & Koch UMP45 snif snif bouhouhou - PS since when The steyr comes 
 without a scope It is embeded in to the frame hello @@@@ ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately although Ubisoft publicly claimed acknowledgement of user concerns regarding Starforce 
 as part of thier reason for abandoning its use in their games, they never did anything to rectify 
 it's presence in this one. In thier statement they said they cared about thier customers basically 
 unfortunately they did not care enough to fix it for those who'd purchased existing titles already 
 infected with this overly aggressive and problematic DRM scheme.
  
  I recently installed this and was horrified on starting up the game to see a Starforce Window pop 
 up demanding I insert the DVD for its inspection, etc.
  
  While the game deservedly got lukewarm reviews, as a bargin bin special it's really not bad for 
 an easy play if not great tactical shooter. I have played it some but then removed it and deleted 
 the Windows partition infected with Starforce and reinstalled. My bad for not investigating online 
 before I installed it.
  
  It's a shame that today you have to research a game's DRM scheme online to learn before you shell 
 out your hard earned dollars to ensure you are not unpleasantly surprised with aggressive DRM, 
 limited installs which reduce your purchase to a very expensive rental basically or who knows whatever 
 is next.
  
  So in the trash it goes and I would highly recommend you avoid this one to ensure you do not suffer 
 ill effects including screwed up optical drives, etc. as some did with Starforce and which led 
 to class action lawsuits and withdrawal at least by US publishers of the system.
  
  I wish these guys would understand that they only hurt paying consumers doing this stuff. The hackers 
 and crackers break most forms of DRM within days of release and thus it's useless other than to 
 greatly inconvenience and alienate honest paying customers.
  
  Sometimes I think I ought to just go console and mac and say goodbye to PC gaming and DRM like 
 this is the single greatest reason why.
  
  Thanks for nothing Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael_Dorosh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Nothing special; a fun game that if all one wants is to look at some nice scenery and blast through 
 in their spare time, they can do so in a few evenings or a couple of weekends. The storyline is 
 almost beside the point; one can simply jump in without even reading the briefings or altering 
 the configuration of the player's equipment when playing on the standard difficulty (though I always 
 selected high capacity magazines) . Those wanting a challenge can play on higher difficulty and 
 attempt to get through without having to restart. A good little game that will present a variety 
 of challenges that way.
  
  The developers have taken great pains to provide an international feel to the cast of characters, 
 but they seem almost beside the point; characters wounded or incapacitated in one mission will 
 reappear in the next with no harm apparently done, and there seem to be no consequences from injuries 
 suffered to the player from one mission to the next. Difficulty could probably have stood to be 
 increased in that respect, but if the player is only looking for a fun shooter, this game will 
 not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Lockdown
  Well what I can say. Amazing! This game is old-school game, bro. If you want to be gamer, you must 
 play it.
  There are some minuses:
  The sound is terrible. There aren't a lot of music in game but maybe this is right. Do you think 
 your soldier will fight when he listen MP3? No, of course :)
  I don't thing that dead teammeates in last mission must re spawn in next? Are they zombies? No...
 
  Special vision- well this is a idea but not at all... With this "vision" you can see enemies on 
 the lowest floor, but sometimes you can't see the enemy who is in the next room.
  I play at normal difficult and I think this is easy game. I play only first 3 mission.
  But it 
 is good shooter and I think that everyone must play it. Not only it. EVERY Tom Clancy's game. 9.5 
 from me ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj_Scratcher
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  All I can say about this game is... sad.... sad..... extremely sad! Why God.... why? Why they make 
 games like this anymore. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. I've expected a lot more but.... it 
 is buggy in every segment. I'm big fan of simulation and more realistic games but also I can play 
 good arcade games but this is not even good arcade game!!! I don' want to write about it anymore 
 and waste my time. I'm experienced gamer and this is really bad game whatever you say! It takes 
 about 7 gigs on my HDD so I can say it is way too much for crap like this and after half an hour 
 I've uninstalled it from my PC (finally) and I'm gonna use those 7 gigs for R6 vegas. Pc version 
 is better than PS2 version and you can only imagine how does the PS2 version look like...... I think 
 there should be an option for Time Spent Playing, to Date 1 hour or less! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpvs
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  I liked that the 1st stage played of in a country (South Africa) different than the US not that 
 there really are terrorists left in the country (except that the government is still rated by the 
 UN as terrorists) . Then some more missions play off in Africa then interestingly in Caves and a 
 lot of extra scenery's different to the other games in the series. It also had a more Army Spec 
 ops feel to it better than Rainbow six 3.
  
  Then the fact that it was much easier than anything in the series (Genre) .
  The game also featured 
 weapon mods like the ACOG scope (much better
  than the one in Call of Duty 4) , silencers, red dot sights, drum mags etc.
  
  In comparison to 
 Ghost Recon, SOCOM, Commandos Strike Force and ARMA this isn't really a tactical shooter but more 
 a pre-load to Call Of Duty 4.
  
  A very good shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  In retrospect, it's hard to believe that the original Rainbow Six would start a cottage industry 
 of Tom Clancy games, most of them quite good. Yet when RS took a long vacation in console land, 
 it appeared to bring some bad habits back with it. It looks a heck of a lot better than your usual 
 port, with a long list of fancy buzzwords and support for bunches of different resolutions, but 
 it looks and feels like the heart of Rainbow Six is still sunning itself on a beach in Jamaica. 
 I don't know who these guys are, and at the end of the day, I'm still not quite sure, since the 
 mission progression of the console version has been inexplicably scrambled, thereby tossing into 
 the air what story Rainbow Six Lockdown originally contained. It has something to do with terrorists 
 doing naughty things, but the rest of it looks scribbled on the back of an envelope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakazoto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Lockdown is an interesting mix of games. As a game I love it. As a Rainbow Six game it falls well 
 short of what Id like it to be. It feels as if though the developers were afraid that the Rainbow 
 Games were too difficult and complicated and so they toned it down a bit and made it a much easier 
 game. From a design standpoint it excels wonderfully. It has awesome graphics coupled with great 
 sounds for the weapons and the same great voice acting as the previous games. It also incorporates 
 an iron sight mode for whatever gun you are holding at the moment (something that could only be 
 achieved with a mod for Raven Shield) . There are also many other things that push this shooter 
 towards the tactical side. You always have a 4-man team (including yourself) and they will stack 
 on doors, flash bang, breach, grenade and do all the other things expected of any team-based shooter. 
 The leaning (performed by q and e as in previous Rainbow Six games) has been improved visually. 
 Instead of the screen just rotating sideways it actually drops lower and moves out as if though 
 you are leaning your body out from the wall but still keeping solid balance, a good stance and 
 staying vertical. There are 16 missions with about 3 maps per level so the game theoretically offers 
 a lot of gameplay time too. I say theoretically because Lockdown is so easy that one can plow through 
 it without really breaking a sweat. A number have changes have been made and unfortunately they 
 are changes for the worse. First of all there is no planning for the upcoming stage. Instead levels 
 have been designed as a linear experience similar to that of Half Life 2 or F. E. A. R. Also, your 
 team, while they look good and sound cool, is pretty much useless. I found that on the average 
 mission my tam would kill 4 or 5 guys and I would mop up the remaining 50 or so by myself (if gives 
 stats at the end of the level, and the number I killed was ridiculous) . So while its nice to have 
 your team there to help you open doors, thats just about all they are good at. Also, you and your 
 team can take quite a beating before floating on to heaven. Unlike old Rainbow Six games where 
 1 well placed shot could end you here it takes 5 to 8 shots on normal and an uncalled for 4 to 
 5 shots on difficult (I cant even imagine playing Raven Shield on difficult) . All this adds up 
 to a very arcade feel with some very well done tactical elements thrown in. So, as a game I love 
 it. Its very action oriented and the music, while not memorable, gets you in the mood to stomp 
 some terrorists. However, for an action game it has a lot of tactical elements and gameplay present 
 which just so happens to be a very welcome addition. On the contrary, as a Rainbow Six game it 
 has lost all of the elements that made the Rainbow Six series stand out so prominently. The realism 
 has dropped considerably and the tension and excitement of sneaking through a mission with suppressed 
 weapons in hopes that the terrorists dont blow the bomb is gone. I suggest picking this game up 
 because its a great bridge between action and tactical shooting. I know my review sounds negative 
 but I did really enjoy this game and recommend it to anyone who likes a good shooter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exo911
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Great Rainbow, Horrible port. The PC version doesnt have some of the features the Xbox or play 
 station version has. They are a few graphical errors, but gameplay is solid. Graphics are great 
 even for modern games. There are a decent amount of levels and types of gameplay. There is Training, 
 Campaign, Lone Wolf, and Terrorist Hunt. The sound is great. Even once beaten you can play the 
 campaign over and over again. Once you get bored hop over to multi player, which is also amazing. 
 The multi player is immersing you can spend nights and days playing online. I give this game a 
 8.0 because of graphical error and lack of commands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six and tom Clancy has alot of games under there belt and they keep getting better and 
 better. Lock down is the game that came out before Vegas did. The story is a group of terrorists 
 have a very powerful weapon that they are going to use on the United States. Its a virus that kills 
 as soon as it infects the person. Game play Is Fun but hard with some arcadey feel to the Tactical 
 game. You go from point a to point b completing objectives and killing what gets in your way. Graphics 
 are nice and polished and are enhanced for PC. Sound is nice with 70 diffrent weapon sounds actually 
 recorded. I bought the game for 6 bucks at a local big lots and its worth every penny.
  
  Pros-Fun, Cheap, Lots to kill
  Cons, a few bugs here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  I bought Rainbow Six Lockdown, pre-order and picked it up on day of release. I played XBox Live 
 with my own clan, for many months.. I stopped playing the game at some point and put it on the shelf 
 with many other Thanks For Playing games. I eventually traded it in for credit... $2.00 if I recall 
 correctly. I went on to re investigate PC games and got hooked. Recently I find myself missing 
 the good old Run and Gun days of what was Rainbow Six Lockdown . Who can NOT remember the Infamous 
 and the renowned, Spawn Campers. Well I missed the game so much, I recently went out and doubt 
 a used copy... Bargain now at $4.99 at Gamestop / EB Games.
  Now I want to find my old game friends and relive what was a real Run and Gun Kill hem all fun 
 fest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  have to admit my heart starts to race when I get that new game and even more so when its a great 
 first-person shooter like Ghost Recon, but when I got into Lockdown I could tell there was something 
 missing from this latest in the Rainbow Six line. I love Red Storm Entertainments previous line 
 of Rainbow Six and Ghost Recon titles that have come out for the PC. I have every one and still 
 play Ghost Recon, but after playing the latest version of Rainbow Six, I can see where all the 
 complaining is coming from on the Ubisoft Forums. Red Storm Entertainment along with Ubisoft has 
 released the next Rainbow Six FPS, Rainbow Six: Lockdown. Lockdown is the continuing adventures 
 of Domingo Ding Chavez as he leads his Rainbow counterterrorist teams against international terrorists 
 out to ruin the world, and your day. You play as Ding Chavez leading small teams against groups 
 of terrorists in hostage rescue, bomb defusing and assault type first-person action. The game is 
 a straightforward FPS with you in charge of your team. The HUD and your personal information are 
 well designed and easy to use. I found the orders you give your teammates easy to convey even if 
 they didnt listen to me all the time. You get to tell them where to go by pointing with your weapon 
 and issuing an order or telling them to open doors or use grenades and such when opening doors. 
 There is no preplan other than equipping your men and then being able to tell them in game what 
 to do, but the game plays well and has all that is needed for a great FPS except one thing. In 
 one word, all the game needed was AI. All the rest of the ingredients that make a great game are 
 there. The graphics are awesome, the sound is very good and the setup and overall feel of the game 
 that are subtle parts of a greater whole can be seen and felt, but the artificial intelligence 
 is terrible. I thought when you stood in front of a bad guy he was supposed to shoot at you or 
 at least cower from your superior weaponry and unmatched skills as a counter terrorist team member. 
 When the guy sneaks around you to shoot at your teammates that you told to hold position behind 
 you down the hallway, you wonder whats going on and then blow him away. They should rename your 
 teammates to things more appropriate: bait, shield, cannon fodder; things like that. Playing through 
 the levels, the statistics at the end of some of the missions show what I mean. When you have shot 
 more than four hundred rounds and your teammates have only shot six, eight and twelve individual 
 bullets with one or two hits, something is missing from the equation. When I shoot at targets they 
 go down, thats why I use my ammo, but for fun I tried using only my pistol and found that it did 
 not matter much what weapon I used for the distillery level. I ran through the mission and accomplished 
 the goals using only the pistol to fight the bad guys.
  
  I found that my teammates were good for sending into rooms and finding out where all the bad guys 
 were; bait. They were also good for sending into a room and using as a shield to stand behind as 
 the bad guys tried to shoot at you. They were not good for helping you out or shooting the terrorists. 
 They would often not listen to you when told to hold and were certainly not much good at shooting 
 when they did. I saw it had to be pretty much a clear shot for them to take or they would wait 
 for the guy to get into the open before shooting. This was a trend from the beginning and played 
 out much through the game. Many places in the game you could shoot the bad guys because they were 
 behind partial concealment, such as a railing, where parts of themselves were visible. My team 
 members never exploited these opportunities. Many times the terrorists used that lean and peek 
 maneuver but thats all they often did, lean and peek at you. One thing I noticed throughout the 
 levels was the blatant advertising for a movie that is coming out, The Hills Have Eyes. I counted 
 about ten posters in a level after I started noticing them and then every level has about that 
 many or more. In one room they have three such posters. I understand that they want to cash in 
 on the advertisement opportunity here, but this is a little ridiculous. If they would worry more 
 about a better game, i. e. the AI, then advertising for movies on the games graphics would not be 
 needed. People would flock to buy the game and stay home to play it and its expansions. As it is, 
 people are complaining loudly on the Ubisoft forums. Lockdown has the sixteen-mission campaign 
 along with the single player quick missions like terrorist hunt or lone wolf. The maps are the 
 same ones you run through the campaign on but with the included mission editor, I think the community 
 will be coming out with some more soon. I enjoyed playing the game despite the problems with dumb 
 teammates and terrorists. I enjoyed the multiplayer as well but had a hard time setting up and 
 joining games. The multiplayer portion of the game also needs an update or a patch. Many people 
 are complaining about joining games on the Ubisoft website and not being able due to firewall issues. 
 Setting up the firewall settings and allowing the game access to go online seems to be hard to 
 do. I played around with my firewall settings for a few hours and finally got to play online. This 
 should be easier to accomplish for a game that cost people almost fifty dollars. There are not 
 many gamers playing online and this is a big issue with many from the complaints on the Ubisoft 
 forums. It took me about eleven hours to play through the campaign, changing the difficulty setting 
 back and forth to see what difference that made. Not much. The choice of weaponry is great and 
 you get the neat toys like breaching charges and phosphorous grenades. This game would be a good 
 value if the company came out with a patch to fix the multiplayer issues and make it easier to 
 join games online. They also need to do something about the AI. Once these issues are dealt with 
 this would be a very good game but as it is, I have to give it just a bit above average. Waiting 
 for a patch or update is not what many people paid their good money for, especially in this great 
 line of first-person shooter games. Overall Rainbow Six: Lockdown isnt a bad game. I was just 
 disappointed considering all the hype and the past record of excellent games in this series. Hopefully 
 they can get matters resolved and update the game to fix the problems with AI and joining online 
 games, and work on making better games for the PC fans that are waiting for the classic Tom Clancy 
 line of games to continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  I always have a hard time understanding how people can give a game less credit than it truly deserves. 
 While I agree with most people here that it somehow puts the Rainbow Six name to shame (as most 
 of the pre-mission strategy planning is non-existant, save the weapon loadout) , I don't beleive 
 Lockout to be that bad.
  
  Personally, I was never much for the whole planning phase at the beginning. I'm not much of a strategist. 
 Used to just pick three teams and switch from noe to another and finished all the previous games 
 this way.
  So for me, the plannign phase wasn't really misse din this game.
  
  Graphics are OK for a ported game.
  
  Sound is good. I'm not too picky about this. Missions 
 are very varied and I enjoyed the different locations.
  
  AI wasn't much of a challenge, save for a couple situations and tight spots. I was able to almost 
 take out 75-80% of bad guys with my characters (peeking helped a lot, almost too much) while the 
 other 3 took out what I missed.
  
  Gameplay overall felt more like a all-out shooter than a Tactical shooter. i mean seriously, over 
 100 bad guys per level. Just too much. You don't find over 100 terrorists taking a bank hostage. 
 Previous games seemed to have much less, more realistic. Still fun though.
  
  My final score is 6.9. It was totally worst 20$CND when I bought it. Still haven't finished it 
 but I will. It's not quite deserving of being considered Good, but enough to be fair game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingShivan
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Apparently, according to other reviews, people hoped that Red Storm would put a more Arcade style 
 Rainbow Six. I have a feeling that when we want more arcade, we want Counterstrike-style arcade, 
 Quake-style arcade. what we meant, in other words, was Give us slightly more arcade-style SHOOTING 
 . Emphasis on the shooting. With every other Rainbow Six game, we've come to love creating the 
 tactics and playing the tactics of the mission. We enjoyed the OK AI controlling the enemy and 
 the teammates. AI teammates would actually shoot back on a regular basis in most Rainbow Six games. 
 Not in Lockdown. On the box for the game, they advertise Unnerving AI . Yeah. I'm unnerved at the 
 complete lack of intelligence. The AI teammates rarely seek out targets or even pan around the 
 area to check. If they're getting shot in the back, they yell to you that their getting shot in 
 the back, and proceed to stay facing the other direction. The enemy AI isn't much better. Oh they'll 
 shoot at you. After a 2-3 second interval where they study you with a stupid look on their face. 
 At least in Raven Shield the enemy AI would sort of lay suppressing fire if they saw you once. 
 In Lockdown, if they stop seeing you, it's like you've vanished and they don't even need to worry 
 anymore.
  
  So the AI is piss-poor. What else?
  
  Oh yeah. Did you like switching from one teammate to the next? Psh, you noob, you can't do that 
 anymore! That's totally unrealistic. Or at least, I'm assuming that's why Lockdown doesn't let 
 you do it. But then, why have realism in this place we like the unrealism, and not in the AI? Pointless, 
 disappointing, irritating change.
  
  Tactics. Forget em. There is no tactical map, there is no waypoint system letting you tell the 
 team exactly how to move, there is NOTHING. It's like an arcade game, in other words. It's just 
 pick some gear and click start.
  
  Start up. IRRITATING. Red Storm apparently decided to try some new fangled security feature that 
 checks your disc every single time you start up, and I've had it tell me I needed to restart because 
 it's finished the operation when I don't remember doing any kind of operation, and so indeed, I 
 had to restart before it would let me play the game. This little watchdog/bouncer program is just 
 a petty annoyance that is more trouble than this PoS game is worth.
  
  Gameplay. This game is trying to be a fast-paced action shooter like half-life or quake, but they 
 forget they come from a long line of games DEDICATED to slow, careful, intelligence-oriented combat 
 where if you rushed through a map you WOULD lose at least a few members, so instead we have a sort 
 of sterile hybrid child that hobbles along. As said before, the AI is all-but-retarded, making 
 combat situations utterly boring, as you slowly move your crosshairs from one idiot baddy to the 
 next, hoping a little deep inside you that this would be the baddy that actually fights back and 
 justifies the money you spent. It takes being completely surrounded on every side before the enemy 
 manages to take me out. this is not because I'm necessarily a good player, this is because the 
 hand of god seems to be in full force protecting you the player.
  
  Graphics. Graphics are ok. Personally, I wish they'd have stuck with Raven Shield graphics and 
 then done better with the gameplay.
  
  Sound. Sound... well, insofar as quality goes, I suppose it's just as well as any other game, but 
 if you ask me how the sounds of the guns are, I'd tell you to stick to playing Counterstrike.
 
  
  Conclusion-
  
  No tactics, no team choosing, piss-poor AI, sterile hybrid offspring of gameplay.
  
  This game 
 is not worth the 20$ I paid for it. I want my money back. I'll have to be seriously wooed and cajoled 
 before I'll buy another rainbow six game if there's even a hint that they thought they did alright 
 with lockdown. the ONLY thing I really liked in this game was the way you can throw grenades. It 
 is genius. Brilliant. But it's the only plus this game has going for it.
  
  ps- as a final note, I'm just going to list those things I feel are missing from the game
  
 
  This game doesn't have-
  -prone
  -zooming in without scope
  -switching to different teammates
  -tactical layout and mission progression
  -regular names 
 of weapons
  -an even vaguely realistic cap on the number of bullets you can carry: 450?!
  -widescreen resolutions
  -a good selection of weapons (MANY weapons are left out, it feels)
 
  -distint and unique differences between the weapons
  -multiple teams/squads (goes along with the tactics)
  -Enemy AI
  -Friendly AI
  -fun weapon 
 sounds
  -a comfortable visual interface
  -a comfortable default keyboard layout
  -a quick and easy start up
  -any redeeming qualities beyond the grenade throwing system
  -fun
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caligula667
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  My major vices with this game:
  1) They recycled gun sounds from Raven Shield and used them on different guns in Lockdown
  2) 
 There is a weak selection of guns (1 sniper rifle only)
  3) The explosions from frags look absolutely awful.
  4) The AI has a lot of glitches and is just 
 plain moronic. 5) Guns have no recoil, making it highly unrealistic.
  6) NO MULTIPLAYER COMMUNITY! Well there is one but you'll be lucky if you find more than 4 servers 
 to play on.
  
  The only thing that makes up for it:
  1) Good graphics for the most part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Where to start.... there is so little in this game that is on the mark. This is an action game with 
 the Rainbow Six name, but frankly it fails to be much of anything.
  
  While in Raven Shield you'd have a team of 8 (?) to control, here you usually have 4 people, youself 
 included, which really isn't enough to do something tactical with. There is no more planning phase, 
 in fact the briefings are pure window dressing and even easy to completely overlook in the interface. 
 Level design is utterly linear to the point that the maps shown at the briefings have numbered 
 marks and are ordered in the way you will move: point 1, point 2, next map, point 1, point 2. The 
 maps also show information that you can't logically know up front. Ugh.
  
  The voice acting is badly acted and lame, with frequently recurring phrases like Kill dem all! 
 , UUUUUUUUAAAAAA , etc. I've also had a hostage bark in the voice of a terrorist. Speaking of hostages: 
 they don't seem to have any function in the game; they're hardly threatened by the tango's at all. 
 In the few missions where there are any hostages, you hardly have to try to save them. I came across 
 a few bombs in the game, but I hardly know if they served any purpose. They just seemed to be there, 
 because they had to put 'em somewhere. I've even had one of my teammates exposed to a bio-weapon 
 (according to the radio chatter) without any consequence.
  
  The animations of characters is fake looking; people switch from full stop to full sprint in the 
 blink of an eye, and almost without changing posture.
  
  Then there is the AI. Oh man. Your team will conveniently spread itself thin, so whenever you enter 
 a room, one will always lead the others by at least 3 meters. First in, first down, heh. They're 
 also good at turning their back to obvious danger, or ignoring Joe The Terrorist, at the other 
 side of the crate.
  
  Banging a room effectively hardly ever works. It's quite frustrating that you can't order them 
 to -stack up- on a doorway (without a door) and tossing a flashbang before entering. There has 
 to be a (closed) door for you to get this option. And not all doors are equal; some simply can't 
 be flashed, even if they're unlocked.
  
  Bottom line: this isn't deserving of the Rainbox Six name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Lockdown does not have the same realism of previous RB6 games, but it's still fun to play if you 
 have an open mind. The graphics are great but have a tendency to be glitchy which can be a real 
 annoyance. Characters and weapons are not as customizable as I would like but so what!
  
  An advantage this game has over it's predecessors is that you can save at any point in the game, 
 so if you die soon after saving you can pick up where you left off and not have to redo the whole 
 mission from the start. The game is still challenging without being insanely difficult Like Ghost 
 Recon 3. The vocabulary of terrorists and counter terrorists is sub-par as is the accuracy of their 
 accents, everyone sounds like their British, even those who are supposed to be Spanish. Overall 
 it might be more worthwhile to wait until the price comes down more before buying it. Otherwise 
 it's a good game as long as you don't expect too much of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Blade7
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  If you are a squad tactical person who enjoys planning their missions to their liking, then this 
 game is not for you. It does have its tactics but you can not plan the missions to your liking. 
 The XBox has better features then the PC version. Also this game seems to have been rushed at the 
 last minute as there are glitches and graphic errors that you will catch when you first start up 
 the game. This game was a complete waste of money in my opinion, but if your a multiplayer person, 
 then this may be for you. It is great online in my opinion how you are in a squad (as usual) but 
 with high end graphics. It is an awesome feeling when your playing against human people around 
 the world, not knowing if your going to live or not.
  
  As for the story line, I didn't play it much as it wasn't very motivating to me. I ran around shooting 
 the enemy and I surprisingly hit them and they completely go down or die. Of course you'll get 
 shot, but the AI aren't as bright as you think they are. You could stand right next to an enemy 
 AI and they will only cover or won't even notice you. Here is an example: You run up to a table 
 where on the other side of the table, an enemy terrorist is ducking for cover. If you duck or even 
 walk/run to the other side where you meet the AI enemy, they will only look at you or won't even 
 do nothing. Sometimes they will shot at you when their gun is aiming at the wall. Not sure if they 
 are seeing things or if they are practicing while you complete your mission. They have horrible 
 aim, you can stand still and they can waste a whole clip on you and you possibly won't even get 
 hit, maybe just once but that is about it. I think this game should have been planned out, coded, 
 and fixed any errors with the graphics before it came out. I don't know if they had any beta testers 
 (probably, but they didn't do a great job at identifying certain key points) but it would be nice 
 if they had a few so that they can help the producer of this game correct a few things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromSniper51
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  i had extremely high hopes for this game. playing Raven Shield and than playing this is like playign 
 two different series from two different companies, this is really not worth an 8.0. if you want 
 a great Clancy game, go get Tom Clancy's Rainbow SIx 3: Raven Shield. that game is one of the best 
 Tactical Shooters in the history of Tactical Shooters. the Singleplayer is harder than the multiplayer 
 is. i am a very good player on Raven Shield but i still cant beat the game without losing any of 
 my men, oh well. the multiplayer is absouletly outstandingly good. i dont know how this turned 
 into a Review of Raven Shield. but i guess it did cuz i hoped that this would be better than that 
 and make what i love so much better, but no it didnt. this feels like a cartoon to me. the graphics 
 and the sound of the gunfire just ruins it. the only reason you should buy this game is if you 
 want a good single player Shooter that is tacticalish, Clancy has been going down the drain with 
 the PS2 as well, not including Splinter Cell. but the Ghost recon series and the Rainbow Six 3 
 and PS2 version of lockdown just are not what i expected from Ubi and Clancy. UBI DONT GIVE UP 
 ON THE PS2 or PC, NEXT GEN IS OVER RATED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cook66
Rating: 3.1
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short as this game is not worth spending any time on.
  
  Just as a warning.
  
  I have a highend PC with the latest and best Nvidia graphic card, and 
 whatever I do I get extreme lag and messed up graphics errors which makes everything a blurry light 
 and theres nothing I can do with it.
  
  Once in a while it works so I can experience the horrible game design the worthless AI and unplayable 
 controls.
  
  I played this for about an hour and just threw it out and got something else, but then today I 
 decided to give it another try, and it just made me feel worse!
  
  I have not played a lot of the other RS games, but those I've tried was fun and enjoyable, this 
 isn't even worth the space it takes up in my dumpster!
  
  Why oh why Ubisoft, would you make something this horrible?
  
  (Difficulty rated hard as the 
 bugs make it near impossible for me to play.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Rainbow Six universe. When first hearing about Rainbow Six: Lockdown I was 
 thinking Same Rainbow Six strategy with great graphics, but after seeing some gameplay videos and 
 some other screenshots I realized it was totally different.
  
  First of all there is no planning or preparation involved, your just thrown into the mayhem, secondly 
 the team AI seems to be a bit lacking because I often have them stay back while I clear rooms because 
 they just get themselves killed at every turn about.
  
  Overall, if your interested in a FPS without strategy, Lockdown may be in your cross-hairs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 1.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  How sad and dissapointing Tom Clancys universe of games has become. Instead of learning from their 
 mistakes from game to game it seems
  that the creators of his universe only back track instead of moving forward. One would be better 
 off trying to play Tom Clancys Rainbow Six: Lockdown with a joystick rather than the complex game 
 controls, which one has a better idea of
  with his or her eyes closed in playing a level. The graphics are so out of sequence that saying 
 the game is pitiful is a compliment . Perhapd Rainbow Six :Lockdown would be better played on XBox 
 rather than a PC .A old slow PC of the vintage 386 series with a 75MHZ processor may be just the 
 answer for this game to be played on. At first I thought perhaps my system needs new drivers and 
 a tune up to play this game, so I tuned my system with new drivers and all the little nip and tucks 
 good gamers do before he/she attempts to play a UBI presentation of the sorts as Rainbow Six :Lockdown. I 
 gave UBI and RedStorm the benifit of many doubts and loaded the game on two high end gaming machines 
 only to be totaly saddened and disappointed. The team runs into walls after orders are issued, windows 
 shot out of cars etc, the glass falls out after a firefight has been over like five minutes later. 
 Issue a order for supressing fire at ones own risk and your team will turn and shoot at you if 
 you do not seek shelter behind a vehicle, wall, or barrier. Enimies respawn after they have been 
 shot face to face.
  French man seems to run right through walls with no problem, sometimes he cannot make it and stands 
 there clawing at a walll. The game is so patheticaly bad any criticism is a compliment. Stand me 
 corrected brothers and sisters, the story line is a pretty good idea, but thats as far as I can give 
 any compliments to UBI and Redstorm. Its a very sad thing that these big gaming companys promote 
 un fairly and badly programed games then expect the gaming community to purchase these games after 
 which continuous updates are added but never seem to correct original programing problems. UBI is 
 not shy about adding bigger price tags to their games of late. However the quality of these games 
 do not of late get better. They seem to go backwards. Now I see why such wonderful games like "Far 
 Cryare coming out just for Xbox community. The PC gaming community fine tunes all these games 
 for the developer, after adjustments are made the developers sit down and say oh, theres no money 
 in PC games lets just promote XBOZ and Ipod game software ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mYslead
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Good graphics
  
  The Bad: where did the tactical part of the game go ?
  ------------------------------------
  
  I was more than sceptical to get this game as the console 
 version was utterly crap. Lucky us (the pc gamers) Red Storm stepped in and tried to stop the bleeding. 
 Lockdown on PC is superior to it's console counter part but still feel like a standalone game compared 
 to all of the other rainbow six games.
  
  The main problem with the game is that it feels just way too much arcade-ish. It doesn't feel right, 
 Rainbow Six inspires realism and strategy and Lockdown just comes short of it, the whole game feels 
 like a "Quick Mission" mode first as in you don't plan anything like the previous games of the 
 serie. All you do is pick the arsenal of your team which is vastly inferior of what we've become 
 to take for granted in Raven Shield. Only a handful of weapons is at your disposition for the missions.
 
  
  Another letdown is the fact that you're stuck with the same four squad members during the whole 
 game. No more soldiers pool, nope, just four. And the biggest of them all is the fact that you 
 can't plan your attack, which re-enforce the feeling of playing in a "Quick Mission" mode. It's 
 straight action, which isn't a bad thing for people actually looking for action but Rainbow Six 
 has been known for realism (I feel like I'm repeating myself) and not for "Spray and Pray" which 
 is basically what I feel about this game. If I wanted to Spray and Pray I would have played Counter 
 Strike: Source no question asked.
  
  So yeah, it's basically point and click basic, you run around in linear levels and kill baddies 
 that captured high profiled hostages yada-yada-yada. In game the artificial intelligence of your 
 squad members and even the "terrorists" can act a little dumb from time to time. It's not the sharp 
 and keen AI we've come to know in the past titles of the serie. But I guess that since they threw 
 realism through the window they might as well put dumb ai bots for head shots practicing.
  
  On the other side, the graphics are nice and well polished, the environments are well done 
 and the weapons as well. The character models could have been better but since they don't hang 
 around too long for you to take a good look at the details since you can pick them up as soon as 
 they enter your sight due to dumb ai, it's not such of a big issue. The other nice touch is the 
 fairly basic tactical commands over your squad members which can give you a little advantages against 
 the inconsistencies of the AI when let on it's on. You can give them way points with the mouse, 
 tell them to follow you or to hold position. You'll rely on it quite often on the battlefield as 
 your squad tend to move alot toward the bullets and not the other way around, so you'll spend some 
 time redirect them away from death's hands. But don't worry your squad members and yourself don't 
 die as easily as it was the case in the previous Rainbow Six. It will take more than just one bullet 
 to take you down. You'll also rely alot on the motion detector that let's you see through walls 
 and obstacles which helps you identify the threats more easily.
  
  In the end, the PC version of Rainbow Six: Lockdown is superior of it's console counterparts (thanks 
 Red Storm) but still feel too much like a Rainbow Six: Arcade to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Lockdown for the PC is a good game, with good graphics. The best game yet in the Rainbow Six series.
 
  
  The graphics is very good, the sound is not the best, and it has some small gameplay bugs.
  
 
  Sometimes objects in the game begins to flicker, like doors and walls. The AI is really bad, and 
 can really be annoying sometimes. Another bug is that sometimes your teammates stop to follow you, 
 and just stands still.
  
  If you are a Tom Clancy fan, or not, this game is something for you, if you can cope with some 
 small bugs.
  
  One thing really good with this game is the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Hey, Best tactical game I see in my life, nice animation, nice gear , nice equipment, nice uniforms...... etc. 
 of nice & great thing.
  it is a good game for player who love S. W. A. T. games, and in this game I saw a lot of new weapons 
 and tactics, but there is some bad things to in this game like the bad AI which you see it clearly 
 sometimes in your enemy & friendly units. So as it seems to me it is a great game of building invasions 
 tactics. And the other thing I liked in this game is the squad leading. You always the squad leader 
 and you may dress like a civilian in a secret mission as in the game mission in Marseilles. So 
 I recommend this game for those ( as I said above ) who love the tactics of building invasions 
 & squad leading. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Just a simple list really...
  
  Good:
  Nice Graphics
  Customizing weapons is fun
  Confusion can often make the battles realistic
  New effects of rain/being hit and such makes 
 you feel there
  
  Bad:
  Grenade explosions are utterly fake
  Enemy AI will often stare at you in an attempt to kill you with good looks
  Doesnt really feel 
 like an improvment over previous console games
  Red Storm didnt throw anything new at you in terms of Anti-Terror battling
  
  Overall its basicly 
 one of those games you dont really talk about unless your asked about, then you say you feelings. 
 I think it's okay but could have used alot more work (Ex. combining FEAR's AI & GRAW's tactical 
 system would make a fast-pased brilliant shooter for the next R6) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w_chiong
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Oh well, they've done it, destroyed the raimbow six theme of realism. the first three of the series 
 rocks. but this one NOT!. I don't know, I'll be expecting that they will revamp these errors and 
 let Vegas claim the title again for the franchise.
  
  The good side of the game: 
  - enhanced graphics , more detailed textures , well basically its just the graphics and the animations 
 are the good side of the game.
  
  The NEGATIVE:
  - unlicensed guns (they've change the name of the guns, to avoid paying trademarks and some stuff) . 
 
  - arcade and fast paced game type rather than real, tactical and immersive action.
  - AI is really dumb. 
  - they've introduce a life bar system?! what the heck. 
  - included 
 worthless additive for combat ( the special goggles) for me NVG is ok.
  - Less weapons! compared to the armory they've got at RVS.
  - No tactical mission planning, accessing 
 the multiplayer board or to view the scores (like accuracy, frags and deaths) is really hassel. 
 you need to press ESC rather than just the tab. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leman71
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  If they think amazing graphics make a game good, they are wrong. Dont waste your money, buy a previos 
 Rainbow six or other game. This game has no sustance. Even the possibility of save game as many 
 time you want, turns it worst. If you like arcade games with no realism, only shooting, then buy 
 doom or quake, at least these games not intent to be strategical. I hope they change theirs minds 
 and turn back their strategy. 
  the unique strategic needed to game Lockdown is: "Shoot at head". If you waste mora than 5 bullets 
 per terrorist you will finheshed que mission with a pistol in hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atb7224
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Well put. I totally agree with the entire review. I couldve added more hateful things to the multi-player 
 section of the review, but I think that would be over doing it. Do not buy this if you enjoy multiplayer 
 gameplay. Actually, single player is pretty bad as well. Theres point A, where you start, and point 
 B, where you finish. Its a straight path, and the enemy are lined up waiting to get killed, as 
 Quintapus put it. Theres no going the wrong way. I dont think I played the game long enough to 
 find out all the bad things about it. I wouldve rather bought a bottle of Crown Royal and had a 
 great night with some friends. Save your money and your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  You will notice that the number 4 is blatantly missing from the title. Apparently even the developers 
 don't consider this mildewed dreck to be a successor to the other Rainbow Six games.
  
  Gameplay: Despite claims to the contrary, it's not that much different from the Xbox version. I 
 haven't played it on the Xbox, but judging from the review and the gameplay footage Ive seen, 
 the changes they made to the PC version are all aesthetic and have nothing to do with gameplay. 
 You have different vision goggles and perhaps some different weapons, (I don't know) but thats 
 it. The console version has members of your squad running around without a helmet. Although that 
 is pretty stupid, it does not affect gameplay. So what if they made the levels larger with more 
 detail and then shuffled them around, the gameplay footage of the Xbox RSL looked identical to 
 what I saw when I played on the PC. You go from point A to point B shooting terrorists who are 
 all conveniently lined up along the way to make it one easy battle after another. They may clump 
 together in spots, but since they dont work as a team they are easy to kill. Except for a few 
 hostage rescue situations where you want to kill a guard without alerting another nearby guard 
 who might shoot a hostage, there is no reason to use stealth. Caution maybe, but not stealth. The 
 PC version may not be a straight console port, however it is a port and dont you forget it. 
 (3)
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good, but not much of an improvement over RS3. Oh sure, there are now 
 soft shadows and water reflections, the textures are a little more detailed and the character models 
 are a bit better, but it's not as good as Fear. How can reviewers give the graphics a ten with 
 games like Quake 4, Half-life 2 and Far Cry out there? (6)
  
  Sound: The sound was average for the most part. The guns sounded weak and the terrorists taunts 
 and chatter got stale rather quickly.
  The sound quality is great when heard from a distance. You can tell how far away an enemy is just 
 by listening. This is most apparent when you hear them talking. The distance sound quality kind 
 of gets drowned out in the firefights though. (6)
  
  Value: The campaign is short and the multiplayer boring. (3)
  
  Tilt: This is not Rainbow Six! 
 (1)
  
  The Good: Slightly improved death animations over the previous games in the series. There are lots 
 of guns to choose from. Although I don't know if it is true yet, I have heard that this game will 
 let you create your own mods again. Sadly there were no mods for Raven Shield like there were for 
 previous Rainbow Six titles. There were maps yes, but mods like new skins and weapons, no. Some 
 people seem to think if you use a game editor to make a map that is a mod. Mod is short for modification. 
 A mod is where you create your own unique add-on content for a game to modify it. Unfortunately 
 Im not sticking around to find out if any good maps or mods come out as Im getting rid of this 
 game.
  
  The Bad: Where to start? The mission briefings are boring. There is no longer any pre-planning 
 for a mission. You have three health bars now! Although it helps to think of them as two layers 
 of body armor and the last one is your flesh. Okay so it doesn't help. Unlimited ammunition for 
 your secondary weapon? No ammo selection. Your movement is stiff and awkward. It has dumbed-down 
 AI (Artificial Imbeciles) . Even on challenge mode its a piece o pie. I get a scope and order 
 my squad to stay behind (or just shoot em) then snipe the enemy from a distance. I blow through 
 the level as easy as cake. The worst thing of all is that the missions are split up into different 
 sections and are completely linear. This totally ruins the game as it turns it into a generic B 
 grade shooter. The open-ended nature of Rainbow Six is what set it apart from other shooters. On 
 big levels you could choose different plans of attack and on the smaller ones if you weren't stealthy 
 and went in with unsilenced guns blazing, half the terrorists would come to get you. The single-load 
 mission design gave maps a lot of replay value that is painfully absent in this game.
  
  Bottom Line: To be perfectly fair, if this was not a Rainbow Six game I might possibly give it 
 a 5. 
  
  Postscript. 
  What is it Ubisoft? Do you think Im too stupid to find my own way around and make my own tactical 
 decisions? Sure, you can now give your squad more orders. So what! I leave those idiots behind 
 and do everything myself, because they get in my way. Hey, just put a ring through my nose and 
 lead my around like an animal, why dont you. We gamers bought, played and beat the preceding RS 
 games didnt we? Then how come you insult our intelligence by turning the latest edition into a 
 by-the-numbers shooter that has been done a hundred times before. You just spit on the fans devotion 
 to the series that made you money by changing the fundamental gameplay to appeal to a whole new 
 audience. If you make lots of money off of this game it will be new gamers who buy it and not any 
 true fans of RS. Change is good when it evolves the game and adds new features and improves existing 
 ones. This is not evolution. There is nothing new here. Its a giant leap backwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guylapierre
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The AI is horrible and being told I'm losing blood or asked if I'm OK just after I die is bad design. 
 The AI on your team is pretty bad. There doesn't seem to be any consistency to their behavior.
 
  
  This game could have been so much more. It has its moments but the graphic anomolies got on my 
 nerves and repetitiveness is too much. I'm on mission 13 and trying to force myself to finish it.
 
  
  On the bright side, some missions were pretty cool and some of the fog and smoke gave great atmosphere 
 to the gameplay. The window shattering and sound effects were spot on. However, you make footstep 
 sounds while standing still sometimes and it leads you to believe someone is coming but there isn't.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingman15
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 30, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed the Rainbow Six series for some time now. Its a great change from the fast paced 
 run and gun FPS that saturate the market. There are some hickups with this game and I know its 
 gotten some bad reviews. But from a casual gamer, I would say this is a good buy. 
  I have seen this game priced at $25 and I think its well worth it. 
  
  Cons - The game has 
 crashed to the desktop a couple times. Never had this problem with other games and being that I 
 am in the IT industry, I keep my gaming PC clean and updated with new drivers and current hardware. 
 So I am surprised by the random crashes.
  
  The AI is a bit stupid. I have seen better AI in other games like Ghost Recon, but its not bad 
 enough to keep me from enjoying the game.
  
  Pros - The visuals are AMAZING. This is one of the nicest looking games I have ever played.
  
 
  I like being able to easily move my team from one location to another and being able to issue quick 
 orders easily without using the keyboard. 
  
  The auto save points seem to be close enough that you won't repeat a level more than a few times. 
 There is a built in quick save which is a must for any game like this.
  
  Overall, I am really enjoying this game. I have not played the MP yet as I am running thru the 
 SP campaign first. So this review is based on the SP game only. I do hope that they do release 
 a patch to fix some of the crash issues. For $25, you won't find a better game. I have played $50 
 games that have worse problems and still cost $50 a year later with no patches to fix the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_ogrim
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 29, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I believe a few positive aspects of Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Lockdown could be mentioned, but 
 in my disappointment of the game, I will instead focus on the essential Lockdown flaws:
  
  
  [] No story
  
  There is no main story in Lockdown. You are simply dragged from one location 
 to the next, for no apparent reason. Earlier Rainbow Six game stories were unlikely and rather 
 stupid, but nonetheless kept the games together in a reasonable fashion. Thus, Lockdown fails in 
 one of the most essential areas: the player is unlikely to develop any emotional attachment to 
 the characters; playing Lockdown becomes an endeavor in reflexes and wits, much like for example 
 Tetris.
  
  
  [] Appalling AI
  
  Although the enemies often react in a disappointing manner, the opposing AI as a whole is at least 
 decent. This cannot be said for the Rainbow operatives, who in essence behave like utter morons.
 
  
  Picture this: You instruct your team to move from a corridor, through an open doorframe and behind 
 a large reception counter wide enough to cover 10 wide-chested men standing side by side. Plenty 
 of room for all three, in other words. All in all, the team should be exposed to some degree of 
 enemy fire for two to three seconds each, although they will receive at least 30 - 40 percent cover 
 from the counter during the whole maneuver. This is what happens:
  
  Team member one exposes himself to unnecessary fire by moving too upright, but will nonetheless 
 reach the counter unharmed most of the time (I refer to them as 'he' for convenience, although 
 the team has a couple of female members) . Here he will - hopefully - start sniping at the enemy. 
 Most of the time he actually does.
  
  Team member two inevitably dies unless number one manages to eliminate the opposition. Why? Because 
 number two will never reach the counter. He stops right between the counter and the doorframe, 
 at the point where he is most exposed. From this position he hopefully attempts to engage the enemy 
 before they - shooting from decent cover, of course - gun him down like a dog.
  
  Team member three will never see this particular battle. He is still located in the corridor, and 
 he will remain there no matter how long the shootout goes on.
  
  Why does this happen? Because these soldiers will line up one after another with roughly the same 
 distance between one and two as between two and three. It is more important to keep this distance 
 than to engage the enemy or seek cover. To them this must be more of a military drill than a gunfight. 
 They must have had one very tough drill sergeant in boot camp...
  
  
  [] Horrifyingly unrealistic movement
  
  The player will soon notice that the Rainbow team moves 
 in an extremely robotic fashion. For example they may turn their torso without so much as a twitch 
 in any other muscle, or perhaps tilt their upper body forward and backward, again without any other 
 movement. This looks ridiculous.
  
  This is nothing compared to the marvelous upright super-dash which some enemies will display. Moving 
 at speeds rarely seen outside the Matrix universe they spray bullets in your general direction 
 and while that is hardly dangerous, it isn't terribly realistic either.
  
  In all farness - this has to be noted - some enemies do behave in a really realistic fashion.
 
  
  
  [] You cannot properly duck for cover
  
  In Lockdown you can walk straight and crouch. That's it. This means that if you get behind decent 
 waist-high cover (for example an overturned table or a kitchen counter) , from which you can shoot, 
 you will be constantly exposed to enemy fire. You have to dispatch of your enemies before they 
 shoot you, and if they are skilled enough you shouldn't really stand a chance. You wouldn't in 
 real life, anyway. Basic army training says: seek cover, shoot, relocate to new cover, shoot again, 
 etc. Don't expose ANY part of your body unless you are shooting.
  
  In Lockdown, proper cover techniques only work with cover that is suitable to stand behind and, 
 let's face it, there is not much of that around.
  
  
  [] Grenades are useless unless thrown by teammates
  
  The fragmentation grenades themselves 
 are not bad at all in this game. It's just that you can only throw them in the same way you would 
 a baseball. This means you can only use frag grenades in two ways. One will kill you pretty much 
 instantly and the other one requires a good wall and decent bouncing skills. Method one consists 
 of exposing yourself to the enemy and if, by some miracle, that didn't reward you with a bullet 
 in the brain, tossing a grenade. Let's call it the q-or-e (leaning left or right) peek-a-boo method. 
 Method two consists of blindly throwing your grenade at an angle towards a nearby wall, hoping 
 it will bounce your way (or rather straight into the lap of a terrorist) . It works but is utterly 
 unrealistic.
  
  Here's how you toss grenades indoors: After a quick peek (optional, of course - it is after all 
 quite dangerous) you toss a grenade around a corner or through a door frame. You're not going for 
 distance at all. Bang! Enter - guns blazing, much like the team displays during the automatic door 
 breaching maneuvers. But as a player, you cannot throw grenades in this fashion.
  
  Many MILITARY close combat instructors will tell you that you don't enter ANY room without tossing 
 a grenade first, but then again those instructors would also think hostages or innocent civilians 
 should be kind enough as to keep away from the battle ground.
  
  
  [] All in all... frustrating
  
  These issues make the game enormously frustrating, making you 
 focus on the limitations, because there isn't much to distract you from them. This game tries to 
 be a realistic shooter, but fails in many ways. If the player could use cover properly, could throw 
 grenades in a realistic fashion and had good team members this could truly be a one shot and you're 
 out kind of game, but it really isn't. I strongly disagree with Gamespot on this one, although 
 I usually trust their judgment. After all, I bought this game, didn't I?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doug_Rock
Rating: 4.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game is really bad!
  The gameplay is horrible. Is the worst gameplay of all FPS games. I think that the aim is not ok, 
 even when you use your zoom, the gun doesn't shoots towards the direction in which you are aiming.
 
  The graphics are ugly, with no shine and sceneries seem to have no colors at all.
  The sound is poor. Generally i like to play games with almost max voloume to feel the atmosphere. 
 In shooters, you can generally fell from what direction do the bullets come from thanks to great 
 soundings, but in rainbow six lockdown, the intention of using great sound effects to put the player 
 in the place of the character seems to be inexistent.
  The guns are very bad, and you dont have enough amunition to complete the missions. I finished 
 the game using pistols only, because pistols have unlimited ammunition.
  If you're thinking of buying a new shooter, i don't recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgolden
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  It is what it is. Its a FPS made for the console ported back to the PC. UBI, please remember the 
 PC fans, I for one feel stabbed in the back. On the upside, the graphics are great and the multiplayer 
 is pretty good. Throwing grenades takes a long time and will get you fragged in multiplay. Nice 
 assorment of firearms and a nifty shooting range. Runs stable with one exception, I had to disable 
 my nvidia sound, minor annoyance. Die hard R6 fans beware, but run and gunners have fun. Just watch 
 out for running and gunning in multiplay. It feels like soldier of fortune 2, just plain run and 
 gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lncualop
Rating: 6
Date: May 19, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Lockdown is yet another game that suffers from lots of flash, but no substance. In 
 the ongoing race of drawing more polygons than you can shake a stick at, Red Storm concentrated 
 on improving the graphics and sounds from the last game, Raven Shield. It seems that they didn't 
 have the budget for improving the notoriously dumb Rainbow AI. At the same time, they decided to 
 go for more mass appeal by making the game more action-oriented rather than tactical. Gone is the 
 planning phase, though not necessarily missed, as well as the 2 other fire teams and snipers you 
 can make use of (other Rainbow teams make appearances, but are not controllable and only on a few 
 missions) . What you get instead are larger maps CRAWLING with terrorists who seem to be impervious 
 to bullets. Maybe it's my lack of skill at making headshots, but it takes about 10 bullets from 
 an assault rifle to down a ski mask-wearing terrorist. Add about 50 more of them to the level and 
 you'll be running out of ammo fast, no thanks to your squadmates who will only take potshots at 
 them. In the end, you'll be relying on your pistol with unlimited ammo (a page taken from Star 
 Wars: Republic Commando) . In the previous game, you had the option of taking more primary weapon 
 magazines, but you never needed them, in this game you need them, but the option isn't there. The 
 terrorists seem to leave their weapons behind even after their bodies mysteriously disappear, but 
 you can't pick up the guns. This game is good for a few hours of fun, don't spend more than $20 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX7PoweredBug
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has an ok single player. It isn't absolutely terrible. It is rather entertaining for 
 a short while. But, it didn't keep me playing the game. I don't really like single player games 
 anyway. The multiplayer is absolutely terrible. This has already been done correctly.. It is trying 
 to be an arcade style tactical shooter. It does a terrible job. It is what Counter Strike would 
 have been if Paris Hilton wrote the code for the game. There is no reason to play this game when 
 there is Counter Strike. If you want a good old tactical shooter, then stick to games like Rainbow 
 Six 3 or America's Army (which is free) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandallsRaiders
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 : Lockdown is dumbed down version of SWAT, without a lot of the extras... Kind of BORING... 
 same old routine rescue, stop the bomb, and get the computer stuff... very stiff animation, audio 
 lacks excitement, Too much time spend in the simple graphics department,,, When writing your review, 
 remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try 
 to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you 
 will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review 
 in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the 
 posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akoska3
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  I am disappointed, because its look like a platform game. No tactical map, no nothing that own 
 that game in a previus versions.
  
  I cant choise mens, its only 4 men in the game. i have no tactical map how i 
  can plan the tactical 
 operations. I cant build groups, to operate apart.
  
  I disappointed about this product from UBI Soft, they are most better like some firm. I hope this 
 is the last failure hi ewer make it.
  
  The graphic are great but need a better machine.
  Sound its great to.
  
  I dont have time to test the Multiplayer game but i think i have the 
 same verdict.
  
  Its a fully Sh*t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Clancy's PC tactical shooters since the original Rainbow Six. Rogue Spear 
 and Ghost Recon have yet to be topped in my mind. Raven Shield took a big leap by licensing the 
 Unreal Graphics Engine, but slipped up in a few other areas (like copy protection that caused difficulty 
 just to launch the game and connect to a LAN game) . So, I had high hopes when I heard that the 
 latest Clancy console game Lockdown was coming to the PC.
  
  Of course, I've never really finished any of the games in the single-player campaign, as my favorite 
 way to play is cooperatively over a LAN or the Internet, so I didn't pay too much attention to 
 the complaints on the web about it. I have spent 10 - 20 hours playing cooperatively, and have 
 to say that it is really a decent game for coop fun. The enemy AI is pretty dumb, as they run around 
 and tend to play more like whack-a-mole as they pop up from behind barricades for easy head shots. 
 
  
  The game is much more forgiving than in past iterations, as you have three health bars that go 
 down as you get hit. This does seem to make things a bit easier, and it doesn't appear to be location 
 specific. I can kill a terrorist with one shot to the head, but they can't do it to me. There was 
 nothing worse in Ghost Recon, than being shot in the leg early on in the level and being forced 
 to limp and fall way behind your teammates in the pursuit of justice. Nothing like that happens 
 here.
  
  Anyway, if you're into the coop and multiplayer offerings (some cool adversarial offerings as well) , 
 check it out, but see if you can get it for less than retail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakraf
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  waste of time, money and memory card space. total rip off. the gameplay is the same thing as any 
 other first person shooter and the levels are pretty crappy. your team can't shoot for their lives 
 and the enemy comes from all over the place. some of the levels are pretty pathetic while some 
 others seem impossible the first 9 billion times. also it's pretty boring and repetitive. after 
 playing this game for 6 hours i felt like i wanted to go out and kill someone for real. personnally, 
 i suggest you rent or buy something like medal of honour. that's a real game!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Francisca
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  I played the demo and I was majorly disappointed with how restricted and limited the gameplay was. 
 It annoyed me that huge flashy "pointers" were littering the okay levels, it annoyed me that I 
 didn't get to switch characters, nor was there any planning. The recoil on the weapons was odd, 
 walking too slow and running too fast. The levels are far from seamless so expect to see a lot 
 of "loading". This once great tactical squad based shooter is reduced to a arcade style action 
 shooter.
  
  Oh yes, sure you have a few people with you. They're very good in getting in the way and in your 
 sight. Then again, you can abuse this by having them draw fire while you spray the fools with a 
 more than generous amount of ammo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckXIII
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is not rainbow six, it's closer to ghost recon or delta force. Basically this what I 
 noticed as I started the game:
  
  --Premission --
  Main character: You 
  3 Support Bot Members
  -Pick out gear for yourself and teammates 
  
  =Comment
  The main 
 (character has no special stats or anything like the orginal series which really makes it possible 
 for you to be a one man team. Since team bots are stupid as hell (can't see enemy even if its right 
 there a few yards infront) it pretty much will be a rambo style of gameplay anyways. Gear/Weapons, 
 something which I always look forward to in any fps is just sad in this game. There's only a handful 
 of guns that are even remotely useful , same for gear. Why would you get any rifle at all that 
 has high recoil + low aim over another rifle that has high dmg and low recoil? It doesn't make 
 any sense in having that weapon there at all.
  
  -Start game
  
  Map:
  Mission consist of one 'mission' broken into 3 or so submaps. As you finish one submap you go on 
 to the next map. 
  
  =Comment
  The maps looks decent graphically but are extremely limited. It feels like playing diablo where 
 I'm forced to only take one route. Even ghost recon has a much larger field of play which at lease 
 makes it feel like I could take different routes to deal with a problem.
  
  -Finish Mission
  Some audio or cutscene to end it. 
  
  The Good:
  The game barely takes 
 any system power to run it which makes it a decent coopt game for my friends who have older computers. 
 Graphically its pretty nice, but nothing over the top. Same for sound. It's a nice little change 
 from the other rainbows where everything felt 'too' planned, this game is def more simpler and 
 faster, maybe a bit too much. (For most if not all past rainbow players this his a huge bad!)
 
  
  The Bad:
  As for gameplay, I feel like its more of a rambo deathmatch counterstrike game where you can just 
 run through the entire map killing everyone yourself and winning the mission. The AI bots is flawed 
 and horrid, the enemy bots are easier to kill than keyboardless newbie fps players. There no depth 
 in the storyline nor the game nor is there any depth in the weapon system which is always no fun 
 = [. Again like above, the game is faster, simplier, and for the most part too much of both. It's 
 a decent game just for kicks to play but hardly worth the money AT ALL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed and angry that Ubisoft had delayed this game twice, I thought to myself well 
 maybe there trying to improve on the game play or even in the graphics department. I downloaded 
 the demo and thought it's not bad maybe the full version is better but I was wrong.
  
  Trying to ignore the other reviewer's I went ahead and bought the full version of the game, I waited 
 for about 20 mins for the game to install and was met by Starforce I got through no problem and 
 loaded up the first mission.
  
  As I was playing the first mission I noticed that the whole series took a nose dive towards failure 
 as I proceeded to play the other missions I just told myself this isn't worth my time and quickly 
 uninstalled it and sent it back.
  
  I'm not going to write my trademark long reviews to rant about this game (simply there's to much 
 to rant about) I'll just give you Pros and Cons
  
  Pro:
  Nice graphics
  Nice Interface
  Ability to customize weapons
  You can now take multiple hits
  Action is pretty 
 good
  
  Cons:
  No tactical assessment involved
  No tactics involved (it's just run and gun)
  Your teammates are idiots (they throw themselves 
 to the enemy, block doorways, make stupid and odd errors)
  Missions are way to repetitive (Kill this and capture that)
  Storyline is extremely poor
  Graphics 
 are piss poor (this is 2006 not 2002 or 03)
  Way to arcadey
  The weapons are all the same meaning you can take anything you want, there are no penalties no 
 recoil what so ever.
  Maps are too confusing (especially the prison raid)
  Action is mostly dull and not exciting
  Enemies just reappear out of no where
  Weapon sounds 
 are poor (in fact they sound like popguns)
  Realism rating has hit an all time low with Rainbow Six.
  
  As you can see the Cons outweigh 
 the Pros,
  
  Ubisoft has just killed an excellent series; to say this game is great or moderate is an overstatement 
 to say this game sucks is correct.
  
  I love Ubi games but right now they've pretty much blew it with this game. Maybe they can pick 
 up the pieces of R6 Las Vegas or maybe not.
  
  Maybe GRAW will be a hit maybe it won't (as with Lockdown it too has been delayed twice, developers 
 have also stated where delaying it to improve graphics and gameplay the same damn thing they said 
 about Lockdown) . 
  
  Overall do not get this game; it's just a poor CS rip-off. If you like games where you just run 
 around and shoot something then be my guest, if you were a hardcore R6 fan like I was then this 
 game will make you sick.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: datbush
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Most people who play r6 games are fans of the series or started playing with rainbow six 3. The 
 majority of the crowd will be very disapointed. 
  
  i will start with the good first. The graphics in this game are great. The environents look realistic 
 and some of the effects are nice.
  
  Now for the bad. This game was a port of a console game that was more of a standard run and gun 
 shooter. (thats what they say.) but the pc version was redone and they tried to add tactical play 
 to it. BAD MOVE. a mixture of tacticle play and run and gun can either be good if done right or 
 disastrous.
  In this case it did not work out. The Ai is aboslutly horid especialy for your team mates. in rainbow 
 six 3 they followed you or the plan (wich is also gone.) and did a decant job of shooting the terrorists. 
 now they cant even keep up and wont shoot until they stop moving and slowly turn towards them. 
 They usualy walk right past one and get killed. sometimes they even nade themselves. Bad thing 
 if they try to make you work with the team. And because you do practicly all of the killin you 
 usualy run out of ammo. The amount of guns you can choose from is nice but there is little difference 
 in them. The sound isnt bad but its not realy good either. The level design is very linear and 
 dull compared to the other games. And mabey its just me but i think they went overdid it with the 
 rpg guys. one more thing is the advertising. This has got to go we didnt pay fifty bucks to look 
 at the same stupid movie poster every five feat its worse than swat.
  
  I dont think even a casual gamer would want this. I hope they dont stick with this formula for 
 future games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  The Good : It conatian a good character graphics & high level of details for you & your teamates 
 ( almost real ) indevidauls , & the enviroment around you is interactive with you & your shootings 
 . As to the gameplay , the gun shots fights can't get any real were you can actually feel like 
 you are in the game , As for the sound , well it is the reason that make you feel you are in the 
 game . As to the game itself , well there is a lot of variaty between weapons & clothes for your 
 team .
  
  The Bad : The game is pretty much arcadelike , you cant sence the feel of development in this age 
 of games in it . As to the graphical problems , were the faces of your enemies look just like boxes 
 & the graphics aren't that much real . As for the AI in the game play , well it is stuppid , & 
 can get any more stuppider of bath teamates & enemies , & this is an example , your teamates don't 
 run for cover they stand in the face of fire even if you direct them , the enemies are so stuppid 
 they cant hit you even in a 1 meter distance , you can practically finish the game on your own 
 . 
  
  I don't give others the green light to go 7 buy this game on the PC as for other platforms I dont 
 know if they are the same , but I felt bad about the money spent on it , I from my heart tell you 
 not to buy this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroknight_001
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  this is the first reveiw ive done sorry for typos too
  
  i tried sooooo hard to like this game soo lemme start off with the graphics 
  
  Graphics: were 
 absolutly beautiful i really liked the lighting and the broken up walls after being shot but sometimes 
 the shadow effects were a little twitchy 8/10
  
  Sound: sound was nice i liked all the terrorist chatter 9/10
  
  AI: oh my god wow ive seen better 
 AI on.... on anything.... wow your squad... more like a glorified escort mission......"price is down 
 keep on moving"no duh he ran in front of an RPG..... there like 4 squad commands that are almost 
 usless... with this being said lonewolf mode was easier that campaign mode..... the enemies were... i 
 have no clue how to explain it but who doesnt run or notice when they see an millitary helicopter... but 
 look at it and get shot (a cutscene on the night village level i think) i could go on all day about 
 the AI but ill end it here 0/10 (yes a 0)
  
  Gameplay: well lets just say that i couldnt play this game longer than ten minutes with quitting 
 from boredom.... with other squad shooters out now (like swat 4, brothers in arms ect..) rainbow 
 6 is like a cassette vs. CD (it being the cassette) now its over u can only do a series for so 
 long with only minor changes..... i dont know if anyone else noticed this but oh my god theres so 
 much advietising and might i add that all the posters and bulletproof I REEEEEAAAALLLY dont wanna 
 see a movie, game or show poster in evey room even if they had one would b better but just every 
 6 feet you see the same poster over and over and over again...... and training why... why would they 
 call it training when its 1 level and its a shooting range.... if i want training i'd like traing 
 dont tease me with the word training when all u give is a shooting range. the gameplay gets a 2/10
 
  
  Overveiw: well with all that being said i reeally tried to like this game i gave it so many chances 
 to deliver.... but nope after im done writing this its sooo deleted.. ive only played 2 rainbow 6 
 games but honestly neither impressed me (i had the dreamcast version of rainbow 6 3 rouge spear... or 
 sumthing like that anyways a much better game with fairly good AI) graphicly and soundwise its 
 perfect but u cant base a game souly on that and exspect it to be good ( I mean you ubisoft very 
 disapointed in you ive seen so many better games by you soooo what happened? )
  
  
  
  (this my first reveiw so gimme feedback please if you want) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jompadoddle
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the last couple of RS games then this is not for you. If you like CS: S and such 
 then buy and play them instead. This ends up somewhere in between the arcade and the realistic 
 games and it's not a pleasant place to find yourself in after having payed a bundle for the game. 
 Sure the graphics are nice and the sound is ok. But the missions are totally uninspired and boring 
 and the AI is so bad that I was actually wondering if there was an AI at all. So skip this game 
 because it was obviously only made in the first place to earn a few extra bucks on the Tom Clancy 
 name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baddmarc
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS THE MOST DISSAPOINTED OF ALL TOM CLANCYL'S GAMES, WHAT THE HECK?? WANNA TELL YOU GUYS THAT 
 IT IS NOT WORTH OF BUYING EVEN DAMN COPIES...... WHAT'S UP WITH UBISOFT?? YOU DID SO MANY GREAT 
 GAMES BUT WHAT HAPPEN TO THIS LOCKDOWN??? I GOT MANY FRIENDS COMPLAINING ABOUT IT HERE IN THAILAND 
 , AND SOME OF THEM BOUGHT THE ORIGINAL CD'S, AND THEY JUST SAID THE SAME WORDS "SUCKS" BETTER TO 
 WASTE MONEY FOR SOMETHING ELSE LIKE RAINBOW SIX 3 ATHENA SWORDS 
  
  UBISOFT TEAM , YOU GOT MANY GREAT GAMES BUT DO NOT LET THIS KIND OF GAME RUIN YOUR REPUTATIONS 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Applerod
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Let me introduce myself first. I'm what you would call a casual PC gamer. The last Rainbow Six 
 game I played was Raven Shield, which I enjoyed immensely; so I'm a fan of the tactical squad-based 
 shooter genre. The game has its flaws, yes; but by and large, I've been having a good time playing 
 it. I'll start with the flaws. 
  
  Tactically, the game is certainly a step down from its predecessors. You have less control over 
 your team than in the other games. They skipped the optional mission planning phase in this version, 
 (which I personally don't mind,) but your tactical options are most limited in-game. It's true 
 the gameplay is far more "arcade-like" than one would hope for with a tactical shooter on PC of 
 the Rainbow Six variety. 
  You can't switch between characters, and the only commands you can give to your team are hold, 
 follow, and open or breach door/clear area, as well as pointing your reticle at any spot on the 
 ground and ordering your team to move there. The net result is that the game feels a little like 
 terrorist whack-a-mole, since the degree of control you have over your team is so limited.
  
  But the A. I. is definitely the worst part of the game. I've seen a team member who was supposed 
 to be holding inside a room just casually stroll outside alone, completely exposed, and get shot. 
 Several times, I've seen two characters literally get stuck trying to pass through a doorway at 
 the same time. I've had my team drop down from 4 players to 3 -- not because one was killed, but 
 because he somehow got stuck running against a wall or under a staircase. That's the kind of thing 
 that should never happen in a game like this, and it's very frustrating.
  I don't remember those things happening in the other games. Your squad members also tend to be 
 very poor shots, the only positive aspect of which is that the enemy are also very poor shots. 
 The enemy A. I. is pretty terrible. I've played through level (or region) 5, and still haven't seen 
 anything like a flanking maneuver. And the behavior of hostages is pretty comical, since instead 
 of carefully following the team as they would in real life, they'll literally run straight ahead 
 of you, practically flailing their arms because they apparently have lost the will to live.
  
  The quality of the graphics is pretty decent, but as you travel throughout a level, (at least 
 the ones I've seen so far,) things can seem somewhat bland, repetitive, and uninspired -- like 
 you might expect to see on a console version, but not on a PC one. The lighting effects are also 
 very generic. 
  
  The sound is adequate for the gameplay; but again, not much attention to detail was paid in this 
 department, either. One specific thing that gets me is the *clomping* sound of your team's boots, 
 which sounds artificial and is mixed too loud. The background music is well done, though.
  
  Outfitting your team with weapons and equipment before a mission has always been my favorite 
 part of the game. :)
  There are of course a wide variety of real-world assault rifles, submachine guns, heavy machine 
 guns, shotguns, pistols, machine pistols, etc. to choose from. The way you arm yourself and your 
 team has a huge impact on the dynamics of the gameplay, and it's fun to mess around with different 
 ideas. 
  Actually, I wish there were even a few more firearms -- the reason being that you'll find different 
 guns of the same type that are identical in their stats and ability to support attachments, so 
 the difference is purely cosmetic. Also, you can't change the amount of body armor you have, like 
 you were able to in the last games.
  
  All in all, I'm a bit disappointed with Rainbow Six: Lockdown, especially since I was really looking 
 forward to it. This could have been a great game if Ubisoft would have just made a new original 
 version without monkeying around with the formula too much. Regardless, it would be silly for me 
 to ignore the fact that I'm having fun playing it! And that's the most important thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AD3MA
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  A very bad port from PS2. With some added, HDR- (poor) and other techs. The sound is good though. The 
 game does not have mission planing and multiple character selection. like in the previous games. AI 
 is very stupid. thy run than nock them selves in to the door then turn and shoot.!! On the hardest 
 level of difficulty. your team mates are as stupid as well. they rush in, and look stupid while enemy 
 sprays bullets upon them. short levels due to small PS2 memory are irritating. and the weapon bug. man. when 
 you are carrying 'an assault riffle and it is set to full automatic, then you switch to pistol it 
 is still full automatic, even if the pistol can not fire in that mode, and it wont, until you switch 
 to single shoot. maybe they will fix that in the patch. The mouse movements are not synchronized 
 the camera moves like on 'a console. because the game has some serious issues. but it is fun if 
 you don't have something better to do. The game is linear. there is very little space to plan some 
 tactics, and just in the certain places. i recommend playing old RS3. because if they continue to 
 make such bad ports. it will be ,a grim day for us. Sorry for my spelling if i made a mistake, and 
 as far as i cann see i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tode
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Gamespots review was very generous with an 80 score.
  Using the Tom Clancy name is a lot like books with his name. His name is there on the cover but 
 someone else is doing the writing. Thats the way I feel about Rainbow Six Lockdown. The Rainbow 
 Six Name is there but the game isnt.
  
  You cant jump, crawl over obstacles, or go to the prone position. I cant walk over a low flat 
 chunk of concrete but I can walk thru a small tree.
  Looking thru the open sights at that soft fuzzy fore sight is absolutely ridiculous.
  
  I have 
 sound half the time. The sound goes off right after a LOUD Screeching sound so loud I have to jerk 
 my headphones off. Damn near wet myself. 
  
  I do like the way that the doors open. I cant remember if this is a new trick or an old one that 
 I dont remember.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  REVIEW STATUS: 2nd CONCEPT!
  
  Introduction
  
  Rainbow Six Lockdown is the latest in the extremely tactical shooter series. To weak-hearted fans 
 of the Rainbow series (if such exist) : please look the other way. The changes explained here might 
 hurt you to the core of your soul. However a change in style alone, although important, is not 
 enough to make a game bad. Maybe for those who like things exactly how they are, but for the rest 
 the game has to fall a little further. Rainbow Six Lockdown falls a little further.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  For those who don't yet know, Rainbow Six is a world-wide anti-terrorist unit from 
 Tom Clancy's book. It's more secret than the Russian rocket blueprints, more elite than European 
 hackers and is only called in when international terrorism creates very difficult situations.
 
  
  The story has never been Rainbow's best feature. It's usually there to create a reason for you 
 to take arms and kill people. It's always along the same lines: terrorists from some new strange 
 organization have taken someone hostage or placed a bomb and threaten to blow something up. Usually, 
 some of these terrorist acts have a weak connection with each other. That connection plays some 
 sort of substitute for bosses that other action games have. And once again, in R6 Lockdown, the 
 story throws in a new and dangerous virus that's been stolen by bad people from bad people and 
 ... well, who cares anyway? Let's rather look at what makes Rainbow Six a Rainbow Six. 
  
  The gameplay has put on a whole new suit this time around. Many of the important tactical features, 
 which the sophisticated Rainbow public has come to appreciate, are not available anymore. They've 
 been sacrificed to make the game user-friendly. Before each mission the player is given the possibility 
 to choose out of several weapons. There are many of them ranging from pistols to grenade launchers, 
 but not as many as some of us whish to see. Many of these weapons are given the same statistics 
 and one wonders what the point of choosing then is? Weapons can be equipped with mods like the 
 silencer or a red dot scope. There are also grenades and miscallanious mission tools 
  
  The player gets assigned two to three other Rainbow operatives before each mission that he will 
 be able to command during the operation (yes, no more choosing out of the Rainbow army. The experience 
 gaining bit is also gone) . After a brief explanation of mission objectives, the player is thrown 
 into action (yes, no mission planning this time either) . 
  
  The controls and the interface have all been simplified, and Rainbows are now easier to command, 
 although not to control. Orders can be given to team members to breach doors, throw grenades, clear 
 rooms and scout around corners. Before each breach a go-command has to be given. The in-game command 
 system is a definite improvement over the last games. On the other hand, overall, this system does 
 not make Rainbows easier to control because it doesn't compensate for the AI (artificial intelligence) . 
 A new AI feature allows your team mates to automatically take positions in different places in 
 each room using cover. When near a corner or a pillar, Rainbows will stand behind it and automatically 
 peak out, sometimes the wrong way. This can, in theory, be seen as an improvement. However, this 
 feature takes away a great deal of control over your team and causes awkward situations when your 
 teammates stand in your line of fire or get shot by the enemy because they chose a bad location 
 to stand. Of course there is a possibility to order them to hold back, but then they aren't there 
 to help you, and in that case, what's the point of them being there in the first place? 
  
  Other AI, on the other hand, certainly has taken a drop into the obyss. Enemies are, generally, 
 not shooting even when the player runs out of ammo two meters in front of them in plain sight. 
 When they do shoot, they tend to miss a lot. Maybe that's why there are so many of them. At the 
 end of each mission a good 70 tangos will be taken down. And I'm talking about the "normal" difficulty 
 level. On "hard" there are a lot more of them. Well, their amount doesn't make the game much harder. 
 And above all of that easiness, drop a special abilty of the player to see through walls. The vision 
 only has a limited battery life, but it's more than enough to make the game a piece of cake to 
 pass (the battery is instantly rechargable, by the way) .
  
  VISUALS AND PERFORMANCE
  
  This is the highlight of the whole game. Visuals can be tuned to look no worse than games like 
 Half Life 2. There are not much complex shadowing involved, but the detail, the effects and the 
 lighting are all nicely polished. Glas shatters realistically. A great plus is also the fact that 
 even the low-end machines will be able to enjoy the game on relatively high graphical settings.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  A little controversial is the sound issue. I experienced problems when footsteps and some other 
 sounds were breaking and slowing down the game. Other than that, the sound effect is of high quality 
 and varied. For example, in large spaces, footsteps sound differently than in confind spaces. Just 
 when when it was recovering its reputation, the voice acting pushes the sound off a cliff. On many 
 occasions the voices sound false; not transferring what the text wants them to sound like. On other 
 occasions the text itself is terribly cheesy. 
  
  VERDICT
  
  The game is a total change from its relatives, and yet that's not the reason why it's unsuccessful. 
 Its problems are in its bugs, horrific AI, strangely easy gameplay and lackluster acting and just 
 generally cheap feel of a Hollywood under $100.000 budget action movie. Rainbow's six fan's worst 
 nightmare. On the other hand for a casual gamer, the simplicity of Lockdown might be a good thing.
 
  
  Subjective notes
  
  This is the part where I let myself loose. I've tried to give the game a somewhat honest score 
 from the prospective of an average gamer. However if I were to give it a score as myself, from 
 a Rainbow 6 fan point of view, the game wouldn't get higher than a 4. I was outraged to find the 
 whole planning system gone. Yes, I wasn't using it. Yes, I would usually just lead each team personally, 
 and yet when it's not there I feel like something's lost. Weird cheap-action-movie style communication, 
 and hordes of heavily armed, totally stupefied, highly epileptic enemies... No sniper rifles!............ Why?! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banjobear_basic
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This is my first venture into a rainbow six game. I expect it to be a more complex -than-average 
 FPS, but turned out to be the dumbest FPS I've ever played. You walk very slowly and shoot very 
 dumb enemies that usually takes couple seconds to react, and that's the entire game!. Several sections 
 is very annoying as you have to kill every single guys before the game allows you to proceed into 
 the next section, and the game designers placed them in pretty much every corner, even in illogical 
 places like freezors and whatnots. 
  
  The graphic is ok, but nowhere deserves the 8 gamespot gave (Swat 4 looks much better and was released 
 couple years back, yet got the same graphic score) . The levels are so bland and is made worse with 
 the hills have eyes movie poster splattered on every couple walls throughout all the levels! And 
 many of the levels takes place in foreign place or secure complexes. This product placement is 
 so out of place that just makes the environment you're in more unnatural.
  
  The sound in this game is horrid. Gun fire sounds like something out of a toy guns. All the voices 
 are bland and many have the god awful forced accents. 
  
  In summary, this game feels like a low-budget project to extract profits from all the levels Ubisoft 
 cut out from their previous projects. If you like these types of games get Swat 4 instead. It's 
 much, much better than this worthless junk and actually have some tactical strategy to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alber
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is an Ubisofts franchise that exist since 1998. According to me, the series was the 
 most realistic First Person Shooter. I liked all Rainbow Six games because they was very difficult 
 and the equipment list that you can choose in was so big and great. Even if Lockdown has a big 
 choice of equipment like the other Rainbow Six, the experience is not as good as the other games.
 
  
  First, all 16 single-player missions let you fight against terrorists in different places. The 
 game present you the briefs of the mission and you have to choose your equipment. Then, when you 
 arrive and the step where you think you will do your plan for the mission, the game start to load 
 and you understand that you cannot plan your mission as well as you did in Raven Shield or in Rogue 
 Spear for old-school games. I found it very disappointed that Red Storm Entertainment get the planning 
 options out or the game. Then, when the loading is ended, you discover that the game is very easy 
 and too arcade if you played old versions and you were a fan of the series. I was a fan of Rainbow 
 Six series and I was very disappointed to see that Lockdown is an arcade style FPS.
  
  Then, for the graphics and sounds, Red Storm did a good job. Levels are well designed and many 
 objects in map are destroyable. The physic of the game is very good. Also, characters are very 
 well drew and guns too. Sound of guns are well done and environment sounds too. I didnt see any 
 graphic bugs or collision bugs. So, graphics and sounds in Lockdown are what I was waiting for 
 from a Tom Clancys games.
  
  Finally, I hope that the Rainbow Six series wont because an arcade style shooter after the release 
 of Lockdown. The game isnt bad. Graphics and sounds are well. Levels and characters are well designs. 
 But, it is not as good as a Rainbow Six game should be. I was very disappointing of the arcade 
 turn that the series seems to had taken. Lockdown down is more for a large audience than the older 
 ones. I know that a game with a large audience is more bought but I hope that Ubi doesnt forget 
 hardcore gamers because we buy their game too.
  
  alber
  06-03-04
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiedhasan
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I expected a heck lot better in LOCKDOWN......... but in return it really locked my attraction towards 
 it. A TOTAL WASTED GAME     wanna kno why? IT GOT THE WORST AI. Just shoot and they die. And accuracy..........1 
 bullet out of 10 will hit u at a ****
  
  A total **** trowin at the name of TOM CLANCY...... does this game stand even close to Splinter 
 Cell? iiIii
  
  BREAK BOTTLES ON THE AI DESIGNER        I THINK THEY R JUST AS DUMB AS THE THOSE AI         FUCK 
 U ALL FOR CREATING SUCH AN INSANCE, SUCKING, FUCKING GAME      THE SINGLE PLAYER IS THE **** OUT 
 OF A PIG"S **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lepetitpunk
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm really disappointed of the new Rainbow Six. It just lost everything that made the old one good! 
 Now its nothing more than a shooter, and a boring one. Your team is as stupid as they were before, 
 so no improvement there. You can change the character you control, so youre stuck with the same 
 stupid weapon always. The team just decide to follow you for no reason, even more when you are 
 in the middle of a fight, making them easy stupid target. There is only one sniper, and no more 
 thermal scope (I loved the thermal scoped...) . The bad guys AI is bad, they miss shot all the time, 
 they are able to see you from everywhere, there is no way to sneak on them even in a big field 
 but you open a door beside them and they dont react... Its is not possible anymore to just slightly 
 open a door, drop a flash bang in the small opening and then close it back. The strategy was the 
 best, now you have to open the full door!
  
  In other word, the game is a real downgrade, I wonder why gamespot gave an 8. Dont buy it!
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  Lets see, lets highlight the few + points that this game may have... It has very good graphics, 
 the textures, illumination and effects are great (except some bullet impact effects) , it has TONS 
 of guns... thats it.
  
  My first complaint when i started playing was that it has no tutorial mission, of course, i realized 
 later that you need no tutorial in a game that consists in move and shoot, then, i realized that 
 every single weapon fires the same way (by example, all the assault rifles) and they even sound 
 identical. Then your notice that your handgun has infinite ammo, so you can fire like a madman 
 and easily end missions with a pistol.
  
  When i went through 4 o 5 missions i got convinced that there is not AI in this game, the enemies 
 not even react when you kill a companion, theres HORRIBLE, its de dumbest AI in the games ive seen.
 
  
  And lastly, theres no strategy... I readed a review of a guy that said that if you wanted realism 
 you had to take a tour in IRAQ, i say that if you wanted to play a game of full action and ammo 
 play Doom or something like that (without doing any bad to DOOM) . R6 used to be one of the best 
 strategical assault games and LockDOWN made it a joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomNemesis
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  We all remember clearing that room, after breaching the door and tactically diving in after a good 
 old flashbang goes off. This is Rainbow Six, probably one of the most interesting game we know. 
 The original games featured a massive amount of depth, as you defuse dangerous situations and fight 
 Terror. Rainbow Six 4 Lockdown is the next in this classic series.
  
  Although, if you played it, you realise something, where'd all the good stuff go?! For those who 
 don't know, the depth of the predecessors was amazing, featuring wide selections of weapons, armour 
 and team members, with expansions adding more to the fold. But, the most interesting part was planning, 
 you would plan HOW to complete this, you weren't told to take a boring linear path, you're in control, 
 and if in doubt, a pre-loaded plan stands ready.
  
  But in Lockdown, they took all that out, no lovely plans, limited weapons, pointless linear playing. 
 This made the game what it was, look at the game, and you'll see that one path is the way through, 
 how pointless is that?!
  
  Even worse, the game is spoiled by the AI, they seem suicidal, and charge at you with no fear of 
 death. As they retreat, they make themselves open targets, and anyone who has played FPS games 
 know that developers can do more. The hostages are just as bad, running through firefights shouting 
 "I wanna get outta here!" They get out alright... in body bags. Even your own team members feel 
 like getting shot at, they put themselves in stupid cover, and are taken down easily, or they run 
 right into your line of fire, real smart eh?
  
  The missions are boring in all honesty, they are short, easy and even bits that are supposed to 
 catch you out are easily resolved, an RPG or ambush will occur... Big deal, you run to cover and 
 finish them easily.
  
  As well as all these problems, you'll find that you are almost perfect when compared to your team, 
 even the most novice gamer can breeze through this, your weapons are very powerful, your armour 
 is inpenetrable. But your team die with ease, and are cannon fodder compared to you, this is the 
 same with enemies.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer lacks any decency of fun, you will be bored within an hour. Hopefully, 
 someone will make the good old Co-op missions we saw in other games, but in any case, either wait 
 a while to get it at a budget price or forget this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineterrorism
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Seems like they dumbed it down for the console crowd. The movement animations are incredibly horrible.
 
  Another thing, when are games going to make these scenarios realistic? It's so typical this game, you 
 go down a parking garage (oh.. THATS new *rolls eyes*) and along the way there are just random bad 
 guys for you to mow down. Do these people have any goals? Or did they just decide to rob a parking 
 garage? lmao.
  
  Here are the negatives:
  
  1. There is no recoil
  2. Only takes 10-15 minutes to master the gameplay.
  3. Health bars.
  4. Peaking/Crouching 
 is useless when taking out a tango. Rushing is necessary.
  5. Linear maps. The environment is one big maze.
  6. Bullet count bar.
  7. Tangos just crouch 
 or stand there waiting to get killed.
  8. Commands are usless.
  10. Multiplayer respawning.
  11. Mercenaries dress and look like computer geeks.
  12. Multiplayer 
 is very fast-paced.
  13. Graphics are mediocre and cartoonish.
  14. Strategy/tactics are non-existent.
  15. Tangos/rainbow can survive several hits.
  16. Multiplayers 
 run around like chickens with their heads chopped off.
  17. Camping is useless.
  18. Taking cover is useless.
  19. ammo seems unlimited.
  20. scripted gameplay.
  21. Element 
 of surprise is non-existent.
  22. Stealth movement isn't necessary.
  23. Rainbow vs. Merc? More like Rainbow vs. Clones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I for one love this game. I think it's a great FPS. Yes, it can be best put by a combination of 
 CS: Source and SWAT. So what? I love my FPS games to have a little bit of arcade like action to 
 them. After all, it is a game right? You want this to be realistic, go overseas and join the soldiers 
 in IRAQ. 
  
  I could never stand the planning stages of the earlier Rainbow Six games, which is one of the main 
 reasons I like this game. Yes, the AI is sometimes dumber than a box of rocks, but the graphics 
 are good, and I often times enjoy listening to my team mates get taken out because of their stupidity. 
 
  
  It's just FUN. Run and Gun fun. If your looking for an exact replica of Rainbow Six the original, 
 you'll be disappointed. If your looking for a fun FPS, with no vehicles, urban combat, and some 
 really cool weapons... this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreyWalker
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Let's start off with the good. The graphics and sound are great. I thoroughly enjoyed them both. 
 I also enjoyed not having to plan my mission. Unlike many, I did not want to worry about 3 teams 
 and I did not want to plan my scenario from the beginning. Unfortunately I don't have time for 
 such things, so this new approach worked for me, but I would have liked to have seen an option 
 for those that are diehards.
  
  Now on to the bad, and there's a lot of it. The game is too arcade like. Period. I don't want health 
 bars and I don't want to have to shoot someone 10 times with my pistol for them to die. The bad 
 guys walk around in t-shirts, but a shot to the chest does not take them down. What's the deal? 
 Secondly, what happened to the prone position, where you could lay down and line up your sniper 
 shots? I really missed that.
  
  Also, the depth of the game has completely dissappeared. You no longer get to walk around a city 
 going wherever you want. Your directed (by doors that don't open mostly) in the path that the game 
 wants you to go. No more exploring the open city. The reality of the game has completely dissappeared, 
 leaving us with a typical arcade like shooter. This is NOT acceptable for the Rainbow Six series.
 
  
  And finally, the AI is terrible in this game. Not only do my guys just stand there with their backs 
 to the bad guys taking shots, but the bad guys see me from 100 yards away when I take a small peek 
 out the window. Did I mention that they had their back to me when they cried the alarm?
  
  What a dissappointment this game turned out to be. I don't like first person shooters typically, 
 but I have been a huge fan of the Rainbow Six games since the beginning because they were different. 
 They were real. That has unfortunately dissappeared. Why would they do this to us? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebonham
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty bland. It's not terrible because the graphics are good (but cutscenes are bad) 
 the sound is good, and the feel of the guns is pretty good. That's about it though. 
  
  As stated in other reviews, the levels are totally linear. There aren't alternate routes or really 
 any other options that pushing ahead, guns blazing.
  
  There is too much ammo in the guns, because I can make it through a level (albeit on normal difficulty) , 
 killing almost every "Tango" myself and still have at least 100 rounds left in my assault rifle. 
 Since you have a team, you'd think that they would need to kill some enemies, at least so you could 
 conserve your ammo.
  
  This brings me to the weakest part of the game: the team AI. Several times when playing through 
 the 16 missions, 1 or more of my team members would become "lost" -- sometimes the entire team. 
 Forcing me to finish the level alone. Not that this was particularly difficult, since you can save 
 at any point. Not only is there the problem with the team following, it is difficult to get them 
 to do what you want during combat. At certain points of the game, I had to tell my team to hold 
 so I could carefully kill the enemies -- they would just go wandering around an area with enemies 
 and get themselves killed. What's the point of the team if they A) get lost, B) don't fight effectively, 
 and C) are probably not necessary anyway?
  
  The story and cinematics in this game are very poor, and worst of all it is very repetitive. Essentially, 
 in this game:
  1. you open a door, probably while crouching, 
  2. shoot a few guys
  3. take cover
  4. shoot a few more guys
  5. move to the next door
  
  then it repeats, and 
 it repeats OVER and OVER throughout the entire game. There is no challenge in get the hostages 
 to safety since you can leave them until the end of the mission, so that doesn't add any variety 
 either.
  
  Finally, while I think most would agree this is a nice looking game, with nice environment and 
 effects, the gameplay itself is boring after the first few missions. It is very generic feeling 
 and uninspired. There is very little (possibly no) use for tactics of any kind. The AI for enemies 
 is just about as bad as for your teammates. I would not spend my money on this game. You can get 
 the same sort of experience playing almost any FPS, and there are so many FPS with so much more 
 to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitpit666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  I don't understand people who are saying this game "sucks"... First: did you played Rainbow six 
 Ravenshield? Second: Mayby not if your saying this because; it's the same AI, the same kind of 
 game, the same command... So what the **** are you talking about??? I know that terrorist are stupid... 
 but they have the same AI that in the RS one. ""The game have only 20 GUNS ??? WHAT THE **** ARE 
 YOU TALKING ABOUT??? IT HAS 43 GUNS and I count them... Less then the RavenShiled, but anyway you 
 didn't played the Ravenshield... The multiplayer is great with a lots of new stuff (vision, nades, traps...) The 
 single player is a bit short (if you like to play Soldier Of Fortune Style) I repeat : its a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roni511
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I hope anyone planning to purchase this game reads this first:
  
  First of all, a little about my gaming ways. I generally download and then crack games that are 
 considered "mid range". I buy ones that I think will be good, in order to show appreciation and 
 support towards the developers. Quake 4 received a "8.0" score from gamespot, and I enjoyed it 
 just as much as F. E. A. R. and Half Life 2, so I purchased this game, hoping it would be a step up 
 from Raven Shield (great tactical shooter) . Well the first thirty seconds, when you're dropped 
 off in that parking lot is great. Superb model detail, and excellent reflections/lighting. Well, 
 that high soon crashed with the first enemy encounter. The weapons sound terribly underpowered, 
 sort of like making popcorn. The A. I. is terrible, and seems really zoned out, you can usually 
 run up and tap them on the shoulder, shortly before unholstering your weapon, loading it, and then 
 finally pulling the trigger (I don't usually pay much to the A. I., but in this case, it's impossible 
 not to) . Also, somewhere some unlucky parents have thousands of identical terrorist kids who dropped 
 out of mid school. That being said, your teammates of "elite" soldiers are about the same, so the 
 enemy really only has to worry about you. In fact, just tell them to hold at the insertion point, 
 kill all the enemies, then call them to the extraction point (I just gave you the walk through 
 for the entire game, since every level is the same) . Well, for me, I think I'll try Swat 4, and 
 maybe forward this review to the developers at Ubisoft. Please don't get me wrong, with some developed 
 A. I., some better squad based fighting, and perhaps more mission variety, this could have been 
 Tom Clancy's flagship production. It just needed more care in development!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  I just cannot believe what they have done with this franchise!
  
  Basically, anyone that has played the previous R6 titles knows what they want and what to expect 
 from the next R6 PC release. More tactics, better AI, more weapons and as close to realism as a 
 computer game can get. This was the trend that was started years ago by the original rainbow 6 
 and has continued for many years up until *weeps* today.
  
  The console versions of R6 were a port and a downgrade of the PC versions which is fair enough 
 as a console is not expected to handle such depth and realism. This time around the PC hungry gamers 
 got a PORT of a console game. Dont listen to what ubi soft have said, this is a blatant conversion 
 of a console game. Ubisoft have sold out because the console version was such a huge hit that they 
 think making it more arcade friendly will sell more units.
  
  Let me take you through the list of features that have been stripped from our beloved series.
 
  
  Planning - Non existent - run from A to B, linear as can be. Main part of the PC game and what 
 alot of R6 fans loved is no more!
  
  AI - No more moving targets, awful squad AI, the original R6 teamwork was far superior and that 
 was in 1996!!! "please dont stand in the open again"
  
  Teams - no where near the level of customisation.
  
  Terrorists - or "dumb asses" as i like 
 to now call them.
  
  Realism - Might as well be playing lego star wars. In fact, im surprised they didnt add a lightsaber 
 to the list of weapons.
  
  Multiplayer - R. I. P. Its just not the next level or a step forward.
  
  Graphics - To be honest, 
 the graphics are good in most cases but not better than what we have come to expect (HL2, Doom3, 
 Call Of Duty 2?)
  
  I am not going to completely slam ubi soft or redstorm for this horrid installment as i believe 
 that they will realise their mistake and will ensure the next R6 is back to the award winning ways 
 cos lets face it, u aint getting any rewards for this hunk of junk. Im already praying.
  
  Listen to your fans you did not.
  
  Failed you have.
  
  AVOID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAIDER4X-BOX
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  first::: we can say its the most beautiful part in it.. it have a nice lock such as light an shadow 
 and the P. E play really and addes to the game beautiful
  
  according to what i saw in this great game i the sound here is the greatest in it ...
  the control 
 is as it should to be ,,, the mouse move free and it lock so easy
  the only thing that lock not so good is the difficulty looks so so so so hard but you will do it 
 so dont be **** ha ha ha
  but you have to buy it because its look amazing 
  that is all for this game  ........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Well first off for a full priced game there is a lot to be desired of. Lockdown for the pc is better 
 than the console versions one but that's really not saying much. The single player is great and 
 lacks the very retarded cinematics of the console version. Lockdown now feels alot more tactical 
 than on the console versions but still arcady. The AI is very limited and enemys will not detect 
 you at 2 feet and that also goes for your squad mates. The graphics are upgraded (thank god) and 
 the game is somewhat immersive. The sound frequently glitches but is otherwise good. So far so 
 good right? Wrong . The multiplayer is almost unplayable with the average sever showing pings all 
 upwards of 200. The game has one of the worst lobby systems I seen because one player can hold 
 up the launch until the server auto luanches 5 minuts later. The graphic quality is also worstened 
 online. To me this is unexcusable. This game would be quite fun online but becuase of lag and low 
 player limits (8 players) it fails to impress. Overall the game is good but until a patch comes 
 out it is not worth the price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midnightfalcon9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  For me, having played the original Rainbow Six and Rainbow Six: Rouge Spear to near death, I would 
 have to say that Lockdown is a bit of a let-down when it comes to the series.
  First the good points:
  Graphically, this game is great, decals, reflections, textures and character 
 models are all amazingly detailed, you certainly won't get bored just looking around! The sound 
 quality is also pretty darn good, some of the best sounding weaponry I've heard in a while, its 
 nice to feel like your shooting a proper assault rifle or machine gun instead of a pea shooter.
 
  Level design's pretty good too, nice mix of outdoor and indoor enviroments which generally would 
 keep you on your toes except for.....
  Bad, no, wait, horrible AI, especially when it comes to your teammates, they act like a bunch of 
 zombies when it comes to any tactics. Once I my squad to "Clear Out" a doorway along a big open 
 U shaped floor, 2 of my squad went down the left of the side we came in on fine, the other two 
 walked straight down an aisle in plain view towards 5 terrorists all behind cover, without even 
 firing a shot!
  My other gripe is the fact that Lockdown doesn't follow the old classic RS mission planning stage, 
 nor does it even have a map in game to help you plan your next move! This is my opinion is unacceptable 
 for the franchise, it was one of the key things that made the RS6 series so uniqe! Not being able 
 to have multiple teams nor even change between them is just unbelieveable... for the series.
  All in all RS6 Lockdown as a generic shooter: is fairly good, you can almost at times immerse yourself 
 in the game (up until your teammate walks into an enemies line of fire like their trying to be 
 friends) but as a successor to the Rainbow Six Series? Not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerrei
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Most of us remember the old days of Rainbow Six, don't we? The countless hours spent staring at 
 the pre-planning map, plopping down way points and moving them over just another half-inch to the 
 left to speed up Blue Team's turn around the corner, the multiple-team assaults on that last room 
 in which the terrorists are half a trigger pull away from splattering the hostages' blood all over 
 the floor, the undeniable feeling of dread and fear despite the fact that you were covered from 
 head to toe in the heaviest body armor available because one bullet was all it took to take you 
 out of the fight for good, the lightning fast gun battles that got your blood pumping and the bad 
 guys' blood leaking as your perfectly planned assault hit the poor fools so hard that they never 
 saw it coming? This formula rocked the PC gaming world when it hit the scene in '98 and continued 
 to be a great experience through its two sequels, various expansion packs, and inevitable console 
 incarnations. While the artificial intelligence could have always used a few tweaks here and there, 
 what worked was largely left intact -- until now.
  
  Ladies and gentlemen, here now is Rainbow Six: Lockdown -- one of the most stunning shifts in a franchise's 
 history, and perhaps the one that ends Rainbow's reign as the dominant tactical shooter of choice 
 for the discerning gamer.
  
  Let's start with the positives, because quite frankly there aren't very many of them. The graphics 
 for this game are pretty easy on the eyes -- bits of dust and material of whatever you just plugged 
 a round into puff out and dissipate with convincing fashion, and the weapon models could almost 
 be the stars of the game themselves. Your fellow Rainbow team members are also lovingly detailed; 
 their equipment actually looks like their own separate models instead of appearing like texture 
 work on a body. Each team member even sports their own tactical vest setup, just like real special 
 forces operatives will sometimes modify their equipment according to their own personal tastes 
 and needs. Terrorists, on the other hand, didn't seem to get the same attention, looking far more 
 generic and rushed by comparison. Didn't I shoot this guy back in the parking garage.... and the 
 streets?
  
  The sound fares almost as well. The weapon sounds seemed lifted straight from the previous Rainbow 
 game, Raven Shield, which boasted some of the most realistic sound work I've ever heard in a game, 
 and the momentary deafness incurred with the nearby detonation of an explosive demonstrated the 
 inherent power of the weapon that just missed killing me. Radio chatter, however, is more problematic. 
 Many a time during a mission I would lose a team member to enemy fire, only to hear a commanding 
 officer state into my ear, "He's gone. Keep moving," as though the man's life was immaterial and 
 not worth getting even a little worked up over. I can understand dedication to the mission at hand, 
 but it just struck me as totally cold the way your squad members are apparently passed over when 
 they bite that last bullet.
  
  Long gone are those detailed pre-mission briefings so enjoyed in previous installments, and the 
 only pre-mission planning present in-game is the selection of your weapons and equipment. That's 
 right -- the days of meticulously pouring over level maps and assigning way points and personnel 
 to teams are over in Lockdown. You spend all of Lockdown's single-player mode as one Domingo Chavez, 
 and your three team members are chosen for you in every mission. Your only control over your fate 
 is in the firepower your team brings to the enemy. I sorely missed the mission pre-planning feature, 
 as it was one of the defining aspects of Rainbow Six and where I'd spent a good amount of time 
 in previous series.
  
  Being a gun nut, I was naturally quite excited with the weapons put forth here. Over forty firearms 
 are present for your use in cleansing the world of those evil terrorist scumbags, covering a good 
 range of submachine guns, assault rifles, shotguns, a few light machine guns, and even a grenade 
 launcher, although the sniper rifles were slashed down to just one rifle. Unfortunately, a few 
 Rainbow mainstays were among those left out in the cold -- in particular, the venerable H&K MP-5, 
 a favorite of police SWAT units and special forces around the world, and the H&K Mk23 pistol (seemingly 
 switched out for a custom US Marine Corps. Force Recon sidearm, the MEUSOC .45, which is really 
 little more than a custom-built Colt .45 Government) . While the Rainbow MP-10 remains, the weapon 
 room felt a little less friendly with my old friends gone. Still, I can't blame the designers for 
 wanting to modernize the weaponry to reflect the changes in technology in the last eight years.
 
  
  I just wish they'd paid as much attention to the actual game play.
  
  To be blunt, it sucks. To be elaborate, Lockdown doesn't possess the same level of tension of its 
 predecessors, due largely in part to the fact that it doesn't profess to be a tactical shooter 
 in execution. No, it plays like just another average military-themed shooter, where terrorists 
 in each level alone can number closer to triple digits and the map designs are so linear as to 
 literally lead you along a singular path, with no deviation allowed. Gone is the fear of being 
 cut down by that one tango patrolling the hallway you just passed -- your fear of death in this game 
 will come largely from the sheer volume of lead being sent in your general direction. I personally 
 killed more terrorists in the first three levels than I ever killed playing the entire campaign 
 mode of Rogue Spear. Lockdown does not feel like a Rainbow game, but like a Serious Sam game, and 
 it doesn't still well with me. There's little challenge in simply running through a level squeezing 
 off short bursts at enemies that could rival the Iraq insurgency's numbers. The franchise's flirtation 
 with the consoles has done more harm than good here.
  
  But the real killer is the artificial intelligence -- or, more specifically, the complete lack of 
 it. Never before have I been more frustrated in dealing with my fellow operatives. Quite often, 
 even after being told to hold their position, they took it upon themselves to question that order 
 and told me they were coming up to me anyway. At other times they wouldn't just follow behind me -- one 
 or two would rush ahead of me, open the door up ahead, and engage terrorists all by themselves 
 while ignoring my orders to regroup, only to be predictably cut down before I could reach them. 
 And at yet even other times, they were seemingly blind to immediate threats within five feet of 
 them and in plain sight, often taking half a magazine and crying out for me to give them covering 
 fire before expiring from the mission, somehow unable -- or unwilling -- to just turn around and take 
 out the offender themselves.
  
  Even moving into other rooms seemed too difficult a task to do correctly, as they would sometimes 
 turn around and walk the other way, BACK to where we'd entered the current room, and clear THAT 
 room first before moving into the room I'd pointed out. Door-breaching was just as flawed, as I 
 encountered a lot of trouble just getting the default go-code key to even work and had to map it 
 to another key, and I wished I'd taken the hint and just left it alone. My supposedly well-trained 
 teammates had a rather nasty habit of rolling grenades and flashbangs up to their feet, blinding 
 or even killing themselves and saving me the trouble of putting a bullet in their heads myself 
 for the screw-up even as the rage nearly blinded me from the re-load key. In a game that spouts 
 teamwork and tactics, the ineptitude of my teammates compelled me to do as much of the work myself 
 as possible just because I was the only one even capable of doing it.
  
  And the missions themselves seemed to be a convoluted switch-around of the Xbox's campaign levels, 
 mirroring the treatment that console versions of past Rainbow games received. The storyline itself, 
 in the end, is no different from those of the past, and at least in this regard the PC incarnation 
 can be seen as an improvement, chopping out most of the terrible cut scenes that the Xbox Lockdown 
 presented as "character development". I always hope that just maybe in the next installment, the 
 developers will simply not bother with a storyline and just give us the missions, and I am always 
 met with disappointment at yet another tired evil mastermind doomsday plot that I've seen in twenty 
 James Bond films. After all, SWAT 4 turned out to be an excellent game, and there was no single 
 over-achieving arch villain tying any of the missions together. Plotlines do not necessarily mean 
 more meaningful game play.
  
  Multiplayer has always been a strong suit of the Rainbow franchise, and at least here some of the 
 A. I. issues can be addressed by allowing you to play the campaign's missions with three other fellow 
 humans and actually open up some tactical options for your team. The standard deathmatch and capture 
 the flag modes are here for the ride as well, along with a rivalry mode which pits a team of Rainbow 
 players against a team of mercenaries. Each side has its own set of objectives to meet and their 
 own unique set of weapons to choose from. Unfortunately, ping times are not often optimal, rarely 
 going lower than 200, and connecting to game sessions could be a challenge in itself if my experience 
 is similar to those of other players, as I have been met with various connect and disconnect errors 
 to games still in the pre-mission lobby area with open slots.
  
  I'd hoped that Rainbow Six: Lockdown for the PC could have shaken off its console origin and returned 
 to the more tactical game play that made the series so endearing in the first place, but its arcade 
 flavored run-and-gun attitude is just too strong and poorly executed to ignore. I can't even imagine 
 how the developers could destroy the series on the very platform from which it came, and if this 
 entry is any indication of the direction the franchise is taking, this may very well be the last 
 Rainbow game I ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whatsinaname
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I've played the older rainbow games and realy loved them. Not the planning part, but the AI was 
 pretty good in those days. 
  
  Now, some years later, I was expecting at least a better AI than before. Instead it is worse! Terrorists 
 are just walking into your crosshair, nothing surprising, no sudden moves or anything. Only time 
 I was surprised when they seemed to spawn just around a corner. 
  
  Your teammates keep bumping into eachtother, stand in front of you to get shot and aren't able 
 to cross a simple rope bridge. Sometimes they get into formation where one guy stays in the previous 
 room, somehow not noticing there is a wall separating them. In later missions I thought about shooting 
 all of them, so they wouldn't bother me. 
  
  The new controls work pretty well, I miss a good map option though. 
  
  All in all a bad game. 
 Looks like they focussed on some graphics and stuff and forgot the fundamentals.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryjames
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  It's not often I spend my money to call long distance just to talk to whoever is in charge to authorize 
 my returning a PC game for a refund. Rainbow Six Lockdown (RSL) is undoubtedly aimed at online 
 gamers. Or should I say, I sure hope it's more fun FOR THEM. But for those of us who solely enjoy 
 the single-player campaigns, RSL is an arcade kill the baddies go to next level; "wrapped in FPS 
 tactical squad based shooter" clothing. The main problem with RSL is the computer A. I. for your 
 squad. It is simply horrid. It doesn't exist. This is 2006. Just pointing somewhere 50 feet away 
 and issuing a move command is not my idea of squad control. Furthermore your squad members don't 
 do what you tell them to. You give them a move command placing them under cover, and one of them 
 will stand out in open space and get shot to death. Your squad members seldom follow you closer 
 than 50 feet. You will find yourself alone IF you are not "constantly" babysitting and managing 
 WHERE your squad is. When I spoke with Ubisoft I told them the entire developer team should be 
 forced to watch and play S. W. A. T.4 for a 40 days and 40 nights, so they understand, "how squad-based 
 gameplay should really be." The graphics are good but again, any game using the Havoc engine looks 
 good; nothing new there. There are sound problems. Throw a grenade, "maybe" you hear the grenade 
 explode, and all the while during the grenade animation, you don't even hear your own rifle sound 
 off. This bug appeared both in the SPdemo and the retail product. You can fix this problem by visiting 
 the Data folder and edit the "options. xml" file. Under the section, changing "useWinMM = 0/TO 
 "useWinMM = 1/cured this sound situation on my 24-bit Creative. Of course I've not had to jump 
 through such hoops of fire playing ANY of the 8 PC games I have purchased since January 2006. I 
 was happy that RSL now doesn't suffer from it's predecessor's "figgity opening doors smoothly" 
 bugs. I really wanted to like RSL way more than I do. But, the game would not LET me. The mission 
 briefings are boring. The single player game is arcade at best, although I will toot RSL's horn 
 for pin-pointing accurate kills, which adds a bit of realism to the overall frivolity. I found 
 myself wanting to play "other" games while playing RSL. S. W. A. T. 4 came to mind very quickly, while 
 the theme of RSL brought visions of my wanting to return and play Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory one 
 more time. I even was thinking of playing Command & Conquer: Renegade... anything but RSL. So, 
 for me, I am waiting for my refund. I called Ubisoft the very next day after purchasing RSL for 
 $49.95 and I had to jump through a few hoops and had to call two different offices to finally get 
 someone's attention that I had no intention of accepting anything less than REFUND. When I wrote 
 this review, I toyed with the Score Calculator for 15 minutes, trying to be very fair judging this 
 game and still only came up with a 5.5 ! Personally, S. W. A. T. 4's expansion pack hits the shelves 
 in 6 days. Now there's a game that is on target. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  What the hell was Ubi Soft thinking? Let's take a well-loved tactical shooter and turn the single 
 player into a constrictive joke with terrible AI and ultra-linear maps and if that's not enough, 
 we'll turn the mutliplayer into a pathetic Counterstrike clone.
  After all my years of being a Rainbow Six fan I've got to say I am beyond dissappointed with Lockdown. 
 It's not that it's a terrible game by any means it's just... well, I was expecting Rainbow Six.
 
  The game is visually impressive with all of the settings turned up and the sound effects are nice. 
 The play controll feels like many other FPS games I've played rolled into one, and not a thing 
 like Rainbow Six.
  The AI in single player have been taking their stupid pills religiously, not unlike Raven Shield. 
 But these guys got the maximum strength version and often find crouching or standing unattentivelly 
 or running against walls more entertaining than close combat.
  Apparently, Team Rainbow have been practicing getting shot because they used to die from one or 
 two rounds but NOW they can withstand a full clip before doing the ragdoll.
  The map levels are poorly designed but since you can no longer plan your missions, I guess it really 
 doesn't matter.
  Ubi Soft, go to hell. I feel like you should give me my money back for tricking me into thinking 
 I was getting Rainbow Six and then giving me this crap.
  People who have never played a Rainbow Six game will probably like this game, but for those of 
 us who know better, let's boycot Ubi Soft until they give us our old RS back.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barzenak_40
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  They took what used to stand out as the premire tacticle squad based shooter and made it just another 
 run and gun fps. They took the console version and added very little and tried to feed the pc gamers 
 this as a true sequel. It has no substance, weak ai, console like grenades, small levels, instance 
 areas, linear gameplay with only one or two ways to get to the next portal. All these are elements 
 of consoles not a true pc game. Anyone who played Rogue Spear, Ravenshield knew what great games 
 these were. The community thrived... the games rocked and the series moved forward.
  
  This Lockdown is a joke... UBI SoFT has been on a spiral for a while. They don't even know what 
 they had with Red Storm and now.. who cares. I own Ghost Recon gold and I guess I best hold onto 
 it as the next version probably will be as poorly done as Lockdown. Flashy graphics do not sell 
 a game no matter what the market experts say.
  
  I will pass on this turkey.... and let's not even mention it has Starforce on it. Just read up on 
 that copy protection before allowing it on your pc. Google it up for more info or look at Cnet's 
 report on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Occipital_Lobe
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Granted, this isnt actually the greatest opening line for a review, but I really do find myself 
 entertained by this game.
  I can see why some people have difficulties adjusting to the new gameplay, which is a strange mixture 
 of "SWAT" and "Counterstrike".
  Counterstrike is probably the least favorite game of most fans of the R6 community, so this is 
 possibly the major reason that a lot of loyal fans feel betrayed.
  The tactical element is pretty hard for me to find, and the overall feel of the game is very console-ish 
 in my opinion.
  I find the phrases and comments from my teammates stupid and childish to a degree that would make 
 me expect the dialogue to have been taken out of some of Arnies B-movie flicks from the mid 80s, 
 and that, ladies and gentlemen, is sad.
  I loathe the fact that the uniform has been changed, so that some team members seem to come straight 
 from the casting of a rap video. Give the operatives a helmet, or at least a balaclava, so we can 
 keep the look of a serious tactical element (yes, I know its still a game) .
  On the visual side, the finished product seems nicer, more polished than the demo, and runs smoother. 
 The graphics are good. Not great, but very good, and I, (like many other have pointed out) also 
 find the "tangos" lacking in appearance, which is not that surprising, as this seems to be the 
 rule, rather than the exception in all Ubi/Red Storm games.
  All criticism aside, Im still entertained, and Im pretty sure I will replay this thing as soon 
 as Ive completed the last mission.
  I miss the pre-planning stage, but I will have to see, if it is at all possible to get some teamwork 
 into the missions, once Ive managed to Rambo my way through.
  Happy hunting, folks..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicugoalkeper
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  A bit arcade like some stupid AI but still very playable and a lot o fun and the vocal command 
 are the best plus the graphic a nice game but it cod have been better still very nice on the challenging 
 level !! The vocal commands are the same as the commands on the game but they make the game very 
 nice !!!!! The graphic is very nice for a game past from the console to PC nice ambient !! Is a 
 game that must be played and the story is still at a poor level but it has guick loading times 
 works on low level systems that the specs say ! NICE GAME ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMW_GTR
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Lockdown is the newest attachment to the legendary pc shooter series Rainbow Six. In this new game 
 too, you have to take control of a 4 man squad to counter terrorism in different places including 
 Middle-East, Paris, Scotland and Underground terrorist bases. The level design is sharp and the 
 action is compelling. But for an amateur action gamer, this game is going to be somewhat difficult 
 because the ammo is very limited and each mission contain a lot of enemies. So it would be obvious 
 if you completely do the shooting yourself then at the end of a long mission you will be down to 
 your pistol. So let your teammates do the shooting when there are lots of enemies nearby. The only 
 problem with this game is the AI it is because your teammates may sometime rush forward and end 
 up dying in the process. This game contain a wide variety of assault rifles, shotguns, pistols, 
 snipers and rocket launchers all which can be amped up for different purposes. 
  In conclusion, this game is entertaining and worth your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbz
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Nothing like the old games, this is pathetic, AI is a joke, you can run through missions. I hope 
 you change back, this stinks ubisoft.... Please go back and make the games you use to. I want to 
 return the game, I think a 2 year old can play this..... I dont understand why you have to change 
 such a good game. Leave it alone if its not broke.... Now you have a garbage game that no one likes, 
 I hope you learned something from this..... This game is nothing like the old. NO difficulty in 
 it what so ever. The guns stink, no cross hairs, no planning..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mthomason99
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to start other than the list of things that make this game a complete waste 
 of the DVD it's pressed on.
  
  Game physics: run speed is too fast, walk speed is too slow, the leaning doesnt lean. 
  
  All 
 of the above ought to be fixable easily enough in either a patch or a mod, I don't mind or care 
 which but a mod seems more likely.
  
  Now onto the more serious problems:
  
  "Ranked server" is utter rubbish, the settings are for console kiddies that love their respawns 
 (you can't have a tactical shooter with respawns, period - as soon as you can respawn you stop 
 giving a damn about staying alive) , and "oh my god we can't let two teams fight if theres one player 
 more on one side!" - In a test I spent at least 20 minutes waiting for a fourth player to join 
 so we could actually spend a few minutes playing the damn game. Okay, that's easily fixed by playing 
 unranked.
  
  Even unranked you can't get around the stupidiest map rotation system ever - gone is the old Raven 
 Shield style "you play a match on this map for X rounds", and in is a system that reloads a new 
 map every single round...
  
  The so-called dedicated server is rubbish, remote admin consists of a kick command and thats about 
 it, and it crashed three times in one day on our server.
  
  Maybe (if hell freezes over) UBI will listen to the players and fix these problems in a patch. 
 More likely they'll see all the complaints and drop writing PC games altogether and go write nice 
 simple console games for the braindead instead, you don't get as many complaints from people when 
 their gaming machine doesn't offer the facility to access online message boards with an ALT-TAB 
 keystroke.
  
  Go buy The Regiment instead... it might not have a real multiplayer solution but at least it's 
 cheaper and can be fun to mess around in multiplayer. Or just wait for Ghost Recon 3 and keep your 
 fingers crossed that one isn't messed up too. Personally for now I'll just stick with BF2 for action 
 and Raven Shield for tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpwits
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  What happened to the intense, smart, and difficult Rainbow Six series. With each new version it 
 has been "dumbed down" to the point, now, that even the average non-game-playing six year old could 
 start shooting away. Worse yet, now no one, including the six year old, can enjoy it. 
  
  Gone are the days of planning your missions, having extensive control over your team (s) , and just 
 being able to switch players mid-game. Almost all of the elements and concepts that made Rainbow 
 Six great are gone with this incarnation.
  
  For those who want just another first person shooter to own go ahead and buy it, for those with 
 more discerning tastes, move on. It looks like the original creators and architects of the first 
 few games have moved on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kushet
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been an avid fan of the Rainbow 6 series since its inception. The level of control over 
 missions by way of planning, the large selection and detail in the weapons and the overall immersion 
 the game seduced me into.
  
  Rainbow Six: Lockdown has none of these qualities. 
  
  First of all, the weapon selection is pitiful. When actually put to use, I feel like I'm firing 
 guns from the original Doom in their since of realism. There were some missions where I could simply 
 charge everything firing full sprays at nothing in particular and wipe out anything in my way. 
 Which also bespeaks of the horrible AI that this game vomits in your face. For a series this far 
 in its development, you'd think they'd try and take a step forward with the AI, not 5 steps back. 
 
  
  The campaign was a joke, the levels tedious and uninspired... Argh... I can't even go on anymore, 
 it's just giving me too much of a headache after waiting for this game for so long and for it to 
 suck so hard is just too much.
  
  And yes, I played through the whole game. The only satisfaction I'm taking from that, is after 
 I'm dead maybe when they dissect the tumor now growing in my brain, they can use it to find a cure 
 for others who have suffered this terrible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassbomber20
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after reading both reviews and I figured that maybe some people were being a 
 little too heavy-handed....
  
  But after running through a quick Terrorist-hunt this game is NOTHING like the others. They went 
 from tactical,  gameplay to this run-n-gun rail shooter 
 which doesn't even deserve to be in the Rainbow Series.
  
  What UBI was thinking, I do not know, but clearly this is geared towards those people that can't 
 seem to deal with athe original unforgiving games in this series. It's point, bad guy dies, point, 
 bad guy stops to stare at your for a few meaningless seconds, bad guy dies... you get the idea.
 
  
  ============
  The graphics are decient as with the flame effects and such, but other than that, all the weapons 
 have the same feel (and boring sounds) , terrorist AI is dumber than a bucket full of hair and the 
 whole game feels like nothing but a consel-port that was slapped together to shut the PC fans up.
 
  
  Sound is ok, nothing special but it gets the job done. But seriously, must all the weapons sound 
 nearly identical?
  
  Control is responsive as I'd expect, but I wish there was an auto-run option that's been in all 
 the other titles.
  ===========
  
  Whoever said this was "best in series" is dead wrong, Rogue Spear was the best in series as most 
 of us here would agree. Because then people actually died when you shot them, the missions were 
 challenging and full of trigger-happy terrorists that actually knew how to handle their weapons.
 
  
  Then we have RavenShield after that in which terrorists can stand there point blank infront of 
 you and not die from your shots due to some piss-poor hit detection etc. 
  
  Then UBI releases an abortion of an arcade shooter on rails melded together with the Rainbow Series 
 theme in which terrorists drop like flies and can't seem to hit the broad side of a barn, called 
 Rainbow Six: Lockdown.
  
  I'm very very un-impressed with this game and I seriously dobut that I'll be buying any more of 
 the Rainbow Series shooters unless they go back to their roots, forget about the damn consel players 
 and remember their loyal PC fans!
  
  I mean c'mon enough with the trash already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxProoFxX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I thought it sucked. Its takes a little while to get use to the controls. 
 It only takes a few minutes to get use to them. Once I did I thought the game was great. This game 
 is different from others because you can level up in whatever profession you have chosen. Also 
 you have to buy grenades and claymores and other things with the credits you receive from winning 
 games. Personally I think that is really cool. Online people that suck have to cheat and level 
 themselves with a glitch and that pisses me off. Other then that the game is good and if you like 
 the other Tom Clancy games then you will definitly like this one. It is a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taobo33
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Only 4 player in coop, low ai, silly terrorist's model, poor weapon detail and can't modify ur 
 own arm patch... can't believe gamespots give it a 8.0. What ubi offered gamespot to make u gave 
 it a 8.0.
  someone say the graphic is good omg it's 2006 now look at the coming title as quake war! It just 
 reached the standard. As a big title of rainbow six this is a basic requirement .
  It's graphic is not a far more advance compare with raven shield and ragdoll is below average level 
 of nowadays fps title. U can't jump from very short ladders and have to climb down.... silly. you 
 can't move when peeking... wrong, when i am playing on line i usually spend 30 minutes to find and 
 managed to get into a game and play.
  The game map is crap, it's linear and u can't decide which way to get into a warehouse as an example.
 
  
  big let down from my view and gamespot just ruined itself by give a unsuccessful title 8.0 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt14500
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Lockdown.
  
  Probably the most overrated shooter I've played and I've played alot of shooters, good and bad. 
 Lockdown is a game where you control your team in dangerous missions. This includes hostage rescue, 
 defusing bombs, and shootin' a whole a lot of guys in the head. This sounds fun but it really isn't 
 anything special. The game really isn't that tactical since it's pretty much like shooting gallery. 
 It's basically, open door, shoot, feel totally ripped off, move on to the next room. It's pretty 
 cool at first but gets real old and boring after a while.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good until you see the animations. They're pretty terrible. 
 Especially the animations of your enemy. When you shoot them, they go all over the place and it 
 really looks pretty funny, in a bad way.
  
  All in all, Lockdown is not worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lol1n
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  This is not Rainbow Six, is another arcade shooter without nothing new, normal-good graphics, normal-good 
 sounds..... mmm yes, is a NORMAL-GOOD shooter but I consider an insult to call to this game by this 
 name "Rainbow Six"... I had preferred to maintain it in the memories that to have it in the tomb 
 now ... really is very dificult put any other title for this game?...!!!
  
  P. D: The AI is really AI? Is Artificial yes, but is intelligent? just a little bit? mmm.... bah, 
 no comments. 
  
  (Text reviews must have a legth of at least 100 words)
  
  I do not have anything but that to say I do not have anything but that to say I do not have anything 
 but that to say I do not have anything but that to say I do not have anything but that to say I 
 do not have anything but that to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wirespeed
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  Even if we look past the fact that R6: LD is a total departure from what made this series unique 
 and fun to play, taken on it's own as a shooter, it does absolutely nothing new, nothing inventive, 
 and nothing noteworthy. Then, if we consider the games lineage, it only gets worse. I described 
 this game to a friend as nothing more than 'duck hunt' on the old Nintendo system. Targets pop 
 up, you shoot them, meh. I read a review that described this game perfectly, "The first tactical-first-person-shooter 
 that is completely devoid of tactics."
  
  Sure this game allows you to use flashbangs, breaching charges, hammer doors... but there's absolutely 
 nothing to be gained by doing this. Your team's AI will typically do nothing but screw you up, 
 walk in front of you, stand in front of a terrorist while being shot, take no cover, return fire 
 at odd times, totally useless. Much easier and safer to slowly fluidly open the doors and twitch 
 faster than the AI (not a challenge) . 
  
  The graphics as a whole are drab and boring with uninspired and monochromatic level design. The 
 enemy models constantly look exactly the same. See that terrorist with the horrible AI? Great, 
 you'll be seeing him again... at least 25 times in your current mission and at least 25 times in 
 each upcoming mission. The one bright spot is the team modeling
  
  Though there are a multitude of weapon options for each level, there's no compelling reason to 
 use anything other than whichever one you like on every single mission. There's really no advantage 
 to using silenced weapons as the enemies will know you're coming as soon as you start shooting. 
 The briefings are useless. I can brief you on every mission in the game in three easy steps:
  1. Move through the linear level design.
  2. Shoot all of the terrorists.
  3. Occasionally 
 disable security systems (no real reason to) or rescue hostages.
  
  In closing, I have to really question if console to PC ports are worthwhile. I have to also wonder 
 if there was truly market research done that suggested the original Rainbow Six concept was no 
 longer viable. This game was a terrible disappointment and I hope people vote with their wallets. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XSk0rpion
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  
  
  This game is the best of the series, I give a 9.5 .
  
  Play the game before giving a score, there's some people here giving a very bad score, common this 
 game is better than raven shield open your eye's, under 8 i dont read that. You have your own opinion 
 of the game that's ok but giving under 8 have you really try the game at 100% i dont think so, 
 the graphic are very good whit some bug, the sound have a little bug, the gameplay is very good, 
 this game deserved my 9.5 and when they gonna correct the little bug whit a patch i will give a 
 10 to this game, i hope fans of rainbow six game will play this one.
  
  (Run quickly go buy this game you will not be disappointed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostic
Rating: 2.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  There is gonna be at least a patch of 2 gig to solve all the bugs in this game!!
  Its a shame ,i was looking toward to play the game but after a while playing
  i realise this 
 sucks hard !!
  The game should be for free !!!
  Now days it is unacceptable to launch a game with so many bugs ,i simply don't get it. Take the 
 graphics of far cry shake it whit a spoon of max pain or something ,insert there the game-play 
 of raven shield and you had a much better game. And if they don't have courage anymore to make something 
 good so give it away to other producers !!
  Don't waste my precious time on this game until the patch is arrived !!!
  
  thanks a lot , 
 ghostic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grangersp3000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  Usual plot of a First person Shooter, but its never boring. The game has smooth and detailed graphics 
 and is never lagging in action. Very easy to pick up on what to do (shoot the people shooting you) . 
 The game is everything it is expected to be, which could be disappointing to many who are hoping 
 for something new. The only game options are single player missions and multi-player. There is 
 no skirmish type mode to jump into or create scenarios which is often found in similar games. I 
 expect an expansion pack soon because of the solid base they have; and in it i would like to something 
 new and different for the FPS scene. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  my god what have ubisoft done with the great rainbow six francise?!! this is by far the worst rainbow 
 six game, and the one with the best graphics too but that doesn't matter. you cant change to other 
 operative, you're stuck to only one. you can't plan your entering anymore. the a. i.'s been dumbed 
 down. this is no more the thinking man's game, it's just another anti-terrorist game. fans of the 
 series are going to be dissapointed with this game, but those new to the francise are going to 
 enjoy this. it's now simpler and faster. it maybe fun, but it's definitely not rainbow six.
  
  conclusion: the long wait for the francise to return to the PC is not worth it. long time fans 
 have been back stabbed but those new are probably going to enjoy this now gun-and-run game. to 
 the dissapointed fans, check out konami's THE REGIMENT. looks promising. but wait, i tried the 
 regiment last night. it blows. i guess i'm going back to swat4 then. hell raven shield is still 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westler
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Im just done whit the, game in hardcore playing for 3 days im done *What a GAME!* 
  i have played the Rs Series since i was out in 1998.. Lots of changes since then, but this is the 
 biggest change since the Raven Shield.. Not a bad change but different in a good way. every one 
 seams scared of the new change i dont know why? is it cus the demo was bad?.. cus this is far from 
 the demo version. The gameplay is great.. if you not looking on the Ai.. When i played like 4 missions 
 i get the feeling on the Ai.. and it's feels like the Ai whe got on raven shield.. The Ai should 
 been better but it isnt, hopefully there will be a patch out for the game sometime. But this is 
 a game thats like even you hate it for some reasons or you love it but compare to other games in 
 the Series this is a hot one.. i haven't got to try the new multiplayer so i cant say anything about 
 that. But anyway the new look and the gameplay is great.. And this is a great value for the money 
 and was worth the wait.
  Still not perfect but its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legumo
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  ok i loved RAINBOW SIX so much, and this LOCKDOWN game is
  the worst in the series, it's a blasphemy!
  
  first of all the graphics are good, but the animations 
 are TERRIBLE,
  those excellent animations in the old R6 games with proper
  people and so on are lost forever, now the bad guys fall like a puppet
  and have no Havok, ragdoll 
 or any kind of realism.
  
  i am proud AMD64 + 7800GTX owner and play all my games at max
  resolution/details, so it cannot be a graphic detail disabled or anything,
  cause every option 
 was enabled!
  
  the audio (one of the best parts of the R6 series) is ruined with a
  **** metal music and no emotions whatsoever, the SCREAMS
  of the terrorist are very boring, repetitive, 
 lifeless.
  
  the gameplay is still R6 and it's fine, but the animations and audio
  ruined the experience, add this insult that it's a STARFORCE 3.6
  game and you got a piece of 
 ****.
  
  AVOID !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave_rob
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  It seems like the more & more rainbow titles that come out: the less & less fun they seem to be. 
 
  
  They've strayed so far from their roots it's the equivalent of one of your favorite bands getting 
 played on mtv or the radio & the next thing you know they're on the cover of teenbop magazine. 
 The series has sold out. While playing this I couldn't help but to think back to the very 1st R6... 
 & my god, how the mighty have fallen.
  
  This is definitely the worst of all the R6 games. They've taken the anti-terrorist series to a 
 new level of sad. Raging guitar solos when you die or complete a mission. Bland, uninspired shooting. 
 You can blaze through this game by simply running around with the biggest gun. It use to be that 
 you had to sneak around corners & employ room-clearing tactics. 
  
  If you want a R6 experience check out their previous titles. Avoid this game. You will be let down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuski
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Lockdown but was presented something that deserved an uninstall after only 
 a few minutes of playing.
  
  To kick off lets just state there is nothing tactical about this game - i thought R6 title were 
 about tactics and strategy? 
  
  The A. I is damn awful enemy wise and teamwise. I see no point in having 3 other R6 NPC's with me 
 as they stay far enough behind to be usless. The enemies are even more pathetic as they can blatently 
 see me yet dont fire, or fire and miss completly. They have no sense of cooperation and teamwork 
 with each other and act like bad guys in a B rate action movie. Take a note from the F. E. A. R A. I 
 will you Red Storm?
  
  Graphics are probably the best thing about this game. Although they are nothing new and you can 
 find the same sorts of graphics in dozens of other titles it brings the over mark up a bit.
  
  The sound is awful and lacking (especially if you have sileneced weapons) . There seems to be 
 no ambient noise or its just poorly placed throught the missions.
  
  I was hoping for a nice dandy story line but ill have to pass if there is one as I dont see any 
 reasons to play this game.
  
  I thought it may be me not setting a difficulty level but there only seems to be 'Normal' and 'Challenging', 
 but challenging doesnt even require me to bring any skill or concentrate the slightest.
  
  I know i sound like a hater, and I am for this title as I had hopes of something half decent but 
 was given something poor. Steer away from this game and go buy Swat 4 + the new expansion which 
 is coming out at the end of February. Will be money well spent
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I thought it will be a great sequel to Raven Shield but no. It reminds me those old arcade shooters, Lockdown 
 is just another copy of arcade shooters. Well the graphics are impressive from HDR to particle effects 
 and shader. it is so sad that there are no ragdoll phisics then it would be a great and fun game. But 
 why rated M (MATURE) i dont see blood neither raugh language. Well ateleast the voice acting is good. But 
 i dont get it the stroy. There is no story. You just pick up a mission select your loadout and start 
 to kill some terrorists. In sometimes the AI is very stupid.
  Well if you are a big fan of Wainbow SIx arcade shooters than this game is just for you .Jeez and 
 it weights 4 GB of HDD space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game reeks of being a corporate creation: let's milk the series to make a buck. Little flash, 
 and almost no substance.
  
  There's nothing new in this game that hasn't been done (and done better) before. With stunning 
 games such as F. E. A. R. on the market, it's surprising that Ubisoft dares to embarass themselves 
 with a release that clearly lacks passionate input. 
  
  If you are waiting for a terrorist themed combat shooter from the Tom Clancy franchise, wait for 
 Tom Clancy 3 Advanced warfighter, due out later this spring. It's new game engine, as well as gameplay, 
 are impressive and next-gen. 
  
  Shame on you, Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaoulDuke666
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  ok, so ive been a TC game fan since the first. i played all the rainbow six games and loved them 
 all. i played ghost recon like a son of a gun (inc. exps.) and i loved every second of tactical 
 gameplay.
  
  first thoughts. game looks really really nice (same engine as BF2 i think) and i like the inclusion 
 of ironsights. shooting also feels solid and the guns are all unique and beautiful. other than 
 the nice player and gun models the game is a complete letdown. this is NOT a rainbow six game as 
 we know and love.... first of all, its on rails... very linear path through the game, no way to 
 take the stealth path its just shoot shoot shoot. and wheres my planning screen? to quote from 
 gamespot's misguided review...
  
  "What's missing from the mission-prep screen is the tactical planning portion that used to be such 
 a staple of Rainbow Six games on the PC. However, with the ability to direct your team to do room-entry 
 maneuvers in-game, there's less need for a planning phase."
  
  id like to remind you all that you could do this in raven shield as well, and it was a much more 
 flexible system than this. 
  
  what else? well the ragdolls barely work, and often the tangos die in a manner that went out of 
 fps gaming back in 1999 (spinning and moaning) . sound? guns sound ok, grenades are nice. but most 
 of the time my teammates responses were truncated or worse, just a beep or two. AI? what AI? i 
 told my team to scout a doorway and the dumb **** walked past the open doorway and got shot at.... 
 most of the time i found myself telling them to go wait around the corner while i did the shooting. 
 and without a planning phase theres no way to coordinate your effort and pull of slick breaches 
 and double rushes (not that the ai could handle that anyways...) enemy ai also suffers terribly... 
 to quote gamespot again 
  
 The enemy artificial intelligence in the game is pretty decent, seeking cover when possible and 
 peeking from around corners." 
  
  i dunno what game they were playing... but it aint the same one i was... (yes it was) ... the enemies 
 that i saw were running around in the open aimlessly or standing in the open, awaiting my bullet 
 to end their existance. i guess they arent enjoying the game either. 
  
  well im too angry to write much more. this game IS NOT WORTH THE MONEY OR TIME... even if you are 
 a retired millionare with all the free time in the world it is still a waste. this game was butchered 
 in every way possible. this is a bastardized console version of a game which should have been the 
 pinnacle of one of the best gaming series ever to grace my desktop. 
  
  oh and its also got starforce. talk about adding insult to injury... on a plus note, it has a really 
 cool nightvision and motion vision mode that acually rocked my socks... but two, really one and 
 a half, cool features in a game so encrusted with stink cannot possibly redeem it. worse than starforce 
 is the fact that it has goddamn stinking ads for Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter EVERYWHERE. we 
 can only hope that it is better than this junk (improbable) ...
  
  if you dont trust yer old pal freddy, then buy it and see... just dont expect a "thinking mans 
 shooter" expect a "bastardized console **** shooter" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustadog1
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Heres a story for yall
  
  Having been a rainbow six fan (thanks to xboxlive) blk arrow was probs the most well known on xboxlive 
 anyway,
  i can remember almost a year ago LOCK DOWN was gonna come out but..... it was moved forward to march.... then 
 april... zzz... then september
  
  and i just gave up with xbox altogether
  
  then came on my laptop n started buyin all new games and found that the world of xboxlive is crap 
 compared to a pc..... ignorin that...
  
  well it was now FEB-06 and i read that it was cmin out this month so OK i bought it yesterday 
 
  
  ONLY TO FIND ITS THE BIGGEST WASTE OF CASH EVER SPENT 
  
  and if u want a little secret...... install the whole game get intouch with the shop u bought it 
 from, tell em its not workin with ur graphics card then download the no/cd crack from game coppyworld
 
  
  NOW U HAVE IT FOR FREE THE PRICE ITS WORTH
  
  im sayin this because coz the game aint worth **** if ubisoft wana try rip ppl off we shud rip 
 them off
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsharad007
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Man not another console port. damn it when would developers and publishers realise no old school 
 pc gamer wants to play a console port. if one wants to play a console port one would play it on 
 the console itself. God Save Thy PC Gamers.
  
  This game is so bad i wish i hadn't bought it at all. its like having really tasty food and suddenly 
 u eat something bad and all the taste of the tasty food goes down the drain and you don't want 
 to eat the tasty food again just coz it reminds you of that bad food you ate. all i hope is that 
 ubisoft learns from this and keeps the rainbow six series / tom clancy's games away from console 
 entirely. another game like this and this otherwise excellent series goes down into the oblivion.
 
  
  GamePlay : Sucks
  
  Graphics : Not So Hot
  
  Sound : Better than the rest of the game but nothing exceptional
  
  Replayability : I Doubt 
 if anyone is gonna finish this game the first time around. i know i wont be playing it anymore.
 
  
  Final Comments : Stay away if u like rainbow six series or tactical shooters. it might turn you 
 off these. Unless you are a 8 year old fresh of the consoles STAY AWAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedox
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  If you are truly looking for a tactical game then you will be in for disappointment. It has lost 
 it roots from it predecessors, especially from the last installment. If they would come out afew 
 patches to solve major issues it may rise the standard of the gameplay. But with what it is now 
 it is below average. 
  
  The AI is not waht you expected which I will not delved too deep into it. It is like when enemy 
 hears your attack they run around like monkeys and some were looking totally in opposite directions. 
 Yet the team rainbow Ai does have hugh improvement from the previous installment, but with the 
 low side of enemy Ai team rainbow can't compensate for it.
  
  Bottomline is that you can't expect much from a console port . For what it is, it is consider fair 
 good done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct133nu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  awww, I remember playing the very first rainbow 6, the best game ever for multiplayer gaming, in 
 my opinion. Like the first, Lockdown still holds the r6 style and can be a very good multiplayer 
 game. However, I think people will waste their time on other **** fps games, when this game would 
 better suit their needs. One thing i really didn't like in the game was the aimer, invisible a 
 lot of the time, pissed me off. Other than that I really enjoyed just playing the comp. Online 
 this can be a great game! But just playing against the A. I if you keep your eyes open and take 
 ur time it is quite easy for almost any avid FPS gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunWithMatches
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy is a household name for gamers and war novel lovers alike. The great thing about the 
 games and the novels is that it provides fiction, without taking too much of a step away from reality... that 
 is until now. After waiting for a new Rainbow Six game since Raven Shield, i could only imagine 
 the quality of the next game. Perhaps crystallized graphics, enhanced realism, and give or take 
 a horde of conventional yet also unique weapons. Sadly, this game is built up on a franchise that 
 turns heads, yet comes crashing down oh so hard. After spending less than 10 hours playing this 
 game.... i realized i had fun for about half an hour. The sad reality is i realized that this half 
 hour consisted of loading screens where i'd get to grab a slice of cold pizza and a drink. Enemies 
 are no challenge whatsoever, only occasionally killing me or my teammates. When they are shot, 
 they simply do a gumby-like jolt that would definitely arouse his horse friend and fall on the 
 ground. Arms not flailing, bodies not moving when you walk on or shoot... i felt like i was watching 
 concrete slipping around then suddenly becoming as stiff and boring as Stephen King's new novels. 
 Levels and missions left me saying, "And what was the point of that..." along with the infamous, 
 "Am i done yet...". Patience is gone in this game. No more thinking, "hmmm..... how am i supposed 
 to sneak around these terrorists and plant wire bugs". Instead, you can easily run "balls to the 
 world" into fire, probably survive, and do it again later. In the past titles, a bullet would most 
 likely kill a player, or at least gimp them: making them wish they had died instead. There's just 
 so much wrong with the game and nothing that is right. Graphics are a big step down, in my opinion, 
 from Raven Shield. Grittiness can be realistic, but when i see hair on squad mates that looks like 
 3 day old moldy coffee spread like butter through the strands, thats not eye candy. Squadmates 
 are the worst i've ever endured. Mission planning involves: listen, pick a crap gun, figure out 
 exactly what in the heck is going on, then suffer through the game itself. The only thing positive 
 i can really think of is the voices, which literally are stated again, and again, and again.... wait 
 ok so they aren't positive. Every other sound effect i must say makes a satisfying bleep and blip, 
 yet if i want sound, i'll take an ipod thank you very much. Clancy games are what got me into the 
 world of multiplayer gaming, and just because it was so bad in this game, this is the only mention 
 im making of it: abysmal. If you are a console fan who enjoy fast paced shoot em ups, then please 
 buy this game! You wont be dissapointed. Yet if you enjoy any type of Tom Clancy Game other than 
 the console versions of Rainbow Six, dont touch this with a ten foot pole. This is not Tom Clancy 
 my friends, this is Steven King trying to win a Pulitzer for a novel on cell phones that spread 
 viruses and kill people. Run, and run a little bit faster from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MongolSh0ttie
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game does not live to the rainbow six tactical shooter series at all. It is more of a shoot 
 and run game with poor AI (both terro and rainbow forces) . However, the AI does do a somewhat good 
 job at trying to evade and find cover... but not that well. Gameplay is what brings it down the 
 most, feels as if i just purchased unreal tourny 2004, run and shoot as much and fast as you can... 
 and dont worry if you run out of your primary ammo, the pistol has unlimted clips... nifty eh? 
 Voice acting needs work, the hostage kept yelling in my ear with his whiny high pitched voice 'Help 
 me please!' 'Get me out of here!'. Graphics, however, are nice and sharp, runs well on my computer 
 too. Also, i have not seen an option for terro hunt yet, but i have not beaten the game so... but 
 terro hunt was what i was really excited for. In retro spect, this game is not a tactical shooter 
 and therefore any rainbow six fan would most likely be drasticly letdown by this release, my advice 
 would to get the demo first if you planed to buy this game.
  
  PS: Maps are weird, they are made up of several levels that you load between. Also, there are no 
 snipers nor do you get to choose your ammo type (and the selection of weapons is very limited) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy2012
Rating: 2.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  They have turned it into a crappy console FPS clone. Gone are the days of the good rainbow six 
 games and now all that is left is a shell of the game series. After UBI bought out Red storm the 
 series has gone down hill. I have own all the games in this series and loved most of them, but 
 this is the last straw that broke the camels back. No more will I waste my money on the series. 
 I have been heart broken by these turn of events. I hoping that they will not do the same to Ghost 
 recon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotshot_
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Raven Shield graphics with Rogue Spear style. The graphics are descent but the gameplay seems a 
 little buggy. Well of course its ubisoft and there will be patches with corrections. The graphics 
 are a little different from Raven Shield's because it uses a different engine. The game is more 
 fast paced than Raven Shield like the original Rainbow Sixs were. What is different from both is 
 you can now respawn. The single player seems to be easier. The scope makes the shooting very easy. 
 The new vision modes are awsome. It includes night vision (of course) and thermal. Overall the 
 game is enjoyable and brings back good memories. The game is worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Phantom_I
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Lockdown, the latest addition to the great Rainbow Six series, strays a bit too far 
 from its predecessors. Some seem to think the series needed a change, but UBI tried to do too much 
 with Lockdown. While the graphics may be superb, the game play is not.
  
  Realism has always been a big factor with the Rainbow Six Series. Only being able to receive one 
 or two shots before you died made the game interesting, near life-like, and fun. With Lockdown, 
 all of that has changed. You now have 3 health bars. Health bars do not belong in the series. The 
 game is more of an arcade or console game than it is a PC game. It just doesnt feel like a Rainbow 
 Six game. 
  
  Veterans of the series will also notice that the feel has changed, which was always a big factor 
 with the earlier games. Lockdown does not have the fluid movement that one might be used to if 
 they are coming from Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield. You can no longer run and peek at the same time. 
 Running, crouching, and standing up all in one fluid motion are also gone. The character stops 
 moving briefly before he is able to stand back up. The speed of movement is also different. If 
 you choose to walk, you walk slower than you would if you were gimped in the previous R6 games, 
 if you choose to run, you move way too fast.
  
  Along with the movement of the character, the feel of the weapons have changed. You can no longer 
 shoot as fast as you can click. The rate of fire for pistols is ungodly slow. The reticules are 
 also different. Those players who play without displaying the weapon in their HUD, may find the 
 rets annoying. My biggest gripe with weapons is the new grenade throwing system. When you are about 
 to throw a grenade, it displays the path of the grenade on the screen. How lame is that? Where 
 is the challenge? This game is meant for adults, but with a grenade throwing system like the one 
 in lockdown, it seems as if though 7 year-old could master the game.
  
  The bottom line is that veterans of the series and those who have been loyal to the series (those 
 who are still playing RvS) , are going to be disappointed. My advice is to wait to see if UBI attempts 
 to fix the game through patches (like they always do) . For the time being, dont spend the money. 
 If you must buy a game, go get Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield. Its a lot better and a lot cheaper. 
 Lockdown may have the name Rainbow Six in the title, but I can assure you, it is not a Rainbow 
 Six game. It is more like a bad mix of Battlefield 2 and Swat 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerBD89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Personally Lockdown I think has some good potential but there are a few thing they still need, 
 so I made a list of them that they should of kept or need to get:
  
  -Mission Planning (Very helpful and cuts down on getting lost)
  -Better Guns (Don't get me wrong 
 the guns are good, but I like more variety)
  -Fully customizable weapons (instead of picking a singe item from a list like a silencer why cant 
 you just get a silencer, c-mag, and a scope for example?)
  -Picking out your own armor (Sure I don't care what my team mates wanna wear but I do, although 
 it is still nice of them to let us pick out our uniform colors)
  -AI Artificial Inteligence could be better (Although the AI of Lockdown is improved it could be 
 better.... I still dont feel safe following idiots with guns into battle)
  -Stance Modes (Standing and crouching is nice but when im sniping I like to sometimes lay down)
 
  
  There are also a few minor glitches in Lockdown that should be fixed, but in time with updates 
 and mods the glitches will hopefully be eliminated.
  
  Now here is the good stuff:
  
  -Improved Aiming (You actually aim down your sights in Lockdown)
  -Graphics (The graphics are 
 way better and give the game a more real look)
  -Rainbow Uniforms (The uniforms do like nice and realistic for an elite counter terror force in 
 the near future)
  -Secondary Weapons (It is cool that you can now use a smg, shotgun, or just a plain pistol for 
 your secondary weapon)
  -Custome Character (For online multiplayer you can now creat and edit your own charachter which 
 is really, really cool)
  -Equipment (Improved equipment kits are cool like the brute force hammer to smash open doors, although 
 it would be cool to smash some skulls in with the thing)
  -Interactive environment (This feature is brand new and really cool, if your bord of shootin tangos 
 now you can shoot objects)
  -Grenades (The path of your grenade is now shown in Lockdown which is nice and helpful for those 
 who can't throw nades)
  -Voice Commands (R6 now has voice communication with AI via micraphone this makes thing much more 
 simple, unless you have a speech impediment and the game sometimes makes me feel like I do)
  -Blackhawk (The friendly UH-60 Blackhawk chopper flying as support, and transportation for you 
 is pretty nice)
  -Doors (In the old ones you could open and close doors and plant a breaching charge, in this one 
 you can blow it off its hinges, smash it open, blow it open, break the door lock, etc.)
  -Grenade Launcher (Nice gun good for room clear, unless hostage involved)
  -Leaning (Yes leaning 
 is improved in Lockdown you do lean further than in the previous Rainbow Six games)
  Sniper Support (The sniper support which is Weber I think is really helpful and gives an entire 
 new demtion to the game)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobius06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  the game is good , nice action-packed but forget about micro-management like Rainbow Six 3 was 
 , this one is easier for new comers. I personally think the armory is weak but I must admit I always 
 want infinite choice when it comes to guns ;) , long time fans of the serie might be disappointed 
 but if you're looking for a good "light" tactical shooter this one is for you. Graphics look very 
 nice, sound is Rainbow Six quality. I hope there will be future downloadable content.
  BTW , i purchased it using Direct 2 Drive and it works perfectly. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
