-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/graw2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay comes close to capturing the infantry experience.
 Sizeable multiplayer suite with a mix of co-op and competitive missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Punishing and unforgiving difficulty that will make you cry, even on &quot;easy&quot;.
 Universally drab color palette sucks the life out of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.7, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,662 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: GRIN
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jul 17, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC version of GRAW 2 is custom-built for the platform, and it's so difficult that it appears 
 to have been custom-built for masochists, as well. 

  Ghost Recon is a franchise that was born on the PC, so it was nice last year when Ubisoft commissioned 
 a separate version of Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter that was built directly for 
 the PC instead of merely porting over the Xbox 360 game of the same name. That way, Xbox 360 gamers 
 could get a third-person action game while PC gamers could get a hardcore first-person shooter. 
 That trend continues with Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2, which again comes in 
 a separate PC version that's tailored for the platform. Nevertheless, you'll need to be a pretty 
 die-hard fan of extremely unforgiving combat to get through this one.  

           GRAW 2 is sort of like spring break in Mexico. Only, there's no beach, and plenty of assault 
 rifles.      

  GRAW 2 picks up immediately after the events of the first game, though you needn't have played 
 it to understand what's going on. Mexican rebels have some nukes and are setting up shop next to 
 the Texas border, and you, as a member of an elite U. S. Army Special Forces unit, must stop them. 
 While the PC version features entirely new levels and environments, it does lift many of the story 
 elements and voice-overs from the Xbox 360 version. In essence, this is basically a retelling of 
 the Xbox 360 game.  

  The major difference between the two versions is that the Xbox 360 is much more action focused, 
 while the PC is a lot more simulation heavy. It's a huge difference. You can sprint your way through 
 the Xbox 360 game, knowing that you can heal up easily whenever you hit a resupply point. In the 
 PC version, the pace is a lot slower and more methodical. If you try to run-and-gun through you'll 
 get cut down within seconds. It's all about moving slowly, using cover, and suppressing the enemy 
 with cover fire. You have a fairly small health bar, and it can be drained relatively quickly. 
 Even worse, a hit in the wrong place will kill you no matter what, so the PC version is very much 
 one shot, one kill. And if you do manage to find a place to resupply, you do not heal.  

  While this kind of realistic authenticity is the hallmark of Ghost Recon games on the PC, GRAW 
 2 is a lot tougher than its predecessors. Part of that is the nature of the gameplay, which is 
 very unforgiving, but it's also due to the huge size of the levels. You have to carefully ration 
 your health bar or else you'll find yourself in a bad spot. For instance, if you take a couple 
 of hits early on, it's usually best to just start the mission over because odds are you'll never 
 survive the middle and later parts of the level, especially since you can't heal. There is a quick 
 save and a quick load that you'll need to use early and often, as you'll get cut down without warning 
 a lot. And this was on the easiest difficulty setting. Trying to play at the default difficulty 
 is murder.  

           Your squad can provide cover fire and support, but they also die easily.      

  If 
 that weren't bad enough, GRAW 2 also likes to put you in a lot of really difficult -- dare we say 
 unfair -- tactical situations. The end level has a helicopter drop you off in the middle of a bridge, 
 with one end garrisoned by Mexican rebels armed with rocket launchers and heavy machine guns. If 
 you manage to survive that, you'll next face an attack by troops and vehicles, and then have to 
 take down a helicopter, and then attack the other end of a bridge defended by snipers and machine 
 gunners, and so on. It's a lot to tackle in a single mission, and it will undoubtedly require a 
 lot of trial and error.  

  You do have up to three other soldiers at your command, as well as various support elements such 
 as aerial recon drones and the ability to call in air strikes or artillery. The squad controls 
 are fairly simple because they're context sensitive. Simply move the cursor onscreen and you'll 
 tell the squad to move to that spot or attack it. Unfortunately, the artificial intelligence, while 
 sharp, isn't sharp enough. It's pretty good about using cover, but nowhere near as good as a human 
 mind. It's not hard for your guys to get cut down behind you, which at times makes them more of 
 a hindrance. The better missions in the game are the ones that have you going almost lone wolf. 
 It's during these levels that the PC version shines, as you don't need to worry about micromanaging 
 the squad and can go around stalking the enemy.  

  The PC version does allow a bit more freedom in mission setup: you can select the troopers that 
 go with you, as well as custom-outfit their gear, choosing from different weapons and accessories, 
 like grenade launchers, scopes, and silencers. (If a trooper is cut down, he's unavailable for 
 later missions.) The only thing that this mode needs is a way to save a loadout so you can easily 
 outfit your team with the same gear. Instead, you have to load out each trooper separately, a somewhat 
 annoying process.  

  Aside from the sheer difficulty of the game, the other hit against the PC version is its drabness. 
 The game recycles much of the textures and buildings from its predecessor, so the slums of Juarez 
 look almost identical to the industrial areas of Mexico City. The game is dominated by its brown-and-yellow 
 palette, and the color scheme is so bland and lifeless that it sucks a lot of life out of the otherwise 
 solid graphic engine. You'd be hard-pressed to find something in the game that's a bright red or 
 green or blue. Even the skies feel oppressive. The Xbox 360 did a much better job of actually creating 
 environments that felt like they had some color and culture to them. The PC version feels like 
 it's set in what appears to be the dullest and driest place on Earth.  

           If you can get through the single-player campaign you'll be an army of one.      

 
  The multiplayer options are nicely fleshed out. There are some cooperative gameplay levels, though 
 the single-player campaign itself isn't playable in co-op. Then there's deathmatch and team modes, 
 such as hamburger hill (one team holds a hill as long as possible against the other) as well as 
 recon-versus-assault, which is an objective-based mode that tasks one team on defense and the other 
 on offense. There's enough here to keep you busy for a good, long while, which is sort of the point. 
 And multiplayer has always been one of Ghost Recon's strengths.  

  While the difficulty will undoubtedly be one of the things that the dedicated fans of the series 
 will look forward to, GRAW 2 raises the challenge bar to a new level. That said, if you're looking 
 for a relatively quick and painless shooting experience, look elsewhere. If you want to experience 
 a brutal battlefield where death can happen suddenly, then check out GRAW 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (109 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BogzDollox
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Please note that this is a review of the PC version of GRAW2 which differs significantly from its 
 console counterpart.
  
  I love the idea of playing a good tactical first person shooter (a real one I mean, not Call of 
 Duty or Gears of War) but good ones are very hard to find. Almost every game in the genre is plagued 
 by bugs, incompetent AI, poor level design and various other problems that basically ruin what 
 - in many cases - might otherwise have been exceptional gaming experiences. These problems have 
 steered me away from most of the shooters with "Tom Clancy" in their titles, but I recently noticed 
 GRAW2 on sale at the very reasonable price of 10 and I decided that, for a tenner, I'd give it 
 a go.
  
  Frankly, I wish I hadn't. GRAW2 does so many things so badly that it's difficult to know where 
 to start this review. Normally I'd start with a spoiler-free overview of the game's setting and 
 plot but in this case it might lead to me talking at length about how badly GRAW2 delivers its 
 storyline to the player, and since that really is the least of this game's problems (especially 
 as this isn't the sort of game that anyone is going to play for it's storyline) I'd rather focus 
 on other things. Let it suffice for me to say that it's the year 2014 and you play as the leader 
 of a sqaud of "Ghosts" (fictional elite U. S. soldiers) who are sent into Mexico to sort out some 
 bad people who might have weapons of mass destruction. GRAW2 follows on directly from GRAW but 
 you don't need to have played GRAW to get what's going on here.
  
  GRAW2's campaign consists of about a dozen missions, each of which require you to meet a few simple 
 objectives. Before each mission you get to choose which of your Ghosts to take with you (each Ghost 
 has a different role such as Sniper or Rifleman) and what sort of weapons to equip them with. You're 
 also given some intel (such as the sort of opposition you can expect) and, occasionally, a choice 
 of drop zones. You can spend as much or as little time as you like here; each mission provides 
 you with an appropriate default loadout that you can just accept immediately if you want to get 
 straight into the action.
  
  Once on the ground you can command your Ghosts using a variety of methods. These include the ability 
 to issue commands directly from your HUD (for example, you can point your crosshair at a patch 
 of ground and click some buttons to make one of your men go to that location) and a tactical map 
 that gives you a real-time top-down view of the area and lets you issue commands RTS-style (and 
 even lets you queue commands, which is nice) but I found all the available methods to be somewhat 
 unwieldy. Anyone who has experienced a really slick interface (such as the one in SWAT4) will wonder 
 what the developers of GRAW2 have been smoking, but - as with the story - this again is not the 
 real problem in GRAW2. The user interface may be clunky but it is functional (barely) and I should 
 think that many players (myself included) would be able to overlook the poor UI design if there 
 were a good game to be played here.
  
  There isn't. GRAW2's gameplay is a never-ending succession of bugs and bad design choices, and 
 it's here that the game really falls apart. Your Ghosts, for example, are spectacularly stupid. 
 Pathfinding and line-of-sight determination are the most frequent problems (and when I say "frequent" 
 I mean all the time) with the latter being perhaps the most annoying: sometimes your men will fail 
 to return fire even though they have a line of sight (which results in them standing still while 
 they get shot to death) and sometimes they'll fire when they don't have a line of sight (which 
 results in them firing into a wall, which at best wastes precious ammo and at worst gets them killed 
 because they fired a detonate-on-impact grenade) . Then there's the level design, which makes GRAW2 
 feel more like a sniper game than a tactical shooter. There are precious few opportunities for 
 any use of tactics here; mostly you'll be sneaking and peeking around corners to see if there are 
 any snipers or machine guns waiting to take you out before zooming in and shooting them in the 
 face. This has no repercussions because most enemies are completely static and will have little 
 (if any) reaction to seeing/hearing their buddies getting killed. There are hardly ever any options 
 for sending your men in other than a full frontal assault, which is a recipe for distaster, so 
 the best thing to do with your men is to keep them some distance behind you (covering your back, 
 where the lack of any enemy flanking manouvers will ensure that they're completely useless) while 
 you pick off your witless foes one by one. You do have the option to play each mission solo, and 
 this is made very tempting by the sheer incompetence of your squad, but unfortunately it's not 
 really viable. The game sometimes throws a scripted "defend this area" section at you and in these 
 sections you'll need your men to take up the conveniently placed defensive positions or you'll 
 be in trouble. You'll also need them for taking out vehicles because you can only carry one anti-vehicle 
 missile each, and several of the missions will throw more than one vehicle at you. But if it wasn't 
 for those things then I would't think twice about leaving my Ghosts at home, and that surely is 
 the kiss of death for a supposedly "tactical" shooter.
  
  If GRAW2 had its bugs fixed, its AI reprogrammed, and its UI and missions both completely redesigned, 
 then there'd be a good game here... but that would be a game without any of GRAW2 left in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getobarbie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Alright, here we go.
  The Ghost recon series has always been an extremely, no scratch that the TOM CLANCY titles have 
 always been extremely prestigious always boasting good selling strong mulitplayer games. 
  Now GRAW2 is no exception, this game itself is not for someone who likes to run and gun, that is 
 primarily why i enjoy it so much, this game itself is not a mindless halo game. This game has alot 
 more substance and it takes much longer to master. An example, in real life soldiers "camp" right? 
 Ok, well if you have a sniper do not run around, you will get shot.
  Also, my computer is very strong (3 cores, 3 gb ram, 8500gt) and i do get framerate issues at times. 
 Turning the settings down is better and since your thinking about your next move so much, well 
 you dont really notice the decline in graphics. 
  All in all, if your looking for a TACTICAL, Slow paced, and strategic game then this game is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboys
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this over steam and as the short version says it crashed every ten minutes with a microsoft 
 c++ error but mysteriously stopped earlier today when I tried again. The multiplayer gives an error 
 saying I have modified game files and does not let me join. The controls for it are horrible (way 
 too many toggled keys for an FPS) , the enemies on it are stupidly weak ( 2 bullets in the chest 
 and they are dead.) , and it turns commanding your allies into a chore. unless you use the full 
 screen menu to command them and then you can't even see what they are doing and you can't be in 
 the action with them. The graphics on the game are worse or equal to vanilla oblivion, the only 
 nice thing about about this game which I found was the Nvidia PhysX but the crashes prevented me 
 from even enjoying this
  
  I'm not sure if the problems I am having with this game are steam version only so if you are going 
 to buy it do yourself a favor and buy it retail not steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 promises better AI, better commands, the ability to use gun emplacements and pick up enemy 
 weapons, multiple insertion routes, and a greater variety of weapons. It delivers most of them
 
  
  The Ai is better but its still not good enough. While your squaddies don't block your line of fire 
 nearly at all any more they are frustratingly inept at realizing when they are taking fire, or 
 remaining stealthy, especially around corners. I often am forced to scout far ahead before allowing 
 them to follow me. They are quite accurate as a defensive firing squad though, and they do respond 
 to new commands quite well (they can shoot down helicopters and destroy land vehicles now) . 
  
  Using Mexican gun emplacements is great in a defensive situation which is rather limited for 
 the ghosts. As for the weapons the Mexicans drop, you'll probably never run out of ammo, but its 
 nice to have them.
  
  Multiple insertion routes are not really very useful and often not present in many missions. They 
 seem like a token feature in most missions. 
  
  The game does include a huge arsenal of weapons, however unlike in graw, the interface for attachments 
 is really awful. In graw you could see how the attachments changed the in game stats of your weapon 
 and could better guage how to outfit your men and self. Its an unfortunate and unnecessary tradeoff. 
 
  
  I hope GRAW 3 finally gets it right by keeping and improving these features, and adding to it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andymc4610
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game you can find for $9.99 new in those smaller jewel cases. I am an old PC gamer who went 
 to the consule then back to PC from the N64, xbox and 360. Every few years i upgrade my system 
 and go back and play these games. GRAW 1 and 2 on the PC are so good. Large and wide open levels 
 all, hard but such good games.
  
  GRAW 2 is hard but so much fun. with no save anywhere feature it could get frustrating but i just 
 go a different route and it's all new. If i get low on health or loose a guy usually i go back 
 and do the preveous same.
  
  Graphics - are good not Cysis good. But even on if you set tham on low it's not bad.
  
  sound 
 - just right. guns sound and react like they should machine guns climb on you when they are on 
 full auto. explosions are good.
  
  gameplay - hard but not too hard. large wide open levels more like the old ghost recon games.
 
  
  squad control - improved from GRAW 1
  
  All and all a great game.....
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMonsterCJ
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  YEAH! been there done that veery good! Graw 2 has serious
  improvements for a 1st person shooting game!
  the gameplay is a little hard and at first time 
 the game is a little
  slow but in the second time it's all okay! must be a technical problem!!
  but there are plenty 
 of assault rifles tactics u could also make suprise atttacks
  on your enemy's by stealth team moves!
  
  u're could even manage u're team by ordering them 
 to give us cover, move on to
  differant locations plan attacks!
  
  when playing the game u feel like u're in a battle field! the game is so
  cooool
  
  speaking 
 about missions..... kinda hard but who needs to baby sit a war game? itz good at challenges multiplayer 
 is cool!! u could have voice
  chats while playing the game rather than sending boring messages
  
  single player game mode 
 has a good story and a cool ending!
  being hard is what this kinda game must be COOOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamfallcamo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I'll just say this briefly.. Playing the new gameplay of GRAW in console was fun and innovative 
 for previous gamer of ghost recon titles.. but the fact that previous gamer of this game, (but 
 im not rendering this to all gamers) like me.. i enjoyed the real original interface of the game.. 
 In console ver. its 3rdPShooter -new, fastpaced, good multiplayer, and not so original matter/more 
 like a new title.. but its good.. in PC ver. its FPShooter just like in the previous titles, multiplayer 
 is also good.. and when i play the PC version of GRAW its like.. WOW!!.. damn!!.. i miss this game.. 
 bringing back the good old ghost recon memories!! and i think its important that innovation + keeping 
 the original asset of a game or a title.. builds Uniqueness, Game-Pride and best off all.. its 
 Unforgettable... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logesh_v
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:08 am PT
Review:  graw2 is really a great sequel to graw... the tactics have improved a lot.. all missions are pretty 
 very interesting . this game is suitable for all those who want war kinda games.. i havent seen 
 any war game this realistic.. though the gameplay is difficult even in easy mode.... its really interesting... u 
 cant expect a medic kit every 100 meters in this game... the enemy Ai is pretty very good than graw... the 
 graphics havent improved much from graw... but definitely not poor graphics... sound is really very 
 good... overal this game gives u a feeling that you are really in a battlefield...
  to get inside and survive in a battlefield isnt really very easy isnt it.??.. so is this game...
 
  this will be a must have for all ghost recon fans... but if you ask me for a better war game... first 
 thing i would suggest is GRAW/GRAW2
  though you dont have medic unit as in the console versions.... this game doesnt let the gameplay 
 down. 
  the night missions are little bit sluggish... the ending mission is one of the toughest in the game... but 
 remember you will get a surprise ending at the end.. overall here is my rating...
  graphics: 8
  sound : 9.5
  gameplay : 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomcollegkid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I consider GRAW 2 one of the best games ever made. It feels appropriately high-tech, and solves 
 a problems that FPSs have had in the past. The story is believeable, if a little bit of a stretch, 
 so you really feel like part of the events and turmoil in Mexico. Issues present in older games 
 like COD 2 such as indestructable cover are no longer issues; if a car is in your way, you can 
 just blow it up. The fact that a lightly armed soldier travels faster and fires more accurately 
 that an overloaded one is also nice; it's not a good idea to simply load your whole team with AT 
 power if you won't need it. Many people see this game as too hard, but other than a couple of tight 
 spots, I see absolutely no evidence to suggest that is true, even on the higheset difficulty level. 
 GRAW 2 is a game anyone with a beefy enough machine should purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerryPeat
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2
  it is almost 2 years, but I just tried to played it since 3 days a go. and it's very fun to play, 
 although there are some points that i dont like
  but anyho this game is worth playing
  
  I recommend this game for those who likes and looks for classic FPS with a touch of "modern tactics" 
 and also the veterans who still want ro remember the old days "not the story it's the tactics"
 
  
  this game has the unique kind of gameplay which allow us to, control our character and the NPC's 
 (called the ghosts) way to fight throughout the game in our own-made tactics, this game is much 
 different with other FPS, because this is unlike the other FPS which is more concentrating on the 
 shoot outs, not to think how the hell we can get the f**k out of here. think, I mean it
  
  this game "forced" us to think well enough, because if you not, you might play the same level and 
 die in the same spot for over a month,
  sometimes it also makes me frustrated
  but if you find out the tactics and formation, you'll find out it is very easy!
  
  this game 
 is the most realistic FPS I ever played (no to mention ArmA which is a War Simulator not an FPS)
 
  and it wasn't lying, because if you remembered the Call Of Duty 4 and GRAW's brother Rainbow Six: Vegas, 
 they both said it more realistic and I've found it is not, though it is more better on graphics, 
 but the action, landscape, weapon details. it is worse than this one
  
  But I found out that GRAW could be developed more, by using a better and more "alive" engine, extend 
 the map range, and adding some targets that is real far about 200-300 meters, except ArmA I haven't 
 seen an action game which can shoot that far, longest shot i've managed in the game is about 120m, 
 and I'm looking forward to see this game with a realistic bloods and gore!
  
  thank you
  sorry for my english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosskey711
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and don't believe the review that this game is for masochists the reviewer 
 must suck at realistic combat games... not too hard, but the last mission will definately give 
 u a run for your money... It's very enjoyable and gives you a sesne of accomplishment when you 
 beat it. NOTICE THIS IS NOT THE CONSOL VERSION... this is not a port this is a unique game. The 
 people on consols missed out i've seen ss of the console looks more like that sham of Ghost Recon 
 2 which wasn't true to the series. This game is true to the series and Tom Clancy. Wow i have to 
 write 800 characters about this game? I don't need 800 characters just buy this game it's cheap 
 and worth it and has great multiplayer and features classic missions.. best of all NO DRM!!! so 
 you don't have to annoyingly play with the disk in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efoxneo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Funny how I took to the time to make a review for game that has been out for about a year and a 
 half now, but the difference between this version and the Xbox 360 is something that needs to be 
 mentioned.
  
  I never played the original GRAW on PC, I don't have a powerful enough computer to play the system 
 demanding blockbuster titles, I rely on my Xbox for that. By chance I got to play GRAW 2 and it 
 is an intense game. The realism is unforgiving, and playing on normal difficulty has been a challenge. 
 If you do not use the assets available to you, usually being just your three team mates, you will 
 quickly get killed and have to restart from the last checkpoint. This game truly brings combat 
 to life, where mistakes get people killed. I just wish I had a personal UAV and a constant satellite 
 picture for a map in the military I serve with, but these guys are supposed to be the highest US 
 Army Special Forces group, and in the future, so the kit they get is a reflection of the dangers 
 of the job they have to do.
  
  GRAW 2's story is exactly like the 360 version, but the way it is presented is in a much more dark 
 and war torn package that really shows you how a country looks after its gone through intense combat 
 (think Stalingrad) . The drab appearance that Gamespot is not a fan of sets the mood for me, and 
 mixed with the excellent sound, you quickly get a feel for how bad things are about to get for 
 the Ghost team. 
  
  I always found the Xbox version to be lacking something - Realism. In the PC version of GRAW 2 
 (and I am assuming the first installment) you are as close to being a soldier working in a small 
 four man recon team as I have ever played. Your ability to command your three subordinates individually 
 and how you can equip your team plays very well, the weapons available with all the attachments 
 give you so many options for completing your mission. You have to rely on the manpower and equipment 
 they make available so much through the game, it feels like you are almost there fighting in Mexico. 
 If they made the AI on your team just a little better, it would feel like you are there with three 
 other soldiers, and not three idiots dressed like soldiers who get stuck on corners and can't shoot 
 half the time. 
  
  The realism of the game may not be what people are truly looking for, especially if you are not 
 a Tom Clancy fan. The frustration of being killed so much reminded me of playing the Rainbow Six 
 Vegas series on Realistic, or to some extent playing Call of Duty 4 on Veteran. So if you can't 
 handle a trial and error approach of slowing creeping through the war torn city, this game is not 
 for you, and I invite you to play any of the more arcade style shooters that flood the market today, 
 Because GRAW is for those looking for combat, not those looking looking to find health packs and 
 have a regenerating health bar.
  
  In closing I wish I played this game a year and a half ago, and am thinking of upgrading my computer 
 just to play the GRAW series on PC.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Joker_15
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2.
  
  Great graphics. Nice realism, interesting guns, good potential for nice teamwork (singleplayer) . 
 I said Potential. The interface to give the Ghosts i. e. your teammates 
  Commands in great but are quite a number of problems in the gameplay. You can move them around 
 using a satellite map and a cross comm. which lets you give orders to your men and position them 
 using just the crosshair in the game. Other orders include a follow command which is quite useless 
 because if you are sprinting from one position to another, these ghosts run a distance, and then 
 stand and scout for enemies and run again. Even waypoints which you set using the tactical map, 
 their movements are far from satisfactory. It looks (not the animation but the way they behave) 
 quite unnatural as well. And try getting them to shoot at something. Yeah something and not someone 
 because for the life of me I haven't been able to get those Ghosts to shoot at an enemy or lay 
 down suppressing fire at an enemy position without living up to their name 'the Ghosts'. And by 
 that I mean your teammates are as good as ghosts. I think I am a fairly good player and I did make 
 it successfully through the first 4 missions keeping all of them alive, but I did most of the shooting. 
 The problem with these incompetent guys is that they do not return fire effectively. If you ask 
 a Ghost to move across from one cover position to another and he encounters enemy fire as he moves, 
 he'll tell you about it but when he gets into position he rarely ever returns fire. Ask him to 
 lay suppressing fire; there have been numerous occasions when he tries to shoot at the location\person 
 you have designated through the wall he is behind. That is just lame. The sniper really doesn't 
 do much spotting. I add a sniper in my team to spot far away targets but he doesn't do that much. 
 And in a firefight, the sniper rarely does any shooting himself. They are practically useless most 
 of the time. Hence they are as good as Ghosts (or I must have a really bad team strategy and a 
 bad gamer, but I do believe it is the former since I have reached the last mission without a trainer 
 or cheats. I don't have the interest to finish the game) . These brilliant soldiers even tell you 
 when you're getting shot, like you need to know that! 
  
  Since my sniper doesn't really do much of the spotting, I have to do it myself. But the other Ghosts 
 rarely shoot at targets over a distance of a street block unless somebody is shooting at them. 
 They rarely do any good shooting. While the enemy seems to have telescopic vision, the Ghosts at 
 times can't even see a few meters in front of them. I have to do that myself. And I cannot do it 
 with a sniper rifle (ok, I can at times but that takes the fun out of using a neat assault rifle 
 and an attached grenade launcher, and it is difficult at close rangeJust boasting my skill incase 
 somebody decides to say that I am a bad strategist) . So, since you are a member of an elite team, 
 and this particular elite team is equipped with a real time satellite map, the least you can expect 
 to have with such advanced technology is a pair of binoculars. Since the Sniper doesn't do his 
 job till he gets shot at, I might as well do it. But no binoculars means you cannot see far. That 
 is frustrating because your enemies seem to have telescopic vision. You can walk out into the open 
 at times, check the map zooming out as far as possible and see that the area is clear, and yet 
 you can get shot at by a dude with an RPG. And surely enough, you'll soon be a ghost. Now that 
 just sucks. Ok, don't want to give the player a binocular, at least thermal vision on the satellite 
 map. Something to even the overwhelming odds with the game's super sighted, super accurate A. I 
 (even in the Normal difficulty) .
  
  In contrast to this, the Ghosts, whenever they engage the enemy, there is always an exchange of 
 fire (atleast I've seen that, and it isn't because of my bad strategy either) . i. e. they rarely 
 just take down the enemy with well-placed shots and not be shot back. And they rarely return fire 
 and not complain about taking hostile fire. It's really irritating sometimes when they have to 
 yell, "Captain, I'm taking hostile fire" repeatedly, even when they have the permission to shoot 
 on sight. Do I need to know they are getting shot at? Why don't they just shoot back at that guy? 
 Sometimes, I feel you play their mother.
  I think this game would have been better had the Ghosts been a bunch of Convicts freeing themselves 
 of their Jail sentences by doing this work. In which case these amateur team of yours will be fitting 
 for the story line.
  
  There is no getting around this one. Even if you manage to work your way through the first four 
 missions the fifth is very difficult. And with the P. C version not having the back to wall cover 
 feature like in the console versions (for those who don't know what I am talking about, the cover 
 feature like in Gears of War and Rainbow Six Vegas) .
  It makes this game extremely difficult to play. And the game has some set save points. You'll have 
 to play through every irritating moment (which the first time around was tense and exciting but 
 after dying a few 100 times gets frustrating) of creeping around, peeking and clearing out the 
 easy targets and then facing the choke point. There is a quick save button, which allows you to 
 save between checkpoints a certain number of times. How exactly that works I am not clear and I 
 didn't bother to find out anyway. 
  
  And the bad guysOk forget the bad guys. Almost every soldier in the game wears a sort of rounded 
 helmet with eyeglasses, heavy armour and a fancy uniform. I'm guessing the developers used the 
 same models for the Ghosts and the enemies. Ok, the Ghosts can wear the tacky gear, but not the 
 Mexican rebels. It looks too artificial for a group of Mexican rebels to be wearing such gear. 
 At least in the first game, the enemies wore hats and equipment decent enough to look different 
 from what you wear. And it would have been nice if there were AK-47s for the enemies to use instead 
 of a HKG36s. They don't come off as rebels. Rebels do not have such equipment. Even in the near 
 future. Maybe their elite unit will have that but not the rebels, who in most cases are poor people 
 who are fighting an ideologically driven war. They will not possess the training and equipment 
 that the Army possesses much less the Ghosts. That is another thing that I find used in excess 
 in games these days. You're always part of an 'elite' military team. Anybody who reads Tom Clancy 
 books, or even knows something about the army, or is an Army Movie buff, will know that any kind 
 of Special Forces group isn't only about using fancy technology. They perform better under stress. 
 All you get in GRAW 2 is the technology. Kind of a waste of your talents I'd say. With GRAW 2, 
 there isn't anything particularly elite about the Ghosts. For a Clancy Game, I'd expect a more 
 realistic and accurate depiction of military operations and the scenario. It loses its realism 
 further when the commander keeps putting everything on your shoulders. You, three other guys and 
 a satellite map and a funky vehicle that can refill your ammo from. And you're always called in 
 to aid the Mexican army. It's lame. In the game, the Mexican army behaves totally incompetent. 
 Even more idiotic than the ghosts. In comparison to them, the ghosts look elite. What's more the 
 rebels manage to have tanks and helicopters and the Mexican army has none. Can somebody explain 
 to me how that happened? A better use of the Mexican army would be to provide support to the U. S 
 Black Ops, in terms of transport, intel, and the covering fire needed to bail whoever is left of 
 your team out of a situation at the end of a mission. And what exactly happened to all the civilians 
 in the large parts of town that everybody is fighting in? There are half destroyed buildings and 
 deserted streetshow? Just fighting by rebels. Some civilians (dead or alive) around the place 
 would have added more depth to the game. The game is really drab in terms of the story and some 
 of the details as I mentioned to you before. But in terms of the firing and the movement physics 
 of the game, this game is very realistic. You can see expended magazines on the ground! (I just 
 love that feature) . It would have been a nice touch if bullets could penetrate thin materials. 
 I found myself trying to shoot at a guy behind asbestos sheets a number of times (mostly after 
 dying and reloading) , but I cannot shoot through the sheet. And since there are smoke grenades 
 thermal vision would have helped a great deal. An option to take control of any Ghost at anytime 
 like in the previous games (before GRAW) would have been nice. Since I usually get to use the grenade 
 launcher I assigned to a soldier myself after that bum gets himself killed without using it, it 
 would have been a nicer option to take control of them. The back to wall feature like in the console 
 versions. Binoculars. Maybe a team formation while they are following you, and team spacing. Better 
 colours on the buildings. The whole city seems to have one colour. Little more vibrancy is definitely 
 needed. 
  
  To conclude, this game had the potential to be a great game but falls short on the essential elements. 
 Why anybody should play it, and the fact that they should believe in the story and not find it 
 a joke. The graphics like most games today are great, sound is fine, but gameplay isn't all that 
 great. No issues in controls. And you cannot play the singleplayer campaign in co-operative mode 
 online. This game simulates extreme realism in shooting and getting shot but that's it. Nothing 
 more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3DBlizzard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I love this game compared to other shooters like Call of Duty because it's like real war! Every 
 action has consequences and the consequences can be deadly! If you are in a spot with a lot of 
 cover and large angle of attack, you could basically wipe out a squad of soldiers! But if you are 
 on the streets and don't check your corners and search for baddies on top of buildings, don't be 
 surprised if you suddenly get shot out of nowhere! That's what I love about this game; it is realistic! 
 You have to be smart. You have to plan your approach, or else you won't be prepared when there 
 is a sniper or a machine gunner around the corner! The guns especially outshine the guns in other 
 modern shooters in that they're actually deadly! One shot in the torso or head for most guns will 
 down the enemy, and when the enemy falls, he actually falls like gravity is pulling him down! 
 
  
  I played the game on hard and thought all the missions' difficulty was just about right. I thought 
 all the levels were exciting and creative, but the final mission was definitely a beast! You air 
 assault on top of a bridge while the enemies are shooting at you and 50% of the time, your teammate 
 dies before he makes it to the ground, which is kind of annoying; but then, it just shows to tell 
 what real war is like. 
  
  The AI is pretty effective for the most part, like providing covering fire and spotting enemies 
 you miss. The one aspect I dont like about them is their pathfinding skills because sometimes, 
 they go on a certain path you don't want them to go, which is no biggie except for the final mission. 
 The only thing that would have made this game better is if the squads worked together. In ROTC 
 when I was doing an assault on a building, the 1st guy in front checked the door, the 2nd guy checked 
 the front, the 3rd checked the sides, and the 4th checked the back, so when we were moving, we 
 were prepared when enemies pop out. This would have been the game better if the friendly AIs actually 
 did that except looking to the front most of the times. 
  
  I'm definitely going to play this game again when I get the chance and try to imploy more squad 
 tactics and use the other weapons I haven't had the opportunity to use! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actsai
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is very difficult to play, but great graphics even though the palette is somewhat drab 
 as if sandstorm swept through Middle America.
  
  On my obsolete AMD X2 3800+/GeForce 7950 GTOC this game runs respectably well. But then Crysis 
 does run respectably good here too. The package does advertise unlockable PhysX-heavy level only 
 with a hardware PhysX card, from what I can tell this is entirely of a marketing gimmick, Crysis 
 can do a very good software physics here albeit I do forget if it is Ageia/Havoc/or homebrew.
 
  
  Good graphics/physics/thinkers' FPS/squad/... what is not to love? Except in comparison to the 
 cream of crop Crysis and COD 4 everything good here can be relegated to subpar, except the squad, 
 COD series put you as junior member, and Crysis has none to speak of, while GRAW 2 put you as squad 
 leader with control.
  
  GRAW 2 does take a simpler approach of most shots in anywhere of the body is lethal shot; not a 
 very realistic way but it does simplify things a little. Although still borders difficult to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  First off, thanks to Ubisoft and Grin for making a PC-specific version of Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter 2. Anyone who passed on the more forgiving, arcade-like focus of the Xbox 360's GRAW 
 2 will find a much more challenging, tactical experience with this one. So if you prefer merciless 
 first-person shooting gameplay, the kind where a single mistake will get you killed, then this 
 is your game.
  
  The plot doesn't really matter here, and moreover it isn't very interesting. Basically you have 
 to recover nuclear warheads from a group of rebels, based primarily in Mexico. Over the course 
 of the narrative you'll hear a bunch of "No man gets left behind!" style chatter from your superiors 
 delivered in a forced, unnatural cadence with no real sense of urgency. But that's really not the 
 point of the game here, it's more about action.
  
  And there's plenty of action online and in the single player campaign. Before each sortie there's 
 a briefing screen through which you can customize your squad of three Ghosts with primary and secondary 
 weapons, as well as grenades. Your own weaponry is customizable as well, giving you the power to 
 attach scopes and silencers to whatever rifles you bring out, swap that in for a machine gun, or 
 opt for a grenade launcher.
  
  Regardless of what you pick, expect most of your team to die, particularly in the last three missions 
 of the campaign. This is the type of game where you're frequently going to get shot and killed 
 by enemies you can't see. Foes can be "tagged," meaning painted with a red diamond, if your squad 
 mates can spot them, but often your buddies won't live long enough to pull that off. Their AI just 
 isn't that good, lowering their already slim chances for survival.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: manikrrish
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. 2 is just the right stuff for action packed shooting game. The look is almost the same 
 as the previous Ghost Recons but there are improved graphics and a slightly better AI. Missions 
 is what matters the most and I will give it an 8 as they are really interesting. Optimized use 
 of tactics and weapons makes it a lot easier to finish campaigns. First two or three acts are easier 
 but the fun keeps going up as you progress. Multiple approaches to targets also gives you an edge. Cover 
 and keeping the team ahead of you more often than not is what you can do but it keeps you out of 
 the action more or less.. Drawbacks, a lot of them, game doesn't advance to next mission due to 
 some bugs in the second and third act, you have to replay it or delete saved games. Also, the game 
 crashes and AI gets stuck too often. Patches released also hardly fixes the problem. G. R. A. W. 2 
 did not live up to my high expectations but it was not disappointing as well. So, play it or miss 
 it you won't regret.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Since the 1st release of Ghost recon in 2001, the game has become 1 of my all time favourite. There 
 are some expension packs released for the 1st Ghost recon, and they are also cool games. A couple 
 more years later, GRIN has taken over Ghost recon from redstorm, and start making a new Ghost recon 
 titles aka GRAW, which is where the nightmare begins and all the dreams and hopes are dead.
  
  GRAW 2 is quite similar to GRAW in terms of graphics and gameplay. It really feels like the 
 first game, with a few modifcations. Both game came across with same problems, including the AI. 
 The AI was incredibily stupid, and constantly stuck in walls, slopes... sometimes it takes awhile 
 until you realise you have a missing soldier, so you got to run all the way back to where your 
 squad member is stucked, and fire a few rounds in their legs in order to free them, that is even 
 worst then babysitting.
  
  Worst of all, GRAW2 crashes a lot, and I really mean ALOT. Think about it, you have a 70% chance 
 of getting your computer crash in the middle of the game, and it could be once or twice on each 
 mission. It is not a matter of my computer hardware, it's a bug in the game, no one could fix it, 
 even GRIN knew they have screwed up and they tried to use patch to fix the error, guess what, It 
 doesn't work either, the game is still crashing like old times. If you can stand the game crashes, 
 nothing else can stop you from buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnym26
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 8/10 realistic, greats physics and effects makes a very nice looking game, slightly 
 dull environments though.
  
  Gameplay - 5/10 ok one big mistake with this game was making it way to hard basically 3 or 4 shots 
 and your dead and you cant heal yourself, one head shot its hame over. Ok i know its meant to be 
 realistic but it takes a lot of the fun out of the game, repeating one part of the game after another 
 having to remember where all the bad guys are. This lets down what is otherwise a good game with 
 good controls and nice action.
  
  Story - 5/10 usual Tom Clancy type story about political situations etc, not very interesting.
 
  
  Sound - 8/10 decent enough realistic sounding guns expolsions and voice acting.
  
  Longevity - 6/10 once through the single player game will be enough for anyone as you will die 
 at least 100 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The story in GRAW 2 is as followed: You, in the role of Captain Scott Mitchell, are back with your 
 companions in the American elite-unit Ghost. The story continues from where it ends in the first 
 game, which is in a worried/restless Mexico in the year 2013. However, this time it has went really 
 bad since the Mexican rebels have got their hands on nuclear weapons from Pakistan that they now 
 threaten to launch towards American cities.
  
  My strongest impression from the first game in the GRAW-series was the introduction, combined with 
 the first mission. The view was just amazing. Especially the view over Mexico City was something 
 I've never seen before in a game. However, when I reached the ground I started to notice the engines, 
 as well as the editors, limits. But more of that later on.
  
  The first mission in GRAW 2 isn't as spectacular as the one in the first game though. You land 
 with a helicopter in a Mexican mountain-village where your mission is to neutralize the rebels 
 artillery in the area. But with the lack of a good introduction-phase, the game is aswell introducted 
 worse. To get into GRAW 2 is still easy. You have three Ghosts for your disposal, that each are 
 specialized in different skills, for example sniping or support.
  
  Easily controlled - but not without problems
  
  To control your companions there is a clever 
 control system that is very easy to use. With help of the scroll-wheel you can either choose your 
 entire squad or a single soldier and command them to perform various actions. The simplicity has 
 two sides. It's easy to use but it's at the same time too limited. You can't for example order 
 your men to crouch or take cover. The problem is solved to a certain limit by the tactical map 
 where you with higher accuracy can control and plan on the digital battlefield. Despite the easy 
 structure, the tactical part in GRAW 2 contains some big mistakes.
  
  When the tactical elements practically disappear due to its limits, you can always hope that the 
 AI makes up for it. Unfortunately even the AI has some mistakes. Even on the highest difficulty, 
 your allies stupidity, the enemies accuracy and cynicism never stops to surprise. Luckily you can 
 control your soldiers movement fairly, but it doesn't stop them from getting stuck in all the rubbish 
 and junk that is spread out here and there on the battlefield.
  
  Earlier I mentioned my objections on the maps design in the first GRAW. Unfortunately the sequel 
 has the same problem. Even though impressive physics, huge space and great textures, they are surprisingly 
 rigid and empty. You can't open doors or interact with the surrounding in other ways. You have 
 for example a sniper-rifle to your disposal that is limited by the game-engine, as the enemies 
 aren't visible at an unlimited distance, which makes alot of the point with a sniper-rifle going 
 lost.
  
  The huge area of the game is limited even by single-track ways and trigger-controlled events, which 
 often is negative for tactical FPS-games. Everything isn't bad though. Some maps are designed great, 
 and it's a delight to be in them. Still I'd wanted an increased variation on the environment, since 
 mostly you're wandering in dirty gray and blown up city-environments. What happened to the woods, 
 the jungle and the polar environment?
  
  The graphics isn't the best I've ever seen, but it sure is nice. Everything from the dust, smoke 
 and explosions to the characters is very detailed aswell as spectacular. Even the sound is great 
 in form of a huge amount of roaring and impressive sound-effects. Sound from the weapons, explosions 
 and everything else in the environment sounds exactly like it should.
  
  Before every mission, you arm your soldiers and yourself with a big amount of modern weapons of 
 all types. Everything from guns to automatic carbines. Here you will also receive briefing and 
 objectives for the mission. The voice play is alright, but often very annoying. The mouth-movements, 
 synchronization and quality on the computer-animations in the briefing-phase is unfortunately horrible, 
 almost to the limit that you think it's year 1995.
  
  Now to the most important part - the game-feeling and how the game really works. Concerning your 
 movements, they feel a bit stiff. You can either stand up, crouch or lay down. What fits best depends 
 on your opinion, aswell as the situation. Mostly the idiotic enemy-AI is fully unaware of your 
 presence, even run like a madman wearing your military boots. Plus that the enemies doesn't often 
 react when their allies just fell victims for your bullets, even though they are 50 meters from 
 eachother. On the other hand it can be the complete opposite sometimes, so to speak having perfect 
 accuracy aswell as predicting your actions.
  
  A tactical shooter?
  
  The shooting is often very intensive and adrenaline raising, but after a while it becomes very 
 easy since one bullet often is enough to annihilate your opponents. On the other hand, the combination 
 of imbalanced AI, an excessive amount of enemies and idiotic design-choices on maps can make it 
 really hard. To shoot 25 armed Mexicans is very easy compared to for example ordering your men 
 to take cover or shoot down a helicopter.
  
  The built' in Gamespy-serverbrowser works alright, but is missing some essential functions such 
 as filters and other important functions in order to be complete. The multiplayer in GRAW 2 lets 
 32 players fight in co-op or deathmatch. I thought that the multiplayer would be a disappointment, 
 but I was surprised by it. Co-op is the most fun mode in my opinion, where four players are able 
 to play through the singleplayer-maps. The multiplayer is far from perfect but can still be really 
 entertaining.
  
  My impressions of GRIN's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 are in the end positive. The brain-dead 
 AI, the frustrating design-misses, the lack of tactical elements aswell as the high system requirements 
 are serious issues that gives the game a reduced rating. Still, if we disregard these issues, we 
 have a really good-looking and entertaining game along with great sound. However, next time I hope 
 that GRIN will be better at mixing all the ingredients. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvajn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I strongly disagree with the review that it is too difficult. It's a tactical shooter so you cannot 
 hold shift button run through the map and kill everyone yourself. Even though when did that on 
 'normal' to test if it's too difficult as the review said, I killed 12-15 enemies before a sniper 
 shot me. AI of your team mates is really good, but I've noticed that all NPCs in the game have 
 a bit slow reaction time, thus making me able to kill 12-15 of them in COD4 style combat. This 
 makes you often react much faster than your team, so you'll have most kills in almost every mission, 
 unless you specifically guide your team and sit back at a safe distance.
  Concernig multiplayer, I've played coop for about 3-4 hours and found out that since it is without 
 music, can be a bit dull at some moments, especially if there aren't many people on the server. 
 However, missions in multiplayer are more difficut since there's no cross-com, which makes them 
 interesting and addictive (lots of vehicles to destroy, and many sudden surprise attacks) . 
  Great game, and a great sequel!
  Dominik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  =Series of The legendary "Ghost Recon" 1st on PC=
  
  GRAW2 it's a series of the legendary Ghost Recon with unique gameplay and story, have a few heroes 
 with specially weapon who can played. GRAW2 it's sequel from GRAW which reelase in 2006, with co-operative 
 team and same environment.
  
  =Gameplay=
  
  it's very sadly and sucks to find out your team were killed if u not organize them which better. 
 The gameplay very interesting but it's very difficult to manage ur' team in map and then find out 
 u was killed. Enemy AI improved and not easy to defeated, actually u shoot his head. it's better 
 than u manage ur team carefully and use the recon mode effectively, if u won; t to kill easily. 
 Captain Scott Mitchell very impressively leader, but the team is not. The team not special with 
 a few bit choice. nothing heroes in here except capt. scott mitchell. Multiplayer mode very interesting 
 than single player mode. with co-operative recon team.
  
  =Graphics=
  
  The graphics not impressive with all browned color pallete domination. u will find a few bug in 
 here, in gameplay or graphics. It's not recomended to play GRAW2 with minimum requirements. ur 
 pc will out of hell!!., even with mainstream specifications too. Many decreasing frame rate in 
 the gameplay, a few bug (almost u cannot move mule or ur team) . it's not highly recommended to 
 overclock ur pc system if u dont want decrease ur PC age.
  
  =All performance=
  
  it's nice better XBOX 360 version than PC version, remembered the game was born and famous on PC. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akhenaton666
Rating: 6
Date: May 16, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 = 5.5... Why?
  The sound it's simply great and reallistic as hell; the explosion of a grenade or the C4 in a 5.1 
 system will blow away your ears; the sound of the guns it's incredible... sometimes it's just fun 
 to shoot to listen the effects, but... I cannot say the same for the graphics. Is it me or the 
 AA doesn't work? and the AI can be frustrating. Dont' get me wrong, the concept is solid and the 
 tactical stuff is reallistic... you are a true captain!, but the console port is way better.
  
  By the way, have you done a bad shot (yes, you know is a bad shot) but the target falls down? 
 It's a common issue with this game. And I know a shoot can be a mortal way and effective to kill 
 people, but the enemies simply dies by a shot in the arm or the leg; it was really weird to see 
 a soldier who doesn't die by a simple shot.
  
  The PC gamers were screwed up again and the consequences comes when this games aren't sold as they 
 want, but they don't consider this crappy and buggy version will keep us away of this and the new 
 episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkiller111
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 12, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  At fist this game was very good nice physics and enemy A. I but as I started to progress there seemed 
 to be lots of moments that i was getting shelled, shot at, and out of ammo. It seemed that to aim 
 decently (meaning not shooting the guy guy 2 feet in front of you instead shooting some helpless 
 rock) I had to hold my breath. Meaning I had about 6 seconds to line up my shot and fire which 
 since I was a sniper did not wok out so well. THe only thing i did not get was the fact you are 
 playing as some out-of-shape recruite and not some highly trained elite special forces solider. 
 Meaning that You can't run 10 feet without stopping and panting like you just sprinted 10 miles. 
 But I am getting of track. I really mean this game is cool but it can be like I said it can be 
 "go in the corner and stab your eyes out hard. I would say if you have the money and liked thr 
 other ghost recon games as well as rainbow six I would buy this game. But if not wait till it goes 
 on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Graw games have been a undless love hate relationship with me. there are times when i just can't 
 get over how great they are, and there are other times when it takes all my will power to keep 
 myself from smashing the disk. on one hand, it's a brilliantly realistic tactical shooter with 
 some of the most realistic physx out there. on the other hand, they both have a crappy checkpoint 
 system, and both are brutally diffcult. 
  Graw 2 has a pretty run of the mill tom clancy story, involving mexican rebels, nukes, and polatics. 
 the gameplay is based on non-linear squad based combat, and the gameplay couldn't be more slowly 
 paced. you have to take every corner slowly and carefully, you have to have all of your sides covered, 
 you need to be on your toes at all times, as you die in a couple of shots from your enemy. a careless 
 step out of cover often means death for you or one of your teamates. sometimes, if you are in the 
 right mood, this style of gameplay works great, made intense by the huge, open levels and unpredictble 
 enemy ai. your squadmembers, on the other hand, are less inteligent. in the first graw, you would 
 have to spend loads of time guiding your squad around car doors and debris. they at leased fixed 
 that in graw 2. 
  this game has a few really good things going for it - good graphics, amazing physx, (there was 
 one time where there was a mexican rebel behind a sand bag bunker type thing around a corner pinning 
 me down. i got out my grenade launcher, and shot quickly. the grenade missed the bunker, sailed 
 past him and hit the base of the light post behind him. the light post fell and crushed the rebel) , 
 huge, open levels, and great tactical gameplay. the live overhead map makes it great to create 
 advances with your squad, and also great for spotting enemy soldiers. you can also use a team camara 
 to see what your squad sees. 
  now on to the bad. the checkpoing system makes sense, there are about two in the huge levels with 
 tons of objectives, there is a messed up quicksave system that usually says "saving now allowed" 
 and the difficulty is absurd. you die so fast it's not even funny. 
  overall, i'd reccomend this game to those with high patience, and those who enjoy realistic squad 
 based tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  First off, i'm not a fan of the Ghost Recon series, i'm more of the Rainbow Six type. But i liked 
 Advanced Warfighter though. It was good and i'm always a sucker for tactical games. I also love 
 to see a bit of realism in a game, but Advanced warfighter 2 was overkill in my opinion. There 
 was no need to change the health regeneration system which was so successful in fps games. And 
 without it, the one-hit-kill (or maybe two) rule was a pain in the ass. I was unimpressed with the 
 graphics and color schemes too. The game environment looked boring. And the visuals could have 
 been better. The squad commands can be sometimes difficult too. On the plus side, the story in 
 single player mode was nice and neatly done, espicially with those real-life videos being shown. To 
 sum it all up, GRAW2 is a bit disappointing and overrated compared to the previous game. Not bad 
 but it's not as good as you would have expected either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDY1118
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has always been a game of tactics. GRAW 2 is just that: tactical all the way. This 
 not Halo, if you charge at an enemy, or even step into a wide open area, you will die. Quickly, 
 and without much of a warning. If you play smart, you will come to love GRAW 2's unforgiving nature. 
 But trust me: quick saves will soon become your best friend.
  
  The story picks up from where GRAW ended. If you never played it, then #2 will fill you in pretty 
 quickly. Its got your standard twists and turns, nothing insanely detailed or complex, but still 
 very good. You'll find yourself creeping your way through enemy territory, which is very cool to 
 see and pretty detailed. However, the places start to look similar after a while.
  
  The gameplay is where GRAW 2 shines. It has an assortment of weapons to use, and you can customize 
 your squad's arsenal too. This is a good feature to have, and helps when you need your squad to 
 be perfectly armed. The game can be pretty challenging in the lower diffuculty, even the easiest 
 will throw you off a couple times. However, it can be frustrating at a point. Keeping you squad 
 alive can be a chore. They're smart.... Just not smart enough. You may find yourself messing with 
 their orders a lot more than you'd like. 
  
  If you get shot twice in GRAW 2, you're going to die. Realism is used more in this PC version than 
 in the console one. Bullets kill quickly and efficently, no matter what gun you use usually. Staying 
 out of enemy sight is important, because their AI is usually pretty intelligent. They do some stupid 
 stuff, but they are a challenge most of the time.
  
  Overall, this is a great game. If you're looking for a challenging FPS that makes you think, then 
 this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy637
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Anyone who remembers playing GR1/OGR will remember the wide, open landscapes providing you pretty 
 much complete freedom of movement. Objectives were set out in a full briefing, and could be completed 
 in any order. Graphics by todays standards are poor, but the gameplay is still there. Especially 
 in online MP, where OGR really showed its potential.
  
  So, seven years later, Ubisoft has yet to release a worthy successor! GR: AW was just a complete 
 and utter disaster as far as a tactical shooter goes. Liner, predictable mission design and poor 
 gameplay meant that I stopped playing it within a month of buying it; going back to playing OGR 
 online. Now we have GR: AW2, a somewhat mediocre attempt to revive the "tactical" side of this tactical 
 shooter.
  
  I'll grant Grin that the squad AI has been much improved since GR: AW. Although you still have to 
 somewhat "hold their hand" they are far more capable of performing tasks. The recon mode is also 
 a very welcome addition, as in GR: AW you simply couldn't sneak past anything without your squad 
 mates blasting everything to kingdom come (kind of detracts from the "recon" in Ghost RECON!) , 
 now you have the option of sneaking around like a ghost should to get the job done quietly and 
 efficiently. 
  
  However! Here comes the bad news...
  
  Mission design... Still not there, confrontations are still predictable with incredibly annoying 
 Narcom updates, with liner routes through the map. I have yet to see a map recreate the vast wilderness 
 seen in many of the OGR maps. One REALLY annoying fact about the game is the way in which enemy 
 infantry spawns. In OGR you started the mission with all enemy forces there in position, allowing 
 you to do effective recon and plan your movements to have minimum contact with the enemy. Using 
 the cross-com you can survey your surrounding environment, which while being a very handy too it 
 makes this error especially noticeable. For instance, checking your right flank everything is clear 
 no visible enemy presence. You move your men to the next building up the street. Up pops the Narcom 
 "Scott, hostiles inbound!", so you pop up the cross-com to find an APC with half a dozen infantry 
 flanking you in the area you just saw as completely clear... This really detracts from the way 
 that you plan your movements, and makes the game appear really arcade in style. For instance some 
 community made missions for OGR focused so heavily on stealth and recon that you failed the mission 
 if you fired a single shot!
  
  This may seem like a complete waste of time, I can see your point, this might seem like a very 
 biased review. However, after three games, two released and one cancelled... Ubisoft has yet to 
 make another game worthy of holding the Ghost Recon title. There are rumors abound of another GR 
 game after a typically Ubisoft style PR stunt on the GR. com site. 
  
  If this is true, and another Ghost Recon title is in the works and If your looking for a true tactical 
 shooter, worthy of the Ghost Recon title... don't get your hopes up. If the next game is a real 
 success, then great, I will be pleasantly surprised! Until then though, for a real tactical sim 
 you should be looking more in the direction of ArmA/OFP or the currently in development ArmA2 and 
 OFP2. Hell, you could even go back to playing OGR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carousel91
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Lack of saving games as well as unpleasant colours lead to a difficult time playing this game. 
 The colours are all so similar its almost impossible to spot an enemy solider in the distance. 
 Tactical but sometimes a bit unfair. You can be ganged by squads of soliders with machine guns 
 and snipers as well as vechicles. Almost impossible to win.
  
  Good points are that squad members are responsive but yet somehow not responsive or quick enough. 
 They are however capable of covering your back but that still leaves you to majority of the killing. 
 Squad members inabilty to destroy enemy vechicle on sight makes it irritating to run for cover 
 unnesecciarly.
  
  My first GRAW experience on PC and i must say i am thankful i didn't buy this game and it was a 
 gift because i wouldn't have paid for the immense difficulty and plain colours this game has to 
 offer.
  
  Overall great effort, but colours and difficutly should be adjusted. I can see what the people 
 at Ubisoft are trying to put out but the final work could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Good things:
  
  Gameplay: Excellent tactics and good taking cover feature. Ur team's Ai isnt retarded like many 
 other tactic games.
  
  Sounds: Great sound for the weapons and voice acting.
  
  System: Just right game requirement system.
  
  Graphics: Good graphics
  
  Bad things:
 
  
  Gameplay: Taking cover feature could have been improved. They should have made the taking cover 
 feature just like Rainbow Six Vegas. the enemy soldiers are 2 ACCURATE! needs to decrease some 
 accurates. That is what makes the game hard.
  
  Sounds: None
  
  System: Many crashes Graphics: Graphics are kind of showing its age. (not much) and not enough 
 lightings.
  
  Overall: This game is great but i dont think it will least too long. But this game is worth a try. 
 Iam sorry that i couldnt write much. There were nothing much about this game hehehehehehehehehehehehe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  It's unfortunate that this game isn''t a little better. This is perhaps the only hardcore tactical 
 shooter franchise left, and I very much wanted to like it. For the most part I did. 
  
  It seems linear level design has set in here as well. More than in GRAW you'll be boxed in by "you're 
 leaving the mission area" threats and artificial obstructions. It's not too prevalent but certainly 
 noticable.
  
  On to the AI; apparently GRIN tried to improve on the all-seeing AI of GRAW and now it seems NPC 
 won't see things outside of their field of view, unfortunately I think it has badly affected the 
 usefulness of your team mates. More often than they should, they get killed in seconds without 
 returning fire.
  
  I spent about 20 hours to finish the game (hardcore difficulty) ; 10 hours for the first 9 missions 
 and 10 for just the last one. As mentioned in the Gamespot review this mission is a masterclass 
 in frustration, and it really taints the game. I spent 45 minutes just to get inserted with all 
 teammates alive (!!) . That is, before you even get to the initial "restart level" save point! 
 
  
  Luckily the rest of the missions are pretty good. Personally I really like the graphics engine, 
 the levels are big with highly detailed textures and models and none of tthat overdone shine, HDR, 
 bloom etc. in the Unreal III engine, which is often outright ugly to look at.
  
  All in all I think a 7 is definitely too harsh, i'll take it over RS: Vegas that's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marky654dbest
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  i've been searching for a loonngg time for a gd REAL game that i can play using my brain as if 
 i'm doing it... cod4 recently got out.. its a gr8 game but on reality fixtures IT SUCKS.. with lots 
 of inacuracies in weapons bla bla bla... graw2 has not one mistake in any weapon.. and it can be 
 easy on normal!! IF! u play it as if u were doing it for real.. if u play like other average gamea.. go 
 out and shoot bum bum ready than u will not manage on graw2.. but if u play using ur brain like 
 a real spec war operator in 2013 u will find it awesome, easy and u will think u went to war! personally 
 i find normal graw2 easier than veteran cod4.. plus when i see certain stuf it reminds me im playing 
 just a game... on graw2.. i wear gloves and get so sucked up in the ORIGINAL story (not copied from 
 movies including the music!!) i forget everything... GF, FRNDS, STUDY!, FAMILY!! FOOD! everything 
 goes coz im playing graw2 and i need 100% concentration coz im at war in my own room:) maybe for 
 the gamer its boring.. but someone who knows what real war is.. he will apreciate it soo much.... MWA 
 LOVE U GRAW2!... one bad thing is the graphics.. they could have been a bit better tough!!!! but iti 
 is concentrated in mexico!! mexico is dull, so i gues it has to look dull, but this is literally 
 outstanding, waiting for its serial game because they are just sooo realistic :) even the weaponry 
 u actualy have recoil, in life u have hard time geting rounds on target not hard time kiling the 
 target, and that is what graw 2 does, so i go on semi-automatic and keep shooting and get a PERFECT 
 rating for my mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting (like it should be in the game industry) a lot more from a sequel.... on the opposite, 
 it was far inferior from its predecessor.
  
  First of all, this game is way too short. There's 10 levels, and some took me about 10-15 mins 
 to finish even if I was playing full tactical (crouching, peaking around corners, babysitting my 
 teamates... etc) .
  
  Talking about babysitting my teammates... they were worst than ever... always getting stuck in the 
 environment, did not shoot at ennemies, getting out of cover for no reasons... etc.
  
  Then, you got the enemies... with the same brainless AI... so many times I was right in their face 
 and they were acting like I was not there. 
  
  In terms of difficulty, I don't understand why people say its very hard... this game is hard be 
 a lot easier than the first one... at times, I was blazing threw some levels almost run and gun 
 style.... the enemies are so slow compared to GRAW 1 and with the possibility to save almost whenever 
 you want, it makes the game a lot easier. I even found a technique that make you almost invisible... if 
 you have trouble finishing this game, just crouch all the time and use a suppress weapon and you're 
 good for the win.
  
  Sound and graphics are the same as GRAW 1
  
  Sometimes, you can use artillery strikes, airstikes and control a tank but only 2 times in the 
 entire game.... on the 360 version, there were levels where you could use the minigun on the blackhawk 
 or you could use an apache gunship... those things should have been introduced in the pc version 
 and I don't know why it was not .
  
  On the plus side, there were only 2 things that were new and that I enjoy.... more guns and the 
 ability to give orders to your teammates threw their crosscom cam.
  
  Overall, it's an ok game but grin made many mistakes.... there were no memorable moments like those 
 I encountered while playing GRAW1.. now at 20 $, this game should be picked only by hardcore GRAW 
 fans. If you are not one of them, dont even bother.
  
  My specs:
  P4 HT 3,4 ghz
  2 gb of RAM
  Ati radeon X850XT PE
  Audigy soundblaster 2 ZS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  initially, the box which graw came in made it look like a game which was easy because it emphasised 
 on the cross-com and using the given assisstance like cross-com and the uav drone. however, even 
 with all this help, graw is still a challenging game even on the easiest difficulty level. this 
 is the biggest flaw which graw has and would have got a higher score if it was adjusted to suit 
 more casusal players, instead of hardcore fps players. still, it is a good game. graw has great 
 graphics and good control scheme, however the control scheme can be improved. for example, when 
 switching weapons, you need to hold down a key and cycle through weapons, this is slow in combat 
 and many times will kill you. the sound in graw is ok, because it does not vary much. the gunshots 
 are mostly the same and the explosions are almost identical.
  one good point about the game is that if you are skilled, this game offers a high replay value 
 and still enables to give you lots of fun. everytime you play graw, the enemies will be situated 
 and patrolling different areas. for example, if you get shot by a sniper, when you go back to look 
 for him, he will almost surely be gone and located somewhere else. this simulates real war very 
 realistically because you never know what to expect. the environments are realistic in the game 
 and you have to be careful because bullets can pass through sheet metal and wood, so taking cover 
 behind those is no use. sniper bullets can pass through thin walls, so if a sniper is near, you 
 had better kill him quick.
  honestly, the ps3 version of graw 2 is much better than the pc version because the difficulty is 
 adjusted very well compared to the pc version. graw on the ps3 plays better because of the sixaxis 
 on the ps3, which can be used to roll, dive, slide and dodge.
  in conclusion, graw on pc could have improced gameplay and been easier for the casusal gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nima_bahal08
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  this game was a good shooter, but difficulty was very hard,
  even when you choose "easy" mode you can not kill your enemy that easy.
  next problem is about 
 your health. you can not improve it.
  but the good thing is the game graphics, and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 has a good multiplayer, you 
 built your teams and have fun,
  in multiplayer you can find pretty sound and speak system. you can talk to your team very well.
 
  another problem that you can find is their speed. your speed is not that well,
  and when you crouch it seems that you are not move at all.
  
  at the end this is a game that 
 you can spend your time 
 
  
 
  
  ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, 
 ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riydada
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing and it its so realistic. if you get shot in the artery your automically dead. 
 and if another guy gets shot in an artery he is dead and blah blah blah. the multiplayer on the 
 game is pretty fun. Pros: amazing graphics, realistic, somewhat strategic, i like the stealth that 
 is in the game, and amazing maps.
  
  cons: lighting is dull. it looks like no ones ever lived there. it looks deserted. its all yellow 
 orangish. rarely will you see any blue, green or anything like that. second bad thing is the difficulty 
 will make you cry. but its not too bad after youve played the level like five times. a  
    
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandao25
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  I bought full licensed version from BestBuy and must say: I simply love it!!! This game is about 
 team work and not about shooting your way through dussins of monsters or soldiers. Picking the 
 right team mate and right weapon for him may save your team's life. 
  It is really simillar to S. W. A. T. and Ghost Recon, but I like it better for it's improved graphics 
 and wide range of armor. 
  The only one thing I didn't like is that you are moving kind of slow in normal. The run is to fast. 
 But it is the only thing I didn't like and I don't think that it is worth to take of even 0.5.
 
  So, as I said, I MUST HAVE for tactical shooter players (just like me :P) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  I can't say how much I am disappointed with this game. I have played GRAW1 4 times in the past 
 year and I am still not bored with it so I had high hopes with this game although knowing GRAW1 
 so well I was a bit nervous after reading the GS review - talking about ruthless difficulty or 
 whatever it was. Turned out GRAW2 was not much more than a simple walkthrough and not half as tactical 
 as the first outing.
  So where did it go wrong?
  First of all you can now command the entire team like in R6 Vegas (awful game) so the team then 
 becomes a decoy that can usually look after itself rather than individuals that you you are fighting 
 to keep breathing. It's also pretty linear. In GRAW1 you could survey the tactical map and plot 
 different routes which was a lot of fun as once your confidence grew you could pair up with a wing 
 man and send the other two ghosts off on a different route to flank the enemy. In GRAW2 you think 
 you spot a route to do that only to get warned you are 'leaving the zone' = game over... The two 
 worst things though are the option to choose the difficulty level and the possibility to save. 
 In GRAW1 (unless I didn't notice it) there was no difficuty option - it was just realistic and 
 the fact that you only had checkpoints to save at made your teeth itch as you tried to keep everyone 
 alive between them. It also forced you to go slow and be tactical but in GRAW2 you lose the 'care' 
 factor as you can just save (most of the time) and know you can reload if you die. Another gripe 
 is that both command interfaces are now more clumsy and the AI is poor as you can walk straight 
 past some enemies with no reaction. That sort of thing can get sorted by patches though. Finally, 
 the music is not so good when in GRAW1 all you got was ambient synthesiser tones.
  Where did it go right?
  You can use fixed guns and there is a wider selection of weaponry (although 
 the interface is clumsy, it and it is difficult to compare options) . Unfortunately it seems the 
 team also have limitless ammo now. The assault/recon modes are not a bad idea but are not well 
 implemented. For example in assault mode a cover instruction will force suppressing fire - which 
 is a bit pointless unless there is actually an enemy to shoot at.
  End of moan, I think. I can't see any point in playing this more than once but GRAW1 for a fifth 
 time is a distinct possibility.
  
  ***UPDATE***
  As I near the end of the game (and give up on it) , a quick update:
  The above holds true apart 
 from the last mission, which is practically impossible - especially if you do not have a sniper 
 rifle for this mission (it is not your default kit) . I now give up on the game as this is becoming 
 so tedious to try and complete it.
  
  ***UPDATE2***
  I have just played through a second time and decided maybe I was a bit harsh first time around; 
 it is really quite good. However, it is very linear and the last mission is basically a solo exercise 
 with a sniper rifle while leaving your squad out of harm's way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Since I played Rainbow Six: Lockdown I decided not to play any Tom Clancey games because it was 
 the worst of all. But with this game I gave it try and it is good. It does not have anything special 
 than other Ghost Recon series but the graphics is very good. The enemy has intelligence in attacking. 
 You should expect attacks from anywhere; there is no deterministic moving. The bad thing is the 
 AI for the team mates. The frustrates you by doing funny things and sometimes but not doing what 
 they suppose to do. When you tell your team to follow you, one of the member may go in other direction 
 and may killed in the path. When you command one of your team mates to use a machine gun they may 
 go around themselves and walk away from you. The best thing is not to rely on your team. However 
 they have something good to use, when they walk with you they can detect the enemy (I wonder why 
 can't me detect it!) Whe they are detected they will be colored on your HUD and you can shot them 
 before they shot you from where you have no idea. Forgetting about the team mates, this game worths 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter 2, this is a game which is kinda different from other War Games 
 like Call Of Duty, Soldier Of Fortune and Brothers In Arms. The interesting part is the way a gamer 
 can control their team, this is pretty interesting and can also be a pain in the ass at times..! 
 this game needs strategy, and the character 'Scott Mitchell' (the lead role) is a team player... If 
 you really want to get 'into' the game, u gotta make the decisions in every move you make !... And 
 u are also responsible of your team... This Game is worth playing and is amazing for those who like 
 Combat Simulation. The Gameplay is pretty cool with 4 ACTS, about 12 stages. The storyline is Neat 
 too. The graphics are not a hassle at all the sound effects are good. The learning curves needs some 
 time here.... the player must know how to move the team and give commands as well. and another thing, 
 the armor worn by Ghost Recons are not very effective (Feels like wearing nothing at all ...!!!) 
 a few shots and u are out..!!! Stealth is very important , accuracy and execution plays a very 
 important role ..... n will definitly save bullets..! Over All this is an amazing game and takes 
 the player ,a step closer than other close combat War games as such.
  
  A Special Note for Gamers ----Dude... you need Patience to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 401225
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Well if you played GRAW1 and you are interested in this second part you are doing the right thing. 
 
  
  The first part were good but this one really fits that thing called "sequel"
  The graphics in the game are very cool, but with not a lot of improvements since the first one, 
 the requirements for this game are not so high, so is good even on medium-end systems,
  
  The gameplay is very well done, the crosscom has new additions since GRAW1, and your squad moves 
 really good also the way you control your weapon is good, i mean aimming, shooting, reloading, 
 etc.
  
  The sound is very good if you have 5.1 speakers the game will sound very cool. gg, if you dont, 
 dont worry the game will sound good even without 
  "subwoofer".
  
  The difficulty in-game its quite hard, you must take care of every shoot around cause your health 
 meter changes from green to red with only few shoots, wich is very cra%&y.
  
  The multiplayer is very fun and also a little bit hard, but after all stills being very enjoyable, 
 and very good purchase if you like tactical shooting games with quite hard difficulty.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  This game is hard to describe what is! This game is nice and everybody know it, but when i bought 
 it and played it for two or three weak and i put it on the shelf and from that day to today i did 
 not touch it! This game is hard to describe because it is nice but there are not only good momemnts 
 in the game, there are a lot of bad moments in it! When you kill somebody you think that there 
 are not any other people in here, but you are wrong! In this game there are a lot of people all 
 around you!
  The game is nice and I bought the original and likei t very much! The only think I don't like is 
 that you should waste a lot of time in commands and telling what to do to your team!
  Thanks for reading my review!
  by Raptole (Rappy) ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is another tactical shooter in the Ghost Recon series. In GRAW 
 2 the player, in the role of Captain Mitchell, leads his team of up to three men on a number of 
 military operations in the war torn Mexico.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Before each mission the player picks his men and weapons. Theres a decent range of weapons, with 
 modding (adding modifications) involved for most of the assault rifles. The difference between 
 many of the weapons, however, is rather unclear. The stats for many of them are the same and the 
 difference mods make isnt stated at all. The same goes for the personnel. There are discriptions 
 but they are just that. In a few of the missions the player also has a choice of the insertion 
 point. This can make a difference, even as far as objectives are concerned, but only a few maps 
 allow for the choice. It's a shame that this hasn't been developed further.
  
  Since its a tactical shooter we're talking about, its helpful that you can direct your team members 
 as much as possible. Although you cant take control of your Ghosts the way you can of your own 
 character, you come very close to that. Different directions can be given to your Ghosts from your 
 first-person perspective, trough the live-view satellite map, and even through the camera view 
 of the team members themselves.
  
  There are two action modes for your team, the assault mode and the recon mode, and it is the second 
 mode that is meant to dominate the game. Ghost Recon gameplay relies on stealth heavily, and it 
 can get ridiculous, as enemies dont tend to see you in recon mode, even though they are meters 
 away, and even though the only difference between the modes is that youre crouching instead of 
 standing. Nonetheless, the recon mode makes your Ghosts use silenced weapons and move unseen, so 
 without it your team will be quick to suffer casualties.
  
  Besides controlling your team mates, occasionally, you can also command an extra infantry group 
 and AI-controlled vehicles. The vehicles include an M1 tank, an Unmanned Arial Vehicle to search 
 for enemy positions from above and (a new addition in the series) The Mule - basically a slow moving 
 suitcase on wheels that carries all available weapons and ammo.
  
  The AI is debatable. Characters move around and take cover as proper. If youre spotted, the enemy 
 will start moving from cover to cover advancing on your positionthen one for one they will pop 
 out from behind the corner to be killed, learning nothing from the guy who just fell dead before 
 their eyes. The AI of your Ghosts is not that imperative to begin because you can be in control 
 of about 80% of everything they do. As for the remaining 20%, their AI becomes a weakness. In the 
 assault mode, they tend not to notice enemies before the enemies notice them. Your team members 
 are often faced the wrong way and, when under heavy fire, they often neither take cover nor shoot 
 back. Inevitably, your AI will serve as an extra pair of eyes to spot, and possibly take care of, 
 those enemy positions your own eyes have missed. Most of the destiny, however, will still be in 
 your own hands.
  
  GRAW 2 might be a tactical shooter, but it's obvious that developers tried to compromise between 
 a tactical shooter and a game that will do well on the market. That is perhaps the reason behind 
 a few strange gameplay choices. For example, the arms of the Ghosts must be made from pure steel 
 because, no matter what weapon you are holding, the sights do not wobble the way they would in 
 real life. Another issue would be the previously mentioned recon mode. Crouching instantly turns 
 you and your men into invisible ninjas from a badly made action flick. The rebel army in the game 
 is replaced after a while by mercenaries and the dialogue suggests several times that the mercs 
 are much better than the army. Yet mercenaries, all throughout history, are notorious for being 
 disorganized, badly disciplined and poorly trained, especially those trained somewhere underground. 
 Then there are helicopters that tend to drop you off in places where the rotors would obviously 
 hit the buildings surrounding the heli. Cars explode in spectacular fashion by flying up in the 
 air and even flipping sometimes.
  
  The game is not very long. Thankfully, theres a multiplayer support with many different game types 
 like co-op and assault-defense. It is in MP where things get serious, since only a few movements 
 or a bad shot can mean the end of you. Since theres little mission scripting in multiplayer, its 
 all about fighting against the real people. For many its the main reason to buy the game in the 
 first place.
  
  VISUALS
  
  The game has decent visuals, largely unchanged from the previous game. Objects beyond a certain 
 point are noticeably low in resolution when seen through a scope of a rifle. At medium distances 
 objects are in a type of blurry gloom, which looks quite realistic, but is also a little over the 
 top. Developers, most probably, tried to reduce system requirements by concealing the object detail 
 in this way. The effect of temporary blindness when coming to a dark place from a sunny place, 
 found in the first game, is no longer there. The sun itself is not as bright, mostly blurred behind 
 smog or clouds.
  
  Some quality time has been spent in the animation department. One can really appreciate details 
 like the change in position of the bullet chain of the machine gun when leaning to the side. The 
 movements of the characters look realistic and fully animated as well.
  
  GRAW has a good damage model. Even if you dont have a special physics chip required to enjoy it 
 to the fullest, GRAW 2 offers a lot of eye candy. As vehicles are being imbedded with bullet holes, 
 their doors will get thrown open, their windows shot out, their tires emptied, and eventually theyll 
 blow up in a quite a spectacular fashion. The existence of this eye candy and the hype developers 
 create around it are both somewhat ironic, because a tactical die-hard will rarely get to appreciate 
 the explosions. After all, if things start exploding, it means something's going wrong. And wrong 
 doesn't happen that often.
  
  The detail level is high. Much of the action is happening inside the city or within villages, and 
 the multi-story low cost housing, the iron fences, the trash, the destruction of war and even a 
 leaf on a tree are well drawn.
  
  SOUND
  
  Theres a lot of music present. Varying based on the action and the map, it is mostly a combination 
 of techno tunes and classical instruments, and it fits the action well.
  
  The sound effects are first class. A rare gem, for example, is the echo of a fired weapon, an effect 
 that is also heard in real life when firing in an open space. The difference in materials that 
 are being shot at can be clearly heard.
  
  The mission-related dialogue is very cheesy, but something youd expect from a game that tries 
 to be profitable. Quite annoying as well is the nagging from your team members every few seconds 
 of being idle, but that falls into the background after a few hours of play.
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  Even after the installment of the 1.4 patch, getting to the end of the game 
 produced no final cut scene! Apparently some people get to see the ending and others dont. Its 
 just another random bug in the gameplay. There is little that can spoil your mood more than having 
 to spend an enormous effort and not seeing the very final bit of the result at the end of a final 
 countdown. GRAW2 doesnt have too many bugs, but it is characteristic that the bugs are obvious 
 to anyone who played the game throughout. While GRAW 2 has its challenges, but difficulty is not 
 one of them. With the latest 1.4 patch (whether the patch matters or not) and using some caution 
 in the recon mode, a player can easily rush through the levels without too much trouble. There 
 are one or two moments where you are put into a position where keeping the men alive is more of 
 a matter of luck than choice, like when the you are dropped onto a bridge and the enemies kill 
 your teammates before they even get a chance to climb down their ropes, but these moments relate 
 more to flaws within the campaign rather than to a difficulty level as a whole.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Even with the latest patch the game has its problems. They are few but annoying. 
 Nonetheless these problems are overshadowed by the game's multiple good sides, like excellent graphics 
 and fun tactical gameplay. In the end the game feels like a very good expansion pack to the first 
 game, rather than a new game. However, if you liked the first GRAW, there shouldn't be a reason 
 why you wouldn't like more of the same. With a little luck, a tactical shooter fan will have his 
 hands full for a while, and it is definitely one of the better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfalconmasta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  I've spent a lot of time playing this game and the first thing that comes up in my mind was that 
 unbelievable difficulty. The first level wasn't very difficult, until you have to cross the bridge. 
 Then it goes from difficult to killing zone. Later it turns just impossible. Imagine you having 
 to defend a helicopter with three teammates while you're attacked by 30 or more mercenaries! The 
 game itself is astoundingly gorgeous, although the brownish color scheme gives a feel like you're 
 in a lifeless environment. Even the plants look like they've died long time ago. That makes the 
 graphic engine look a little worse than it is. The game-play itself isn't bad. Team command controls 
 are easy to use which is very important, because you WILL need your teammates or fire support sooner 
 or later just because you probably won't want to take on a tank yourself, if you barely have any 
 cover or when your ZEUS is out of ammo. One thing I really liked was the ability to choose equipment 
 for your teammates and the variety of available weapons. Also the ability to customize some weapons 
 according to mission objectives. For example the Bring me Rosen is a mission, where you MUST have 
 at least one weapon which has a silencer, otherwise you'll probably end up dead pretty quick. It's 
 the only mission that I completed as a Perfect mission because I managed to find a good black ops 
 tactic. It has earned the right to be called a tactical shooter because run-and-gun isn't a successful 
 tactic in this game. It will get you killed very quick. Also I was surprised by the weapon damage 
 realism. It takes sometimes even just one bullet to take you down, depending on where you got hit. 
 Also there's no way of healing yourself in a mission. That made some missions almost impossible 
 to complete and using quicksaves mandatory. Which also made the game quite addictive because you 
 just wanted to get through that part of the mission so it would just be done with. The most important 
 thing in a game for me, is its story. This game has pretty good storyline which developes into 
 much more interesting story with every mission passed. It didn't manage to get dull before the 
 end like most of the games do. As a conclusion i have to say that if you're looking for some fast-action 
 fun shooters, this would be wrong choice. This game is seriously hardcore and difficult, which 
 makes the use of tactics mandatory and therefore the unraveling of the game feels slow. You need 
 to have nerves of steel and a lot of patience. And if you finally complete the game you feel extremely 
 satisfied. Especially if you finish with each and every of your teammates being alive while playing 
 with normal difficulty level like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTheNubeis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Ok first off the game has faultless presentation. Its slick and right up there with EA, which is 
 nice.
  Having said that Ubi-softs large patches + registration take up longer than time than the install.
 
  You spend most of your time waiting for update heaped on up-date to load and reload..... rinice 
 &amp; repeat.
  Graphics have slightly washed out.. haze, nice use of pixel shaders, if you have any pre series 6000 
 series your going to be looking at a slide show.
  
  This game needs some serious horsepower on the grapic side.
  On the sonic end of things Basic 
 Sound blaster level of hardware will more than do thou EAX support is available.
  Gameplay wise there alot of hand holding with simple missions to shoe horn the understanding of 
 the controls into
  your brain.
  Misson structure wise the balance ramps up as you progress from story based situation to stituation.
 
  Control over ind'rvidual squad members is easy &amp; streamlined.
  Point your gun and pull up a menu, pick a type of action and click.
  Fast and seamless.
  Firefights 
 and scripted events can truel'y be fun with verbrose animations pushing the action on.
  I havn't had a chance to play the online game yet.
  So in conslusion well worth the money and 
 better than the 1st outing.
  GET IT :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  Allthought the game has realy short singleplay it offers many tactical elements you could use. 
 Linear gameplay, yes, but many ways to aproach the game planing tactics while crawling, standing 
 or running.. that is a best part of it, generaly. Game also offers great, true new age graphics 
 good optimized for lower systems and the level design is absolutely awesome. Maybe for me is lacking 
 of rocket louncher when you need to take down some helicopters to advance in the game. Fizics in 
 game is also great, explosions are absolutely one of the best i ever saw in games. Tacticaly every 
 teamate soldier you got under you command is of great importance.
  This game i highly recommend for all tactical FPS players, must have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vaedar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  You quickly get the feeling that you are an army of one in GRAW2. Those under your command are, 
 for lack of a better word, decoys. This is unfortunate given the much improved cross-comm functionality 
 which allows you to issue precise move orders through your HUD rather than having to tab out to 
 the tactical display. Those who have played previous games in the franchise no doubt remember the 
 old HUD move order mechanism: move somewhere in this general direction. In GRAW2 a move order is 
 accompanied by a blue ring (or rings when issuing a move order to the entire squad) which your 
 AI partner will occupy with surprising precision.
  
  Unfortunately, it is all for naught for the most part because there are few instances in GRAW2 
 where precise tactical maneuvering pays dividends. One would expect a squad based tactical shooter 
 to offer a significant number of approach vectors from which Mitchell, a Ghost Recon platoon commander 
 and your avatar, can choose to flank an enemy position. This is sadly not the case when silencing 
 the much hated and seemingly ubiquitous .50 caliber gun emplacements. Missions quickly degenerated 
 into the repetitive task of trial and error until I found the path the developers clearly intended 
 me to take. Quite frankly, this left me feeling like a rat in a maze with my teammates in tow until 
 I found the correct path to the cheese, er next checkpoint. By then I knew the script so well that 
 any sense of accomplishment from completing an objective could be summed up by a sigh of relief.
 
  
  Those under your command are best used as bullet magnets rather than the linchpin of your tactical 
 genius. Rather than using them to spearhead a complicated assault I found it was much easier to 
 create as a distraction so I could do the wet work in short order and hope your diversion didn't 
 die in the process. The squad AI is quite strong but fails when in a tactical straight jacket scenario 
 which, sadly, is almost every mission. Having said that, I and other squad members did die to friendly 
 rifle grenades on several occasions. All of this is complicated by the near perfect aim of your 
 AI enemies as is clearly demonstrated in the last mission. Countless times myself or my squad mates 
 were sniped with assault rifles from the extreme edges of view distance with no chance to react 
 much less return fire. This isn't to say that every mission is a boiling cauldron of frustration. 
 There were a couple where tactical flexibility was possible, namely, the dam and pilot rescue. 
 It's quite satisfying to play the role of sniper while you carefully move your team forward to 
 draw out hiding enemies or lay down suppressing fire while you relocate.
  
  The story is pretty standard for a Ghost Recon game: rogue faction orchestrates plan to blow up 
 innocents and you're the only one who can stop them etc etc. Smoke grenades are still useless which 
 is sad because they could be very useful for expanding tactical flexibility, unfortunately, the 
 enemy AI sees right through them. The addition of an in between save system (press K) is a poor 
 solution to literally forcing players to attack heavily fortified roadblocks head on. I would rather 
 have no save option and more tactical flexibility. Make it happen in the inevitable next game in 
 the franchise, Grin, or you may lose another Ghost Recon faithful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fomr
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  El juego me parece excelente, el modo de comando me parece algo novedoso y le da un toque de realismo, 
 tiene gr&aacute; ficas excepcionales, la inteligencia artificial es muy buena, las misiones y los 
 mapas son demasiado bien elaborados y presentan opciones de estrategia de ataque, todo en conjunto 
 sumerge al jugador en el ambiente del juego haci&eacute; ndolo parte del mismo; lo &uacute; nico 
 que le faltar&iacute; a seria que se pudiera saltar como en otros juegos, tambi&eacute; n seria bueno 
 que tubieran mas munici&oacute; n y que el equipo ghost apoyara con granadas de fragmentacion y 
 de humo, el modo de visi&oacute; n nocturna es algo excelente el realismo que le da a la acci&oacute; n 
 es muy bueno, seria bueno que se pudiera graduar el arma a r&aacute; faga y a tiro a tiro; bueno 
 por ultimo, es un juego que recomiendo si quieren hacer parte de un comando especial virtual pero 
 muy real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mashish82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Good Multiplayer Give this game a try . At least the multiplayer game is really interesting. Single 
 player i found a bit boring and difficult ( Because of Stupid AI) . I saw what many of my friend 
 have commented upon, issues like difficulty, gameplay, bugs , silly AI in single player. There 
 is something with this genre that i quite enjoy and that is KILLING (Tactically, Silently and coldly) 
 and I felt Graw2 has that then their is something more KILLING2 (Aggressively, rampage and brutally) 
 and Graw2 did not disappoint me here either. You guys may have varied taste and could have played 
 better games (Half Life, Battlefield, CS, MOO, American Army, etc.) and they do have good story 
 line and single player game play. But i have never seen any game (multiplayer ) more beautiful, 
 realistic and still offering mixture of iciness and gore I am most evocative of.
  
  Do give this game a try !! Play the multiplayer demo and then decide , i know you will never regret 
 it. Enjoy you time guys play and party!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tode
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  When a Game with so much promise early in the game becomes a chore very soon then its not worth 
 50 cents, let alone $50. GRAW 2 fits the bill. I see no good reason for someone to make it so difficult 
 that you save, shoot, die, save, shoot, die, over &amp; over again in just one fire fight. The 
 joy of gaming is winning with some sit backs along the way. Frustration, anger, and the lack of 
 fun should not be part of the program. There is enough of that crap in real life. The game has 
 this great expanse of area to play in but try and go into an offensive move that makes good sense, 
 dim bulb comes on the air and threatens to take away your goodies if you dont get back into that 
 trap the programmers gleefully set for you. Juarez &amp; the Dam are the areas that I speak of. 
 The Dam is where I finally drew the line. Enough is enough. I am through with the Ghost Recon Franchise. 
 The 1st Ghost Recon, Island Thunder, Desert Siege, were outstanding games and I still go back and 
 play them. From then on, down hill. The franchise is similar to Clancys books. He quit writing 
 and but his name is on a lot of literature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyper2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  It amazes me how many people whine about how hard they find this game!! THAT'S KIND OF THE POINT!!! 
 I've finished the whole thing on easy and normal setting... guess witch setting I'm playing next... 
 My first love was the Rainbow Six games, and what I like about GRAW (1 and 2) is how incredibly 
 efficient, strategic and precise you have to be (like in Rainbow Six) . That's half the fun! The 
 other half is sniping and blowing stuff up (witch could happen a little more often if you ask me) . 
 The addition of a quicksave option corrected a major flaw from GRAW 1.
  
  Bottom line, I love the fact that the difficulty level is spell bindingly, mind blowingly hallucinogenicaly 
 mad and absurd!! Makes me want to play it even more! On top of that there are the awesome graphics, 
 sounds and the fact that these maps are HUGE and there are never ANY loading bars no matter where 
 you go! My only complaint... I thought the game was too short.
  
  The fact is there are a few types of gamers out there (I wouldn't venture to say how many) , but 
 only a minority of those can truly appreciate games such as this. Just because you suck at this 
 game doesn't automatically make it bad... it's just not your type of game... and that's fine!! 
 I'm not particularly fond of The Sims , but I'm not gonna say it's crap just because I can't get 
 that big job and buy that nice stainless steel fridge in there!... See where I'm getting at? GRAW 
 2 delivers in the realism department and the AI is quite adequate (Hey they can't make these games 
 smarter than us now... give the programmers a break!) .
  
  GRAW 2 : Love it, or leave it to those who love it! ... Bring on GRAW 3!!!
  
  Vyper (aka: One 
 Man Army) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricSherman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I originally wrote a negative review primarily for reasons of difficulty and no auto save feature. 
 I have since learned that there is in fact an auto save feature (oddly key binded to the K key) 
 that allows you to save at certain times. This has drastically changed my experiences and thus 
 my view of the game. While the game is unforgiving at times and can become unnecessarily difficult 
 the game is hair raising, intense and really fun. The graphics are beautifully rendered, yet the 
 locations/settings at times can be redundant. Overall, one of the best realistic shooters available. 
 It's similar to GRAW 1 but cleaned up and improved in various areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripester
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Well I was expecting a true winner when I heard this one was comming out. Too bad this is one of 
 the hardest games i've ever played. I have tried to beat one of the levels almost 30 times now 
 and it is truly impossible. Even on easy this game is a challenge. The programmers should release 
 a patch to fix this issue soon... as this game becomes very frustrating when you die 30 times in 
 a row. Hope Ubusoft will resolve this issue. Other than that I like the game but some of the default 
 weapons and such are simply useless. The first episode was much better than this one IMHO... simply 
 because it was actually possible to pass a level and get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Im disappointed to see such a low score here at Gamespot for this great game .
  
  I have been playing for a while now (mainly SinglePlayer) and i love it,
  beats Graw1 and R6 
 Vegas both in graphics and gameplay.
  Difficulty on Normal and i have no problem, sometimes people forget
  this isnt DOOM, this is 
 an Advanced Warfighter where you have to open
  your bloody eyes and know wtf you're doing..... n00bs!!!! meh
  
  *Graphics - they're great! 
 HDR isnt overdone like Graw1 (no orange color)
  the textures are sharp and very realistic, the Edge Smoothing is back
  so it wont look too jaggied 
 and best of all performance is awesome,
  playing at max everything 1280x1024 without any slowdown not even
  during firefights, this game 
 was born to be played on the 8800/X2900 cards.
  
  *Sound - your team is more talkative and a bit more believable this time,
  with a good 5.1 speaker 
 set you'll hear bullets flying everywhere and you'll
  duck, but also GRAW1 had the same good sound, here is improved.
  
  *Gameplay - gameplay is 
 more or less same as GRAW 1 only better
  because it is harder (if you're a n00b) , the outdoors are more interesting
  and generally everything 
 is well presented, you will blow up things,
  kill enemies and the animations are top notch.
  
  *Multiplayer - the game excells in the multiplayer 
 department, the single
  will hold your interest while it lasts, the multiplayer however can live for
  a long time.
 
  
  CONCLUSION -
  
  I don't understand the poor score here at gamespot, nor i understand
  why some users (n00bs again 
 lol) are bashing the game, this is one
  of the best Tom Clancy games in a while.
  
  RECOMMENDED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I really liked the first GRAW but the multiplayer on it wasnt good. So when I heard about GRAW 
 2 having amazing multiplayer I thought it would be amazing. First impressions where good as you 
 didn't have to order ''move'' command to each individual soldier and you could even go solo. But 
 then the missions dragged on and it started to get boring. Your team mates are rubbish and when 
 you do follow order they are always FAR FAR behind, making you having to wait b4 assault enemy 
 positions. But the enemy aren't very smart. You can shoot a person right next to them and they 
 won't notice a thing. You can shoot them in the foot when they are behind cover and they don't 
 have the initative to move. I really wanted to like GRAW 2 but it is slower then GRAW (which is 
 a pain) and the enemy are soooo slow. It is extremly easy if you are cautiouse and don't run around 
 cause if you meet an enemy head on you'll most likely get the first shot while they are still running 
 towards you. Multiplayer isn't that good either with insane difficulty. Half the time you don't 
 know where to go and the other half you get shot without seeing anyone. I like realism like ArmA 
 but not to a level that you run extremly slow and single player have stupid AI. Best not to buy 
 this no matter how much you enjoyed GRAW or how good the demo is. Single player is sooo boring 
 and multiplayer is sooo hard.
  
  Gameplay::: 5 - to boring
  Sound::: 9 - good Value:::4 - no replayability and multiplayer isn't anything special
  Tilit::::6 
 - I like the idea of urban warfare but with slow AI it makes it too boring and no exciting firefights 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1971simon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Playing the single player game took skill and trial and error. It was tough, but fun. The last 
 mission involves a lot of creepsaving.
  
  The multiplayer game has many modes and maps making it a lot of fun. Recon vs. Assault and Siege 
 being my favourites. Hamburger Hill is also good while Team Death Match can become a sniper-fest. 
 Still the number of maps and modes make the multi-player experience very exciting and it can be 
 very fast paced. This is not an arcade game with bad guys highlighted in red (though the good guys 
 are blue) .
  
  Buy this game for multi-player and treat the SP experience as a bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazgolu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  When Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (GRAW) showed up at PC in may 2006, the reception wasn't really 
 big. Personally I was quickly bored of the game, but was impressed by the graphics, physics and 
 the huge environment.
  
  Now, the Swedish developers GRIN are back with the sequel to the already mentioned game. And now 
 with the sequel in my hand, we can probably be sure that the first game was quite a success, even 
 though alot of bad critics from both reviewers and players.
  
  The story in GRAW 2 is as followed: You, in the role of Captain Scott Mitchell, are back with your 
 companions in the American elite-unit Ghost. The story continues from where it ends in the first 
 game, which is in a worried/restless Mexico in the year 2013. However, this time it has went really 
 bad since the Mexican rebels have got their hands on nuclear weapons from Pakistan that they now 
 threaten to launch towards American cities.
  
  My strongest impression from the first game in the GRAW-series was the introduction, combined with 
 the first mission. The view was just amazing. Especially the view over Mexico City was something 
 I've never seen before in a game. However, when I reached the ground I started to notice the engines, 
 as well as the editors, limits. But more of that later on.
  
  The first mission in GRAW 2 isn't as spectacular as the one in the first game though. You land 
 with a helicopter in a Mexican mountain-village where your mission is to neutralize the rebels 
 artillery in the area. But with the lack of a good introduction-phase, the game is aswell introducted 
 worse. To get into GRAW 2 is still easy. You have three Ghosts for your disposal, that each are 
 specialized in different skills, for example sniping or support.
  
  Easily controlled - but not without problems
  
  To control your companions there is a clever 
 control system that is very easy to use. With help of the scroll-wheel you can either choose your 
 entire squad or a single soldier and command them to perform various actions. The simplicity has 
 two sides. It's easy to use but it's at the same time too limited. You can't for example order 
 your men to crouch or take cover. The problem is solved to a certain limit by the tactical map 
 where you with higher accuracy can control and plan on the digital battlefield. Despite the easy 
 structure, the tactical part in GRAW 2 contains some big mistakes.
  
  When the tactical elements practically disappear due to its limits, you can always hope that the 
 AI makes up for it. Unfortunately even the AI has some mistakes. Even on the highest difficulty, 
 your allies stupidity, the enemies accuracy and cynicism never stops to surprise. Luckily you can 
 control your soldiers movement fairly, but it doesn't stop them from getting stuck in all the rubbish 
 and junk that is spread out here and there on the battlefield.
  
  Earlier I mentioned my objections on the maps design in the first GRAW. Unfortunately the sequel 
 has the same problem. Even though impressive physics, huge space and great textures, they are surprisingly 
 rigid and empty. You can't open doors or interact with the surrounding in other ways. You have 
 for example a sniper-rifle to your disposal that is limited by the game-engine, as the enemies 
 aren't visible at an unlimited distance, which makes alot of the point with a sniper-rifle going 
 lost.
  
  The huge area of the game is limited even by single-track ways and trigger-controlled events, which 
 often is negative for tactical FPS-games. Everything isn't bad though. Some maps are designed great, 
 and it's a delight to be in them. Still I'd wanted an increased variation on the environment, since 
 mostly you're wandering in dirty gray and blown up city-environments. What happened to the woods, 
 the jungle and the polar environment?
  
  The graphics isn't the best I've ever seen, but it sure is nice. Everything from the dust, smoke 
 and explosions to the characters is very detailed aswell as spectacular. Even the sound is great 
 in form of a huge amount of roaring and impressive sound-effects. Sound from the weapons, explosions 
 and everything else in the environment sounds exactly like it should.
  
  Before every mission, you arm your soldiers and yourself with a big amount of modern weapons of 
 all types. Everything from guns to automatic carbines. Here you will also receive briefing and 
 objectives for the mission. The voice play is alright, but often very annoying. The mouth-movements, 
 synchronization and quality on the computer-animations in the briefing-phase is unfortunately horrible, 
 almost to the limit that you think it's year 1995.
  
  Now to the most important part - the game-feeling and how the game really works. Concerning your 
 movements, they feel a bit stiff. You can either stand up, crouch or lay down. What fits best depends 
 on your opinion, aswell as the situation. Mostly the idiotic enemy-AI is fully unaware of your 
 presence, even run like a madman wearing your military boots. Plus that the enemies doesn't often 
 react when their allies just fell victims for your bullets, even though they are 50 meters from 
 eachother. On the other hand it can be the complete opposite sometimes, so to speak having perfect 
 accuracy aswell as predicting your actions.
  
  A tactical shooter?
  
  The shooting is often very intensive and adrenaline raising, but after a while it becomes very 
 easy since one bullet often is enough to annihilate your opponents. On the other hand, the combination 
 of imbalanced AI, an excessive amount of enemies and idiotic design-choices on maps can make it 
 really hard. To shoot 25 armed Mexicans is very easy compared to for example ordering your men 
 to take cover or shoot down a helicopter.
  
  The built in Gamespy-serverbrowser works alright, but is missing some essential functions such 
 as filters and other important functions in order to be complete. The multiplayer in GRAW 2 lets 
 32 players fight in co-op or deathmatch. I thought that the multiplayer would be a disappointment, 
 but I was surprised by it. Co-op is the most fun mode in my opinion, where four players are able 
 to play through the singleplayer-maps. The multiplayer is far from perfect but can still be really 
 entertaining.
  
  My impressions of GRINs Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 are in the end positive. The brain-dead 
 AI, the frustrating design-misses, the lack of tactical elements aswell as the high system requirements 
 are serious issues that gives the game a reduced rating. Still, if we disregard these issues, we 
 have a really good-looking and entertaining game along with great sound. However, next time I hope 
 that GRIN will be better at mixing all the ingredients.
  
  + Great graphics and physics
  + Huge environments
  + Amazing sound
  - Stupid AI
  - Lacks tactical elements
  - Relatively 
 short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EA_250GTO
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  can't get it to run.. all I get is an Error : ( very disappointing.. Hope it will be fixed soon.. 
 :-\
  
  and yes.. I used the latest AMD driver and what not..
  running on:
  Intel E6750 @2.66
  2GB DDR2 800
  HD2900XT
  22 Samsung 226BW
  X-Fi Fatal1ty
  Vista 32bit
 
  
  I loved Graw 1, it was amazing, waited for this game, badly,
  and I'm so annoyed by this error.. the little app that run as soon as you
  done installing, that 
 check your system gave a red X to the GPU, my guess would be a driver error.. I hope a fix would 
 come soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revon1o
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I never played GRAW although I played the original Ghost Recon. Love the controls - for me they 
 fixed and added all the things missing from Ghost Recon. The AI was not that impressive in terms 
 of enemy (and squad) responses to sound and being attacked even playing on the most difficult setting. 
 Some of my squad members sometimes got stuck on building corners which was a pain in the ass. A 
 great shooter though and I really enjoyed it although it is a bit of a resource guzzler. I run 
 an AMD Athlon 3000+ with 2 Gig RAM and 512 RAM nVidia 6800 and I just scraped through on Mid range 
 in the grx settings. Still looked pretty good though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Play GRAW2 on the PC I say! It's totally different than the X360 version. If you have an uber PC 
 and really enjoy FPS; then, this is a must have. I've played the first one and loved it, the second 
 one is just as good. Some may argue that is more of the same. I don't care. The game is high tech, 
 looks awesome, plays well and the ending is much better than R6LV.
  
  What continues to impress me is the Mexican setting, very unique and yet believable. The squad 
 based tactics and commands work well, the weapons feel real (not to mention the realistic sound 
 fx) and the characters are simply good.
  
  The only thing I am now wishing for is that the next installment has to have some helicopter action. 
 Meaning: I want to shoot from the sky! (as I approach the hot zones) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sprellic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics and atmospheric soundeffects. But for me the AI is somewhat troublesome. The 
 bad guys are supposed to be trained elite soldiers so I expect them to keep cool under stressful 
 situations. But there is something wrong when I toast two soldiers with grenade mayhem 10 feet 
 from the last guard, and he just stands there picking his nose. However, if you dont take the 
 game too seriously, it is pretty good entertainment. The multiplayer experience was partly ruined 
 by a bunch of semigods capable of giving out headshots even while sneezing. But multiplayer seemed 
 solid enough for the hardcore gamer though.
  
  NB!
  The reason why GRAW 2 forces you to include a PhysX driver is simply because the game uses PhysX 
 as its main physics engine. Like Unreal 2.5 use the Karma engine and Half-Life 2 use the Havoc 
 engine for physics, GRAW 2 use PhysX either in software mode (if you dont have the PCI card) or 
 in hardware mode (if you have the PCI card) . Either way the engine needs a driver installed to 
 work properly. It is not tapping your system resources in any way so you wont notice any difference 
 having it installed on your system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gvas39
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  A really nice game realistic, almost a tactical infantry simulator.
  But many things are not so realistic... your team that you command are really dumb. The enemies 
 Sims that now how to move but your team mates doesnt so they have tendency to get killed very 
 often...
  Death is real so is injuries in a real battle, but hey if you have a gun shooting at you YOU MUST 
 hit the dirt, your mates dont....
  The gameplay is really good, but you dont get the chance to see the world as a Ghostjust Mexico! 
 So you play in the same levels with the same colours with the same graphics...
  The difficulty is fair, after all its a tactical shooter and planning is an essential part in 
 real mission so the game introduce us to the same conditions... plan ahead check your map then move!
 
  In real combat if you plan and you manage to use your brain and your balls you can stay alive 
 (?)
  I played the game over 20 hours first at easy then at hard, it is difficult but that the nice thing 
 about it, if it was a walk in the park then you will finish it in 5 hours and never play it again.
 
  If you like this kind of games that are not only action, in fact in order to finish a mission 
 you must plan your moves , check the environment , take cover ,peek ,move prone check your ammunition 
 , equip with the right weapons ,and keep your mates alive go ahead an buy it! But if you more action 
 shooter rent it first, try it out and if you love it the buy it!
  The 10 missions were few for such a game, im waiting for the expansion from Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11Mattinator11
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a great tactical shooter/squad command game, but it has problems with Dual-Core CPU's. 
 I've got an Intel Core-Duo 1.8Ghz with a Nvidia 8600 GT and 1024 RAM, and even on all medium settings 
 every 1/2 hour or so it quits and says that it's out of memory. That kinda ruined it for me. Otherwise, 
 this is a great game, with all the necessary ingredients for a surprisingly good tactical FPS. 
 *sigh*, can't UBISOFT program the requirements for their games right for once? maybe some guys 
 from irnclad Games should work with them, or from EA. They're pretty goodat flexible requirements, 
 and might be able to stop some of the glitches lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ketraar
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  After reading some reviews here, I thought it would be the most difficult game ever, but nothing 
 like it. It still looks pretty good the same as GRAW (1) with some minor improvements. Team AI is 
 a bit better, but needs some babysitting unless you want them to get killed soon. So I did most 
 of the work myself, which is good. Being a devoted sniper, it was not very hard to get passed all 
 missions in about 12 hours on normal difficulty, a lot shorter then the 1st GRAW. I never lost 
 a team mate, due to let them often stand back as I was sniping the enemy away, so that helped a 
 lot to keep them alive, but on some occasions, specially then when I had to stand put and hold 
 off the enemy, the did their job well, specially when ordered to use a mounted MG.
  Still I find that it was worth the bucks, hopping to have some fun by playing on-line. I'm not 
 very in favour of this running and bouncing around, so the on-line maps get boring real fast, but 
 I'm really looking forward to play the missions with some human team mates, which is not so easy 
 since there are not that many mission. coop servers as I would expect.
  But I'm still a big fan of this genre and I think it is without a doubt the best (tactical) Shooter 
 there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rbrad1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  After reading many of the reviews of this game on various websites, I had to put my two cents in. 
 This is a TACTICAL Shooter game! It is not a run n gun ,like the console version. According to 
 Bo Anderson, the CEO of GRIN it is a Squad Leader game. You must use tactics and your teammates 
 to complete the missions! I have played all the Ghost Recon games, except GR2 that was only released 
 on consoles, and I have really enjoyed them. GRAW was different that the original GR, but was a 
 very good game. GRAW2 takes the best from the OGR and GRAW1 and does an excellent job combining 
 them for an old time feel and a new feel for Ghost Recon. The fact that it is difficult, even on 
 easy is so the player will use all the tools available to him.. the cross-com', satillite veiw and 
 your teammates to complete each mission. It also, makes you go slowly and plan.
  As for the drab colors , has the reveiwer for Gamespot ever been in Mexico? Juarez, just across 
 from El Paso, TX , Is a very drab and dusty, dry place! Most of Mexico is. GRIN spent many days 
 in Mexico, especially the places seen in the game, to bring the realism that they sought and we 
 GR players demanded. In conclusion, if you are looking for a run n gun this is NOT the game for 
 you. However, if you are looking for a challenge, even on easy , this just might be your cup 'o' 
 tea . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabkicks
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The co-op is SOOOOOO much fun. make sure you are playing on a difficulty higher than normal, though. 
 The graphics are pretty damn good. there's some nice heatwave effects and the game looks damn good 
 even on my x800gto @medium/low settings 1024x768. I imagine it would look amazing if i had a more 
 powerfull pc and i could run with maxed out graphics. The single player is okay... The team AI 
 still arent as independant and intelligent as i'd like em to be. Overall, i like this game much 
 more than the original GRAW. the zeus is nice, but i would rather have a good old javlin. Blah 
 blah blahdy blah yhadda hyadda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devils_Destiny
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  it just grabs you towards it... feels as if you are actually in a situation.. comes out best when 
 you have a gr8 sound system.. graphics are gr8.. all in all a gr8 game with a gr8 gameplay.. they 
 have this night mode in the sequel which adds the spice.. also some of the missions are something 
 that you need to play alone... you gotta have brains to play this one.. coz it needs planning and 
 most importantly PATIENCE.. as you have to b in stealth mode ... not only you but all of your team 
 mates have to b under stealth mode.. to avoid heavy enemy attacks.. check it out guyz ... i name it 
 a MASTERPIECE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cas_moreno
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  This game by far is better than the score it received. If you're more run and gun trust me choose 
 another game. It makes you think twice about the strategy previously used if one is killed during 
 gameplay. But if you can actually utilize the tactical resources that this game provides you'll 
 have lots of fun. The online multiplayer has and i believe always will be the focal point of these 
 games. Even better ways to maneuver around to shoot people, the strategy one must utilize to overcome 
 his foe. The only bad thing i can say about this game is the AI of your fellow ghosts. Their response 
 time is a major drag. You can be caught in the middle of a fire fight and they can be way out in 
 the boonies. But other than that this game runs without a hitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  I couldn't disagree more with the GS review. I'm not finding the game that difficult at all, but 
 then that's probably because I'm using my squadmates carefully with the tactical map, flanking 
 my enemy and creating crossfire kill-zones instead of considering my team a hindrance to my progress 
 . I find the worst parts of these games are actually the 'lone wolf' missions, as that's when they 
 seem to devolve into any other tactical FPS. I love having a team and being able to use them intelligently 
 on the battlefield.
  
  Perhaps Ocampa should just stick with his Xbox, as he obviously can't spot a well-designed PC game 
 when he sees it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I knew as soon as i played the training level this is a amazing game.
  Gameplay:
  9 of 10 Amazingly... This game manages to be and look very tactical without using any third person 
 view. When you play you'll really feel like commander of your team not a bunch of morons. AI can 
 get little stupid but generally they'll take cover and do what they do. I've only played online 
 for 2 hours and it's very fun and well balanced.
  Graphics:
  7 of 10 If you have the computer to run it on maxed out setting it's looks quite nice. Alot of 
 details are well done but the general overall graphics are just good not any better. Did not so 
 far see any glitches. Sound:
  9 of 10 your enemies will warning each other by shouting. Gun sounds are well done but can get 
 a little repetitive.
  Value:
  10 of 10 worth every single penny of the $40 i spent. Campaign's a little too short but online 
 play makes up for it.
  Comments:
  Overall it's just a really fun game. I definitely recommend anyone who reads this review to get 
 it. For reference I run it on 8800GTX 2gig of RAM and E6600 so far no lags at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upperme
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  I thought GRAW 2 was amazing, simply put. The GS review was fairly accurate in most points, but 
 I happen to like the drab, dry palette. To me, it depicts the way modern, urban warfare in a climate 
 such as Mexico would really be. I loved the game, but thought that it was fairly short... I got 
 through it in four relatively short evenings, as I don't get as much shooter time as I'd like. 
 The multiplayer experience is an absolute riot on my LAN. My daughter's boyfriend and I have spent 
 many hours stalking and killing each other to the point my wife and daughter don't trust us to 
 ba alone together...;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caldrin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  OK i think this has to be one of the best tactical shooters I have played in a very long time nothing 
 gets close at all..
  
  You gotta really think about what your gonna do and i love it..
  
  Sure its hard but thats part of the fun, i can blindly turn around a corner get shot once and 
 thats it game over... If you want an easy version of this then get it on the xbox but its no where 
 near as much fun.
  
  
  Aldo some of the graphics settings. .well for me anyway had to be changed in the ini files as it 
 would not let me change them in game for some reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tabarnak!
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I read some reviews here and there and was aware of the diffuclty of the game before playing it. 
 Being the kind of guy who changes his keyboard every now and then because I get too frustrated 
 and smash it, I hesitated on buying GRAW2 for the PC.
  
  Guess what... I don't regret it at all. Yes some of the battles get really tough and you need patience 
 (and lets admit it, a little bit of luck too) to get through them. Enemies will kill you in one 
 to a couple of shots but they will also die in one shot often. The only advantage they have really 
 is that most of the time they outnumber you and they are good shots when they have spotted you 
 from afar. It happens that as long as you don't shoot they don't spot you if you're far away. I 
 found GRAW2 much easier than GRAW for one small but important reason: YOU CAN QUICK SAVE ABOUT 
 ANYWHERE! Ain't that wonderful? Compared to GRAW where save points were scattered here and there 
 and sometimes at big intervals. GRAW2 still saves the game at some checkpoints but the quicksave 
 option is a welcome addition.
  
  The graphics? Well some reviewers here don't know what they're talking about when they say the 
 Xbox360 version looks better or it may be because their system can't handle the highest graphical 
 settings. Anyway I say It still looks really good.
  
  I have to admit that AI of your own teammates leave a lot to be desired. It's true that sometimes 
 they help but much of the time they die easily if you don't babysit them. If you position them 
 correctly before a fight though, you might be surprised how helpful they can get.
  
  I won't give too much detail on the game but I'll wrap this review in one last sentence: Better 
 and easier than the GRAW1 but much harder than your average FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-CA
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  GRAW for xbox 360 was a perfect game. GRAW 1 on pc wasnt as great as the 360 version. GRAW 2 for 
 the xbox 360 was the both the best in the serie and one of the best games I played this year. It 
 had superb graphic and outstanding gameplay. Now graw 2 is here for the PC, and well... it sucked. 
 The FPS view on PC maybe better but, so slow this game is so haljkkdjklajkldldsk wierd and dum 
 and boring! Even AI, graphic and sounds are worse. The AI team mates are useless and the enemy 
 kill you on 1 shoot. I cant understand how their improvment to GRAW 2 could be soooooooo much worse. 
 god, this really sucks! acctualy, if you want to have GRAW 2 or GRAW. Its acctualy worth way more 
 even buying a xbox 360 for that. So much worse is this version! I can sure you! Trust me, buy the 
 360 version! its by every single detial better. PC version = waste of money, time and your life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zuzino
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Compared to the last Tom Clancy game i played, R6 Vegas, this is terrible, particularly in terms 
 of playability, even with the patch installed. I don't actually bother to play with my team-mates 
 and just remove them b4 each mission, as they are too thick to understand when they are actually 
 in a battle. They don't help you out at all. One of them might try to shoot the enemy every now 
 and then but for no reason at all, another team-mate will suddenly run away from the battle and 
 stand about 20 metres away from where it's all happening. When you ask them to follow and you are 
 running to another point, there will always be 1 or 2 team-mates who are 100 metres behind which 
 is so annoying. At least your team-mates in R6 Vegas really helped you out and their AI was excellent.
 
  Another annoying factor is when I am taking cover behind a concrete wall, the enemies bullets 
 would somehow go through that wall and reduce my health bar. I can understand a tank's main gun 
 shooting through the wall but not anything else.
  I understand that this game is a lot more tactical than R6 Vegas but when you have the problems 
 stated above, can i actually be arsed to play tactically . Of course not, so I've already uninstalled 
 it after about 11 hours of play. At least that was satisfying.
  Finally, the only positive mention is that the graphics are very good but that doesn't make this 
 game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  I played GRAW recently, when I purchased my actual graphics card. The game was included in the 
 packaged, and it honorably served the purpose of testing the capabilities of my purchase. And wow, 
 I was impressed. There were more things in the game that impressed me, including its unforgiving 
 difficulty, even in the easiest setting. Anyway, it's GRAW 2 I want to talk about now.
  
  GRAW2 actually feels more like an expansion rather than an entirely new game... the same old scenarios, 
 the same old characters, the same old weapons... well there a couple new primary weapons, but you'll 
 probably stick up with the ones you used in the previous game. The gameplay is exactly the same, 
 the scenarios are incredibly similar... and the difficulty hasn't changed a bit.
  
  Analyzing point by point, I'd say the following:
  
  Graphics - Well... they really are good.. 
 though extremely repetitive between missions, AND similar to the graphics in GRAW 1. It really 
 feels like more of the same , and gets tiresome after a few missions. I was really looking forward 
 to see something inovative and groundbreaking when I started playing scenarios like the one with 
 the water treatment plant, because I felt there could be potential in the level design, but the 
 truth is that, despite the awesome textures and map size, the graphics feel dull. The water treatment 
 plant feels dull. I doubt the map designers ever seen a water treatment plant in the real life. 
 Shame on you.
  
  Gameplay - Probably the best about this game. They haven't changed a lot since the original GRAW, 
 thankfully. It's still easy to manage your squad and give them orders. After all, this is the point 
 GRAW is about.
  
  Sound - It's also good. I love noisy games, and this one really fulfills what I expect of a shooter.
 
  
  They changed a few aspects that also contributed to a better experience, like the addition of quicksaves. 
 You can't always quicksave, like, for instance, in the middle of an intense firefight, but it's 
 a big help to be able to quicksave between battles, because the difficulty is unforgiving. Well, 
 the truth is it really has to be that way... or you'd just blaze between levels and finish the 
 game in a couple of hours.
  
  In conclusion, I can't avoid to feel disappointed with this game. Maybe if I haven't played the 
 first one I wouldn't feel this way, because I really loved the first GRAW, I never played a squad 
 based FPS before, and I truly enjoyed the experience. But this game really feels half-baked... 
 I don't think the programmers put that much effort creating this game. It feels like a GRAW-expansion 
 pack rather than a GRAW 2. However, you pay for it as a GRAW 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer531
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is outstanding. The makers of the game set out to achieve a highly realistic shooter 
 and they did just that. Yes the game is harsh at times, but it is mostly harsh to those who are 
 not used to realism games. Bunny hopping won't keep you alive in this game, and your not going 
 to be running and strafing right at an opponent and be successful. This game requires you to take 
 cover, check your angles, and coordinate your attacks. The game rewards good thinking and excellent 
 aiming skills, where as, level knowledge, strafe evasion, and weapon advantages are tossed out 
 of the window to give you a balanced tactical experience. The makers set out to create a realistic 
 modern and shooter and were quite successful in the outcome.
  I do not agree that the pallet of colors is anywhere near as lackluster as claimed by some other 
 critics, no the colors are blended nicely to create an industrial and dusty battlefield that is 
 mexico. The intent is to reward camoflauge worn by the soldiers because people can truely blend 
 in and be overlooked if they know how to set themselves up. The details are sharp and the explosions 
 and resulting projectile physics technology is quite rewarding.
  The sound is not full of thrilling music or little niches that please the ear, no instead the sound 
 is drenched in the feel of the battlefield around the user, in order to enhance the feeling of 
 realism the game achieves.
  Yes the game is frustratingly difficult, but I do not believe in reviewing low on a good game simply 
 because it is hard. This game is perfect for someone looking for a good true combat simulation 
 game. Personally, I love the game, it makes a player think to be successful and greatly rewards 
 teamwork in the multiplayer field. It is a nice refresher after all the mainstream of rambo style 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davsschwarz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Yep you heard (read) it right - if you think this is another Quake, CS, STALKER etc clone and you'd 
 like to pwone some noob's buy applying your Bugs Bunny warfare tactics, Forget it!!! GRAW2 offers 
 no jumping - well you can jump from higher ground to lower but again no superpower will save you 
 from death implicated through combination of gravity+hight. What GRAW2 is is as stated by developer 
 a Tactical FPS. So firstly putting it in same category as BAttlefield is an insult. Calling it 
 masochistic and hard is either a sign that person reviewing it has A) never played similar games 
 e. i. America's Army, B) Has got his a.. kicked so hard in GRAW2 due to running round like a headless 
 chook C) Haven't used prone and peek buttons D) Forgot to google words like Flank, and cover before 
 playing etc.
  
  So what can you expect from GRAW2 - Single campain which is apparently so hard yet im managing 
 to play on Extreme my own leaving my team mates at the spawn and progressing through the levels 
 on my own. Oh yes dont expect to finish the whole campain in 10+-2 hours that way. Multiplayer 
 - which alone is worth the money spend - with growing community of mature players.
  
  Overal - As close as you'll get to being in a infantry based battle on any console. Now as im runnin 
 GRAW2 on my other screen and getting distracted by people having fun - i'l stop this brief review. 
 Im off to find a nice bush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XSingle
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  what i think about GRAW2 is amazying game i was biger fan of this game form first releas in 2001 
 . whin you see GRAW2 for first time (Visual Look)
  you see they Using The same Engine on GRAW1 But they improve it Griphics latel bit ..... sound 
 was great .... the music is very amazying
  i Give this game 89% to be Perfect ...............
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  what i think about GRAW2 is amazying game i was biger fan of this game form first releas in 2001 
 . whin you see GRAW2 for first time (Visual Look)
  you see they Using The same Engine on GRAW1 But they improve it Griphics latel bit ..... sound 
 was great .... the music is very amazying
  i Give this game 89% to be Perfect ...............
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  what i think about GRAW2 is amazying game i was biger fan of this game form first releas in 2001 
 . whin you see GRAW2 for first time (Visual Look)
  you see they Using The same Engine on GRAW1 But they improve it Griphics latel bit ..... sound 
 was great .... the music is very amazying
  i Give this game 89% to be Perfect ...............
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting this game, since I finished GRAW. I wasn't very satisfied, since I missed urban missions, 
 and the ability to take place of every ghost. Ok, it is more a tactical game than fps, however, 
 if you want to make it good, then you should spend more time in AI, so ghosts do not hit walls, 
 or killed in a situation where you could kill the enemies in 3 .
  
  Beyond that, it is a great game, but I am playing it more like fps, than tactical, by leaving my 
 team somewhere safe, and cleaning up the area myself. Sound and gfx is amazing, soldier movement, 
 falling, is also great, so it is exploding even with softAgeia.
  
  Hope to see mission pack, better AI, and GRAW3 soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majin_psyduck
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  The tactical FPS genre seem to be somewhat on the outs these days, with Rainbow Six: Vegas barely 
 resembling its former self after taking the plunge in the console pool. Its good to see that GRAW2 
 (at least on the PC) has managed to remain fairly faithful to its tactical roots, even with its 
 additional theatrical flair. The sequel to GRAW does feel more like an upgrade than a full blown 
 sequel, but it provides a number of options to aid in a very challenging game.
  
  The additions to this game are nothing but welcome features, so much so that you might wonder how 
 you got through the first game without them. Its also worth nothing that you'll need every one 
 of these new features (more on that later) . As a fan of the first game, I only really demanded 
 a few new things. First, a larger arsenal of weapons. You now have a few more of each type of weapon 
 (thank you sniper rifle God!) . They even give you a grenade launcher, which might take a little 
 time to get used to, but is a very nice addition. The added ability to pick up weapons (as well 
 as use mounted turrets) in the field is extremely nice, as is sometimes quite necessary. Also, 
 the weapons in your inventory are a bit better balanced in terms of weight, making it easier to 
 carry your high-powered sniper rifle and a missile launcher. However, you no longer have access 
 to additional ammo or extra grenades. The second demand, a more effective tactical map. You are 
 now able to zoom in a bit closer to the action. You can still preform much of the same functions 
 as in the previous game (assign orders, view crosscom, etc.) , but the closer zoom is probably the 
 feature that you will find the most valuable. Other features include an expanded squad, which you 
 can now choose members to take with you. You have a few new riflemen as well as a demolitions specialist. 
 They function much the same way as in the first game; you can outfit them with different weapons 
 (except for those outside of their field. No sniper rifles to your support guy, and so on) . In 
 the field, you can give them the same commands as in the previous game, however you are now given 
 a marker to see where they are moving to, which is very nice. A cover command allows you to bring 
 fire on a position until you tell your squad to stop. You also have two different modes of engagement 
 for your squad: assault and recon. Assault is the default mode, where your squad mates will attack 
 any enemy they come across. Recon is essentially a stealth mode. You squad will use silent weapons 
 and will not attack directly. This mode is good for setting up a silent takedown of enemy groups, 
 or getting into a position before going over to assault mode. Along with the new squad members, 
 you get command of tanks, a scout drone, additional troops, and a new land vehicle that allows 
 you to switch out your weapons. The crosscom has a new feature that allows you to not only look 
 around from your team's view, but to give commands. This makes the crosscom much more value this 
 turn around. It is also very much worth nothing that you are now able to quick save when not in 
 combat. It is not implemented in the best way, but does have its uses in very difficult areas.
 
  
  Now, on to gameplay. The best way is to come out and say it... this game is ****ing hard. Probably 
 one of only thing to help make things a bit easier is that there are no solo missions (which I 
 thought was nuts in the previous game) . You have at least one squad member with you in all missions. 
 The first game had its level of difficulty, but this game has definitely taken it up a notch (read: 
 notches) . It also doesn't help that if one of your squad mates gets injured in a mission, they 
 are incapacitated for the next round. A nice touch, but you can really feel the pain if you need 
 your sniper on the next mission. In spite of the difficulty, it does do two things. First, it forces 
 you to use all of your new tools and abilities. You'll find that using the tactical map, crosscom 
 and recon modes will make getting through missions much easier than without using them. Second, 
 making a kill can be sooo satisfying. Setting up your squad in recon mode, moving to an optimal 
 position and then turning them on to assault to watch the fireworks feels wonderful... or taking 
 out an enemy with your M99 sniper rifle and still remaining hidden can be quite rewarding. Regarding 
 multiplayer, there are the standard deathmatch modes, as well as co-op missions. Am objective based 
 recon vs. assault works quite well with one team attacking and the other defending. It feels a 
 little odd that the recon team can only respawn after completing an objective, but overall the 
 mode is a nice addition.
  
  Graphically, the game is a bit of an improvement over the previous game. Things blow up quite nice, 
 and weapons have the right amount of grime on them. In spite of the limited color palette, it is 
 handled nicely. Lighting and exposure effects look great, and when using night vision, seeing the 
 lit particles in the environment adds a nice atmosphere. Performance-wise, if you were able to 
 run the first game, you should have no problems running this one. The sound is also very good. 
 Everything from the weapon sounds to the explosions, to hearing enemy soldiers speaking comes across 
 nicely. The only real gripes with sounds are that your squad members are constantly asking you 
 for orders, which can get a bit annoying. Also, in the previous game, the team members would start 
 shouting they're replies to your commands when they were under fire. They are unusually cool under 
 fire this time around, and it sounds a little off.
  
  While we're addressing gripes, we do have a few problems with this game. One issue that I have 
 found that hurts the game a bit, is that there is an unusual amount of enemies suddenly popping 
 up. To be a bit clearer, you will find that if you check an area with your tactical map, it might 
 be completely clear. When you walk up to an area, however, it will suddenly be populated with bad 
 guys. While I can understand somewhat technically why you would do this, it lends to a level of 
 artificiality, especially in later missions. While this might exist in other games, as well as 
 the previous title, its much more transparent and evident here. Another big problem I found is 
 a bug in at least one of the missions when playing from a saved game. In a mission that required 
 destroying two helicopters, I immediately reloaded the game after getting killed. The mission has 
 RPGs available in the level, and when attempting to pick one up after reloading the game, they 
 were all of a sudden out of ammo, when they clearly had ammo before. Also, other weapons in the 
 area no longer had the same amounts of ammo they previously had. This problem disappears when reloading 
 from the main menu (which means aborting your game) . This isn't that bad of an issue, but can be 
 annoying, as it takes quite a bit longer to load the game from the main menu, and having to do 
 that every time you die at this point. I have not found any other issue like this, so hopefully 
 this is an isolated case.
  
  The AI for your squad doesn't feel like it is any better this time around, which is not to say 
 that they are dumb, but they do require a bit of management at times. I can't say I had any more 
 of an issue with these squad mates than in any other game featuring this kind of mechanic, but 
 because they are so necessary in the game, you can be that much more sensitive to their actions 
 if they do something you do not like.
  
  It would have been nice if there was a different scenario this time around, which is in part what 
 makes this game feel more like an upgrade or expansion, and not so much a sequel (somewhat like 
 Battlefield 2 and BF2142) . Besides that, it does play and feel very much like the first GRAW. This 
 game will probably not win over any converts if you did not like the previous game, but those who 
 liked the first game should definitely enjoy this, increased difficulty and all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mooseman429
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  The SP mode is fantastic. Challenging, excellent graphics, and much better command/weapon features.
 
  
  However, MP has been all but ruined. 1. One is forced to make a weapons decision in a time set 
 by the Server Admin, no more and no less either!
  
  2. Players are forced to select between a myriad of soldier classes instead of being able to mix 
 and match as one might please. Me personally, I like to pair up an M14 (scoped &amp; silenced) 
 and the MP5SD (w/combat sight) as well as some forms of demolitions as weight allows.
  
  3. OGR CO-OP mode. You cannot spawn on Leader.... WHYYYYYY!?!?!?!
  Anyone who played OGR Maps 
 in GRAW 1 know's that maps get REALLY stinkin long if you are always spawning at the begining.
 
  
  4. In Campaign CO-OP mode, only 4 people can play. I guess this really wouldn't be much of a gripe 
 if MP didn't suck so bad, but this is the only MP mode that you can select your weapons like one 
 would be used to in GRAW 1.
  
  All in all this is a good game, but I'd wait for a sale. Unless UBISOFT/GRIN fix MP mode this definitely 
 is not worth $50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sledge_4314
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  Last year PC gamers got a seperate version of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter which was impressive 
 in some ways however soon got dull. This year after a 3 month delay we finally got our exculsively 
 designed for PC: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2.
  
  There is 2 ways you can play GRAW 2, 1 is you plan your assaults with your tactical map and take 
 your enemies out with your teammates quick and easily while the other is slow and boring (take them 
 out one by one by yourself) . Sometimes when facing a mounted machine gun you can either flank it 
 with your team or flank it yourself while leaving your team behind. When flanking you'll feel the 
 game is a lot more impressive and intense.
  
  The Negative:
  -The stupidity of the AI remains, -Sometimes you help your teammates more than they help you, -If 
 you dont use your tactical map to plan assaults you'll find the game as dull as GRAW 1,
  -the game is over before you know it
  
  The Positive: -A training for players who hasnt played 
 GRAW 1 to learn the controls and use the cross com2.0,
  -Improved cross com, -More weapons including using mounted machine guns and picking rebel's weapons, 
 -Better graphics, -adittional support,
  -the new rules of engagement which GRAW 1 lacked, -mission rating for how you performed and
  
 -very realistic warfare
  
  The game is quite short however the difficulity would keep you behind.
  I appreciated the difficulity 
 in GRAW 2 better than those games where you charge in and shoot and surprisingly succeed.
  
  Value: The Singleplayer missions are very addictive and frustrating at the same time while 
 the multiplayer is very fun.
  
  Overrall: A great game, which GRAW 1 should have been however the AI still needs to be reworked 
 as your team dont really deserve the position as America's last line of defence. If Ubi and GRIN 
 took GRAW 2 PC more seriously, this game could have been a lot more impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Last year the PC got a separate version of GRAW, made specifically with pc gamers in mind. It was 
 mostly met with mixed reactions, but i however felt that it was funner than its 360 counterpart, 
 which got better reviews. This one is no different, but did GRIN improve with this GRAW? Here are 
 my two cents.
  
  Gameplay Pros: The added weapons are always a welcome in any fps, especially when they are a blast 
 to use. The ability to pick up weapons and use mounted machine guns, was definitely a welcome addition 
 as well. The new squad controls make using your AI teammates a bit more efficient, but in reality 
 they arent all that much smarter than in the first GRAW, in fact they may even be dumber . Otherwise, 
 everything that made graw 1 fun to play remains.
  
  Gameplay Cons: Sometimes the game is overly difficult, and not because it is a tactical shooter. 
 But because the game is unfair at times and is against you in alot of ways. The fact that there 
 is a quicksave helps, but alot of the time it only serves to tease you, as you cant always use 
 it. Sometimes the game can be really unfair to where as your teammates have a very tough time not 
 only spotting enemies, but taking them out as well. The mexican rebels seem to be crack-shots, 
 but your team is unfortunately not. Your team also does a poor job of correctly identifying a threat 
 and quickly taking them down, they also have trouble staying put alot. The AI certainly needs to 
 be reworked. Another thing is, this time around the enemy AI is bad at times. It seems it is either 
 too good, or poor. Sometime they will not even notice you, or youll shoot them and they will just 
 shrug it off. The cut-scenes seemed half assed, and what happened to fast roping out of helicopters? 
 You only get to do that once IIRC. The game is also alot shorter than the first graw, the mission 
 in the original graw were very expansive, these feel very short and limited.
  
  Graphics Pros: The graphics are good, nothing too extraordinary, but definitely good. The effects 
 are certainly the best part of the graphics engine.
  
  Graphics Cons: Lack of AA, which you do get used to but still... i think GRIN needs to scrap their 
 deffered shading stuff. Somethings look washed out and blurry, a shame for sure.
  
  Sound Pros: Good old war zone audio, to be expected
  
  Sound Cons: I got some sound hiccups, 
 but it might just be my hardware, only happens in graw 2 though. The voice acting can get very 
 annoying sometimes.
  
  Value: The coop and multiplayer really shine this time around, very fun stuff indeed. Although 
 it seems somewhat stripped of basic content that most shooters have.
  
  Tilt: Overall a great game, AI needs to be reworked and i think the game could have just used more 
 polish and care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigyxs
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a hardcore tactical shooter. The AI is smart, and of course always on target.
  
  Multiplayer of course rocks. But so does single player. Which is best played through with some 
 buddies online.
  
  As far as tactical shooters go, this game takes the cake. Most the people who say it sucks are 
 run and gun fans. Nothing wrong with that, I like BF too. Not as much as GRAW2, and I am not as 
 good at BF as I am GRAW2.
  
  If you like tactical shooters, don't listen to the whiners. This game is hard. It's realistic. 
 In real life, if you were to get shot in the head... Well it would be sudden and unexpected. In 
 fact, you'd never even know what happened. Lights out.
  
  Get this game, it's one of the best tact shooters around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jho99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  If like me your bored of battlefield and counterstrike then give it a try. Some of the most impressive 
 graphics ive seen in a long time with an online game. Gameplay is solid, different game times are 
 good fun, ranging from team death match, team detroy or protect objective, free for all and I think 
 theres some others ( havent played them all yet ) . Theres nothing more satifying than sneaking 
 up on someone whos been sniping and putting a clip in them.
  This is not a run n gun type of game, run n gun = death, gameplay forces you to slow down a bit 
 and use cover.
  For less than &pound;20 on most online retailers, what have you got to lose?
  By the way I had 
 the xbox360 version and sold it to fund this game, xbox version feels like a kids game compared 
 to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_81
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok so Ive read a few reviews posted and I partially agree with most of them.
  
  first and foremost the largest let down in this game is the AI, both your team mates and your opponents. 
 Your team is a walking power house of fire power... provided you don't ask them to follow you or 
 to move into complicated areas by themselves or even to hold an area effectively. That being said, 
 if you hold their hands and make them cover an area and don't put them out in the open.... they 
 do their job. Because of this you will be taking point on your own a lot, if you don't like your 
 men dieing you will leave them well back and out of danger.
  
  Your opponents AI is alot like your troops in some ways, they will often walk into walls and get 
 stuck on simple things.... but thats where the similarity ends, true they are not very smart with 
 tactics, but they can all shoot. On easy the bad guys are half decent shots, on normal their aim 
 quickly gets better as you go through the levels, on hard and above your a magnet for enemy fire 
 (even at maximum range) . The difficulty levels on this game are not spread out evenly, it goes 
 from being very easy to super hard very quickly.
  
  Ok the good stuff, The levels are all set out nicely and are a joy to fight through, the colours 
 arent the best and brightest but that suits the mood. The graphics are a few steps above the original 
 graw and boast better effects. Multiplayer does have campaign co-op in the settings amoung other 
 co-op variants, and will increase the life of this game ten fold.
  
  As a closing note, this is not a run and gun game, you need to take your time to enjoy it or you 
 will die a horrible death. If by some magic the makers bring out a patch to fix the AI in this 
 game I would rescore it as a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiixiix
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Their biggest gripe seems to be the sheer difficulty of the game. Personally, that's why I love 
 it. I grew up learning shooters on Tom Clacy games. The Original GR and R6. I love the grit. I 
 love the punishment. I'm tired to run and gun shooters with jumping and power ups and med kits. 
 In real life, one bullet will kill you, placed properly. This encourages smart team play, opposed 
 to lucky shots and bigger guns. Comparted to the first GRAW, the AI is much better, and smarter. 
 The option to switch out weapons via the MULE is nice, but makes things a bit unrealitic, with 
 the boatloads of ammunition that you are now allowed to tote around. Just my $0.02. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game lacks one thing that would keep it from being an 8.5 or 9.... AI... this games AI is so 
 bad its almost comical and it pretty much ruins the experience.
  
  Let me just say I am no expert at tactical shooters so I cant compare to past releases. What I 
 can tell you is that this game reminds me of PS1 games where you had to hold your teams hand to 
 get them to follow you.
  
  Gameplay
  In order to play you need to load the game.... this game gives you enough load time to run to the 
 store and back and still have time to make a pizza. Yes, yes, I have all the right hardware, 4gb 
 ram, bla bla bla. But there isnt even an indicator that the game is loading, just a pretty screen 
 of the next mission.
  
  I like to get into the experience of the game... the bullets flying by, the surprise ambush, the 
 sounds of gunfire in the distance... it puts me into the game. Now add in a Warfighter who is stuck 
 in a corner saying ready captain, ready captain and it really shows me that I am playing a video 
 game and not in a war. Not to mention that the follow me command is just about worthless... why 
 can I run and they cant? I run down the street, wait, ok guys, come come, you can do it. And if 
 I am lucky, they get there. Often times they either just stop, or they cant figure out that stairs 
 with an angle means up. I am not a programmer but cant you make the rest of your team just follow 
 your path?? There were times where the team members would just get stuck and I would have to go 
 back to my previous saved game. This is just sad... and how about enemy AI... well, its a little 
 better here but still, when I shoot somebody three times and his buddy is standing 20 feet away 
 and he justs paces back and forth... not so good. On the other hand... there can be a sniper on the 
 other side of the map who is Dr. Dead Eye and gets me with a one shot.
  
  Also, I really like the idea of highlighting my next tasks on the map... but there were times when 
 it would just disspear. I spent an hour trying to find a EMP and when I gave up and went back to 
 my previous saved point, baam, there it was right on my map.
  
  The weapons are about as standard as you can get and I expect that. But could you at least let 
 me find some cool things by exploring... maybe a bad a** gun with limited ammo? And warfighters 
 cant jump? huh?? You cant open doors, and there are no hidden areas.
  
  Depsite all of this the levels are actually fun, which is sad.
  
  Graphics
  Running at max 
 resolution with all the bells and whistles this game is nice. Nothing spectacular, but nice and 
 well laid out. I did have at least 1 or two crashes a night but oh well, I can handle that.
  
  Storyline
  Not bad, nice briefing for each level and good video to accompany the details. 
 Nice choice of what weapons, and team to bring, and the story is realistic enough for me. I could 
 do without the general who yells like he is having a heart attack... I dont see a real general having 
 a panick attack every time something comes up. But overall, decent storyline.
  
  Overall
  I hope the guy in the AI dept at Ubisoft is looking for another job. Because in my humble opinion, 
 he/she/they, pretty much ruined what might have been a pretty good game.
  
  If I could get my money back I would... but I cant so I can save you the $ and say wait until a 
 price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Strengths:
  
  -Graphics engine is stable and provides very playable frame rates on most current and high-end 
 hardware. -AI management for Ghost Team members via menus and cross-com is more precise than original 
 GRAW for PC. Ghosts now go where player wants them to go. They no longer take overly long routes 
 to destinations and often face the proper way they arrive. Cover and attack commands actually work 
 and give the player added functionality and security in combat.
  
  -Multiplayer is robust and will appeal to fans of pre-console Tom Clancy games (Rainbow Six; Ghost 
 Recon) . Retains classic feel of previous games with added graphical eye candy and modern additions 
 like sliding, diving and other features found in most contemporary first person shooters.
  
  Weaknesses:
  
  -SP Campaign is relatively short and disjointed. There is no real coherent 
 story to link missions together, so it comes off as just a collection of 10 missions in different 
 locations with different objectives.
  
  -SP is designed around out-dated tactical gaming model established by earlier Tom Clancy games 
 (original GR and Rainbow Six) . This model is very robotic, painfully slow and does not reflect 
 the fluidity, speed and dynamic nature of (real) modern combat.
  
  This is what makes this game seem like a throwback to 2001. There is no real sense of anything 
 going on other than moving your Ghosts into position (individually, or as a unit) and then giving 
 them the fire order. Firefights are over before they start and then it is back to playing chess 
 with your AI team members who aren't that bright to begin with. Rinse and repeat.
  
  Hardcore fans of the the original Ghost Recon are not willing to move into the 21st Century and 
 accept what constitutes a competent tactical action game. While originally an arcade-style console 
 game, at least the recent Rainbow Six: Vegas (PC) , takes squad management and the real life fluidity 
 and chaos of combat to the level it should be in game released in 2007.
  
  This outdated and model is what makes GRAW 2 bland and uneventful... Which is the biggest irony 
 of all considering it is first person shooter that takes place in the middle of an attack on the 
 United States/Mexico border. -Enemy AI is substandard. Either they are elite snipers from 1000 
 meters away... Or as blind as a bat at two meters. Inconsistency of AI accuracy ruins all plausible 
 immersion, for SP and CO-OP.
  
  -Maps aren't as open, or large as they first appear. The player can tackle objectives in any order, 
 but the maps themselves are still very linear to force firefights via choke points and allow scripted 
 sequences like enemy reinforcements arriving via helo or truck to ramp up the tension.
  
  Overall:
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is a throwback to the classic Tom 
 Clancy games of the early millennium and should appease the hardcore crowd who liked the original 
 game.
  
  However, as a modern tactical action game it is far behind the times. The Xbox 360 version, while 
 emphasizing more action and so-called run and gun is ironically more accurate in its depictions 
 of war and combat in the modern age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kray28
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Performance:
  This game shines graphically and in terms of basic implementation. The menus are clean and nice, 
 and overall stability is good. Framerates on an 8800GTX and a 4800 X2 at high settings with a res 
 of 1920x1200 are more than playable.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's easier than GRAW, but still has it's moments of sheer frustration. Your squadmates have an 
 AIQ of approximately 60. In other words they are total retards... and must be babysat (or kept safely 
 out of the way) for most of the mission. You just can't rely on them to take care of themselves. 
 The enemy AI is really no better, and can be easily dispatched solo style. But that's not quite 
 the point of this game, is it? Overall:
  The gameplay on this game is what really drove the score down, it has it's positives, and while 
 all the performance/game engine issues of GRAW PC seem to have been ironed out, the core gameplay 
 and especially the AI needs major help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradford31
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Ya know when I look back on GRAW 1 PC, I could understand the flack it got for the AI, but in the 
 end I had a blast with the game and there were some memorable moments ( I loved the solo missions) . 
 Now 4 months after the 360 gets their version of the follow up, GRAW 2 hits PCs. After blowing 
 through the single player campain in about 7-8 hours, I was left with a huge feeling of disappointment. 
 The AI is just as bad, if not worse. the promised day to night change is non existent and outside 
 of the final level, the experience is very forgettable. it all adds up to a bad expansion pack. 
 Graphically it is on par with the first game, with minor upgrades here and there. For those of 
 you who have a Physx card, it definately is noticeable and there is even a bonus mission on an 
 Island that is one of the best looking of the game. So is it worth 49.99? hell no. Is it worth 
 playing if you liked the first one? yes I would have to say so, I would just wait until the price 
 goes down. not a first day must have game.
  
  and by the way, the ending? LAME. that is all I will say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_gamespot
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Update ... I originally gave this game a 6.7, but now it is downgraded ... for this reason:
  
  Crash in application version: 30621.2989
  
  It happens at the worst of times, and it makes 
 the game worthless to play.
  ----------------------------
  I played GRAW 1 almost every day in multi-player. Recognizing that GRAW 2 is a different and more 
 complex challenge, I expected that sneaking around would result in a slower more realistic play. 
 Instead, all the AI are in the same spots, they are often wide open and like supermen. In GRAW 
 1, your high powered sniper rifle could penetrate 4 feet of concrete with a single blast. In GRAW 
 2, you can hit them in the chest 2-3 times and they get like it is nobodies business, but after 
 being hit down with the shot to the chest, they are able to get up, come to their senses, aim and 
 shoot you dead in 1-2 seconds. Even if GRAW 1's physics made the sniper rifle more powerful than 
 it should be, a sniper rifle should take anybody down regardless of what body armour they happen 
 to have on.
  
  They can shoot you through the ground/hillside, through a car and be out of drawable distance and 
 kill you with a single shot. And then in some missions, the spawn points are behind you, so out 
 of nowhere the enemy appears, making the battle unrealistic, I'd rather have 200 in front of me 
 than 4 who drop in like paratroopers behind you. This is why I consider it broken.
  
  This type of super-human ability in normal mode moves the game from being an expected challenge, 
 to being a frustrating experience. No amount of skill on your part really prepares you for this 
 kind of frustration; unless getting killed over and over is the thing you like. The only thing 
 that saves you is the fact that they are in the same spot all the time. Once you remember the spots, 
 it's easy, but then it becomes boring with limited replay. A couple of M61's here, a grenade launch 
 there, and your hidden enemy is toasted, but then so is your challenge .. toasted.
  
  If given a choice between GRAW 1 and 2; version 1 is still the favourite. Sorry Grin (the game 
 maker) you took one to the head with this release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eveningsky_eric
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is a household name when it comes to tactical shooters, and GRAW 2 does a good job 
 of living up to the Ghost Recon name. The levels are well-designed for either frontal assaults 
 into the enemy's teeth or sneaking around behind their lines. Or both. I usually end up splitting 
 my team and and attack objectives from multiple angles. As for size, the levels are actually smaller 
 than those in the older GR games, but you are still able to pick off enemies from a distance and 
 maneuver as you please.
  
  The command interface is easy to use, but my only real complaint with this game is the stupid mouse 
 wheel settings. Why do I have to use the mouse wheel to select team members and give them orders 
 without using the map?? I mean, seriously, my mouse wheel doesn't even work when you click it. 
 I have tried two mouses, but I have a Dell, which means the product incomplete when it was shipped, 
 because Dell is just dumb like that. So, I use the map all the time. It slows things down, but 
 I suppose it works. I just wish I could change the mouse settings.
  
  The visuals are excellent, and the game runs well on my PC. I haven't had any frame rate problems 
 so far and I don't foresee any.
  
  The sound is good over all. The s sound polished, yet underpowered. I could probably fix that by 
 turning up the volume, though...
  
  The story is somewhat cliche. Nothing really unique about it. But GRAW2's strength is in its game 
 play, not its story. I recommend this game to anyone who has an interest in tactical shooters or 
 Ghost Recon in general. No doubt there will be people saying this game is boring and complicated, 
 but they should be off playing a boring, heavily scripted shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymondcs123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  It's hard to believe that after the sucuessful GRAW, now the newest to the series in PC is a complete 
 catastrophe. Once again you play as Scott Mitchell, commanding a bunch of guys through Mexico looking 
 for some Nukes. The story is great, focusing on the chase on the rebels and it gets more intense 
 mission after mission, if you can actually get past it, which we'll talk about this later
  The graphics are somewhat disappointing, though the phsyics are great. The grass is very badly 
 drawn and has very obvious square dots along it's side. The second thing is it's bushes, specially 
 designed to block you view as it appears as a big block square cube which you cant go near it like 
 a musuem display. The physics like the model and movement are captured good though, as you see 
 grass moving a bit. The second thing are lots of things (well, not as much as you imagine) can be 
 destroyed such as fenced can be torned down to bits.
  The gamplay can be fraustrating, if you aren't tatical enough, as the game tends to be realistic. 
 If you happen to be one of those CS players, you might get gun downed just trying to get past the 
 first few guys. Your health system unlike the current fashion of health regenerate, you have a 
 health bar that depletes in a few shots. And I do mean a few shots. It's quite fun, though I admit 
 it's hard. I played it once and gave up. The second time i played I jsut discovered how wonderful 
 it is when you're tatical enough. It's not that hard as everyone thinks, your health really depletes 
 within a few shots, but if you slowly plan your movements, get your teamates to the right position, 
 it's as easy as hell.
  Though each mission has only a few checkpoints, luckily there is a quick save system which u can 
 save when you aren't under fire. The best part of the game is probably the Ai the and weapons. 
 Your teamates are very co-operative and they are agressive. Let's say they spot an enemy, they 
 go to cover and peek left/right and take a few shots. They might even run out and shot at the runners. 
 The weapons are cool, from rifles to LMGs, everything you expect is here, and you can customise 
 it with whatever you want, such as scopes, sound supressors and GLs.
  The multiplayer is the highlight of the whole game. There are a couple of cool modes you can choose 
 from such as Assault vs Recon, Hamburger Hill, 2 different co-op modes and finally the traditional 
 deathmatch. Though you can't customise your weapons in MP (besides co-op story) , the combinations 
 preset have a huge variety, depending on what you like.
  GRAW 2 isn't that bad, but tends to be very realistic and let people know how soldiers in real 
 life works. It's just not appreciated for not protagonist style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pstlouis
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  That game are has realist has a soldier at war. I have a physic card from ageia and for sure that 
 implement great physics to the gamepecialy explosion, smoke etc... The only thing I don't like 
 it is that in multiplayer they change the way for the inventory of the weapons. In the first graw 
 we where able to choose the weapons inventory we wanted for a mission. That a change I doesn't 
 like of the second version. But overall it still a very good game for a first person shooter. I 
 like a lot the new way to give orders to my team. A circle indicate the position we want to place 
 the soldier.
  
  Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Story: You lead a special ops Ghost Team against Mexican Rebels and Panama Mercs threatening the 
 safety of the USA.
  
  Graphics: Average, less of a a futuristic look than the last.
  
  Audio: Guns sound good, Teammate voiceovers are decent. Missions: 10 Missions in All, Spans Three 
 Acts. Range from securing battlefronts to rescuing a captured US Soldier. Controls: Standard FPS 
 controls with Tactical Controls tacked on.
  
  Features: A well designed tactical layout (similar to BF2's Commander Screen)
  A. I.: Movement 
 and Cover system works great for the enemy, Realistic manuevers, Horrible looking deaths due to 
 weird physics
  
  Loading Times: Many and usually long. Multiplayer: Nothing special but Co-Op can be a good time.
 
  
  Requirements: Medium to High
  
  Weapons: Best looking weapons I've seen in a game for a long time. Great selection also.
  
 
  The Good: Way better than the first GRAW installment.
  
  The Bad: Some missions feel pointless, Enemy model duplicates are common The Ugly: Poor use of 
 Aegia Physics with enemy deaths Replay Ability: Low to none. The Bottom Line: If you are a fan 
 of the GRAW series go for it, if not don't expect much innovation to the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Graw 2, i personaly like the graphics and tactic gameplay the most. It's ( pretty ) Realistic. 
 The best part about the gameplay is having to position your squad if you want to move them somewhere 
 else which is A MUST and should be at every Realistic warfare shooters.
  The AI however is pretty buggy. Most of the time when i try to place my squad behind a building 
 for cover, 1 or 2 guys just stand in the opend. And after clicking 5 times move move move, they 
 finally move into position :S
  Or when i try to make them follow me, they find another route to come back to me so you experience 
 blue on blue -_-
  
  A little advice for anyone reading this that is having graphical problems with nvidia cards. if 
 you can hardly see anything at all in the game like seeing only a few square things try this:
 
  
  Go to your nvidia control panel. There you see this 3D animation of the nvidia logo, which you 
 can set from Performace/Balanced/Quality.
  Set it to Performance and your game will work :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangoanuta
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  GRAW was a good game, not perfect, a little buggy, but it had its fun moments.
  
  GRAW 2 introduces some enhanced squad control, new weapons, maps are better, graphics are really 
 mediocre for today standards but what really ruins this game is the AI.
  
  The AI is completely lackluster, sometimes they spot you from miles away and shoot you dead, and 
 sometimes you stand 5 seconds in front of them and they do nothing.
  
  The level ending cut scenes are somewhat stupid and make the game look silly and old.
  
  Weapons 
 are fun to use, the tactical map is way better than the previous one, squad can actually do something 
 if they're all together.
  
  The only possible salvation for this one is a good patch for the AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  I really do prefer a challenging AI, and this game has it!
  
  If you appreciate well thought-out tactical single player games then this one is it. Personally, 
 I find MP games like CS incredibly boring because I like to really think and execute a total-win 
 covert strike.
  
  I love setting up field battle strategies, which you get to do plenty of here. I have a feeling 
 this game will appeal more to the mature players than the younger ones, since time is needed to 
 set up a good attack strategy with your team -- kinda like a sophisticated chess game but a lot 
 more exciting.
  
  Don't complain if your PC is less than a 2.8Ghz machine with plenty of RAM (at least 2GB) and a 
 top-of-the-line graphics card or you don't know how to tweak your system for high-end gaming - 
 go play HL2 or CS instead until you can afford it.
  
  Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaabnaze83
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter it back with more bad enemies IA and dumb team partners, same story 
 and graphics, and a new boring gameplay.
  
  PROS: Use machinegun turrets, incorporation of new weapons, now you can change your weapons everytimes 
 that you wants.
  
  CONTRAS: The price ($49.99) , old graphic engine and same gameplay, XBox 360 version is more exciting 
 and more advanced warfighter than PC version, your enemies are more efficient than your idiots 
 team partners, tactic map more complex and more complicated than GRAW original.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is more of the same troubles existing in the GRAW original but 
 multiplied by two (who know that you need a order of return fire for counterattack when you are 
 receiving damage?... stupid team partners!) . Advanced Warfighter.., bah!, this game don't have 
 nothing of advanced or warfighter . The first GRAW was better.
  
  PD: Pardon my english! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikesmithson
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  I have a top of the line machine (Intel Core Duo Extreme, 1GB GeForce Video Card, Aegia Physics 
 card, and 4 GB of RAM) and this game locks up my machine without fail. I even downloaded and applied 
 the latest patches. Disappointing to say the least. I cannot even really comment on the gameplay 
 since I am not really able to get very far in the first mission to give a fair review of the overall 
 game design. But here is what I have seen so far that I don't really like:
  1) Coordinating your team can only be done by 'tabbing' to a bird's-eye view tactical map and then 
 you move your men accordingly. I prefer the Rainbow Six Vegas style where you can do it right there 
 from the first person view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  GRAW2 has improved so much.. Firstly, the graphic is good. Dynamic lightling is fantastic, details 
 are detailed and shadows are nice.. Also, AI is quite good compared to GRAW but can improve. Other 
 than that, the quality of the sound is awesome. It feels like the bullets are flying above your 
 head. Singleplayer missions are challenging and need patience. In addition, the missions are quite 
 long and player has a lots of a intense moments. Also, the multiplayer is superb. Players can choose 
 either side of forces and bust your enemy with variety of weapons. All in all, GRAW2 is worth to 
 check it out and collect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  GRAW2 PC is a rocking good time OK so the AI may seem a little stupid at times and the fellow 
 Ghosts may be a little slow to react, but overall this game is a very good improvement over its 
 predecessor. For those who compare it to the console version all I can say is that PC gaming is 
 much, much different and as such we (PC Gamers) require more latitude than mindless attitude and 
 silly game play. GRAW2 like its predecessor is meant for the gamer who likes a realistic gaming 
 experience with almost life like reactions and real-time action. Can it be a shoot em-up game 
 maybe; however the money in the series is made by the strategy and folks with quick reflexes. Thats 
 why those who play the multiplayer version online love the game so much (Two thumbs up to guys 
 like the Beer Drinking Assassins who have done much to make the online multiplayer game a true 
 experience to remember) . While not everyone plays these games online, my advice is to try! The 
 single player mode is good, but if you truly want to have a great time please try downloading Ventrilo 
 and/or Team Speak and get all your friends involved) . While I may have some tiny gripes about certain 
 things like weapons selection on the multiplayer version and multiplayer selections for server 
 set-up Im not too worried, because in the end I think GRIN and UBISOFT have put together a real 
 winner here! PS they can and probably will fix many of my minor issues in the near future, so ZERO 
 points off for oopsies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisfmar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Uneventful, uninspiring and boring. It's like a chess game, even a check mate fails to get your 
 heart pounding, there are no emotions. This is a robotic game, both ghosts and Mexican rebels are 
 zombies doing cold kills, with no adrenaline rush like in Vegas. Again the PC version fails well 
 behind its Xbox 360 brethren, in what is most important : gameplay and fun.
  Whereas graphics and the tactical portion are improved (map, commands) , once the firefights start, 
 they feel empty. It gets better in multiplayer but it's like playing BF2 on foot. Finally, why 
 such a capable, fit, well trained and equipped futuristic soldier can't jump ? This is ridiculous. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amit_talkin
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I just want to say that Graphically game is good but gameplay is not impressive. Rainbow Six Vegas 
 was really impressive. gameplay is boring and team commands are complicated.... team mates even 
 not killing any enemies warping around . all i have to do myself.. lol. Graphics quality is good. 
 and details of objects is also nice.. like when u blow an artillery with satchel, parts of that 
 artillery blows all around area. anyways... all i want to say is that there is nothing new in this 
 game. in my opinion Rainbow six vegas was better than this one. this is just my opinion... not the 
 words of god.. hehe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hibikino
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I have never played the first GRAW or any other Tom Clancy's games (except the very first 
 Rainbow Six) . However, I'd say that GRAW 2 is quite a user-friendly game. The Cross-com system 
 in GRAW series is easy to pick up once you get used to giving command and learn the controls. Most 
 players who have played the first GRAW should be able to pick up this game easily. For new players, 
 you should take a little time to study the controls a bit before you jump right into the game.
 
  
  Unfortunately, if you haven't played the first GRAW, you will not know much of the insight of what 
 happened in the prequel. Basically, in GRAW 2, Scott got called back to Texas to save the day again. 
 But it doesn't matter cuz' most of the time you will be given objectives throughout the game and 
 you just have to complete it. There isn't much of the story to it, anyway.
  
  The graphics is well designed. The physics in the game is very detailed even without one of those 
 AGEIA card. However, I found the music to be a little annoying at times. I've been playing the 
 game for 2 days now, I have to admit that the game is quite difficult even at Normal difficulty. 
 (of coz, because I didn't know that you can do a quicksave with K button til now so learn the controls 
 now!) . The AI is very chellenging as in, they could spot you really quickly even if you are hiding 
 in the higher ground. The best way to go undetected is to flank them from behind or when they are 
 not looking at your direction. From act II onwards, your quicksave is going become your best friend 
 for this game.
  
  Now, the downside about the game is that I find that this game certainly still has rooms for improvement 
 for its Single Player Mode. Right now, it isn't quite satisfying yet. Besides, there are bugs regarding 
 those with NVIDIA Geforce 8 series as playeres reported seeing artifacts in game. This problem 
 shouldn't happen to high-end cards. There are few other gameplay bugs here and there as well. Right 
 now, patches are being processed to fix the issues, though. I haven't tried playing Multiplayer 
 mode though but most players have reported positive feedbacks about the gameplay. Overall, if you 
 like tactical FPS game like Rainbow Six, this game maybe for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDude
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is quite possibly the longest game title in existence, 
 however, it is also quite possibly the best online 'tactical-arcade-shooter' to date. GRAW2 brings 
 the spirit of the original Rainbow Six back to the PC - meaning the player is in for some pretty 
 intense and tactically demanding firefights. I'm not going to write a full review here, thats for 
 GameSpot. I just want to basically sum up GRAW2. Before I continue however, let me point out that 
 I HATE modern Clancy games; they are arcadey and completely unsuited to the PC - being as they 
 are nothing more than console ports. GRAW2 however is a beautifully crafted PC game through and 
 through. Multiplayer is SPOT on, and is the only reason I purchased this game. I do not enjoy single-player 
 games, but if you do, then fear not, as GRAW2 has a reasonably fleshed out single-player component. 
 GRAW1 was a disappointment, GRAW2 most certainly is not.
  
  Here is a brief list of why you should buy this game:
  (1) It has excellent multiplayer gameplay.
 
  (2) It is both tactical and twitch based. Participating in online matches requires an equal amount 
 of skill and common (tactical) sense.
  (3) It has purdy graphics - even if it does lack true full-screen anti-aliasing.
  (4) It has 
 some of the best sound effects I have ever heard in a shooter. (5) The animation and movement mechanic 
 is stunning. Knee-slides are quite possibly the coolest looking 'realistic move' ever (sure, a 
 back-flip may look cool, but it isn't very practical in a modern day fire-fight)
  
  Don't buy this game if:
  (1) You ONLY play CS, and cannot understand why anyone would want to 
 play an online game where rounds last longer than 2 minutes.
  (2) You have a poor computer. Sorry folks, but this game requires a reasonably respectable system. 
 No, your MX440 will NOT run this game.
  (3) You have better things to do with your life.
  
  I hope my 'mini-review' provides you with some insight into GRAW2. Much love to Grin (not Ubisoft) 
 for developing such a sexcellent game.
  
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  The action and strategy is looking pretty good so far in this. I just bought it the other day as 
 a special introductory sale from JB hifi in Sydney city. $64 too, not so bad for a brand new game.
 
  
  There are some bugs but it won't be long before the patches will remedy that. What else is new 
 with PC's. In saying that, it is FAR BETTER than the 360. I've played both now and the PC version 
 is just total muscle over the 360 version. I would also have to say that this is better than Vegas 
 as well. In fact, it's probably the best Tom Clancy game up to date. If you like simulated first 
 person action, then you won't look at any other game in this genre. I'm looking forward to playing 
 this through all the way. (Am only up to the third mission so far) . It is a mega action ride that 
 makes any Michael Bay movie look like a child's turd that has missed the toilet. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
