-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/splintercell/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 19, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 9.0, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 3,152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 19, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
One of the most popular, most successful, and best looking games for Microsoft's Xbox is now on 
 the PC, and in some ways it's even better than the original version. 

 One of the most popular, most successful, and best looking games for Microsoft's Xbox is now on 
 the PC, and in some ways it's even better than the original version. In most ways, though, it's 
 exactly the same. And that's great news on both counts. Reminiscent of games like Thief: The Dark 
 Project and last year's Hitman 2: Silent Assassin, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell is a stealth-driven 
 action adventure that sends you, as operative Sam Fisher, around the globe on numerous highly secretive 
 and very dangerous assignments. It all goes down like something straight out of a Hollywood action 
 thriller, replete with an intro set to alternative music and big-budget special effects featuring 
 quite possibly the best lighting effects seen on the PC to date. The game isn't above reproach: 
 Just like its Xbox counterpart, Splinter Cell for the PC is a relatively short single-player-only 
 game consisting of heavily scripted missions that can sometimes turn into exercises in trial and 
 error that undermine the game's otherwise pervasive sense of suspense. On the other hand, the improved 
 save system and the unique and effective mouse-and-keyboard control scheme make Splinter Cell for 
 the PC far more than just a straight port of the console version. At its core, it's a truly great 
 action game, one that's already met with tremendous acclaim on the Xbox and promises to be very 
 well received on the PC.           Splinter Cell's Sam Fisher is as cool as they come.    

  Sam Fisher is the splinter cell -- an ultrasecret commando working on highly classified assignments. 
 The title of Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell refers to the unusual role of its main character, a highly 
 trained and experienced soldier working for a top-secret military organization, Third Echelon, 
 that's attempting to rid the world of a high-tech terrorist threat. If he's caught, the US government 
 will disavow its affiliation with his mission. Worse yet, one false move and Fisher may inadvertently 
 instigate World War III. So the pressure's on, but Fisher's as cool as they come. Though he's skilled 
 as a fighter, stealth is his only real option, and the fate of the free world hangs in the balance 
 as he undertakes a number of high-stakes covert operations. The game's plot, which is set in the 
 near future, is straight out of a Clancy thriller and involves Fisher taking on Clancy's favorite 
 tag team: the Russians and the Chinese.   

  Despite being Third Echelon's right hand, Fisher is on a need-to-know basis and is largely kept 
 in the dark about the exact nature of his objectives. Fortunately, he's extremely resourceful, 
 armed or unarmed. A preliminary training scenario will familiarize you with the basics of being 
 Sam Fisher, though you'll nevertheless need a lot of practice to become truly proficient in the 
 role. At any rate, you'd never guess that these controls were adapted from a console game, since 
 they work extremely well on the PC. For the most part, Splinter Cell plays like a typical first-person 
 or third-person shooter, but it makes innovative use of the mouse wheel, allowing you to fine-tune 
 Fisher's movement speed from a slow, silent crawl all the way up to a brisk run. This works great, 
 though it arguably diminishes some of the challenge found in the Xbox version of the game, where 
 you needed to gently move the analog joystick in order to make Fisher tiptoe. The other controls, 
 such as for drawing your weapons and using the context-sensitive menu, take some getting used to 
 but work effectively, enabling you to perform an array of maneuvers that collectively make Splinter 
 Cell feel like a pretty believable super-spy simulation.           Fisher's night-vision and thermal-vision 
 scopes let him get the drop on his enemies.    

  In fact, aside from the pretty lighting effects, the variety of moves at Fisher's disposal is probably 
 the highlight of Splinter Cell. Sam has something for every occasion: He can move quite quickly 
 from a crouched position, and if you tread carefully while crouching, you'll be almost invisible 
 and almost silent. He can climb ladders, chain-link fences, and more. He can rappel down walls 
 (and kick through glass windows while doing so) , climb hand over hand (or using all four limbs) 
 across horizontal pipes, and zip across downward-slanted ropes or wires. He can put his back against 
 a wall and lean or shoot around corners, he can peek behind doors that are slightly ajar, and he 
 can make soft landings or perform evasive rolls. Fisher can also kick off a wall in mid jump, and 
 his coolest move (though it isn't very practical) allows him to stand in the splits atop a narrow 
 passageway and then either shoot unsuspecting opponents or drop down to deliver a stunning blow. 
   

  Sneaking up behind an opponent allows Fisher to either knock the foe unconscious with an elbow 
 strike or a pistol whip or grab the enemy and take him hostage. Fisher can then use the opponent 
 as a human shield against other enemies, or in some cases interrogate him or force him to do such 
 things as activate retinal scanners that otherwise prevent passage. He'll eventually have to dispatch 
 his hostage one way or another, and then he can pick up and move the prone body out of the sight 
 of enemy patrols. Fortunately for you, unconscious foes will awaken only if discovered by their 
 allies.             You can't just run in, guns blazing. You'll need to find stealthier ways 
 of infiltrating objective areas.    

 In Splinter Cell, the use of deadly force is more of a convenience than a necessity. Toward this 
 end, Fisher's arsenal is fairly limited but nonetheless effective. To start with, he has a trusty 
 silenced pistol that can kill with a shot to the head and can also be used to shoot out certain 
 lights to make for a more-favorable situation for Fisher and his night-vision goggles. Later on, 
 he'll find a high-tech experimental assault rifle that becomes his mainstay. Featuring both single-shot 
 and fully automatic firing modes, the SC-20K also sports a silencer and a muzzle-flash suppressor, 
 making it perfect for Fisher's purposes. This modular rifle even has a magnifying scope, allowing 
 for precision shooting -- in a great touch, Fisher can hold his breath while looking through the 
 scope to temporarily steady his aim. The SC-20K also supports a number of alternative types of 
 ammunition, such as special rounds that can be used to incapacitate foes rather than kill them. 
 In a number of Splinter Cell's missions, casualties are strictly prohibited, so this feature isn't 
 just for sympathy's sake.   

  More interestingly, the SC-20K can be used to fire remote camera probes, nauseating smoke bombs, 
 or a distraction camera that can be used to lure guards away from their posts and then give them 
 a mouthful of knockout gas. Such funky devices aren't always strictly necessary for finishing a 
 mission, but they're fun to use and can help you avoid getting into a tight spot. Fisher can also 
 get his hands on frag grenades, though high explosives aren't really his style. Throwing cans or 
 bottles to distract foes is more up his alley.   

  Picking locks is definitely his style, too, and he can use his trusty lock picks to bypass any 
 locked doors. Here the game presents a clever rendition of lock-picking in which you must tap the 
 proper directional keys on the keyboard to nudge loose as many pins as there are in the lock. Some 
 of Fisher's other neat gadgets include an optic cable that can be slid under doorways to give you 
 a gander at what's on the other side, camera jammers that disrupt security cameras, and emergency 
 flares that can draw the fire of automated heat-sensitive gun turrets. Fisher is basically a high-tech 
 government ninja, what with all this stuff, and what with his all-black body suit and night-vision 
 and heat-vision goggles. The odds are always against him, but he has a big-time element of surprise. 
 His moves and gadgets aren't just for show, either, as Splinter Cell will require you to make use 
 of almost all of Fisher's various abilities in most every mission.           Splinter Cell boasts 
 some of the best graphical effects on the PC to date.    

  Fisher's missions may all be different -- one takes place on a seemingly unassuming oil rig in the 
 middle of the ocean, while another takes place within the headquarters of the CIA -- but they're 
 all pretty similar in how you must proceed in them: Stay out of sight, stay out of harm's way, 
 and engage hostiles only when necessary. This is easier said than done, and despite Fisher's impressive 
 list of moves and exceptional skill, you'll invariably draw your enemies' attention in every mission 
 you attempt. If caught in a firefight, Fisher can be killed with just a few shots, though his foes 
 tend to go down much more quickly. Nevertheless, ammunition is limited, and Fisher's aim strays 
 wildly if he tries to shoot while moving or tries to shoot in rapid succession. More importantly, 
 being discovered will often cause a guard to raise the general alarm, which in several missions 
 makes for automatic failure.   

  In other missions, the alarm can go off several times before Third Echelon pulls the plug on you, 
 and sometimes there's no alarm to worry about at all. In what's possibly the most frustrating aspect 
 of Splinter Cell, sometimes the alarm will go off at scripted moments if you've killed or knocked 
 out too many guards leading up to that point and failed to completely hide their bodies. This can 
 force you into a perpetual mission-failure cycle, ultimately forcing you to restart a mission from 
 scratch and then try to avoid contact with rather than dispatch foes, or at least do a better job 
 of cleaning up.   

  You won't always end up restarting missions from scratch, but you'll invariably be screwing up 
 and restarting different sequences constantly, perhaps dozens of times per mission. The abilities 
 to quickly save your progress anytime, anywhere and to quickly load your saved game if caught in 
 a pinch -- features that aren't in the Xbox version of Splinter Cell -- do much to alleviate the potential 
 frustration factor of the game's lengthy missions, though they may take away from some of the challenge 
 if relied upon too heavily. In any event, you'll eventually discover that the game's missions are 
 heavily scripted and play out exactly the same way each time. The suspense is almost nonexistent 
 by the time you reach your fifth attempt at sneaking through that heavily guarded alley, and any 
 sense of urgency is undermined when you realize that the truck you're desperately trying to catch 
 up to or the assassination you're desperately trying to prevent are events that won't be triggered 
 until you cross certain thresholds. Enemy patrols are also triggered at specific points. You can 
 wait forever for that guard to come around the corner, but you won't see him do it until you step 
 forward those last few inches. Still, as long as you don't get too hung up at any given point in 
 the game (and the unlimited save system should see to that) , the mission scripting won't seem so 
 transparent.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (81 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 3:03 am PT
Review:  I played the game so long ago, that I remember almost nothing of the story-line, but since it's such 
 a great game I remember how it was as clear as crystal.
  You are Sam Fisher, a stealthy guy who wishes to be in the Government business. To be in the business, you'll 
 have to prove yourself. There goes the training stages-a brief introduction of how to play the game. You'll 
 primarily stay in the shadows, even still you'll see that Sam is in his thirties, with a heavy voice. You'll 
 have to go past cameras, locked doors, windows and a whole lot of mercenaries before you finish the 
 game. It's all about a man named Nicoladz, or something like that as far as I can remember.
  The missions will take you through a no. of locations, mostly sky-scrappers. You'll be equipped with 
 a pistol and later in the game a rifle, but you'll mostly have to eliminate the foes with bare hands 
 because there are a few missions where you are not permitted to kill anybody.
  The game won't take long to finish if you play regularly and efficiently.
  It's a fun and enjoyable 
 game, I can tell you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xand3rro
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:23 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is the kind of game you finish once, either enjoying every second or trembling with 
 anger when some method doesn't delivers the expected results. It's exactly the kind of game that 
 leaves powerful traces to you because from a certain point of view is unique and also imposes new 
 standards. I'm pretty sure that, when history will talk about the 2003 action games the first one 
 mentioned will be Splinter Cell as I'm also sure that a sequel is to be developed. I'm already 
 imagining for example Fisher in the garden of a Colombian ranch full of drug dealers. Even if Russians 
 are Tom Clancy's favorites for the negative roles a more believable story wouldn't hurt a bit. 
 If they still want to "protect other freedoms" as they stated in the game's intro movie, they should 
 better do it against those who really deserve it. The most important thing is that producers decided 
 to work with the well-known professional writer Tom Clancy to ensure the game's success, at least 
 in some parts of the world. Don't say where, way too important place to disclose it. Well, what 
 can I say, some things are not possible but they still happen in reality, like the fifth freedom. 
 Some others like the split-jump are possible in a game and leave you stunned. That's it, I've had 
 it, my head hurts full of so much conspiracies, espionage and poisoned gas inhaled in a subjective 
 and desperate way from the cigarette, stuck now in such an objective manner in my ash-tray. Reality 
 is relative. Sometimes too relative to see it naked. Einstein, you rule man! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Stealth action at it's best. Splinter Cell will test your skills pushing you to the limit. One 
 man can take on the enemy. This game is the first of it's kind. The graphic detail is awesome and 
 the delivery was fantastic. If this game rocks like that on the pc I could imagine what it was 
 like on a gaming system. I always wanted to be James Bond as a kid and this is my chance. Explore 
 locations to gather Intel without being seen. Take out enemies but leave no evidence that you where 
 there. And the best part is that if you're caught your organization will have no knowledge of you 
 nor save you. Pick up different weapons as you go along to enable your task. The train room at 
 the beginning was a nice touch. Right at the beginning they want to make sure you're ready before 
 they send you out on your first mission. Thanks for the game and can't wait to see where they will 
 go next with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Ok, ok. I admit this is an old game for today's standards, but I'm getting into the Splinter Cell 
 series and wanted to start from the beginning, which is well, playing this game. The good thing 
 is that I'll have the chance to experience consecutively how the game will improve (hopefully) 
 since it was launched so many years ago. So I'll try to adjust my review on graphics and gameplay 
 thinking this is 2003
  
  For a 2003 game, this game is astonishing. I played it on a 22" WS monitor hooked to a Nvidia 8800 
 GTS 640mb card Intel PC, and the game looks gorgeous at full 1680x1050 resolution, which I was 
 surprised that a game that old will have support for a 22" widescreen monitor at full resolution. 
 The graphics, even for today's standards, looks great and the unlimited views you can obtain by 
 moving the mouse around are great. Even lighting and shadows are great, an accomplishment for a 
 game launched in 2003, probably developed in 2002. The only complain I have with the graphics is 
 the lack of customizable options like AA, etc. Besides adjusting the resolution, you basically 
 have two settings you can pump up to the highest level and that's it. Again this is 2003 but I 
 remember circa 2003 games having more graphic options
  
  But the real and welcoming things that put this game above several others are the gameplay and 
 the story. The gameplay is large, you really have to play the stealth card to beat the game, and 
 you have plenty of incentives to do so. If you approach this game as a normal FPS, you will be 
 disappointed and I wouldn't recommend you to do so. In many missions, there are plenty of different 
 ways to be stealth, and even if you have several gadgets that can facilitate your mission, the 
 only thing you really need is a gun, your goggles and a lock-pick, that's it. Oh, and a mike for 
 some missions where you need to secretively record conversations. If you are truly stealth, you 
 won't need anything else and in some missions the gun can be expendable. I also welcomed the way 
 you can openly save your progress at any time, contrary to the infamous saving system of the stealth 
 game Hitman, which made the game unnecessarily tough and long in my opinion. The only big complain 
 I have about the gameplay is the difficulty to handle double jumps, which become a matter of chance 
 and not of mastery. Also, the way to access the inventory via the Ctrl key and then activate it 
 by pressing E is awkward. The mouse wheel should have more prominence in this task but again, this 
 is 2003
  
  As per the story, even if credible and full of suspense and a nice plot, it is shame I'm playing 
 this game in 2008 and can see in real life a very different Republic of Georgia than the one portrayed 
 in the game, which takes out something from the story. But the story plays nice with the kind of 
 character you're playing and fits great into a stealth-like operations game. I can't wait to play 
 the rest of the series
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I found the "Espionage Pack" (Splinter Cell 1 and 2) in 2007 for $10.
  
  Sam Fisher is an operative for Third Echelon which operates above the US government. A new terrorist 
 threat arises, and Sam must put an end to it. The key in Splinter Cell is not being detected and 
 minimizing kills.
  
  ============ GOOD ===========
  
  STEALTH ABILITIES: Sam has many steal techniques. He can creep around crouched, climb up objects, 
 quickly do a roll, hang from ledges and move hand over hand, back against walls, peek around corners, 
 zip across lines, climb on vertical/horizontal pipes. All these are simple to use and are intuitive.
 
  
  WEAPONS: SC pistol (silenced one handed gun) , the SC-20K: a two handed sniping/automatic rifle 
 that can shoot stunning foil rounds, incapacitating sticky shockers, diversion cameras with knockout 
 gas, stick cameras to look around corners and assess threats. Sam also has frag grenades and medkits 
 to heal.
  
  GRAPHICS: Good even on lower settings. The character animations are all smooth and the environments 
 are extremely detailed and convincing.
  
  ============ BAD ===========
  
  TRIAL AND ERROR: Sometimes the slightest mistake can end a mission so players will have to keep 
 reloading to get things right. This can be really frustrating and take away from the immersion 
 of the mission. Fortunately the PC version has quicksaves.
  
  STORY: Tom Clancy fans will probably enjoy the depth and complexity of the story, but casual readers 
 or non-readers will have a difficult time following all the places and names that come up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  it's revolusioner game which a unique game play and best graphics and character. there are a new 
 super hero in here.
  
  =game play=
  
  u will not find action with a many corps of soldier and enemy, and with dinamical warfare like 
 battle WWII. but this game make u a stealth unit which secret job, starring as sam fisher who have 
 a strong and good characteristic. u can recon in the shadows, kill enemy in silent, and climb into 
 roof. u will choose a few good weapons can you take on the mission. difficulty game is medium, 
 remember that the AI enemy is not really good, but not worse too. You have a infrared viewer or 
 heat finder viewer. it can help u to complete the mission.
  
  =graphics=
  
  that's wonderful graphics without bug. character detail very strong and have a large number of 
 dynamic light the best character movement, a good environment drawing. bit u must pay this with 
 mainstream computers to play this game. amd sempron/athlon pentium IV or higher with 512 mb ram 
 and latest video card in 2003 can run this game with the best display and performance.
  
  =All performance=
  
  I guess splinter cell is a best stealth game in the year (2003) . with awesome 
 graphics, and unique game play allow u to play and became this game the best stealth game in 2003. 
 cie
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pzco
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of stealth games, such as Hitman, Thief, etc.... you're likely to enjoy this title. 
 Not the best, but it's a fun play nonetheless. Here's my breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  You can employ various stealth tactics in this game, and use interesting moves to dispatch 
 your enemies.... how it is constructed, is quite lifelike. Character movement is fluid and realistic. 
 The AI seems plausible and smart.
  
  The story here is an interesting one, and the missions are fun to play through. They make good 
 use of the environment, using lots of entertaining character interactions.
  
  The reason I don't rank the gameplay any higher is simply because it all gets repetetive. It's 
 fun for a while, but then you notice that it's all the same. Level procession, sneaking all the 
 same, dispatching enemies, interrogation, etc.... it's also extremely linear, with usually one given 
 path through the level. You are not free for exploration.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound in this game is quite impressive. The sounds people make.... footsteps, gunfire, etc.... is 
 well done. There is also some good voice acting employed, particularly in foreign language, Russian. 
 There is nothing low quality here.
  
  Value: 7/10
  
  With all this, I *do* recommend this game if you're a fan of stealth. And, even if you're not, 
 get it. It's a good way to ease yourself into the genre. The reason I give value 70% is that, this 
 game is fun for one run-through, but you lose the urge to play it more afterwards, due to it's 
 linearity.
  
  There are varying difficulty levels, some might play through multiple times for this... but for 
 the average gamer it should not be too hard, and you can probably beat it on "Expert" from the 
 get-go.
  
  Overall, the original Splinter Cell is an entertaining stealth game, but not something that's gonna 
 keep you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is a stealth based game in which the player assumes the role of Sam Fisher. 
  
  Sam Fisher is an operative of Third Echelon, which is a part of the NSA consisting of an elite 
 team of strategists, hackers, and field operatives who gather intelligence from various sources 
 to anticipate crisis and act swiftly.
  
  When diplomatic relations need to be maintained, espionage operations are carried out by deploying 
 a lone field unit by the Third Echelon who is accompanied by a remote team relaying instructions 
 through radio contact. Sam Fisher is the Third Echelon's best agent  A Splinter Cell. They are 
 granted the use of Fifth Freedom  protect United States using any means necessary, and should 
 the agent be captured, the United States government will deny all knowledge of their existence.
 
  
  When two CIA undercover agents disappear in Georgia, Sam Fisher is sent to investigate the matter 
 and rescue them. Fisher soon uncovers a deeper plot involving a Georgian invasion on United States 
 through nuclear warfare.
  
  Splinter Cell is played in the 3rd person perspective with an over the shoulder camera when in 
 combat mode but the emphasis on stealth.
  
  The game manages to stay interesting because the levels are varied and in some levels the player 
 is allowed the freedom to use force and other less subtle means of approach. Yet the game difference 
 from other action games because the player has to be careful about the ammo, which is sometimes 
 limited.
  
  Thankfully, Fisher has the ability to sneak behind enemies and deliver a blow that will cause the 
 enemy to lose consciousness, this comes in handy when ammo low. But I never encountered a situation 
 where I ran out of ammo even when I used my weapons to take out enemies most of the time; getting 
 headshots will ensure that you get maximum return for your ammo spent.
  
  The weapons are good although somewhat lacking in variety, but the gadgets are very interesting. 
 You are given a SC-20K M. A. W. S. (Modular Assault Weapon System) and a SC Pistol attached with a 
 silencer and an assortment of tools such as lock picks, optical cable, camera jammer etc, along 
 with the trademark goggles which has thermal and night vision modes.
  
  I felt that the pistol could have been more accurate and the sniper mode in the SC-20K could have 
 benefitted with less amount of head bob, that is just a minor observation though.
  
  PC gamers gain the advantage of having a quick save feature, which comes in as a blessing. I would 
 have detested the use of checkpoint system in a game such as this.
  
  The graphics are very impressive. The lighting effects are superb and the use of shadows is excellent 
 throughout, in fact, it is very essential to use them to your advantage. You are given a visibility 
 meter, and if properly concealed in darkness, the character is as good as invisible.
  
  Sound effects are superb with good voice clarity. Footsteps can be heard very distinctly and this 
 helps to alert the player of enemy presence. There is no music during the game on most occasions, 
 but the music in the cutscenes is very good, and so are effects such as splintering of glass, computer 
 keystrokes and so on.
  
  One of my main complaints about the game is the linearity. You proceed in the exact same path that 
 the developer intended you to, and perhaps that makes this game rank below Dues Ex and such because 
 there is no replay value.
  
  Overall, Splinter Cell is a great experience, which does not follow the usual route of other action 
 games, but tries to be a little more realistic.
  
  + Graphics
  + Sound effects
  + Great use of stealth
  + Level design
  
  - Linear
  - No replay value
  - Weapons lack 
 variety
  
  Verdict  Sam Fisher is the PC version of Solid Snake. Excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auroracrawler
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  it's a hard game. I like hard games. the lerning curve is just right. hard because of the AI. not 
 'cause of the "eyes-on-backs" guys (like too many game that the npc' even see you and turn in your 
 direction and start to shoot) or 'cause of the guys stronger than you. this is the smarter and 
 funniest action game i have ever played. why? let's go to the review:
  Premise:
  the premise is not too uncommon: you're an Secret Agent of third Echelon. an fictitous agency. 
 as an secret-ops agent you must walk silently and try to kill your enemies making no noises. a 
 hard mission? no, just a challenge. do you like challenges? i do. i love a challenge. easy games 
 are boring. this is the game premise.
  Gameplay:
  the best part of the game. the gameplay is an unique experience. don't try to pretend the John 
 Rambo style. it's an dumb way to play this game. you have more mechanic objects than weapons. you 
 can use weapons to kill your enemies, but i don't recommend you to do this. the weapons are better 
 to destroy cameras and lights. specially 'cause of the fact that you don't have many ammo. is better 
 get you enemies inconcious, using hand-to-hand combat . you are an american ninja. you can get 
 up walls and fall down by cords around the scenario. be cautious. making noise can result on certain 
 death. walking on the shadows is a good way to go in game. take care. the enemies are very smart 
 and if you do any noisy movement they'll detect you.
  Graphics:
  one of the masterpieces of the game. the graphics are beautiful and very well-done. but the best 
 of the graphics is the lights. all the lightmap changes when you destroy any of the lights. the 
 shadows and the lights is totally dinamic and are very realistic. perfect to a game that you get 
 yourself hide in the shadows.
  Sound:
  the music is very good. it fit with the game universe. when someone see you the music get faster 
 and more loud. the voice acting is very convincing. the people screaming when see you with a gun. 
 the conversations. all the voices were very well done. man, the russian voices are very funny.
 
  Replay Value:
  high. it's a good game, but replaying it get boring if you play it on easy again. if you plans 
 to replay it, replay on medium, or hard.
  Final Considerations:
  it's a outstanding game. if you like the style, you must play it to speak about stealth action 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 9
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  This is the first installment to the best stealth series. Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell has amazing 
 graphics, sound, and of course great gameplay . Sam Fisher is sent out to stop the start of World 
 War III against China and Russia. The way to stop the war, is stopping the man who is causing it. 
 A Georgia mercenary named Nikoladze is the one that has to be assassinated. To complete the mission 
 you go through nine well detailed levels. Using a pistol and a SC-20K with some attachments, such 
 as, Ring Airfoils and Gas Grenades. Overall, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell is the beginning for my 
 love of stealth. From the well thought out story to the great action scenes you will encounter. 
 I guarantee that you will have some memorable moments from this action stealth adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, something of i alway want to do its live the life of this guy, Sam fisher, he is not a killer 
 like 47 (for the guys of don't know him, its Hitman) he its a spy working to the country or the 
 C. I. A. This game its unique in all the aspects, with the crouch, the guns, the gadjets, oviously, 
 the voice acting, a great mode, the vision of the goggles, the fact of do everything like a spy 
 and oviously kill some rusians xDD.
  
  The gameplay its perfect, because the controls, not are too hard, and you have a loot of things 
 to do with them and also with the gadgets you can do a universe of things in all the missions in 
 this excepcional game
  
  The graphics are fine, just for the game and the year its really cool how he moves, and the cheats 
 with the graphics are super!
  
  The sound its very cool, fo the voice of lambert, the voice oif sam, the rusians, and all that 
 its really really cool and that its a lot... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Chaos Theory is the 3rd installment in the Tom Clancy Splinter Cell series, where you play the 
 role of hard-boiled special forces spy Sam Fisher. Let's skip the plot elements and go straight 
 to the meat of the game.
  
  Game play:
  
  It's hard to find a perfect game these days, one that keeps your mind working and deliver a rewarding 
 experience: Chaos Theory does just that, it puts you in a position that one ... or two wrong moves 
 could essentially equate to game over. It forces the player to be on edge, to find solutions and 
 act quickly, it opens multiple ways of completing objectives, you have the choice of unleashing 
 firepower or not harming a single hostile NPC
  
  From start to finish this game kept me glued. The developers paid extra attention to detail to 
 create a realistic immersing environment. I would go as far as saying they've really outdone themselves 
 in delivering a quality title. The variety of locations: a bank, military base, cargo ship... really 
 keep the game play fresh as you are faced with different challenges for every location.
  
  Graphics:
  Rendering effects are jaw dropping. Textures and lighting make every surface look 
 realistic, the outdoor view from the Battery level must have been the best I have ever seen in 
 a game.
  
  Audio:
  Again, on par with the graphics quality, immersing music that changes if you face danger, each 
 map has it's own sound track and adds well to the overall atmosphere. Some sound effects like gun 
 fire felt a bit fake but are overshadowed with the environmental effects like rain and footsteps 
 on different surfaces.
  
  Overall I would recommend this game to anyone who like the last 2 games and new comers to the series 
 that wish to experience something different than the run of the mill action games on the market 
 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalrvbest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell was an amazing game. No doubt about it. The guns were stealthy and cunning and some 
 of the gadgets were ingenious. I had a couple of major problems with it. The main one being the 
 type of game it is. It's one of thos games where they say don't let the alarm be raised or you'll 
 fail. And sure, those can be really good, but that just completely takes out the shooter part of 
 this game. That's why it wasn't perfect. Every time you confront somebody, you must stay in the 
 shadows and you're not allowed to shoot them. And this just got incredibly frustrating. This links 
 in with my other moan. The difficulty level on this game was quite literally impossible. With the 
 guns pretty much disabled, it was so difficult to not be noticed. And even then it took an hour 
 just to figure out where you were going. Nice and long, but frustratingly hard for me and that's 
 why it didn't get the highest score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  The first time I met Sam Fisher was when my friend gave me a copy of SC1 (I didn't pay a penny 
 for it! LOL!) and it was the begining of my addiction to Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell.
  
  SC1 introduces the first installment of one of the MOST-WANTED A/A games and its favourite character 
 Sam Fisher. A professional National Security Agency's agent who's got to go to dangerous and deadly 
 missions in order knock down some bad-ass guys around the world.
  At first you'll pass an easy trainig course and it's the time you may start to enjoy the game, 
 because you'll find out that in Splinter Cell how easily you can manage your character to do facinating 
 and interesting field tactics.
  Splinter Cell is mostly based on stealth and silent combat. It's easy to get used to its gameplay 
 and styles. (I don't mean it's that much easy that you think it's a game for kids) You should care 
 for your Stealth Meter and Noises. For doing that, the best choice in my opinion is to keep being 
 crouched and walking in the slowest speed available. Another useful tip I learnt is that trying 
 not to shoot out everyone in your path. Instead I mostly tried to knock my enemies down. I tried 
 to get them from behind silently and then I took them to a safe corner and knocked them down. The 
 worst choice in your Gear is your gun. So have your ass get used to not to drawing your gun on 
 and on.
  Learning time in the game is short. There's no dead end in the game. You can always manage to escape 
 hard situations.
  Graphic and sound is very good and the Ubi guys took care of these things very well. But because 
 of all that darkness during the game you'll have to turn on your night vision time after time and 
 that way you may miss that nice graphic envnmnt around you but I believe the game itself is exciting 
 and interesting enough. The game is neither long nor short so it won't bore you or it won't be 
 finished suddenly. They just made the scenario in a manner that it'll be finished on time. Don't 
 miss playing SC1 once before going for other episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demodrus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  The game itself is great, starting from graphics, game play, atmosphere and other things. The scenery 
 and the sound itself and with the environment is also great.
  Moving, reactions, actions, physics and so on.
  In some situations you get so excited and your 
 blood starts pumpin really fast and you don't no what to do. You have a lot of gadgets that help 
 you but sometimes you need to use your own brain.
  The game is pretty hard, at first, when you get some XP the game isn't that hard, in some cases 
 you can then try some other things not just killing your enemy or stunning him but to pass by him 
 without him noticing you.
  The one of the best things (among many) is that you have to pick the lock by yourself and when an 
 enemy is sneaking behind your back it's quite exciting.
  
  It is not one of the best stealth games, it is the best stealth game ever and a tactical shooter. 
 This game is a definite can't live without it game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow i love this game. first of all the graphics are great, sound is great, gameplay is soo fun.
 
  
  i love all the gadgets you wield, from your FiveseveN Pistol to a diversion camera which produces 
 gas to knock out enemies. There are moves from the simple jump to a split jump where you jump off 
 a wall and do the splits between two walls and wait for an enemy to come beneath you so you can 
 knock'em out. there are also 3 different visions, regular, Night vision, Thermal Vision.
  
  you play as sam fisher who is an elite spy called a splinter cell. sam has 4 differrent Speeds 
 when he is standing he can... walk (makes quite some noise) , power walk, jogging, and run all that 
 make noise. but when he is crouching he... Sneaks, Sneaks at a faster speed, crouch-jogging, and 
 crouch-running. some people say it is too hard but that is the challenge of it, and sometimes you 
 panic so bad you forget what buttons to press.
  
  it is an amazing game. i wish i could say more but i cant i have run out of room.
  
  Thomas_bobbypin-BUY 
 IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is one of the Best in Stealth Gaming. The Gameplay is very good, the story line is 
 what keeps u going. The intense thrill of attacking ur enemies in the dark is too addictive..! The 
 Graphics are perfect, the night vision, thermal vision is as real as it can get. The curves can be 
 learnt in the tutorial with no pain at all. The music is pretty cool too... of all the Splinter cell 
 series, i gotta say that the title track of Splinter Cell is the best. The audio effects are awesome. The 
 game has some really cool gadgets, like lock picks, sound recorders, and attachments to your gun-sticky 
 shocker, n a lot more.. Over all this game is a must have.... n am sure everyone will love it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_cHrIs
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Splinter cell is set in the near future, the crazy far off year of 2004 (ok so it's set 2 years 
 in the past but this game was made in 2003 so give it a break) You assume the role of Sam Fisher 
 he is ex CIA, ex Navy seals and all round bad ass. Sam has been chosen to be a Splinter Cell for 
 the NSA (National security Agency) I won't delve too deep into the story as I don't want to spoil 
 it for you but let me say that it has many twists and turns and will keep you very engrossed. The 
 gameplay of Splinter Cell is easily the best thing about it, it's just about always suspenseful, 
 although it can sometime be frustrating, luckily anyone that plays this on the pc can save their 
 game anywhere (I don't think that those puny console players have this feature) which should just 
 about destroy this frusastion. The controls of the are just about perfect. It plays very much like 
 a FPS the wasd move Sam around and the mouse to position the camera (which does a great job most 
 of the time) Sam also has a large arsenal of moves at his disposal he can do things such as rappel 
 down buildings, grab people in vice grips, kick jump off walls, scale along pipes with his feet 
 lifted up on them and not to forget Sams signature move the split jump, it's just unfortunate that 
 a move as cool as this one doesn't really get used often (I did'nt have to use it at all to complete 
 the game) Not only is Sam a weapon but he carrys a few of them about with them. Most of his weapons 
 stem from his SC20K as it's alterate fire modes are quite cool, for example it can fire tasers 
 or smoke grenades both of which you will find plenty of use. Sam also has a silenced pistol which 
 can be used to shoot out lights to make the place darker. Light and dark are a huge part of splinter 
 cell. Sam must make sure enemys can't see him (otherwise they could cut him down with relative 
 ease due to his intolerance for bullets) Sam has his ways of getting around in the dark thanks 
 to his night vision goggles. The graphics and sound still hold up rather well after four years 
 but the prerendered cutsences that happen in the dark look quite grainy and it's quite unfortunate 
 as these could of made the game that little bit more awsome. most of the textures don't have a 
 great amount of detail to them (for todays standards of course) on the plus side all the animations 
 look really good. Splinter cells missions are very varied. Some will require you to make no deaths 
 and a limit to the alarms you can set off while some are more action orientated, all of which are 
 good fun. One of the two main flaws of Splinter cell is unforgiviness. If you save the game and 
 just after an alarm is rasied that makes you fail the mission what then, you need to start the 
 mission from the begininng which is quite annoying. Another thing thats bad about Splinter Cell 
 is that after you finish the game there is no need to go a play it again (unless you like a harder 
 difficulty or just did'nt catch the story) So in conclusion Splinter cell is a great game that 
 anyone even remotly interested in stealth games should give a go, I doubt they would be disappointed 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game because its probably the first proper stealth based action game that I 
 have come across. I played this game when I was playing Metal Gear 2. Though SC is no way that 
 much fun as MGS is, on the other hand MGS doesnt look a bit stealthy compared to SC, even though 
 a better an well defined game, I was always biased and favored MGS =P.
  
  You play with Sam Fisher, an agent who works with the NSA and you main task is to infiltrate and 
 sabotage with your one man army. Your most important weapon is stealth and your best friend is 
 darkness. Thanks to the stealth meter, you always know if youre properly hidden in a dark corner 
 or not coz if seen, you hardly get a chance to run, especially if youre crouching at a very slow 
 space. Using guns in this game is utterly ridiculous, except for some times when you have no other 
 option. You can always stun you enemies using different techniques (knock them out, use of stunning 
 devices like the ring foil etc.) and most of your time is spent shooting bulbs to create darkness.
 
  
  Graphics are nice and the characters give the feeling that they have flesh in their bodies. The 
 AI is alert and if seen, even darkness can betray you. Your most handy tool will be the night vision 
 goggles, though when I played this game, I had a Geforce 2-MX400 and whenever I would switch to 
 the night vision, the entire screen would go white, so I ended up playing the game without the 
 night vision, how? I used thermal goggles. The game features a political storyline which okay for 
 such a game. The cut scenes which appear between missions are mostly news flashes, just to keep 
 you updated with the situation, though your chief, Lambert is always telling you what to do next. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Splinter Cell (PC)
  
  Tom Clancys Splinter Cell is probably at its best on the PC. Believe me I would know after playing 
 through it three times on the Xbox, twice on the Ps2, and quite a few times on the GBA. It is probably 
 pretty obvious that this is probably one of my all time favorite games, and now you have even better 
 graphics and tighter controls. This game is absolutely amazing. The story might now be as good 
 as the Metal Gear Solid games, but the action is much better I think. The PC version of Splinter 
 Cell is hands down the best of all the versions. Its ten dollar price tag makes it a must own for 
 anyone with a PC, even if you have played the other versions to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfection1000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is the splinter cell -- an ultrasecret commando working on highly classified assignments. 
 The title of Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell refers to the unusual role of its main character, a highly 
 trained and experienced soldier working for a top-secret military organization, Third Echelon, 
 that's attempting to rid the world of a high-tech terrorist threat. If he's caught, the US government 
 will deny any relation with his mission. Worse yet, one false move and Fisher may trigger World 
 War III.
  
  In fact, aside from the pretty lighting effects, the variety of moves at Fisher's disposal is probably 
 the highlight of Splinter Cell. Sam has something for every occasion: He can move quite quickly 
 from a crouched position, and if you tread carefully while crouching, you'll be almost invisible 
 and almost silent. He can climb ladders, chain-link fences, and more. He can rappel down walls, 
 climb hand over hand across horizontal pipes, and zip across downward-slanted ropes or wires. He 
 can put his back against a wall and lean or shoot around corners, he can peek behind doors that 
 are slightly ajar, and he can make soft landings or perform evasive rolls. Fisher can also kick 
 off a wall in mid jump, and his coolest move (though it isn't very practical) allows him to stand 
 in the splits atop a narrow passageway and then either shoot opponents or drop down to deliver 
 a stunning blow. Fisher's got a couple of weapons at his disposel. That may not seem like much 
 but they are all really effective. His silenced pistol is probably the most useful since it can 
 take out guards with a single head shot. He's also got an SK 20 at his disposal which allows him 
 to shoot his way out of a tight spot. He can also just bypass enemies without hurting them at all 
 and that is required in a certain missions where casualties are a no-no. Splinter Cell looks incredibly 
 good on a fast system with a high-end graphics card, though its visual presentation isn't perfect. 
 The prerendered cutscenes don't look nearly as good as the in-game graphics. The game's frame rate 
 can noticeably start to chug in areas that are particularly heavy on lighting effects, and you'll 
 notice some collision detection and clipping issues, such as when a felled opponent's feet can 
 be seen sticking straight through a door. The game's modern environments aren't exactly scenic, 
 but they're still beautiful in their size, complexity, and detail. All in all Splinter cell looks 
 really good.
  
  Splinter Cell also sounds terrific, and as with any self-respecting stealth game, the audio is 
 integral to the experience. You'll actually hear Fisher making a bit more noise the faster he moves, 
 so you'll learn to be your own worst critic as you try to move about silently. All his subtle actions, 
 from lock-picking to drawing his different weapons and gadgets, have a suitably soft sound to go 
 with them, creating the sense that Fisher is extremely skilled at being silent, but still runs 
 the danger of making too much noise. He is voiced to near perfection even though almost all of 
 the characters sound terrific especially your instructor Lambert.
  
  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell is undoubtedly one the best examples of a stealth game to date, and 
 it will surely appeal to those who've enjoyed similar games in the past. Or, if you like the idea 
 or even just the look of Splinter Cell but haven't played a stealth game before, then this is a 
 perfectly good place to start. Either way, chances are you'll really enjoy the experience for as 
 long as it lasts. Plus its fairly cheap which makes it undenieable no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman047m4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell is one of those games that changed the course of the gaming industry and change 
 the look of how games should be, especially the stealth genre. Using the shadows, lights, some 
 fancy new moves for your defence and offence, using the environment around you and equipped with 
 the latest gadgets our main character Sam Fisher adventures himself on a mission. I loved the game 
 right from the first time that I played it and it was an instant classic world wide; it was a totally 
 new experience for me and a new way of how an action game should be played, using more of the brain 
 rather than the muscle, using the features or in other words the environment that the game provide 
 one, to even pass by your opponents without being noticed, without firing a single bullet or taking 
 any necessary rough actions. I love the use of the night vision to watch your prey even on the 
 darkest corners or places and the thermal vision to detect mines and other things in your way like 
 using it to detect a key code combination recently used by one of your targets, and many other 
 different new raw and innovative ideas presented in this wonderful title. I have to say that even 
 I love this game so much and for me is a Hall of Fame, there are some few things that I have a 
 hard time with it and made me crazy, such as the close combat, I don't know if is a bug or a glitch, 
 but man I hated it every time that I get in a close combat situation trying to get the opponent 
 down, I mean I know is a game and it doesn't get any more realistic but for a train super field 
 agent, he has the worth aim and those who play the game a lot probably know what I am saying, and 
 I hope that those who read the criticism don't think that I am ripping the game off or I dislike 
 it, and think that this is a short, healthy and constructive criticism, helping us gamers look 
 for those little details and help with our opinions build better games for the future... UbiSoft 
 scored a Home run with this title!...4.5/5... The HITMAN has spoken! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell, the smash XBox hit from last holiday, finally arrives on the PC. The PC version 
 offers a few tweaks here and there, but it is essentially the same great game that graced XBox 
 consoles last year. The game offers exciting gameplay, fantastic sound, and incredible graphics 
 that no serious PC gamer should miss. Splinter Cell follows the exploits of Sam Fisher, an experienced 
 NSA agent who gets called in to investigate the disappearance of two CIA agents in the former Soviet 
 Republic of Georgia. As more of the mystery surrounding these agents is uncovered, more questions 
 surface. And as Fisher tries to prevent World War III, things get a little personal
  Sam Fisher is a Splinter Cell. These are the most covert of agents on the field. Operating alone 
 (with only a remote team in support) , these agents must slip in unnoticed, survey a situation, 
 deal with it by whatever means necessary, and leave without a trace. In the game, this sense of 
 stealth and espionage is extremely important. You cant run into a situation with your guns flailing 
 about; if the enemy is alerted to your presence, they will find you and kill you as quickly as 
 possible. Often, a single alarm or alerted guard will lead your team leader to pull the plug on 
 the mission. Therefore, the game commands more strategy than twitchy fingers. The weapons and tools 
 at your disposal are authentic, state-of-the-art, and very cool. You can use such devices as lock 
 picks, camera jammers, laser microphones, and many other cool toys to help you on your mission. 
 In terms of weapons, you start out with a standard SC Pistol with a silencer, but eventually youll 
 get your hands on the SC-20K M. A. W. S., a rifle complete with multipurpose launcher and sniper scope. The 
 controls work for the game, but they are pretty hard to get used to. You use the W, A, S, D keys 
 for movement and the mouse to look around, which is easy enough. However, the mouse wheel is used 
 to control your characters speed. While this seems the only logical solution, it feels very clumsy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I remember it was the Oct. 14th of 2003 in Succoth vacation. I first bought this game for the PC 
 but only because of the picture in the back of the game box, i never checked this game on the net 
 - I didn't even know what the hell this game is about!!!...
  
  At the first it was the training level as you are Sam Fisher and today you'll train to be a Splinter 
 Cell - an operative of Third Echelon of the National Security Agency (NSA) that is sent out into 
 the world to exercise the use of the Fifth Freedom : the freedom to spy, steal, destroy, extort, 
 and assassinate to protect the USA. You have also Colonel Irving Lambert is your commander with 
 the help of Anna Grimsd&oacute; tt&iacute; r and Vernon Wilkes. (This is the right place to say that 
 the plot is undefined and I didn't understand the plot from the beginning of the game... However 
 you can know the plot in the level of who are the bad guys and the good guys)
  
  However I was needed about 5 minutes only to figure out how to move...
  The controls are pretty 
 complicated if it's your first time you play, however you get very used to it later though...
 
  
  The graphic is FANTASTIC and so detailed and at that time it was even revolutionary because this 
 is the first game that put emphasize on shadows and lights and also sound and graphic to create 
 the perfect stealth game.
  
  The game features 9 levels they are very linear though and there is almost always only one way 
 to go for completing your objective but actually it isn't THAT terrible... (although it can be annoying 
 from time to time) .
  
  Our Hero Sam Fisher knows to perform plenty of acrobatic moves like rolling, split jumps, hanging 
 on a shafts, climb on pipes, grab characters and interrogate them and even to make them your human 
 shield!
  
  In the game you may use the coolest gadgets you ever dreamt of!
  The first gadget you'll learn to use is your Night Vision Goggle (NVG) which consist of 2 visions 
 (Night vision and Thermal Vision only from the 5th level)
  
  The 2nd gadget you'll learn to use is your silenced 5.72 mm Pistol The 3rd (and the best) is the 
 SC-20K which is your primary assault rifle 5.56 mm (silenced) but it's not a normal rifle! This 
 rifle has night and thermal vision in its scope and the cool part is that there's a launcher under 
 the barrel that can launch few cool things (I'll name few) :
  
  * Ring Airfoil - A deadly ring that when you shot it on a guard he will be out of focus for few 
 seconds and you'll be able to grab him easier, another shot will Knock him out.
  
  * Sticky Shocker - When you shot it the guard will be knocked out immediately. if you shoot it 
 on a wet place it will knock out every guard near that place!
  
  * Sticky Camera - shoot it on a wall and it'll show you a live transmission of the place you shot 
 it at with all the visions + zooms
  
  * Diversion Camera - same as the sticky but without the zooms and the visions but if you shoot 
 it, you can whistle to attract the guard and when it comes near the camera to release a gas that 
 will knock him out
  
  Also you have a Optic Cable to see what's going on behind the door and also a microphone to hear 
 conversations by hacking their lines (but you use it only 2 times in the whole game...)
  
  If a guard catch you he will turn on the alarm and 3 alarms mission over
  so you better hide 
 your bodies in the dark and play stealthly (even if you do allowed sometimes to kill. Sometimes 
 it is very annoying that you've already have 2 alarms and then you pass one part of the level and 
 sddenly you have another alarm because of a body you didn't hide the body well and NO-ONE could 
 see that body because you've already killed all the people in that area and shot all the cameras...
 
  
  In the end Splinter Cell is a MUST-HAVE game for everybody, the graphic and the sounds are excellent 
 and it's also revolutionary. Even you already bought later SC games you may buy this game to feel 
 how the original game is like because there's a different feelings . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wollettl
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This is the first Splinter Cell game produced but it's the third Splinter Cell game I have played. 
 It's funny how a character (Sam Fisher) can grow on you. I would have never picked up this game 
 because the cover looks like a war game and I don't like killing but it was recommended by a friend 
 after he made it clear to me that it is not a killing game but a strategy game. In fact, you can 
 be penalized for killing. I'd rather play Classic Tomb Raider but this will do until Eidos gets 
 that mess straightened out or until another game like Classic Tomb Raider comes along. (TR Legend 
 was a huge disappointment but I guess that's a different review) . Like I have said in another Splinter 
 Cell review, I have to overlook the heavy masculine dialog and environment. I don't get any warm 
 fuzzies from this game although they try to give Fisher a heart as evidenced by his concern for 
 his daughter Sara. I think the creators dropped Sara in following games - I don't remember. They 
 also try to give Fisher a sense of humor and his humor is so bad it's funny. I hope they don't 
 change it. Anyway what I do get out of the game is, first, a sense of wonder at how the creators 
 make the 'sticky camera' work. I can aim and shoot a sticky camera across the room and it will 
 stick to the wall and then I can see Fisher and whatever else is in the camera range. How did the 
 creators program that? Second, I get a sense of satisfaction when I figure out how make it through 
 a difficult level. It isn't always easy but it is always do-able if you persevere You can also 
 be creative with how Fisher proceeds which I don't have the patience to do. I just want to get 
 past the bad guys and move on. Anyway, I bought Double Agent and I'm looking forward to that one 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nethrentol
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is one of the greatest series avalible. It has a combonation of steath, action, survilval 
 and fun. This game is the one that started it all. I say it is only better than Pandora Tomorow, 
 but thats it. This game is recomended for teens but i say people over 11 should get to play it 
 because with all the games out now, this is nothing. This game is, overall a great game with a good 
 storyline awsom graphics and its just plane fun.
  I really recomend this game you should get it were every you see it! So what r u waiting for, go 
 out and by it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  In the beginning I want to say that I beat this game 16 times. 3 times on the xbox, 7 times on 
 Pc and 6 times on Ps2 and I think it will not be over yet! Man, this game is exellent! This is 
 true stealth action game.
  
  Gameplay: You play as Sam Fisher. You are a secret agent from the NSA (National Security Agency) . 
 You must infiltrate enemy territory without any alarm. You will search for important informations, 
 you must be a ghost. Darkness is your best friend. Splinter Cell offers over 10 hours of perfect 
 gameplay. Missions take place all over the world. From China to USA. Sam Fisher uses a lot of gadgets 
 to save the world. Also Splinter Cell on Pc is as fantastic as it is on the xbox. So gameplay is 
 perfect. This game is fantastic. Sam Fisher is my favorite hero. I very like him! He's the best!
 
  
  Graphics: Splinter Cell has beautiful graphics. Especially the shadows effects and lighting effects. 
 Environment looks really great, character models are well done. Ubi Soft did a exellent job. On 
 Pc we can change game's resolution so we will see probably more detailes but overall xbox is the 
 best. Graphics are great but it could be better, I know it, even in 2002!
  
  Sound. Very good. The Soundtracks in the game builds the drama and weapons noises are cool. Sam 
 Fisher voice is GREAT (Michael Ironside) !
  
  Overall: This game is an instant classic! No minuses, no bad reactions, no bad feelings. Splinter 
 Cell is on of the best game I have ever played! But this game is superb only on xbox and Pc. Don't 
 play Splinter Cell series on the Ps2 and Gamecube! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  This is one of the first games besides Metal Gear Solid to take a stab at stealth action. Ubi Soft 
 did such a great job. Normally when developers try a different approach they fall flat on their 
 faces but did this game did so well.
  
  Selling so many copies, gamers everywhere were amazed by the intense graphics and superb gameplay. 
 You play as Sam Fisher a NSA sub-agency operative and your mission it to find information about 
 two undercover CIA agents that simply vanished. The missions are treacherous but Sam is well equipped 
 for anything.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Being in Sam Fisher's shoes were never this easy to control. Using gadgets and weapons are not 
 very difficult to use and aim. Being Sam Fisher who is well trained in climbing, shooting etc you 
 can pull off so much neat tricks. 
  
  From grappling to using people as shields this game has it all. And the gadgets would have you 
 using them all the time. Not only to kill but to check under doors (optic cable) and to find any 
 hiding enemies in the dark (night vision) .
  
  There are also the lock pick, gas grenade, camera jammer, frag grenade, sticky shocker, sticky 
 camera, sc pistol, sc20k M. A. W. S and how could I leave out the night vision headset.
  
  Night vision and heat vision really sends up the value of this game, and it looks awesome. Both 
 effects are so well rendered that you will find yourself using them in places where you don't even 
 need to. Just because of the fact that it looks great.
  Also the enemy AI is dangerous and would give you a run for your money. If they hear someone or 
 something they won't hesitate to shoot or nose around the area. So you have to keep silent and 
 keep out of sight at all times.
  
  One minor problem was there are no collision elements in here, so when you kill someone they would 
 just go straight through houses or doors. But this does not lower the value of this game. It is 
 just a simple bug that doesn't do anything but gets you annoyed. 
  
  Another minor problem was the length of this game, only nine levels are found here and they are 
 terribly short. Developers probably spent so much time on graphics and sound that they ran out 
 of time to develop more levels. Despite this game is short and has a few bugs it is still a great 
 stealth action shooter.
  
  Visuals
  
  This game is absolutely stunning. The lighting has been taken to a new level and really makes this 
 game stand out of the crowd. One problem would be the fact that the ground would have this shaky 
 sort of movements when you walk into certain areas of the game. But this is a minor problem and 
 would not at all affect the fun this game has to offer.
  
  Sound
  
  Footsteps, gunshots, voices, this game has it all. Never before have I heard footsteps actually 
 sound like footsteps. On different areas they would sound like you were actually walking somewhere 
 else this really makes you feel like it was you outside walking on the grass. Also the sound of 
 the night vision goggles sounded really good to.
  
  Overall
  
  This game is one of the all time best stealth games to ever come out on the pc. Be sure to pick 
 this one up if you like the sneak and kill action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  At first, I really didn't get the Stealth-Action genre made possible by this game. When I first 
 started to play it, I didn't know that I was supposed to sneak around without being detected. Thank 
 god for the Tutorial at the beginning of the game.
  
  The levels were pretty good designed, but as you progressed you had to use stealth as your only 
 weapon, nore if you're not allowed to kill anyone.
  Stealth plays a huge roll here. You can either gun down an enemy, or sneak past him without him 
 even know you're there. You're a super-spy commando kinda guy. You're fully equiped and trained 
 to take on as many enemies as you'd encounter throughout a mission. You're Sam Fisher, a very cool 
 guy, kind sometimes, but very cruel against his enemies. He can do a lot of cool moves, and use 
 them to get rid of his enemies. He's also has a whole lot of gadgets and weaponary at his disposal.
 
  
  It's kind of hard to get rid of enemy without having to use your weapons because the melee attacks 
 of the first Splinter Cell games aren't as effective as those of the third game (Splinter Cell Chaos 
 Theory) . You can only "elbow" your enemies. It's pretty effective if you do it when you're behind 
 them, but if you do it when they're infront of you, it's not going to bring the guy down with one 
 "elbow". The guns in the other hand are very effective and cool. You have the prototive weapon-SC-20K 
 rifle-, and you also have a pistol-SC Pistol-. The rifle is your main weapon, the pistol is to 
 shoot lights to make darkness, or as a last resort. You don't really get much ammo, so you'll have 
 to use it wisely.
  
  All in all, the game is basically a revolutionary that has just opened a new genre of fun to those 
 who like the idea of a super-spy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  Alright, Hitman is good and has some cool things in it, but it needs more stealth. Like really 
 stealth, stealth! Don't worry. A totally new thing has hit the store shelves! The Splinter Cell 
 games is way off everything you've seen yet! It's more stealth less shooting, but that's cool! 
 How? Let me explain from top to bottom.
  
  You play as this signet government ninja Samuel Fisher. He's trained to work behind enemy lines 
 and gather information to the United States. And besides that; he's a perfectly trained killer. 
 
  Sam Fisher works for the top secret-military organization Third Echelon. In a covert operation; 
 one wrong move will simply start World War III, but Fisher is cool and don't let that get on his 
 nerves.
  
  The gameplay has some cool aspects and really is something new in the gaming world. Splinter Cell 
 is not like other games at all.
  Sam Fisher; the protagonist, is really athletic and amazingly strong despite his age. He can perform 
 some cool moves, that you defintely need a place in the game. He can climb pipes, small edges and 
 sneak around with out anyone sees him. Since he's an experienced soldier he can wield and use high 
 technology weapons and gadgets, but there's only two weapons in the game; but that's all you need! 
 Sure, the gadgets are useful too. For example - sticky cameras, sticky shockers, ring airfoil projectile, 
 night vision, thermal vision and so much more. And all of this is very useful. You can actually 
 say that he's a skilled thief, since he's collecting information and intelligence for the US.
 
  There's 10 levels to play in different countries. There's great variation in the levels and their 
 highly detailed. Sometimes you have to think to get past the streets or rooms you're in. Later 
 in the game you have to get past some code-locked doors. You can't lock pick these doors so you 
 have to know the code or use your thermal vision. For example - a guard has just walked down a 
 hallway, you're looking at him in the dark, and you can't kill or else the mission is failed because 
 you're stuck. So you have to wait until he's gone. Then you can use your thermal vision to see 
 what buttons he pushed and when he pushed them. This is a very cool trick and there's a lot more 
 like this in the game.
  Because it's a stealth game, you use stealth to kill your enemies to get to the next room. Usually 
 there's some dark spots you can hide in, the more black your stealth-o-meter is, the more invisible 
 you is. You can also hide bodies this way, to avoid other guards to trigger the alarm. You can't 
 just shoot an enemy with out noticing other guards nearby. They will probably hear you, and shoot 
 you. So you either have to use your gadgets to stun them or just take the risk: shoot them first.
 
  Artificial Intelligence is actually very cool too. Your enemies will trigger the alarm if they 
 see you, or they will return fire if they just notice you in the dark. They wil also hear your 
 footsteps, if you walk too fast or even run. But sometimes their just too smart. If your turn off 
 the lights and they're in the same room they will walk directly to the light switch and turn the 
 lights on. They don't seem to care about the dark at all. But this is minor problems, they won't 
 hurt you, just grab them before they turn the lights on.
  
  The graphics is very beautiful, especially the level-graphics. The levels are very detailed and 
 awesome - very life-like. The character graphics is also very remarkable and the enemies is some 
 of the most detailed we've seen yet in a game. But one thing is totally awesome: the explosive 
 graphics! For example, when you throw a frag grenade, it looks totally awesome! Anyways there is 
 not so much to say about the graphics. They're just plain cool.
  
  The sound isn't so remarkable as the graphics and gameplay. Of course it has some good things in 
 it. The explosive, weapons, gadgets sounds is really great. Try it yourself if it's sounds interesting...
 
  
  The gameplay has some replay value in it. Some of the levels is actually very fun and you can't 
 help yourself by playing some of the levels or maybe even the whole game again. I did.
  
  Over all Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell is a remarkable production with great gameplay, graphics and 
 all that stuff. Go buy the game quickly or the other Splinter Cell games. Get going! 
  
  Sincerely Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell has left me nothing to hope for indeed; I was stunt by the game's aspects right from 
 the beginning. First, I was blown away by the graphics that were just outstanding especially the 
 textures and lightening rendering ( needs a good graphic card to enable all these features) . The 
 game play, yet, is the best; sneaking in the dark was my favorite part of the game. also the different 
 actions that Sam Fisher can perform are just great and they add a lot to the game ( Like standing 
 between two walls and rolling over and stuff of that sort) . The game also features a good sound 
 system and well prepared dialogues and speeches of a high quality. All in all, splinter cell is 
 a very amazing hit that anybody would enjoy a lot. Great graphics + addictive game play = a worthy 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very fun game, and very innovative in that instead of focusing on run around gun 
 battles, the game focuses on stealth , than weapons. the shadows are your most important weapon 
 due to the fact that for the greater part of the game your only armed with a pistol. The game copys 
 the style of Theif from eidos. The graphics are Great even compared to todays games, and look better 
 than its xbox counterpart.
  
  the game is a great buy and can be found for 10 bucks or so at most stores that sell the game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xplay74
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Very good graphics.... almost perfect. Very deep story line and well done missions.
  
  Its cool because instead of runing and killing everyone you can hide and find other ways to get 
 pass the gurds. I always serch thoose ways.
  
  The graphics thing... I very liked the shadowes and the enviroment is really well done! 
  
 
  I think that its the best stealth game ever!
  I still didnt finish the gmae. Because I was stack on level 3 (I think) at the elevator part the 
 you have to record the two men talking. And after that at another recording part... so... Im working 
 on it. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniworks
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 17, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell... were to begin, where to end... this is game like no other. Ok so there may be 
 other games close to this or maybe it is UBISOFT who got ideas from other games, but there is a 
 difference and it's great in no other special agent games can you crouch and walk like Sam Fisher, 
 or does the silence factor work as good as in this game, and of top of that, this game has a great 
 story, fun missions, good sound/music and most importantly has a great lifespan. After some time 
 you would wonna play it again. And thanks to this game we all like it's sequals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wej_accept_it
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Action games are a dime adozen these days with an endless amount of first and third person tiles 
 around to keep eve nthe most trigger happy gamr satisified. But for a long time, stealth has been 
 dormant in gaming. Occansionaly a game might feature a level that requires stealth, but this is 
 normally nothing more then a silenced weapon and moving when there are no guards nearby. With the 
 exception of one or two titles, no game has truly captured the feel of stealth and tactical combat 
 until now, Splinter Cell. Not only that, SC also manages to be a great game in its own right.
 
  
  Before I continue I must point out that SC is not really the first game to truly have the player 
 feeling the shoes of a combat stealth specialist. That honouts goes to the Metal Gear Solid games, 
 but these are very different from SC. Quite simply SC is high on realism and can be a punishing 
 game. This is not a game where you'll shoot out every guard you see, if anything you'll go out 
 of your way to avoid hurting your opponents (granted, they will most certainly not return the favour 
 if they see you) becasue this game really is stealth. 
  The premise is simple, you play a lone commando named Sam Fisher who works for a part of the NSA, 
 a group known as Third Echelon. Fisher is given the missions that are either too tough for an averae 
 spy, or are simply so sensitive that the US can't afford to be caught while involved. Eg late in 
 the game you'll be in China, if a US soldier is caught attacking Chinese soldiers, it means WW3. 
 As Fisher, players must become like a ghost doing everything to disapper. And surprisingly, this 
 works incrdiably well thanks to some great game mechanics.
  
  On of the biggest points about SC is that you can use the dark to your advantge, Fisher always 
 wears a nightvision headset that lets him see in th dark when need be. His enemies almost never 
 have these, so your most common tactic is hiding in dark corners to avoid patrolling guards. A 
 handy little metre on the screen shows how visible you are by way of a sliding marker. When its 
 at the far left, your pretty much invisible, to far right, then they can see you easily. Granted, 
 if a guard walks right up to you while the metre is far left, he will realise you are there if 
 he gets too close. At first this can seem quite annoying but it makes sense, in real life a person 
 would hear your breathing, or they might bumb into you. All up though this makes for lots of hide 
 and seek in the dark moments that are quite thrilling. 
  Next the game offers plenty of play options, Fisher can climb about on just about anything, he 
 can jump up and wedge his legs in a tight corrdior to stay above the ground, he can hug walls and 
 look around corners, grab enemies from behind and use them as human shields in a gunfight or use 
 to activate retinal scanners. All the later note there are plenty of scenes in the game that require 
 you to whip out either your assault rifle or pistol (both silenced) and shoot it out with the guards. 
 These encounters are nothing like normal shoot outs in games becasue all the weapons are very realistic. 
 Try to fire while moving and you'll miss, guareneeted. To fire and hit an enemy in one shot you'll 
 want to crouch down, and take time lining up your shot, just like in real life. But since Fisher 
 can only take a few hits before dying and if there's people shooting at you this can get quite 
 hard. Overall its best to play it quite and avoid direct combat with the guards at all costs.
 
  
  That is of course provided the game even lets you engage your enemies, there are plenty of levels 
 where you wont be allowed to fire at guards or even set off alarms. This can make the game very 
 tense but also, boring. Quite simply many players will find themselves resorting to trial and error 
 to finish the level. This is a game that is adamant in its stealth standing. Fortunatly it really 
 is a lot of tense, exciting and realsitic fun once you get the hang of things.
  
  The game looks great, I'll say that now. The charecters all animate well and Fisher's movements 
 all look real. The lightning and shadow effects of course steal the show. On a good note its quite 
 easy to get the game running smoothly on alomst any PC.
  The audio is quite good with the music changing to match the gameplay. Sneak silently and there's 
 a steady cat burglur theme, but alert the guards and it jums up a notch. You; ll know howmuch trouble 
 you are in depending on the temp of the music.
  The game's story is not actually written by Tom Clancy, in fact he had almost nothing to with the 
 game, rather the story is insipired by his novels. Its quite good though with some good twists 
 but don; t expect anyting special though.
  
  Overall this is an enjoyable game once you get used to the stealth mechanics. It is taking gaming 
 in a new direction though, one where intelligance is vital. Its tense, realistic and worth looking 
 into if your eager for a more challenging action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_Milli
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is one of my personal favourites! It is such a smooth game, the action is free - 
 flowing, and the experience immerses you completely. Its such a great feeling to be an undercover 
 agent, who is not a superhero that destroys absolutely everything on the screen with his extraordinary 
 powers, but a normal guy who relies on stealth and coolness to survive! I absolutely love this! 
 It makes the game so realistic, you could almost believe its based on a true story!
  
  Everything is done to a very high standard in Splinter Cell. The gameplay is amazing, considering 
 the variety of espionage gadgets Fischer has at his disposal, and the multitudes of actions he 
 can perform.
  
  The game receives a high replay value from me, because the missions are all packed with action, 
 and its still rewarding going through the game a second time, at a higher difficulty setting.
 
  
  The sound is extraordinary, creepy and subdued when need be, and loud and violent on occasions. 
 The accompanying soundtracks are really cool!!
  
  Its hard to actually find anything bad about this extraordinary game, so ill just leave it at that: 
 
  One of the best games of all times, an instant classic and a personal favourite!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Not my kindda game, but still good to play
  I got this game free with my new P. C, but i did'nt fint it very enjoyable at all.
  
  GAMEPLAY-
 
  Slow, basic and run out of bullets quick and die quick too.
  Its still good on how they put the game together were you can sneak around and kill your opponantes
 
  
  GRAPGICS-
  Aint bad, its something you'll see in a game,
  
  SOUND-
  Theres no music T_T, but good voice acting tho, not bad in that catagory
  But still, they could've 
 putten in music
  
  TILT-
  Meh, i would'nt play it again, nor would i buy another series!.
  
  Nice game, but i dont get 
 the story, just about sam killing terroiests.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game a year after it's official release and had no expectation none or whatsoever. 
 I can say that this game amazed me with its gameplay, graphics and voice acting. The gameplay is 
 really great and it gives me other alternative than Metal Gear Solid. The graphic considering that 
 it is pretty outdated, is still amazing and immersive. The voice acting is deep and you can feel 
 the frustration, anger and every other emotions through the voice. 
  
  I can say that Splinter Cell is the first and the best in the series. This game is great if you 
 are looking for a stealth game like Metal Gear Solid. If you play this for the first time, you 
 will find that the game is pretty frustrating and challenging. Also the learning curve is steep 
 if you are a beginner in this kind of game. Overall, it is a great game for a gamer that likes 
 challenge.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_chris_1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is a really good game, the gadgets are good you have sticky cameras so you can look 
 past corners so you know whats coming, you also get sticky shockers which if you shoot it at a 
 person they get shocked, and you have a hat looking type thing on your head which lets you see 
 in the dark (night vision googles) and you can see miving objects (thermal Vision) and there are 
 loads more.
  The weapons are also good, the best weapon is the SC-20K assalut rifle, what i like about it is 
 that you can shoot cameras and shockers etc out of it aswell as bullets it has a scope and it is 
 fairly quiet. The graphics are just outstanding.
  It is a very good game, probably the best stealth game i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manjit_kool_007
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  what actually is missing in splinter cell.??
  the game, actually greatly built and is also a lot interesting and entertaining, where we get to 
 play sam fisher, A NSA agent....
  what made me puzzle is that the map in the game menu (OP-SAT) is not that informative.
  it does 
 not give u your current location. It only gives a over head view of the location, i was stuck in 
 a place for very long trying to figure out where to go...
  well though i made it out finally some how.
  the mission are exciting and also very impressive 
 to tackle.
  well we are also given less shells to make our way through the missions, but it is justified as 
 the game itself is based on stealth.
  the graphics are amazing and sound quality is also good....
  the game is also very interactive.... we 
 can interact with several objects,,,, we can pick up bottles and cans to distract people... 
  i wud say that the game is worth buying for the missions, graphics and sound quality it holds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quirinus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  After reading magazine reviews of Splinter Cell, I found myself eagerly scouring the shops for 
 the game. After installation I was thrilled and found myself immersed in a high-tech world of adrenaline 
 and tension.
  
  The controls were easy to master for my first venture into full-on PC gaming and it was very refreshing 
 to hear the whail of a terrorist being zapped with a sticky shocker and then the deft thud of him 
 hitting the floor.
  
  Splinter Cell is revolutionary, as never seen before gamers can use their environments to complete 
 missions, and although the missions are quite linear, they are exciting to complete - as long as 
 you don't go blasting people to pieces with the SC20K. 
  
  Using objects such as glass bottles, drink cans and ashtrays, distractions can be created for the 
 enemy to walk straight into your pending grasp and out comes the trusty silenced pistol to extract 
 information, or execute the "sleeperhold" to knockout the enemy. Lights can also be broken so Sam 
 can stealth past enemies without creating too much fuss.
  
  The AI is advanced and enemies will call for support from colleagues if they are aware of an unwanted 
 presence. But the number of moves available to you can be used to get Sam out of these sticky situations. 
 The enemies will also become aware of any broken lights and any unnecessary sound that is created.
 
  
  The graphics are great and there are some good effects such as explosions and minor details including 
 puffs of smoke bouncing off walls when bullets hit them.
  
  The first level is a tutorial for newcomers and it gives a good insight into all of the moves available 
 to Sam. It is worthwhile playing the tutorial if you are a newcomer, but you will learn more from 
 simply playing the missions.
  
  Overall a fantastic game and definitely a worthwhile buy, but to get the full experience, complete 
 the game using as fewer bullets as possible. Snake, you've got one hell of a fight on your hands. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZuljinRaynor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge Metal Gear Solid fan, I love stealth games. Both MGS 1 and 2 I played on my PC but 
 with a gamepad because it was to consolified. When I fired up Splinter Cell... it was all optimized 
 for PC.
  
  The gameplay is a much slower pace than MGS, but it still is great. You can do more and it all 
 works out well in the end. The controls are flawless I'd say they make this a perfect PC stealth 
 action game.
  
  The only downside is the game is too short, but like with other short games, like Max Payne, it's 
 a blast. Short and Sweet. Splinter Cell is a must buy, and you have no reason not to get it, since 
 it's a bargin bin title now. I picked it up for $10, so you should get it too, if you haven't already. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinian
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  First comes first,
  
  Installation process and configuration of the game is idiot-proof. I hadn't had any problems with 
 it;) 
  
  First mission is a training camp. You learn there Sam's Fisher (that is name of the main character 
 ) moves. They are interesting and very useful- expect normal crouching there is sneaking along 
 walls, moving along vertical placed lines etc.
  
  When you will end moving course you will get your personal pistol. He is very plain, nothing special. 
 But when you end few missions you will get module rifle. It's supreme: silent, fast and deadly. 
 It also have a sniper scope, but when you are using it the weapon becomes unstable like a butterfly 
 wing. You must hold your breath when using this mode (there is a special key, which can allow you 
 that) . 
  Rest of the spy gadgets are also very interesting: you have a head gear which has a night-vision 
 and a thermal-red vision build in (the views when those mode are on are breath-taking) . On some 
 missions you will be also equiped in a spying microphone but it isn't very usefull. Expect that 
 you will get some grenades and sticky camers. The cams are very interesting. You can fire them 
 from your module rifle, they will stick to a wall and they can make a sound (attracting your enemies- 
 all you have to do that is hit space bar) When the foe is close the cam can let out a paralysing 
 gas.
  
  I was playing on veteran (the highest difficulty level) and the game was quite simple) . The AI 
 is quite good. 
  
  The graphic is awesome. Locations are great and the shadow bumping system is.. oh i can write this- 
 you must see it;) One thing I can't understand in the graphic is why there isn't any rag-doll in 
 this game? For example bodies of your opponents can stear out from a wall. This shouldn't have happen 
 in game as good as Splinter Cell.
  
  Storyline was writed by Tom Clancy- so think that i don't have to recomend it.
  This game is 
 very good although it is very short. It took me about 11 hours to complete it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  There is absolutely no flaw in the gameplay. It is the first of its kind to achieve such success 
 in capturing the simulation and the skills of being a covert operative. The only wish I have is 
 for a wider range of gadgets to be used in the missions. For example, the laser mic is only used 
 once...
  Graphics: 10
  Another benchmark setter has been produced in this game. The graphics are unseen of in its main 
 competitors, with almost no polygonal texturing visible to the player. As far as gaming goes, this 
 is as good as it gets.
  Sound: 10
  Can't find a major fault in the sound system. All the audio is sharp and crisp without any lag 
 or stutter. Also, background "fuzzyness" is non existent, which should help players work on their 
 stealth more by moving quieter themselves.
  Value: 10
  Since this one of the best RPG produced that centers on stealth instead of the usual shoot em up, 
 I can't find a reason to say Splinter Cell's overpriced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Since this is a stealth game, Same Fisher isn't given an expansive arsenal of weapons. In fact, 
 there are only two guns you'll ever use throughout the entire game. The first of those is just your 
 standard run-of-the-mill silenced pistol, which is extremely inaccurate but can be useful for taking 
 out guards at medium and close ranges. Your other weapon is the SC-20K M. A. W. S. (Modular Assault 
 Weapon System) . This rifle not only functions as a standard assault rifle but also as a sniper 
 rifle (which is handled rather brilliantly by forcing you to hold your breath [the alternate fire 
 button] to steady the rifle) . It's called a modular rifle for a reason though. You're given six other 
 secondary ammo types that allow you to knock out guards, scout a room and so on. You're also given 
 a variety of other gadgets like a camera disabler, lockpicks (two types) , and fiber optic cable. But 
 over all not a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  hey i know this game is old now and most people are out playin' Chaos Theory but this is what made 
 the sequels and its really cheap now so there's no reason not to pick it up. it redinfined gameplay 
 and showed a lot of us how a real spy's life is. its gameplay was really fun. the graphics were 
 great and they just kept getting better and better. its value right now is really great. and the 
 sound is awesome. overall it was great! if u need cheap fun then this is perfect for u. of course 
 if u bought Chaos Theory, then u must love that has co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  tho a shooter, not a FPS. i saw this game and wanted it imediately. i definately am the stealth 
 type, and this was exactly my type of game. for those of you who like to take the giant down from 
 the inside out, this is the game for you. in no way is this a "run in and shoot everything" game, 
 instead you hav to time your movments to keep from being seen, sneak up and kill without alerting 
 anyone. using real life stratagies, this is a game that isnt questioned about possibility. you 
 may ask yourself about medal of honor, or something else where you can take 10 hits, grab a med 
 kit and keep going to end the war. in this game you can see exactly why you survive. if you are 
 shot about 3 times, you WILL die. so your most important defense is darkness. stay hidden and you 
 can withstand any amount of enemies, right?
  now that newer versions hav come out with extended "realisticity" you may want to purchase one 
 of those, but you must remember that this is the one that started them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zain_45
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first PC games i bought after a long time as in i had stopped playing games 
 for some time (maybe about 2 years) nd to my amazement i wa shocked when i saw the graphic of thi 
 game...... it was like a real movie at first to me and when i played the training level i was expecting 
 alot from the game and my expectations didnt fail me at all.
  
  I was not even used to play by keyboard and mouse but the graphics was so mind blowing that i just 
 couldnt leave the game and afterome time i became a pro using the mose and keyboard and the graphics 
 were so good (maybe my GeForce Fx5200 GPU was good enough for all this) that i showed it to my 
 friends and relatives and some of my relative were also shocked to see the graphics.
  
  The lightning effect ia extremely very well done....... i remember a part where Sam Fisher walks 
 through a net or something and the light comes in from there............ it was totally amazing. 
 I finished the game on Easy setting and the gameplay was intereting and nice with the amazing graphics. 
 The tory however was not very nice as it wa totally political but the missions were gripping and 
 that was enough for me for this game........ the political stoy is not much an iue its more like 
 how to complete the mission and not why to omplete it.
  
  The only problem with the game is that there is no replay value........ if u want to play and enjoy 
 the sme thing again and again it pretty interesting or at the most you can enjoy playing it on 
 a harder level but then thats all i think......... nothing more than that but for playing it the 
 first time it totally amazing and i have finished this game maybe thrice but then kept it aside 
 for maybe about 6 months and iam playing it again an thats y the valus is just 7!!
  
  Sound is pretty well too as the gameplay revolves around it. For egzample you purposely run around 
 and the guy comes in to check wtz that sounds and you can hide and have a clear shot at him or 
 maybe when he ha checked and finds nothing and put down his gaurd you can sneak to him from the 
 back and knock him off!!
  
  For all you people who enjoy Stealth games should try this game atleast once......... its preety 
 cheap i guess now since its an old title. And its got amazing graphics........ i cant think of the 
 graphics being better but then this could be ue to my graphics card.
  
  Just to say a lil more i got a new cpu with a 8600GT card and a 4300 processor and the graphics 
 and gameplay got even more better
  like more than 90fps without any problems oh high setting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MR_BIG_SHOT44
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  When i got this game, i had my douts about it, i never was into the whole "STEALTH GAMES" but this 
 is the expectance, this is a very fun game that just looks beautiful with alot of innavation. i 
 just got this last week, so i'm still play, but even though i keep gettin myself stuck, its gameplay 
 and graphics make up for that. there a lot of cool things in this game, even if this is more than 
 3 years old, like the lockpick, camera jammer, optic cable, and many more, but the only really 
 bad part of the game is that you are forced to use the keyboard and mouse, and you can't use you 
 game pad which is a downer. But, it still feels natural, so really there is nothin bad about Splinter 
 Cell, so why am i not giving it a perfect? because the other two are already out, and soon too 
 come out the four installment. even though the games time has passed, its still a very fun game 
 for your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:46 am PT
Review:  Are you tired of those same old 4 freedoms? Is all that crap about free worship, free speech, and 
 freedom from fear and want getting dull? Do you crave the elusive 5th freedom? Do you want to be 
 free to take out pesky terrorist cells with high powered weapons? Does the freedom to sneak into 
 enemy fortifications, interrogate by the barrel of a gun, and then slip past guards under the cloak 
 of darkness sound good to you?
  
  If so, then youll want the skinny on the game that makes it happen; developer Ubisofts PC release 
 of Splinter Cell. Splinter Cell is the story of Sam Fisher, a lone operative employed by the NSAs 
 Third Echelon initiative.
  
  The game takes place early in the year 2004 and sees Sam brought out of retirement to embark upon 
 a critical mission; uncover and foil the suspicious intentions of Kombayn Nikoladze, the newly 
 elected president in the former Soviet republic of Georgia.
  
  This most important mission centers on Sams ability to go in stealthily, carry out his tasks in 
 silence, and use lethal force, if required. Sam works from darkened, unnoticed corners. The cover 
 of night provides all the shelter he needs to seek out his enemies and goals on any mission. It 
 is a safe blind for the quick and quiet elimination of enemies, as well as a secure place for the 
 bodies of those unfortunate enough to cross his path. For Sam, shadow is a more useful instrument 
 than any man made weapon.
  
  Sams most recognizable feature is his multi-spectral goggles. These goggles serve as his eyes 
 in the dark and come with two vision modes. The first, a night vision mode, amplifies ambient light 
 in the area and allows the darkest room to shine clear as day. The second mode is a thermal mode 
 to detect heat in objects and people, rendering them as rainbow-colored blobs. It can even detect 
 enemies through solid walls.
  
  But just to take it to another level, Sam comes complete with some serious acrobatic ability. Youll 
 often find that to complete a mission or evade a threat in Splinter Cells 9 missions, Sam will 
 have to get himself into some tight spaces and precarious heights. Yet for Sam, this is no sweat. 
 A pipe easily becomes a great way to scale a wall. A strong suspension cable will get him quickly 
 and quietly across a street packed with enemies carrying AK-47s. Even small ledges are enough for 
 Sam to slip into a window or to use for a controlled descent.
  
  Sam can also perform split jumps in tight corridors. This move places Sam overhead in a hallway, 
 his legs in an excruciating split held against the surrounding walls in a kind of Van Damme style 
 move. Here he can wait above a passing guard and pounce on him before he knows whats happening. 
 This is a very cool move, but one that is seldom needed in the course of the game.
  
  In the way of armaments, Sams options are a bit limited. Sam has access to only a few explosive 
 devices, like wall mines and frag grenades, neither of which are much use to him in most levels. 
 He also has two different firearms; a silenced pistol and the SC-20K Modular Assault Weapon System, 
 fancy talk for silenced, flash suppressed machine gun.
  
  The SC-20K has a few extra options over the standard 5.56x45mm ss109 ammunition. One feature is 
 a Sniper Mode with a novel approach. Sam has to hold his breath to make a steady shot, enabled 
 using the alt-fire button when in sniper mode. Otherwise, his normal body movement, caused by his 
 breathing, will make his scope wobble all over the place. Strangely, Sam can only hold his breath 
 for mere five or six seconds, which can make it a bit difficult to line up targets properly.
  
  The SC-20Ks normal mode comes with an alt-fire capability for the delivery of a variety of 
 different non-lethal projectiles, all handy in missions where lethal force is not authorized. Among 
 these projectiles are ring airfoils for high impact hits that incapacitate rather than kill, smoke 
 grenades that deliver CS knock-out gas, and sticky shockers to pacify enemies with a brief surge 
 of electricity.
  
  To supplement his weapon inventory, Sam has an assortment of gadgets for use in the field, ranging 
 from a cool lock pick, camera jammers, and optic cables for peeking under doors. These neat little 
 devices prove very useful throughout the course of the game and will save Sams butt on more than 
 one occasion.
  
  The graphics in Splinter Cell are really something to see. This is especially so in the lighting 
 area, a graphical aspect for which the Xbox version was so endlessly praised. Splinter Cell is 
 a game that relies heavily on the interplay between shadow and light. And to their credit, the 
 programmers over at Ubisoft certainly didnt spare any time or energy on making sure that the lighting 
 effects in Splinter Cell are nothing short of fantastic.
  
  A simple set of blinds placed before a well lit room will produce a remarkably realistic series 
 of shadows against a darkened wall. Intricate window carvings or garden terraces under lamplight 
 will send beams of very real-looking light down onto the ground or into a room. It can be quite 
 a show merely to watch Sam sneak underneath a solitary light bulb in a dimly lit alleyway, his 
 shadow extending up a wall then swinging back and forth as he moves away from the light.
  
  Of course, not everything about Splinter Cells graphics is top notch. The level design as well 
 as the overall presentation of the game is very capably done, but there are some glaring problems. 
 One graphical issue is a problematic clipping flaw in the game, exampled by the tendency for heads 
 and feet to disappear into walls. This unfortunate problem is magnified by the fact that Sam often 
 has to hide the bodies of dead or unconscious guards in corners, where these clipping issues can 
 become pronounced.
  
  Another, less dire issue will affect those who enjoy anti-aliasing. Splinter Cell does not support 
 this feature. Using AA creates some strange problems with light sources and will slow the game 
 down significantly. A lack of AA support should not be used as an excuse for gamers to pass on 
 Splinter Cell, but it may be an annoyance for those with higher end systems who are used to not 
 seeing any jaggies in their game. To Splinter Cells credit, in-game graphics appear very smooth 
 and are hardly affected by turning off AA.
  
  Cinematic cut scenes are another problem for Splinter Cell. As is the case with many console ports, 
 these movies can appear blocky, blurred, and dark. There are only a few of these poor cut scenes 
 however, and thankfully the small news clips seen in between missions look acceptable enough.
 
  
  Sound in Splinter Cell is good, but not all that great. There is an appropriate rock/techno soundtrack 
 by The Crystal Method to match the games action-oriented subject matter. Youll also experience 
 a nice array of sound effects, like the clank of a can on concrete or the creak of wood on a bridge 
 being crossed.
  
  The voice acting is fairly well done, with the voice of Sam Fisher done by the actor Michael Ironside. 
 Beyond that, the game does contain a regrettable collection of accented english conversations between 
 foreign soldiers and dignitaries. This shortcut from foreign language voiceover work always manages 
 to remove some of the realism from any game that uses it, but it does seem to be the norm for most 
 games, lately.
  
  Splinter Cells controls scheme is simple, yet very effective at getting Sam from point A to B. 
 There arent an inordinate number of buttons to push, and most in-game tasks can be carried out 
 via the mouse. A nice touch is the use of a mouse wheel for slowing or speeding up Sams pace as 
 he moves, the PC replacement for the touch sensitive buttons used to enable this feature on the 
 Xbox version.
  
  A negative in the control department is having to escape the game in order to view Sams Palm Opsat, 
 where mission goals and data are stored. It would have been much more convenient if this vital 
 mission tool was accessible as an in-game feature.
  
  Nevertheless, Splinter Cell still comes across as a quality game, obviously conceived and produced 
 with much professionalism and care. A clear resemblance to classic stealth-based games like the 
 Thief series and the recently released Hitman 2 is obvious and welcome. These stealth elements 
 separate it from the typical runngun type shooter and make it a more sophisticated game overall.
 
  
  While it can sometimes become a bit repetitive in later missions, due mostly to its linear design, 
 things like the beauty of its lighting system, a Clancy approved story, and the talented design 
 team behind it all serve to make the game very fun to play and a definate treat for the eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is an ultrasecret commando working for a top-secret military organization, Third Echelon, 
 that's attempting to rid the world of a high-tech terrorist threat. 
  Altough he is Third Echelon's right hand, Fisher is on a need-to-know basis and is largely kept 
 in the dark about the exact nature of his objectives.
  
  Splinter Cell sounds terrific. You can hear Fisher making a bit more noise the faster he moves, 
 so you'll learn to be your own worst critic as you try to move about silently. 
  
  Splinter Cell consists of only nine missions, though each of these is long and involved. 
  Tom 
 Clancy's Splinter Cell is one the best examples of a stealth game to date, and it will surely appeal 
 to those who've enjoyed similar games in the past. Or, if you like the idea or even just the look 
 of Splinter Cell but haven't played a stealth game before, then this is a perfectly good place 
 to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  OVERALL: Combine James Bond with Soldier of Fortune, and you`ll have Splinter Cell.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is a type of game, that will leave players with guns blazing lying dead on the floor 
 and smart, silent players victorius. You are actually Sam Fisher, an ultrasecret agent working 
 for a organization with a name NSA (National Security Agency) . The story is about Georgian president 
 Kombany Nikoladze, who has united with terrorist and has a secret weapon, the one that he should 
 have not access to it
  Anyway, the AI here is just amazing --  for just every single enemy, you will have to think for 
 a tactic, how to defeat it. As I`ve said, this is not Rambo style game --  you will have to master 
 different skills - from lock picking to climbing with ropeas well as different moves. Another 
 thing is that both you and the enemy are relative weak against weapons - you can mow down enemies 
 with your SC-KAR20, but enemy can also kill you pretty easy with AK-47. There will be also a lot 
 of security to pretend, avoid or destroy. But have no fear - you will have the latest spying equipment 
 and Third Echelon (your right hand, friendly team) at your disposal, to help you out. There can 
 almost be a phrase: Shadow is your friend - because it is. The more you hide, the easier will 
 be the enemies for you to kill (supprisse is always bad thing for enemy) . 
  Only the choosing system for gadgets and weapons is little clumsy, that can a bad thing, if you 
 aren`t prepared for someone (selecting weapons,) .
  
  GRAPHICS: Extremely good - character look like in the reality; actually everything is beatiful 
 detailed to its smallest piece. One of the best thing is the Night and Thermal vision. Those are 
 now very real (for example if you are running or close to wall, this will shake a little those 
 googles and there will be small interuption in vision, etc.) . 
  This game also incorporates some of the best effects of any PC game to date. The only expection 
 are the prendered cutscenes - they don`t look good as the in-game graphics. Also, in the areas, 
 where lighing particles are heavily present, the games frame rate can start to chung. There are 
 also small errors (like cliping issiues,) but that doesn`t really matter.
  
  SOUNDS: Realistic, especially weapons fire. One of major improvement over all FPS is the sound of 
 the weapon, when it has a suppressor attached to it - it is much better.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS: With each sequel, this game will get better and better. If you liked James Bond 
 series, then you will be probably more satisfied by this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Bust up some guys ass by snapping his neck in half or go freak out this guards in the corner. it's 
 up to you. Or just shoot up everything to hell. I love how you get to decide on what to do (in 
 some parts) . In others you gotta be quiet or not shoot someone or its game over man. The graphics 
 are amazing, presenting every little detail finely tuned. Gameplay it a little off sometimes but 
 mostly on the dot. I didn't like how hard some parts were too. The music and sound effects are 
 fitting and really bring you in. So you can go all stealth up the guards asses and show em whos 
 the man. The 50 something year-old man (damn this Fisher guy's old) . Awesome game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESISTEE926
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a rare game where if you die or get a mission failed, you are looking forward to doing 
 it again! Replaying levels again and again, all the time doing things differently, like "Should 
 I knock 'im out and leave his body on the floor so the other guy will be lured closer, or should 
 I grab him from behind and put a gun to his head and have a face-off between the other guy? What 
 the hey I'll do it one way and then replay it and do it another." Also its so freakin' cool!! ! 
 !!!.....!!!!!!!!!!! How awesome is it to watch a mob member walk by a dark alley you are hiding 
 in and suddenly reach out and pull him into the darkness and when his cronies hear a muffled cry 
 and investigate they jump back and yell in surprise at the sight of a special ops force holding 
 a gun to the head of one of their friends. You'll be constantly telling someone "come over here 
 and watch this, cool huh?" Like shooting out a light with your 5.6 mm, (much to the bewhilderment 
 of the nearby police officers who mutter things like, "What the heck?") and then grabbing an overhead 
 pipe and sneak away just inches above their head. Trying to complete levels without any casualties 
 or firing a shot also make for a more challenging experiance and force you to be recourceful and 
 accomplish goals in an interesting way. I didnt even mention the gameplay or how it all works because 
 it is completely unnecisary. IT IS FUN! thats the whole point of a game right? The controls are 
 flawless by the way. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Stealth games have been around for a long time. But not a single one ever made can compete with 
 splinter cell. This game has great graphics, awesome gadgets, great story-line, and great characters. 
 You are sent all over the world and into amzing places like high tech facilities and heavily guarded 
 fortresses. This game asks you to do alot and it isn't always easy, but they give you the gadgets 
 to get it done. This game is just flatout amazing and is a must have for any platform owner especially 
 the PCers. The ps2 and xbox versions are awesome too. This games stealth feels and looks great. 
 It will keep you immersed for at least fifteen hours and is definitly worth a try for any good 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netty500
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  In Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, you play as Sam Fisher, an operative for the new initiative, under 
 the NSA, "Third Echelon." In this game, you will have to sneak around avoiding bad guys and taking 
 out the big threats of this world. Needless to say, this is a Stealth game, so you won't be doing 
 much fighting. Sam is not much of a fighter, heck my grandma hits better than him. But was Sam 
 is really good at in using the shadows as his advantage to take out the threats in his path.
  
  Right from the start you'll notice it's impressive graphics and amazing controls. After the 
 training, you'll be taken to your first mission, which really dishes out the great level designing. 
 You'll noticed right off the bat the taking out your enemies in broad daylight will get you killed 
 instantly. This can get annoying since many times you'd wish you could use your rifle more often, 
 for in this game, you won't be using it very much. But the intensity of sneaking around your opponent 
 is just as fun.
  
  After you complete a little bit of the game, you'll find very handy tools in which Sam can use 
 to take out his enemies, these are fun to use because of how many different strategies you can 
 use from room to room with all of the new gadgets. It's just to bad that you have to complete a 
 certain number of missions before unlocking these awesome tools. and you won't be able to use them 
 back in the older levels.
  
  Overall, although this game is the oldest of the three very great Splinter Cell games, this game 
 is still very fun and can now be found at a very cheap price of about 10 bucks. Go out and try 
 this game out atleast!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't like being a $#!% disturber? Forget wet and sticky sex. Sneaking around in the shadows, 
 eating danger and pissing victory is the secret desire of every guy on the planet. Even the most 
 unassuming, underweight office clerk dreams of joining the special forces and making democracy 
 safe for freedom. Hutt, hutt, hutt!
  
  That's why Splinter Cell is so popular -- it lets every closet Rambo vicariously live his commando 
 fantasy, and it does so with style, cynical humor and top notch production values. But then it 
 stumbles with a hackneyed story, awkward "acting" and brittle mission design. I use the word brittle 
 because missions are too easily failed because it's often impossible to jump through the glass 
 hoops Splinter Cell's developers have precariously setup around every corner.
  
  For example, if you trigger an alarm too many times, the mission arbitrarily ends in failure. But 
 a weird, unresolved bug throughout the game randomly sets off alarms even when you're nowhere near 
 the enemy. The bug occurs frequently enough to ruin the experience of playing, because it jolts 
 you out of Splinter Cell's world. It's maddening.
  
  Sometimes the parameters of a given mission are unnecessarily difficult. Stupid time limits, spawning 
 troops, vague directions, and frustrating prohibitions against killing enemies frequently make 
 Splinter Cell an exercise in exasperation.
  
  I can't recommend Splinter Cell to anyone except the most patient and forgiving gamers. If you 
 like to play your own way, rather than following the silly script of some development committee, 
 give this one a pass, even if you see it in the bargain bin.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell is an excellent game. There is nothing else to say about it. The gameplay 
 is addicting right away. I downloaded the demo, and before I knew it I had to have it, so the next 
 day I went out and bought it. It makes you want more, and it's one of those games that you want 
 to play over and over. Don't like sneaking? No problem. Although most of the game is sneaking, 
 some parts you can go in pretty loud and fast, but you have to hit them hard so that you don't 
 attract too much attention. If you find that you are attracting unwanted attention, there is another 
 way around it. Always know that in this game. Make sure that after you make a kill or knock someone 
 out that you take the satchel: that is usually the key to finding the best way to do things. Ok, 
 so the AI isn't all that believable, but it still has some excellent AI. The graphics are perfect. 
 The gameplay is unbelievable. And it is a very long game. I spent at least 30 hours on the Single-Player 
 on Regular. It is an extremely hard game, and you need to get the hang of it before you do anything 
 else: but it has already been taken care of for you by the beginning, the Training level. If you 
 are an action fan, an adventure fan, or a video game fan, this game will appeal to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  At first, this game wasn't really my type of game. But after a while I really understood that this 
 was a game with style, thrill and action. Classical spying, and superb artificial intelligence. 
 
  
  
  The graphics are nothing but stunning. The reflections, light effects and character animations 
 are nothing extraordinary. 
  
  The sound really impressed me. It's thrilling and is never anoying. The sound of footsteps on carpets, 
 concrete and wooden flors are all different. There are often people talking about private maters 
 that really hasn't anything to do with the mission you have exepted. 
  
  Gameplay is simple. Sam Fisher achives missions that he'll have to finish often without being notised. 
 There is no multiplayer, but I really don't mind, cause this is Sam Fisher in a perfect balanced 
 spy thrilling game. 
  
  + 
  Great graphics. The lighting effects is superb. The sounds is also very good. The difficulty level 
 is pretty high. Sam Fisher can do so many different moves too help him in different situations 
 you won't believe it. 
  
  - 
  A little bit too few missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell was the first stealth game I have ever played. It introduced me to it's genre and 
 gameplay. Now, I'm a big fan of the series and stealth games. I'd like to tell you more about this 
 game.
  
  About the game
  
  The game is not a shoot-em-up. It's all about staying in shadows and undetected. You're playing 
 as Sam Fisher, a Third Echelon super spy. As Sam said in the third Splinter Cell, "the light is 
 his enemy, and the only good thing about lights is that they don't shoot back". That's right, they 
 don't shoot back, but they can make you a lot of trouble...
  
  The Graphics
  
  The graphics are not that good compared to the third SC, but it was released in 2002. Back then, 
 the game had awesome graphics.
  
  The Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is very good - the best of all games in the series. There are some places you must 
 use your mind to get past undetected, i. e. find a ledge and shimmy it to avoid being seen by guards.
 
  
  Equipment
  
  You have only two guns in the game (a pistol and a rifle) , but that's more than enough. You can 
 add shockers, ring airfoils or sticky cameras on the gun to knock out or watch guards. You also 
 have flares used to distract turrets, grenades, lock-picks and disposable picks to unlock locked 
 doors and more.
  
  Sam also has goggles. They have night vision to help him navigate in the dark and thermal vision 
 to help him search for mines and guards in steam. You get thermal vision only in level 5.
  
  Passive Defenses
  
  There are cameras, mines and turrets in the game. Some cameras are 
 fragile, some are not. The only way to pass a non-fragile camera is shooting lights around or timing 
 your movements.
  
  There are two types of mines in the game: wall mines and ground mines. You can see ground mines 
 in thermal vision. They can be shot or jumped over. Wall mines can be disabled or shot. To avoid 
 an explosion, you must move slowly past them.
  
  Turrets shoot at you if they see you. You can distract them by throwing a flare or simply disable 
 them by going near the turrets computer. Also, you can select Disable IFF and they will shoot 
 everyone they see, even your enemies.
  
  The Moves
  
  You can do many athletic moves in the game. The split jump can be performed in narrow and high 
 places. You can also climb pipes, use zip lines, climb over fences and more.
  
  The A. I.
  
  The A. I. is good, but not very. Enemies start searching for you if they see a light shot out, 
 a killed or unconscious guard. But theres one thing that can make you nervous. If an enemy sees 
 you, he always knows where you are, even if youre in the dark.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Splinter Cell is a very fun game. I would recommend it to all stealth fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 24, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, but weren't too keen on Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, 
 (and even if you liked Pandora Tomorrow) you owe it to yourself to experience the original Splinter 
 Cell on the best platform available (PC) .
  
  Even though the game was released two and a half years ago as an XBox exclusive title, the strengths 
 of the graphics (while a little dated) and gameplay still hold up as a must-have for fans of stealth 
 games like Thief and Metal Gear Solid. Especially, now the price has dropped and it can be picked 
 up for less than $15 at some retailers (new or used) .
  
  By now, you should now the basics of Sam Fisher and the Splinter Cell univese: Sam works for Third 
 Echelon, a fictional, off-shoot of the NSA (National Security Agency) who conduct clandestine operations 
 around the world to avert such disasters as WWIII, checmical and biological attacks and electronic 
 warfare waged against the United States by unrelenting terrorist groups ("splinter cells") who 
 often have unofficial backing by major powers like the Russians and Chinese. Sam's primary role 
 is intelligence gathering versus combat and this is the basis for most of the game's missions and 
 is reflected by the "ghost's shadow" gameplay mechanics Splinter Cell is designed around.
  
  Sam (the player) is given a number of high tech gadgets and impressive athletic moves to accomplish 
 his missions and the emphasis is on not being seen, or detected as Sam cannot take many hits from 
 enemy fire and will go down very quickly if he does engage them and vice versa.
  
  The single player campaign (there is no multi-player as in Pandora Tomorrow and Chaos Theory) consists 
 of nine missions and have Sam gathering intelligence in varied places around the world ranging 
 from the Republic of Georgia, to Burma, and even the U. S. Mission objectives vary greatly and involve 
 such things as meeting an agency contact in the middle of a hot-zone swarming with enemy troops; 
 rescuing programmers trapped in a building overrun with mercenaries (think "Die Hard") , and even 
 kidnapping a prominent figure right out from under the CIA's nose at the CIA Head Quarters at Langley, 
 Virginia!
  
  The missions themselves are heavily scripted and Sam must go through certain areas to trigger the 
 next sequence of events, but even with this limitation there is still a lot Sam can do that helps 
 the replay value somewhat. The major factor that adds replayability to the campaign is the implied 
 goal of playing through the missions using minimal equipment and relying soley on the basics of 
 stealth gameplay and that means leaving the enviroment exactly as it is and not attracting any 
 attention to himself (no shooting out lights; no knocking out partrolling guards; etc.) .
  
  However, the negative aspects of Splinter Cell arise the first couple of times it is played:
 
  
  -The AI (Artificial Intelligence) Sam encounters in the missions is inconsistent and dogy. They 
 exhibit extreme stupidity in certain situations where they should have the drop on Sam and are 
 omnipotent in situations where they should not be such as being able to immediately detect Sam 
 in pitch blackness and kill him instantly with a head shot.
  
  Also, certain tricks and techniques (throwing cans and bottles; sneaking up behind them and having 
 the "Grab Character" interface appear) that are supposed to work on the AI often do not work on 
 a regular and consistent basis and Sam is forced into a confrontation where he does not stand a 
 chance and has to start the level over from scratch depending on where he is.
  
  -The level design is very linear at its core. The levels themselves are very big and seem confusing 
 at first, but in order to proceed with both the story and progression within a level, Sam must 
 complete certain objectives in a certain order in order to move on. Strategic thiking and open-ended 
 gameplay, major components in a stealth game, become very limited by this aspect and it becomes 
 a frustrating liabilty when Sam cannot deviate at all from the tightly-scripted tightrope the developers 
 want him to walk as this can sometimes result in an immediate mission failure even when Sam (the 
 player) has found a more logical and better way to accomplish an objective.
  
  -The graphics are very good, but at their core, very basic. Graphics don't necessarily equal good 
 gameplay, but the graphics of this game are really showing their age when compared to more recent 
 games... Including the brand new one in the series, Chaos Theory. However, they are still very 
 good and give a good "lived-in" feeling which is vital since most of the levels Sam inflitrates 
 are all urban in nature. There is also a few weather effects, mostly rain, but it is only used 
 in a few missions and doesn't add or detract from the overall gaming experience -- Take the rain 
 out and nothing substantial changes except mood and atmosphere.
  
  -The 5.1 Dolby Digital EAX Advanced soundtrack features ambient (directional) sounds, realistic 
 sound effects (gun fire and high tech equipment) and NPC banter that is very crisp and clear. The 
 score by Amon Tobin is top notch and fits the storyline and atmosphere of Splinter Cell to a tee. 
 There are no complaints in the sound department other than when the AI is alerted to Sam's presence 
 they can sometimes get stuck in a loop where they keep repeating the same phrase like "Where did 
 he go?", or "How did he just vanish?" over and over until they return to their normal state.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: 
  
  If you are a fan of stealth games such as Metal Gear Solid and the Thief 
 series, and recently go into Splinter Cell because of Chaos Theory, definitely give the original 
 Splinter Cell a try. It's not perfect, but it manages to immerse the player in its own mythos and 
 style of gameplay and is worth it now the price has come down substantially. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The stealth genre had previously been dominated by two particular franchises: Metal Gear Solid 
 and Thief. What Splinter Cell brings to the table is a sense of realism which has become synonymous 
 with the Tom Clancy brand. Every aspect of the game  in terms of gameplay, story, graphics, sound, 
 and overall production  is set up nicely to offer gamers the illusion of controlling the NSAs 
 top agent, Sam Fisher, in order to stop a disaster from occurring.
  
  The premise of the game is that you are an NSA agent pulled out of retirement in which you must 
 stop a Georgian extremist political leader from bringing harm to the US in terms of techno-warfare. 
 The story is pieced together via cut-scenes and fictitious news broadcasts intermittently brought 
 throughout the game. Moreover, many enemies have data sticks that contain small snippets of information 
 that lend to detail and add to the overall atmosphere of the game. The story is not original, nor 
 extraordinary, but it is simple enough to offer that sense of realism that is prominent in Splinter 
 Cell. Moreover, as an agent, one would not be privy to all information, and the game thus proceeds 
 in this regard. I found that the news clips  that seemed to resemble an MSNBC broadcast replete 
 with stock quotes  did a great job of providing an authentic feel.
  
  The gameplay is where Splinter Cell really shines. It contains everything one would want in a modern 
 espionage game. Sam Fisher can pick locks, hide in shadows, climb pipes, rappel walls, and even 
 do a split jump. One aspect that particular stands out is grabbing a guard and forcing him to use 
 a retinal scanner. At his arsenal are a standard pistol and a multipurpose assault rifle. The pistol 
 is great as one can use it whilst using an enemy as a shield, or while Sams back is to the wall. 
 The assault rifle has a sniper scope (in which one has to hold ones breath to keep steady) , and 
 many gadgets like a sticky shocker, sticky cam, and a diversion cam. In addition, he has 
 both night and thermal vision. Although aiming is much better suited on the PC version, the guns 
 still feel underpowered as it may take several shots to neutralise an enemy or even take out a 
 light. Although it forces one to choose stealth over force, it actually detracts from the rest 
 of the quality of the game.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. They might feel a little plastic at times, but all said and done, 
 the PCs graphics are far superior to the xbox. I had full anti-aliasing turned on with maximum 
 resolution so that may have helped. My understanding is that Crystal Method provided the soundtrack 
 and it seems to work perfectly. In fact, Splinter Cell has one of the best game soundtracks of 
 recent memory.
  
  However, there are some features that hurt Splinter Cell. Firstly, it has terrible AI. When combined 
 with a shoddy aiming system, I sometimes found myself taken out of the experience by shooting someone 
 in the head and then he (not dying) would say something like, what was that? Another problem 
 is the linearity. You are given basically no choice in which path to take which makes it a problem 
 for replayability. Once one completes the game  which isnt a long game  one would probably have 
 no desire to replay the game at all.
  
  In spite of all these problems, Splinter Cell still offers a unique gaming experience not available 
 in any other game. Moreover, it revolutionises the stealth genre and thus has offered new competition 
 and new standards in gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I reviewed Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell for the Xbox about two years ago now and I thought then, 
 that this was the first time that a stealth game had really shown itself to be viable but it had 
 some really nasty Rough edges on it, to go with the beautiful graphics and sound. So now, with 
 my xbox broken I got this game as a free bonus with another game and It's been an exceptional game 
 to revisit on another platform. The Changes made between the Xbox and PC version really improve 
 the game enough to warrant me talking it up again.
  
  This game was really marketed with it's graphics which in Fall 2002 were thought to be drop dead 
 gorgeous. Fast Forward a while and you might think that the graphics haven't aged gracefully. Well, 
 you'd be wrong, the game may no longer be state of the art but everything in the game looks fantastic. 
 The environs in this game are somewhat mundane a litany of office buildings and government structures 
 make up the majority of the locales you're sent off to. The most exotic locales this game will 
 send you to are A meat packing plant or a oil rig in the middle of the Caspian Sea. But it really 
 has a lived in world feel as tables are covered with the kind of stuff that covers tables -- papers 
 sodas bottles of stuff. Streets have a bit of trash in them. Probably the real highlight of the 
 graphics are the lighting and the character models. The Graphics aren't 100percent dynamic but 
 their are lots of parts where they do have realtime lighting rendered based on what's there. Furthermore, 
 the models look excellent even today. All the principle characters have detailed faces and bodies 
 that look very real and are very nicely animated. The Main Character in particualar was exceptionally 
 well animated. 
  
  The gameplay is the now classic combination of stealth and action sequences that have you sneaking 
 in and out of places sometimes right under the noses of guards. The Main Character, Sam Fisher, 
 has a good variety of moves. In many ways you're just like a ninja with all sorts of cool moves 
 like hanging off of walls or doing the signiture split jump to incapacite a guard laying below. 
 The PC version uses the mouse wheel to control Sam's Movement speed which lacks the tactile feedback 
 of a controller but is very adept at helping you sneak up on the bad guys. Furthermore you've got 
 plenty of gadgets to help you out ranging from a lock pick to open doors, a fiber optic cable to 
 look through doors, and of course guns and that sort of thing. 
  The game's story unfolds throughout the 9 levels included in all versions of the game. It's pretty 
 standard Clancy fare, a bad guy workign with Russians and Chinese is out to hurt America with something, 
 something we don't know what for sure. The best point about the story is that the character Sam 
 Fisher is an interesting one, a spy who's more than a little conflicted about what he does. You 
 get all the reports in your head through a few people Lambert and Grimsdottir are your primary 
 contacts back with the NSA and they're voiced well enough to create a somewhat likeable pair of 
 voices but that's most of what they exsist as. 
  The PC version doesn't get any of the extra levels availble on the Xbox or PS2, but it really doesn't 
 suffer anything as the original material is all very good. The Levels are challenging, as you're 
 always in pretty deep over your head. This is where the PC version of the game really shines as 
 it's ability to quick save and ability to be more accurate when firing really ease off some of 
 the difficulty. several of the levels in the Xbox had very frustrating points where if you failed 
 you had to replay a whole lot of game well, no such demise here. Tap a key and you're back to where 
 you saved last. I hate to quick save too often but it really improved this game just adding some 
 saves to it other than the rare checkpoints. Even having played through all the levels before the 
 game took me a good 10 hours to beat so if you're playing through the first time it'll get close 
 to 16 or 17 i'm sure as some solutions aren't so obvious till you know them. 
  IF you haven't played Splinter Cell yet, you definitely should pick up the PC version provided 
 you can find it at a fair price (20 bucks or less is more than fair) It'll last you a decent amount 
 of time and teh stealth gameplay is still some of the best in the bussiness. The Levels are consistently 
 tense and you never quite know what's gonna happen to make things difficult next. If you've already 
 played Splinter Cell and found it too frustrating you might consider giving the PC version a try. 
 This is the best version of one of my favorite titles from this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  I'm doing this little review here because I played through Splinter Cell 2 or Pandora Tomorrow 
 and I was very dissapointed from this sequel.
  I must say that I had my problems with Splinter Cell. And mainly because of the try and error strategy. 
 So if you're not a very patient person you will hit the quicksave button more often then sam switches 
 on his night vision.
  Thats because you get to many locations where you just don't know where to go at the beginning. 
 That's ok but the AI won't give you much chance on exploring. And most of the time there is only 
 one right way around which is not easy to recover.
  So this can get frustrating sometimes. The moves Sam Fisher has a very cool but he lacks at infight 
 possibilities. If you're close to a guard you only have an elbow move which you can use to knock 
 him down. More variety here would have been good. So your first choice of attacking will be from 
 distance or by sneaking up from behind.
  A quick frontal attack won't work most of the time.
  But enough from the fighting how does the 
 game look and sound. I can say that I was blown away by the graphics and the sound fits in perfectly.
 
  
  So Splinter Cell is still my first choice when it comes down to stealth games. For me it even tops 
 Pandora Tomorrow which doesn't seem to be as round as the first part is.
  Sure the Multiplayer is there but the Single Player part is definitely stronger in Splinter Cell.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  This game is truly a winner, it's about time that the PC gets a great stealth action game. Let's 
 start with the abvious, this game rocks from the opening title song ( I usually think that rap 
 stinks but this was cool ) , and the beginning mission, well i should say training session really 
 helps you get the swing of things in controlling Sam Fisher around all the cool locales you'll 
 be fighting the bad guys in. All of the cool gadgets and weapons Sam gets to use are totally cool 
 too. However There are a few minor complaints. One is that you can't move very fast when you have 
 your weapon out. Two, you can't open a door while holding on to a dead or knocked out bad guy, 
 and when you do open a door it closes about 5 seconds later ugh! However these are very minor complaints 
 in an overall excellent game. Even though it's a port from the Xbox it still looks really good 
 graphically. Oh and the story is really cool too , however i would have prefered the bad guys be 
 from a more formidable country like Russia, not little Georgia , no offense. Oh and another thing 
 it's nice to have a character that actually talks and has a bad ass persona like Sam Fisher has 
 ( hint Valve Gordons Mute lame ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2004 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Defining a new line of stealth action games, Ubisofts release of Tom Clancys Splinter Cell for 
 the pc on February 17, 2003, busted out onto the scene with a lot of enthusiasm from fans awaiting 
 the release. Youre known as Special Agent Sam Fisher working for the Third Echelon, a special 
 agency within the government that no one really knows about, of course. You alone are asked to 
 free the world of cyber-terrorists throughout the nine dramatic missions within the game. But dont 
 believe that just because there are only nine levels, you wont have a lot of playing time. Each 
 of these levels last as long as you want, depending on your style of gameplay. If you want to ghost 
 (not knock out or kill anyone) the levels as much as you want, it may take longer because of finding 
 specific routes throughout the levels including a Police Station, Oil Refinery, or even the Chinese 
 Embassy. But, if you decide to knock out or kill anyone, make sure you hide their body to anyone 
 walking there night watches or you might be setting off too many alarms where you might have to 
 start the level over.
  
  But you wont start off empty handed at the beginning of each level. At your disposal, depending 
 on the type of mission, you could have Flares, Camera Jammers, Optic Cables, Lock Pick and Disposable 
 Picks, Gas Grenades, Sticky Cameras, Diversion Cameras, Ring Airfoil Rounds, Wall Mines, Frag Grenades, 
 and also two types of silent guns including the SC Pistol and the SC-20K which has a zoom. This 
 seems like a lot of different weapons and the first time through, you may not even use all of them. 
 The first time through, you may not know that you could shoot a sticky shocker into a puddle of 
 water where a few enemies are walking by and be able to shock all three of them to death. With 
 the amount of weapons at your disposal, you have multiple ways to navigate and also to complete 
 each mission. This aspect of the game gives the game more replay than most games of its genre.
 
  
  The graphics are done rather well with extended use of shadows and light. Youre given a light 
 meter on the bottom of the screen, which lets you know how visible you are to the passing guard 
 or mercenary. The use of the light meter has become somewhat of a standard in stealth action 
 games including the Thief and Deus Ex series. The look of the game is polished off and the graphics 
 of the different areas look really well done. The design and layout of the levels can be somewhat 
 linear at times but the multiple ways you can complete your objectives during a mission with your 
 multiple weapons makes up for some of the linearity in some of the levels.
  
  Between each mission, youre presented with a cinematic which helps further the story along and 
 basically lets you know that no one in the U. S. Government, nor the world, knows what youre doing. 
 If you want to feel the sense of the one man hero who saves the world from World War III, then 
 this game is right up your alley.
  
  The sound in the game is done quite well, for what you hear. Because youll probably be paying 
 attention to noise that you yourself make the most. Just like in other stealth games such as Thief: 
 Deadly Shadows, every sound is heard in a dark room full of enemies. You must be quiet. Youll 
 be spending a lot of time with you infrared goggles on crouch-walking along most of the levels 
 walking up behind your enemies to dispose of them before they set off the alarms. When not listening 
 to your footsteps, youll hear the sounds of the environment around you including the rain, tapping 
 of boots upon floors from enemy soldiers and burning embers of fires. Youll also hear conversations 
 from the mercenaries throughout the missions that help you with different situations.
  
  The voice of Sam Fisher, the main character, is done by Michael Ironside played roles in movies 
 such as Starship Troopers and Top Gun. His gritty voice brings a lot of character to Sam Fisher 
 and it immerses you deeper into the role of the government spy.
  
  Overall, the game will probably last you 10-15 hours your first time through and only provides 
 some reply value, because of the linearity of the level layouts. There isnt any multiplayer in 
 Splinter Cell, so you wont be able to go after any other Third Echelon troops across the world 
 and this also brings the replay value down. But all in all, if youre looking for a good spy game 
 where stealth is all you want in life and you live in the shadows, Tom Clancys Splinter Cell is 
 the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2004 12:02 pm PT
Review:  As if Tom Clancy novels weren't bad enough... but seriously. I like stealth in games. I like it 
 as an option, but unfortunately this game just relies on the same formula a bit too much for me. 
 It basically starts with one guard walking around, hide in the shadows and then drop him. Then 
 it's two guards, drop one undetected, then do the same to the other one.
  
  The story is pretty much non existent too. If I'm expected to sit around in shadows for hours on 
 end, then I at least want to be rewarded with an interesting story. Oh well, if hinding out in 
 shadows, and knocking guys out is your thing, then go pick this game up, you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2004 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Finishing Splinter Cell and looking back at the story, there is a good plot development in the 
 game. Audio is decent enough, and the graphics are of excellent quality, but those graphics are 
 not really appreciated since most of the game you're sneaking around with light enhancement goggles 
 or IR goggles. Then the environments lose a lot of their details which is in the spirit of using 
 these goggles. But this also means that a lot of the graphics and fx were wasted (on me at least) . 
 The sound was basic but not good. I don't understand why this game is hardly playable on 1600x1200 
 on my AMD64 with nVidia 6800GT, so that's a minus. The other thing that is a little disappointing 
 is that it's not a particular hard game. Playing through on hard level there were only a few hot 
 spots that cost me some effort, which were mostly out-of-the normal parts were you couldn't sneak.
 
  
  Another thing I didn't like was that there was only ever one path to reach your goal. This used 
 to be ok, but nowadays and especially with sneaking, climbing, etc more ways to the same end should 
 be possible. Sometimes I couldn't climb the simplest things, which game me a game-limitation sense, 
 which should not be there. If it looks climbable, it should be climbable.
  
  Anyway: If you like sneaking, slow play, waiting to move on, this is still your game. It was fun 
 to play, despite of the mentioned deficiencies. Don't buy this full price though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2004 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is the latest great stealth-action game, ported from Xbox. In the near-future world 
 you are Sam Fisher who is to sneak his way through 9 lengthy missions to save the world from WW 
 III. Missions are enjoyably varied and feature great graphics. Sam's excellent set of action moves 
 works out very well on keyboard and mouse. Lock-picking is done with keyboard cursors and mouse-wheel 
 adjusts Fisher's speed from crawling to running, and the faster he moves the more noise he makes. 
 He is also equipped with some new gadgets to stealth games: optic cable to slid under the door 
 to see what's on the other side, camera-jammers, stun gun and more. Splinter Cell plays out as 
 much a puzzle as an action game: casualties are usually not welcome, so sneaking behind the enemy 
 and knocking them unconcious or taking them hostage is the way. The heavily scripted missions are 
 really nice and would work well if it would be clear how and which bodies (that trigger the alarms) 
 are discovered. As it's not, in many levels an alarm would start at a scripted point, forcing you 
 to replay the whole mission just to try to hide the bodies differently. Repeating all the puzzles 
 step by step is very tedious, and the fact that a guard's appearance around the corner is triggered 
 only by crossing a certain invisible line with your character does not add to the immersion. Would 
 be a great instead of a good stealth action game, had the body discovering problem been solved 
 differently.
  
  
  18/20 - Based on : 10 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Splinter Cell looks gorgeous and has varying and detailed environments.
 
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - The gamer is well-taught in the beginning.
  3/4 PACING - If I have to replay a big level because I am not told how to hide bodies, I'd rather 
 play something else.
  3/4 INNOVATION - It's linear Thief in contemporary setting, although admirably done.
  4/4 IMMERSION 
 - If you buy the story of some Georgians being the big threat to global security, you can look 
 further than the puzzle-solving what you would be doing most of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Warrior
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2004 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is a very good game, one that I played and thought... Wow.... This game has a very 
 nice touch to it, it has a hint of blowing people away, a large amount of Stealth and a number 
 of cool tricks to use. You can go behind people and grab them and nock em out, or you can pull 
 out your pistol and kill them, it's up to you. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very simple, there is a pop-up that comes around whenever a knew trick 
 is to be learned. You really have to think about what to do in some cicumstances by thinking, should 
 I crawl over their, or should I... You have to decide
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are very nice, the characters are good looking**Not that Way** and the frame 
 rate and all the other stuff is awesome
  
  Sound: From what I remember this game has one really great song that I love as-well as all the 
 noise from your suroundings, and it even gives you a short song sequence when someone heard you.
 
  
  Value: I found this game very fun to play over and over and I simply loved this game. I recommend 
 buying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngryFarmer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2004 11:10 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is a classic in every respect. I personally love it. The graphics are great, the 
 sound and music is intense and atmospheric. The gameplay shines. It would seem that this is a perfect 
 game, however there is just something; I dont know what it is, thats missing from it. I think 
 its the general atmosphere which fails to convince me. This game has never got me nervous or jumpy 
 when I knew I could get discovered, it failed to do what Metal Gear Solid had done perfectly, however 
 it excelled Metal Gear Solid in every other possible way. Dont get me wrong, I still love this 
 game. Its great and will remain in my collection forever, however there is that one tiny thing 
 missing from it, which made me tilt the review ever so slightly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousGeorge
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2003 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Do not take the criticisms about replay value to heart too quickly. I bought this game once. After 
 reading the reviews about "replay value", that there was little of it, I lost interest and gave 
 the game away. Suddenly, I found myself looking for a good single player game (hopefully an art 
 not to be washed away by the multiplayer trend, or the fact that multiplayer is not packaged with 
 it) .
  
  Since then I have upgraded my video card to an ATI Radeon Pro (I also have an nVidia FX5900 Ultra) , 
 and let me say, with the ATI the graphics are simply amazing. But that's just eye-candy.
  
  The sound is fantastic, even though I currently use a 2.1 speaker setup with my Audigy Gamer sound 
 card. The sounds of footsteps, crackling glass are very well done and I find the atmospheric sounds, 
 the background music, and the voice overs to be on par with the best.
  
  What finally matters is the gameplay. Although the game is heavily scripted, I have not played 
 an outstanding game without predictable scripting elements. Just play NOLF 2 a second time and 
 see what I mean. With the variety of gadgets and the option to use or not use them, the missions 
 are still fun to replay trying different techniques and the choice to not use the technical gismos. 
 The stealth element is very well done and I am impressed each time.
  
  The game is a keeper and I enjoy replaying the missions more than I do in games like NOLF 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supa_7
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 8, 2003 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The game was pretty good. But it is one of those games once I completed all the missions I do not 
 want to play it again. It is dificult confusing at times there are too many restrictions. I did 
 not enjoy missions where guards were allowed to shoot me but I could not shoot them. Some people 
 enjoy these kind of games but I did not find it to be very realistic. The games should come with 
 a downloadable game guide instead of having to pay extra on internet. Otherwise it is too hard 
 at times to figure out the next move. Thankyou from lwkiss @shaw. ca 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 27, 2003 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is simply the most satisfying stealth game that I have played since "Thief". In fact, 
 I like it better in some ways. You can see how that classic stealth game influenced Splinter Cell. 
 The game play is exciting and supsenseful, and although I occasionally found it to be frustrating, 
 it wasn't overly so.
  
  The first thing that you notice when you start the game up is how fantastic the graphics are. All 
 of the game's environments are richly detailed and crafted with a high degree of realism. Every 
 room has all sorts of objects laying about -- telephones, computers, chairs, boxes, pictures, etc, 
 etc, and they don't get repetitive. Every building in the game looks different. 
  
  The stealth engine for this game is the best that have ever been made. Sounds and lighting are 
 just so precise. The lighting is so advanced that even the light from a computer nearby screen 
 can give you away. You can shoot out lights, and if you shoot a hanging lamp without destroying 
 it, it will sway back and forth, and you will see the shadows in the room move with it. The game 
 makes great use of all of Sam's stealth gadgets, especially his night-vision and heat-vision goggles. 
 
  
  Sam Fisher is also one of the coolest action protagonists that I have seen in a video game. He 
 has great dialog, and great voice acting to go with it (done by Michael Ironside) . He has all sorts 
 of cool gizmos like lockpicks and a gun that can shoot sticky cameras. He also has a lot of cool 
 moves that he uses for getting through each level. You can combine moves for some really neat effects. 
 For instance, you can suspend yourself between two walls by doing the splits, and shoot a guy as 
 he walks below you. The game was programmed so that Sam will smartly react to his environment. 
 If there is a ledge nearby and you jump, he will grab it. If there is a ladder or a pole, he will 
 climb it. The controls are remarkably easy to use, considering that it is a port of a console game, 
 and there is a lot of complicated stuff to do. 
  
  The missions are interesting and fit in well with the stealth theme. Most missions involve infiltrating 
 a well-guarded facility and finding some kind of information. They are set up in a way that encourages 
 you to use minimal violence, but you tend to get in more shootouts towards the end of the game. 
 
  
  The AI for the game is very pretty tough. Guards will react to sounds and other suspicious activity 
 by seeking you out. They will turn lights back on if you turn them off, and they will also notice 
 if you have shot out a light. There are even some pesky guard dogs in the game, which can sniff 
 you out and track you down.
  
  The game has very linear missions, which is both good and bad. Good, because you never get stuck 
 going on a boring Easter Egg hunt, wondering if you are even on the right side of the map. This 
 is why the game rarely gets boring of frustrating. On the other hand, bad, because most problems 
 have only one way of solving them, and you don't get to use much creativity. I think that I prefer 
 to nonlinearity in the end -- it makes it more fun. The only true shortcoming of the game though, 
 is its value rating. The game takes about 12-15 hours at the most to get through, and its linear 
 scripted nature takes away from its replay value. That, by itself, isn't enough to keep me from 
 recommending this game to anyone who is a stealth game fan. If you have enjoyed other stealth games, 
 and you have been disappointed by the crappy implementation of stealth in a lot of other games, 
 then you have to get "Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell".
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2003 1:21 pm PT
Review:  OK... Listen up. This is the review you want to read.
  
  So youve heard a lot about Splinter Cell by now but havent really had a chance to play the game. 
 So why is this game so fun? Well Ill tell you that this game is unlike any game youve played 
 before. One of the biggest reasons is that, even though the game is more or less linear, there 
 are a ton of different ways to do everything in it. For example, in the game there are plenty of 
 times you have to get to a specific objective with a ton of enemies placed between you and it. 
 Your first instinct (thanks to your experience from playing other games) is to simply whip out 
 your gun and start shooting. Even though this can work, it usually results in you taking a fair 
 amount of damage because your enemies are just as powerful and deadly as you are. However if you 
 look close and use your head, there is always a way to either get around without being seen or 
 take out the guy without alerting his buddies. Finding the solution is one thing that makes this 
 game fun. One important thing to remember is to not get frustrated when you get caught. You personally 
 are not a stealthy operative so youre going to make mistakes at first. But after a while youll 
 get good at sneaking around and surprising the enemy. Sam has a lot of cool moves and gadgets that 
 empower you as a player and add to the fun factor.
  
  If by chance you've already played Splinter Cell on some console, whats the difference between 
 those and the PC version? Well, I have an Xbox as well as a good PC so I got this game when it 
 very first came out. I loved it on the Xbox but when the PC version came along I sold my Xbox version 
 on Ebay (sold for $30 or so) . I noticed that the PC version has a lot better sound (graphics are 
 about the same) and, even though the checkpoints on the Xbox version didnt bug me too much, the 
 fact that I can now save anywhere with the PC version is a lot nicer. So even if you have a Xbox, 
 PS2, or GC Id recommend the PC version of Splinter Cell to everyone. 
  
  How fun is this game? Well I showed it to a friend who thinks he's too cool for video games (you 
 know those types) and even he wanted to try it out.
  
  And thats the way it is. BOOYA!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zemus
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2003 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I Waited for Splinter Cell Ever Since it was Announced for the Xbox, but I don't Have an Xbox so 
 I patiently awaited the PC release. I finally Got my chance to pick it up a week ago and my mind 
 has been blown away. The Stealth Used in this game is Top Notch. The Lighting Effects are the best 
 I have seen in a long long time and Creating Your own Paths of Darkness to Quietly Take our Enemy's 
 is Not only Time Consuming, but some of the most fun your going to have. The Length of the Game 
 is quite long and the depth and thought it takes to go through each level using various methods. 
 Quite Personally I think its one of the Top Games to Release in the last year and its Quality will 
 still be around for years to come. If you want a fantastic Stealth Game this is your Pick right 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 9, 2003 6:07 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is a terrific actioner for the PC, an isometric 3PS (third person shooter) that focuses 
 on stealthy sneaking about rather than out and out gunplay.
  
  Players control Sam Fisher, shadowy operative in a splinter group offshoot of the National Security 
 Agency. Following a typically convoluted Tom Clancy plotline, Fisher embarks on a simple recon 
 mission which rapidly escalates into a struggle against sinister powers out to shake up the world 
 order.
  
  It's amazing and refreshing to see developers allow such a large amount of interaction with the 
 game environment. Fisher has a huge amount of abilities, such as being able to climb practically 
 any object, including pipes that can take him up into new areas. He can also repell down the sides 
 of buildings, hand-over-hand along horizontal wires, and hang and shimmy along ledges. He is also 
 blessed with a large inventory of gadgets, to use in cleverly constructed levels that actually 
 facilitate thier various uses.
  
  The graphics are breathtaking, sporting dynamic light sources and lots of clever visual flourishes. 
 The sound is also very effective, along with a musical score that alerts you to your progress (or 
 failure) . 
  
  It is unfortunate though that the game is of a HIGHLY scripted nature, where events will only progress 
 if you make it past a certain part of a level or interact with a character that is unexplicably 
 standing still waiting for you to make a move. It detracts from a game that otherwise strives to 
 immerse you in a realistic environment. The A. I., however, is very clever, reacting to minute changes 
 in their surroundings like light being switched on/off or doors that have mysteriously been opened 
 along their patrol route.
  
  Splinter Cell is an electrifying entry into the shooter genre, one that sets the bar for all others 
 to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 20, 2003 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a relatively good game. It's very much an action game. I'm usually an RPG fan so 
 I dinged the game on its linearity. The game leads you 'by the nose' from one place to the next 
 without any option to take other paths or try different things (e. g. one door at the end of the 
 hall in which there's an open window that leads you out a ledge...) . There's also no character 
 development. You don't even get rated on your missions. It doesn't really matter if you kill someone, 
 knock them out, or just sneak around them. There also isn't a great deal of weapons that you slowly 
 acquire over the course of the game; you have most of your tools early in the game.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. There appears to be a minor bug in the engine that occasionally doesn't 
 draw textures properly but it's not a major problem.
  
  The developers clearly spent a lot of time on the game getting the movement of the character to 
 be as realistic as possible. Pulling yourself up over the top of a fence, putting someone in a 
 choak-hold, or climbing a pole look really awesome. I also thought the use of night-vision and 
 heat-vision goggles was pretty cool, although the night-vision goggles seem to work much better 
 than I would expect from real ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2003 9:39 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game, for sure. But "Game of the Year?" I don't think so... Too many times I've fired 
 on an enemy's head only to have them turn around and kill me... Or, you fire at a light to shoot 
 it out and you miss! Especially when ammo is critical! Or, you're hiding and shoot at a guard, 
 with his head in the site and he turns around and picks you off! C'mon! Or you sneak up on a guard, 
 and the "grab" feature doesn't work! I mean, let's be consistent here... He can jump up and grab 
 some ledges, not all. And every new level you run into, he walks incredibly slow and you have to 
 push and push on the mouse wheel to get him to start running! The Graphics are great and it's actually 
 a lot of fun. But, there are a lot of annoying little things that ruin the game's excellence. It 
 could've used a little more work... But, is it worth the money? Sure, I guess I'd have to say it 
 is... but check out all the problems players have in forums and you'll see why it's not worthy 
 of being "Game of the Year"... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Milino
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2003 5:51 pm PT
Review:  GREAT game. Buy it. Make sure you play it on "hard" difficulty. I did not try it on easy or normal 
 but on hard it was just right. Plenty challenging but still do-able without using walkthrough's, 
 due to being able to save at any time. I gave it a 10 on value but I got it at $20 off on a 48 
 hr. madness sale. Even at full price I would still give it a 9. This game has all the weapons and 
 tools you need to get through any situation. The sticky shoker's are a lot of fun to use, so don't 
 finish a level before you use them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiny
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2003 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Splinter cell is, in a word, amazing. Im no fan of 3rd person shooters or tactical games overall, 
 but this was recommended by a trusted friend so I reluctantly went ahead and got it. Surprise! 
 The game was thoroughly enjoyable. The graphics are good, not great, but this will be quickly overlooked 
 as you get the hang of the gameplay and find yourself playing well into the night. Although the 
 game encourages you to play stealthily (and sometimes requires you to) , you can also approach a 
 bunch of levels with guns a-blazing.
  
  I found myself replaying levels over and over just for the hell of it. I also found myself wasting 
 hours of my life finding new places to use the "sticky camera". Its the little tweaks and overall 
 open-endedness of the game that won me over. Can't wait for the sequel! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
