-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rainbowsixvegas2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New sprint ability speeds up the whole game.
 You can gain experience online or off.
 Lots of tactical action.
 Great controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The textures break.
 So does the frame rate.
 The AI is occasionally backward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,789 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Apr 15, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not as sharp as its console counterparts, but this PC shooter still gets the job done. 

 
  The Rainbow Six team is the embodiment of Teddy Roosevelt's call to "Speak softly and carry a 
 big stick." They're certainly discreet, and with their terrifying arsenal, they hit hard enough 
 to make a baseball bat wince. But Teddy didn't say anything about carrying a monster rig, and unfortunately, 
 that's exactly what you'll need to get the pop you'd expect from Ubisoft's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 
 for the PC. And even then, the PC version of this great tactical shooter doesn't quite measure 
 up to the performances found on the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions. The AI seems even less capable than 
 before, and the textures break, as does the frame rate whenever there's heavy action onscreen. 
 The game is certainly playable, and can still be a lot of fun despite these shortcomings; it's 
 even possible that gamers with the right rig won't experience any of these hitches. But on both 
 of our test machines, which easily exceeded the recommended system requirements, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 2 ran with a limp even with many of its graphical bells and whistles set to low or off.  

  Nevertheless, this game is locked and loaded with enough good content to keep a small army waging 
 virtual war for months. There's an entertaining single-player campaign, a terrorist hunt mode to 
 fool around with once you've played through the story, and rich online play. You can gain currency 
 to spend on decking out your agent either online or off, and a new sprint button speeds up all 
 the action.  

           Note to self: Don't hide behind targets.      

  The story in the campaign mode won't have you on the edge of your seat wondering what will happen 
 next, though the action will. You and your two teammates make your way through diverse off-the-strip 
 Vegas locales climbing walls, shooting terrorists, and rescuing hostages. You're vaguely pursuing 
 one or two terrorists in particular while looking out for chemical weapons, but you'll mostly focus 
 on sneaking softly and then bashing terror with your big, fully automatic stick.  

  Although the tactical aspect of the Rainbow Six series has certainly diminished since the series 
 debuted on the PC in 1998, the simple squad commands contained in Vegas 2 are still very satisfying. 
 Having your teammates toss a flashbang in one door just before you enter another to catch the bad 
 guys with their pants down never gets old, especially if you're cleaning the house with a good 
 old shotgun. Your enemies will never know what hit them.  

  Then again, knowing things doesn't always seem to be the terrorists' strength. They occasionally 
 walk backward into battle, as though what they can't see can't hurt them. Of course, you and your 
 flashbangs know better, but this weird approach to gunfights didn't seem so prevalent in the console 
 versions. Still, the terrorists are crafty and tough as often as they are dumb, so you're guaranteed 
 several great firefights along with several silly ones.  

  Besides, the offline play is really just foreplay for the online matches. Jumping into one is quick 
 and easy, and a couple of the new maps are awesome. Theater, in particular, is the new centerpiece 
 of the online experience; it's the perfect place for a shootout, and it looks cool, too. As you 
 rack up kills online or off, you gain experience points that can be spent decking out your soldier. 
 Not only does this provide a good excuse to play dress-up, but in online matches you'll be able 
 to distinguish the hardened killers from the wayward noobs by the cut of their jib and the color 
 of their camo.  

           Though it looks good at times, the PC version doesn't run as well as its console counterparts. 

  Unfortunately, other colors distinguish themselves in a less flattering fashion. Certain environmental 
 textures tend to break in the direction of stunning blue or neon yellow. You'll be in a realistic-looking 
 environment, for instance, but will notice that all the window frames, pipes, and doorknobs are 
 unnaturally azure. Then, once you pass through an area, random details will be bright green -- sometimes 
 small things, other times entire rooftops and billboards. This probably won't happen on every setup, 
 but since it happened on one, it will definitely happen on others.  

  Worse than the garish broken textures, though, is the slowdown. The game never feels perfectly 
 fluid, but when you encounter an enemy and you both start shooting at each other, the frame rate 
 leaves for a cigarette break, as though the action were just too intense for it. This half-second 
 pause in the action is more than enough time for you to absorb one bullet too many.  

  Though Vegas 2's smooth frame rate didn't quite make it to the PC intact, the controls are as good 
 as, if not better than ever. You have more than enough buttons on your average keyboard to easily 
 access all of Vegas 2's many commands, and the single-player campaign will helpfully show you where 
 everything is and what everything does, so you won't have to go thumbing through the instructions. 

  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 for the PC is the weakest of all the versions due to its poor optimization, 
 broken textures, and questionable AI. However, it still features all the same action and content 
 as its console counterparts, and it's a decent tactical shooter in its own right. Though its flaws 
 and foibles prevent it from being something you'd want to pay the full price for, you could take 
 riskier gambles than putting a couple chips down on Rainbow Six Vegas 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (94 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: alpha04227
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worse Rainbow Six thus far. Why? Because it has nothing to do with real-world 
 special ops in any way...
  Simply put, there is no way to come across hundreds of hostiles in a relatively "simple" counter-terrorism 
 operation. In real-world operations, rarely there more than a dozen hostiles on each objective 
 where "objective" is a specific building, etc... Now, even then, the smallest tactical element 
 is four (4) men as in SAS and not three as in the game. Again, in counter-terrorism operations, 
 there is specific support, NO HEAVY WEAPONS for more than obvious reasons and the body armor is 
 meant to sustain a PRACTICALLY unlimited number of hits unlike the body armor in the games where 
 after a few shots you die. If you are to die anyway, why should you use body armor? Now, if I can't 
 use the environment (destroy lights, etc) to my advantage and if the opposition is as well-equipped 
 and trained as I (the operator) am, how am I supposed to get the job done? Plus, it may be relatively 
 easy for a private party to train and equip a small paramilitary elite to carry out specific terrorist 
 attacks against high value targets but it is unrealistic to have an entire army if not for anything 
 else, because of lack of funding (it takes approximately $150.000 or more to train and equip one 
 operator) and the right people since not anyone can become as good as they're supposed to be. I 
 mean, the designers and developers of this game, haven't they studied how this kind of operations 
 are done in the real world??? Just check out Operation Nimrod back in the 80's... That is how the 
 job is supposed to be done. Now, if we're supposed to go to war, there is no need for "Rainbow", 
 better call the SEALs or the Delta Force... And even they will have the common sense to cut the 
 power, secure the area (even with UAVs) and ultimately hunt down each and every one of the hostiles. 
 This game has none of the elements that made earlier "Rainbow Six" games classics: no briefing, 
 no planning, nothing at all. You just walk in a totally unreal situation and after a few hours 
 you wish you never had bought the damned thing... One example of how stupid this thing is: During 
 the Las Vegas operation, relatively close to the beginning, the objective is to capture a certain 
 individual alive. So, after you eliminate a huge number of hostiles and you finally get to the 
 subject, you just interrogate him at gunpoint only to shoot him when he goes for his gun (a second 
 gun since he dropped the first) . Now, in the real world, a world-class counter-terrorism operative 
 would have followed the Standard Operating Procedure that is, to secure the subject, search him 
 and deliver him for interrogation by experts. An operative, under no circumstances he will ever 
 deviate from that particular SOP simply because it is about his safety (just like all SOPs) . That 
 alone is enough to characterize this game as crap. I don't know what else to write here, I HATE 
 IT! It is in the top three of my worse games ever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djtrap
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  No mission planning, meaning the game is no longer a strategy shooter, it has now become just another 
 average shooter. Too many terrorists per mission make the game feel arcade-like. Game action is 
 based on insane shootouts without much to plan or think while just holding the trigger. How many 
 f*cking shots do you have to take until you die? Terrorists die with 1 to 2 well placed shots. 
 You, on the other hand, can be shot up to 15 times, that completes the arcady feeling. Several 
 times you'll see terrorists spawning right in front of you, as if your presence was needed for 
 that specific place to have some action. There isn't much you can do to have fun offline after 
 succesfully completing the campaign mode. You three-members team is too small and makes the tactical 
 feeling get blown away. Anyway, the game looks good, the guns shoot fine and are well designed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, Rainbow Six Vegas 2, unlike some sequals, does not disappoint ... it's pretty much the same 
 adrenalin rush as the original.
  
  After playing and really enjoying Vegas I happened to see an unused copy of Vegas 2 for a great 
 "Buy-it-now" price on eBay ... and here we are with yet another review!
  
  Firstly, I don't think the disjointed prequal/sequal narrative worked for me ... I was/am somewhat 
 confused how this fits in with the Irena narrative in the original. Anyway like an Arnie "action 
 movie" I guess we're here for the action and effects rather than the plot! Nevertheless my curiousity 
 has been piqued about the Rainbow Six missions prior to Vegas and Lockdown ... so the Rainbow Six 
 3 games (Raven Shield/Athena Sword/Iron Wrath) have bumped GRAW2 as the next game off the rank. 
 (BTW, I have marked Vegas 2 slightly lower mainly due to this confounding storyline.)
  
  The first mission in Vegas 2, "Pyrenees", set 5 years before the action in the original Vegas, 
 atop an alpine lookout was a pleasant change in scenery (reminiscent of the "On Her Majesty's Secret 
 Service" Bond movie) ... but it was over very quickly.
  
  After the initial alpine mission you are back in Vegas, 5 years later and a few days before the 
 action in the original game. After cleaning out a lot of bad guys and defusing a number of bombs 
 in and around suburban and central Vegas, rather than in the casino strip, in 4 missions (or "Acts") 
 with you, Jung and Michael, your AI team mates, head off to join Logan (to fit in with the original 
 Vegas storyline) .
  
  Eventually, you (as Bishop) are left to fend for yourself at an oil refinery in the "Nevada Desert" 
 mission. This is when the game, for a while, stopped 
  being "fun" ... it took me many attempts to get through from the refinery entrance the to the railyard. 
 There was always one guy left that was still hiding behind something and invisible to any of my 
 three vision modes. Bugger! Having previously only played single-person FPS games like the COD 
 and MOH series I had found getting used to AI team-mates in Rainbow Six Lockdown (my first tactical 
 shooter) a bit odd ... however I really missed the support of the AI team-mates in the "Nevada 
 Desert" mission. Plus after just finishing GRAW (another excellent tactical shooter, albeit fought 
 at longer ranges) it was all a bit "in your face" in the refinery and enroute to the airport. With 
 some very intense gunfights this mission is very hard. But heck, we pay to be entertained!
  
  I did find the final segment at the final mission, "Estate", involving some very heavy fighting 
 around the tennis courts very much "follow-the-rails" unlike the more "free-flowing" earlier missions. 
 However, it was satisfying to bid Gabriel farewell .. and to see "The End" at the conclusion.
 
  
  Anyway if you want to (try to) follow the Vegas 2 plot/storyline, look here: http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Rainbow_Six_Vegas_2
 
  
  As with Lockdown and Vegas, I cannot comment on the multiplayer game, I'm sure it's good ... however 
 after picking up a malignant trojan from playing a game online in late 2008 I have remained "gun 
 shy" about online play. Also, as with Vegas, there are enough Terrorist Hunt maps for a single 
 player to get his feel without the hazards (and arguably fun) of playing online. As with Vegas 
 and Lockdown you can go "solo" or with the team in the Terrorist Hunt mini-missions. Each person 
 must weigh up the potential risks/rewards of playing any game online. 
  
  The friendly AI works exceptionally well (it was very good in Vegas, as compared to Lockdown, so 
 AI has had another incremental improvement) ... the enemy AI is also very good, "too good" if you 
 ask me (grin) . Much of what I wrote about the approach I took in using the AI teammates in the 
 original Vegas is still valid ... albeit in this game the quality of the friendly AI does let you 
 send the team into most situations on their own. Your team can now carry out a few more actions, 
 like throwing grenades at target areas at any time (not just for room clearing) and you also get 
 "on-demand" thermal image scans of areas which is very useful in conjunction with the pop-up tactical 
 map. Also the default room "takedown" (or team order) procedures vary with the "rules of engagement", 
 which is basically deciding on infiltration versus assault.
  
  Having "evolved" from FPS to tactical shooters ... I find that as you are "responsible" for (and 
 need to "rely" on) more than one character it is inherently more challenging (and fun) to get a 
 team, rather than individual, through!
  
  Unlike Vegas, you will only have access to a limited number of weapons choices within each category 
 at game start; however you are rewarded with (or "unlock") certain additional weapons as you progress 
 through the missions or play the Terrorist Hunt mini-missions. This meant my favourite assault 
 rifle in Vegas, the G3KA4, took some time to be accessible (just in time for the airstrip in Nevada) . 
 Nevertheless the 552 Commando and various SMGs did the job. Unlike Vegas has more than sufficient 
 (re-) equipment boxes sometimes after you have just exited a copter where you can re-equip as well. 
 As in Vegas you can pick up guns from downed bad guys.
  
  There is a system of rank promotions (I ended as a humble Gunnery Sergeant) , medals and ribbons 
 and "ACES" points you score for marksmanship, close assault, etc that cumulate in experience points 
 (XPs) that "unlock" the weapons, body armour and clothing/camouflage colours you can wear. All 
 this is chrome as the game is fine anyway ... but I guess it's nice to have an in-game reward system. 
 This is also a part of fitting you into a "ladder" with other players for online play purposes.
 
  
  I've tried most of the weapon choices, including the various assault rifles and SMGs in the FPS 
 single player style "terrorist hunt" missions ... which are "fun" in their own way ... the real 
 bonus is you get to try out a few interesting maps not in the main storyline.
  
  SUMMARY: Highly recommended tactical shooter (with single player FPS missions to get your aim and 
 trigger finger co-ordinated) . Excellent graphics ... the sights and sounds are very well captured. 
 Arguably it's just more of Vegas rather than anything dazzlingly "new" but there's nothing wrong 
 with that either. 
  
  Company's can easliy botch a sequal and this is certainly not the case with Vegas 2. Like the original 
 Vegas, the gore and language means this is not really for the under-16 crowd.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:47 am PT
Review:  If you have played Rainbow Six: Vegas, then you have played Rainbow Six: Vegas 2., because this 
 game is almost indistinguishable from its predecessor. This is not necessarily a bad thing, since 
 the first game is easily the best implementation of tactical, cover-based shooting in the past 
 few years. The short length and the sense of familiarity might be a turn-off, but if you enjoyed 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas, you should enjoy #2.
  
  "Vegas 2" continues with the formula from the first game. It starts off in France, but it eventually 
 moves to Las Vegas where, once again, terrorists have taken over. You battle through the streets 
 and through casinos, ordering around your two buddies, taking cover, breaching doors, crashing 
 through windows, and rescuing hostages. The situations are almost exactly the same as the first 
 game, so much that after having played them both, I can't even remember which encounters happened 
 in which game. Is the big oil refinery in the first game, or the second? I forget. There have been 
 some minor graphical upgrades for this game. NPCs, especially, look noticeably better, but the 
 rest of the game looks basically the same. Unlike some other reviews that I have read, I had no 
 graphical hitches or frame rate issues while playing it. The audio isn't much different. It still 
 has great gunshot sounds and lots of good AI barks on top of a minimalist techno soundtrack that 
 you barely notice. Other than a point system that rewards you for scoring headshots, shooting guys 
 from behind, and blowing them up with grenades, the gameplay is basically unchanged too.
  
  The game didn't really need many changes since the first. This series will continue to produce 
 good games as long as it continues to provide the all of the elements that make up great tactical 
 shooting. What are those elements, you might ask? The first is deadly weapons, for both you and 
 your enemies. "Deadly" means that a single headshot can be deadly, and so can a few body shots. 
 A man who is stationary and out in the open is a dead man. Maneuvering during combat requires quick 
 sprints from cover point to cover point. Unlike games like Mass Effect and Gears of War, enemies 
 can't just charge at you because they can take a clip of ammo to the face. Effective use of smoke, 
 explosives, head shots, and flanking is how battles are won. Some situations require you to storm 
 a large, open room, and these parts can be very tough. You really have to stay on your toes to 
 make sure that you don't get outflanked.
  
  Another element of great tactical shooting is functional friendly AI. In this series, your buddies 
 are good at staying alive. They help you take out enemies and they can heal you if you go down. 
 They can follow your simple orders, they don't get stuck on obstacles, and they have no pathfinding 
 problems. Good friendly AI is another feature in this series that makes it better than other games 
 with cover-based shooting.
  
  Yet another important element of this series is great controls. Vegas has a very slick set of controls, 
 although it may take some getting used to at first. The first person view works great for shooting, 
 and then the camera switches to third person when you take cover, so that you can see how well 
 you are hidden. It is the best of both worlds, so-to-speak. By clicking the right mouse button, 
 you pop out quickly from behind cover to take aim, and the game switches back to first person. 
 Controls give you lots of freedom, but they are context-sensitive enough to not be too complex, 
 unlike Gears of War, which has one button for a thousand different situations. You will never wrestle 
 with the controls in this game.
  
  There are some upgrades that would have been nice to see, however. One improvement that this series 
 needs is more variety in how you use your squad. Your squad mates are still stuck together and 
 act essentially as one guy. How about giving us the ability to split the two guys apart and have 
 them storm a room from different directions? The Vegas setting works well for this type of game, 
 but it's not as much of a novelty as it was last time. The fun of shooting up casinos and watching 
 slot machines blow up and fall over just isn't there this time. There are so many interesting places 
 that you could set this type of game. What about The French Quarter of New Orleans or Wall Street? 
 Now that would be cool.
  
  Like the first game, Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is a bit on the short side (8 hours or so) , so it might 
 not be one that justifies a full $50 purchase. Then again, it has been out for a while now, so 
 you probably don't have to pay full price for it. If you haven't tried out this series yet, then 
 you probably should. If the first game left you hungering for more of the same, then you will get 
 what you are looking for in this sequel. If, on the other hand, you are looking for a brand new 
 experience or you just didn't like the first game, then you won't find what you are looking for 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carpe_Mofo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  Ah, I remember back in the day, spending countless hours playing Rainbow Six: Rogue Shield and 
 later on Rainbow Six: Raven Shield. The Vegas series looked like quite a departure from the past 
 games, which it is, but all the things to love about Rainbow Six is here; including making you 
 truly feel like a bad ass elite solder and making you think before acting. Almost every time I 
 have entered a room without planning a strategy first has ended in a game over screen however, 
 providing you pay attention to what your doing and don't act like your playing Halo, the game never 
 feels too hard. And nothing is more satisfying than planning a room entrance with your team and 
 everything going perfectly. 
  For those unfamiliar with the rainbow six series, it's a tactical shooter where your the leader 
 of a group of elite soldiers trying to foil various terrorists plots. While the gameplay might 
 not be for everyone as some just like to run around acting like Rambo, if you don't mind taking 
 a slightly slower approach which makes you think and plan, your in for quite the treat.
  The story is your standard terrorist/counter-terrorist fair, terrorists trying to do something 
 devious to a big city (Obviously Las Vegas in this case.) and you, commander of an elite group 
 of soldiers must stop it or the world is going to explode. Normally I'm a big fan of good stories 
 in game, but with rainbow six, i really don't care, it's meant to give tactical, realistic FPS 
 action, and that's exactly what it does, the story just holding it together and giving a sense 
 of purpose. The story isn't bad, just not memorable as say Assassin's Creed or just about any RPG.
 
  The gameplay feels fresh and exciting, while keeping that highly tactical feel that has been the 
 hallmark of the series without making you plan for 20 minutes pre-mission. Even when your not shooting 
 and fighting for survival, the game keeps a nice touch of suspense making your feel like your always 
 doing something, even if your just running up some stairs with your team, because you never know 
 who's going to be around that next flight. 
  Tactical commands are allocated to five keys that feel a little odd at first, I found myself checking 
 the key bindings a few times throughout the first level for reminders, but by the second level 
 it feels as natural as hitting 'R' to reload, the whole system is lightyears ahead of the pre-Vegas 
 Rainbow Six games. Your team is generally useful and carries out most orders without a hitch, however, 
 sometimes, they do mind numbingly stupid things like standing out in the middle of an open area 
 while under fire But that's forgivable as it's so easy to order them to whatever point of cover 
 you wish, I do wish though, that they were able to act based on your commands without following 
 them blindly, if you see cover big enough for one man, and you order them to take cover, the first 
 one there will take cover while the second one stands there complaining he can't get to it while 
 there is another cover spot just a few feet away. But these instances aren't numerous or annoying 
 enough to hamper the game in any major way.
  The game looks gorgeous, with great detail, animations and cool looking weapons, the music adds 
 just the right amount of tension without being overwhelming and the guns sound very nice, sounding 
 neither under or overpowered so every gun you use has a very satisfying sound even the soft 'phh' 
 of silenced weapons sounds just as nice. The gunplay is fast and furious, requiring timing, aim 
 and planning, with just the right difficulty, the game feels really hard, but not often will you 
 see yourself looking at a game over screen several times trying to get past the same point. With 
 several ways to approach most situations, you often feel quite clever planning and executing a 
 successful attack in a unique way.
  I can't comment on performance as with everything turned to high at a resolution 1680X1050 the 
 game never stuttered, however, my system is an Intel quad core q6600 overclocked to 3.2 ghz with 
 Radeon HD 4850 X2 and 8 gigs of ram which is a pretty beefy system (Windows Vista Index of 5.9) .
 
  For anyone who has been a fan of Tom Clancy games in the past, this game is sure to not disappoint. 
 While the game does have some shortcomings, it's so much fun they are very easy to look over, the 
 one thing that does bug me though is the removal of voice commands for the PC version as just about 
 any headset you buy would have a good enough microphone for voice commands.
  All in all, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a worthy addition to the rainbow six franchise offering all 
 the tactical action fans of the series have grown to love while improving on it in every way.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Sin City, where everything bad seems to be happening. Terrorists come back to cause 
 even more havoc than they did in the first game. You play as Bishop, a high ranking Veteran of 
 the Rainbow Organazation. Your job is to elimanate the Terrorist attacks and to make Sin City as 
 it once was before: Paradise.
  
  The game starts off with you playing as Bishop, as he arrives to a fictional moutain, Pic des Pyrnes, 
 France, in 2005. Bishop is told what his job is and he has a little training with real Terrorists 
 attacking the moutain. You need to lead yourself and two of your other partners to safety of the 
 moutain, then your real action will once begin, with you entering Las Vegas in 2010. I won't spoil 
 what will happen after. You need to play it yourself. 
  
  The gameplay in Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is all Tactical. You need to move your squad to cover, doors, 
 fast ropes, rappels, and many other things. Cover mode is also a plus. I haven't played a game 
 other than this and Grand Theft Auto IV that had a cover feature in it. Vegas 2's cover is one 
 of the best. The features in the game are also well-thought out. There is a Outfitting mode, which 
 lets you chose your Wepaons, Aromour, and Clothing. The Armuor makes the game a little more realistic. 
 Like, if you put on too much Armour, you'll have a lot of Protection, but less Mobility, and Vice-Virsa.
 
  
  A. C. E. S is a really cool feature that is added in the game. A. C. E. S is tracked on how you do your 
 kills. There's 3 of them. They are Marksman, CQB, and Assault. Marksman are stuff that you could 
 do easily with a Sniper Rifle, like getting Headshots or Long-Ranged kills. CQB are used for close 
 ranged kills. Assault is used for killing someone while they're in cover, on a rope, using a granade, 
 or having a shield equipped. For every special kill you get, the points go up. Once you reached 
 the next level, you get a reward. You can get Extra Experience Points, Weapons, or Clothing/Armour. 
 It's pretty fun to get stuff for some good kills.
  
  A noticable change from the first Rainbow Six Vegas was that in the first game, you only recieved 
 experience from playing Multiplayer. Now, you can get Experience from playing both Off and Online. 
 Now you don't have to waste time playing Multiplayer to get new items.
  
  Multiplayer is kind of a medicore problem for the game. Most of the servers are Dedicated Servers, 
 and you can't see the ping for the Dedicated servers, so you need to hope that it doesn't lag. 
 And the regular servers will also have a high ping and some known connection problems. Good thing 
 there is the Terrorist Hunt feature that lets you go on one map and hunt Terrorists. Co-Op is a 
 first for the Vegas series as well.
  
  Lagging is also a known problem with the game. IF you press a button while playing Multiplayer 
 or Single Player, it might take 2-4 seconds to respond, especiall if your trying to fast rope or 
 rappel. Annoying. Just plain annoying.
  There is also a bunch of advertising in the game. You'll see advertisements from games, real-time 
 commercials, and other major products. But, they are usually found in the Single Player Story.
 
  
  The punishing difficulty is also another well-known problem for players that aren't as experienced 
 with Tactical Shooters. If you set the difficuly to Normal, the game will get pretty tough. I was 
 actually stuck on two levels for about 15 to 25 attempts.
  
  The graphics in the game make up for most of the problems that are in the game. The weapons look 
 nice and have a good look to it. The scenery, Terrorists, and Vegas as itself is all looking great 
 as it usually should. Bravo Ubisoft, Bravo.
  
  The voice-acting in the game wasn't all that great as what I would come to expect from a Tactical 
 Shooter. Most of the time, it can be hard to hear what Bishop is trying to say. It's like he's 
 talking normally in a really quiet voice. And in Multiplayer, you'll sometimes hear a machine gun 
 that Won't Stop Firing. It gets real annoying that you might just want to listen to some music, 
 or turn your speakers off.
  
  Overall, even with most of the problems this port has, the Great gameplay makes up for most of 
 it, but sometimes, most isn't enough for Rainbow Six Vegas 2. Better luck next time Ubisoft.
  
  The Good:
  - XP can be gained from both Off and Online.
  - A good amount of realism in 
 the game.
  - Vegas looks beautiful.
  - A. C. E. S is a really fun feature
  - First Rainbow Six with online Co-Op.
  - Multiplayer can be pretty addicting.
  - Great ammount 
 of Weaponry, Aromour, and Clothing
  
  The Bad:
  - Lagging.
  - Online Hackers.
  - No ping shown for Dedicated Servers in the Server List.
  - A bunch of Advertisments.
  - High-Ping 
 problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it is about this game, but it's just amazing.
  
  Story: Not a great storyline, but for a shooter. It's above average. Story mode consists of you 
 and 2 other squad members who you can easily control. The game is quite linear, but it gives you 
 a lot of options on how to approach a situation, although it doesn't usually affect the outcome, 
 it's a blast to have your teammates throw open the door as you blast the opponents with a rifle 
 from a distance.
  
  Gameplay: A lot of people think 3rd person ruin a gaming experience, same with cover system. Those 
 people are just unwilling to step out of their Quake4/Counterstrike shell and try a game. The cover 
 is fantastic and there was only one point in the game where I got frustrated with it. There's so 
 much more then your average cover system. You can throw open a door, throw a grenade without exposing 
 yourself, and the animations are awesome to watch. It's like every action movie fan would want 
 to watch. A lone hero with his pistol blasting everyone who dares to come around that corner. You 
 will almost think you're Jack Bauer or James Bond with some of the moves you can do while in cover. 
 It does have some flukes, but you won't run into them often.
  
  AI: Overall, quite good. Enemies will ACTUALLY flank you. This is the only game I've acutally been 
 shot from behind... every other game 'claims' to have AI that can flank, but it's never happened. 
 I can't count how many times I've had someone sneak up on me and put a few bullets in my back while 
 playing Terrorist Hunt (essentially story mode, except random spawn points for AI and your only 
 objective it is to put the terrorists out of their misery) . You will run into some annoyances with 
 your squad. They occasionally get stuck or ignore an enemy right by them, but it doesn't happen 
 to often. 
  
  Graphics: Everyone bashes this game for it's graphics. They definitely aren't game breaking.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Awesome, but unappreciated. It's also quite difficult to find low ping servers. I 
 still enjoy it. You can customize your character to look like B-A. While there's not many options 
 with the face. The armor is what is distinct. The multiplayer is like a splinter cell game, except 
 much, much more difficult. This is the second hardest tactical FPS after America's Army (but this 
 also depends on the server settings, which can let you do almost anything) . 
  
  Great Game. Very unappreciated. 
  $10 on steam... can't really beat that, but I would have paid 
 $50 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  Fans of the original RSV may find that this is more of the same. A few additions are fun and help 
 the replayability, but all in all you get a feeling of deja vu. The gameplay is similar, the storyline 
 is complete crap, and I rarely say that. The AI can be complete idiots at times and others punishingly 
 difficult. The multiplayer is really where this game shines, but that shine is from a dust covered 
 diamond, it doesn't shine its brightest, but with more polish it could have.
  
  The singleplayer story mode tasks you in the role of one of two agents when terrorists once again 
 take over Las Vegas. That is about it, there are zero plot twists, and the characters don't really 
 stand out.
  
  The AI once again is a mixed batch of nuts. In singleplayer they seem like complete and utter idiots, 
 not being able to shoot worth crap. In Terrorist Hunt, they are punishingly difficult, and always 
 seem to know where you are and have near pinpoint accuracy.
  
  The game does have some fun in customization, which makes a return from RSV, with some improvements. 
 You can now build your Multiplayer character in Singleplayer. The equipment is various, and the 
 clothing made just for looks all look great. Speaking of looking great, the graphics are brilliant, 
 though as punishing on the graphics card as the AI is to you.
  
  The multiplayer is where this game really shines, with a huge amount of maps, modes, and two co-op 
 modes, it makes for a fun romp through locations ranging from small to large, from indoor to out, 
 and sometimes a mix of both.
  
  All in all, this is more of the same.
  
  Replayability: B- (Singleplayer sucks, go for the multiplayer)
  Gameplay: B (More of the same)
 
  Graphics: A- (Good look, though unreasonably high)
  Sound: C+ (Most of the gun shots and bullets sound muted and the AI rarely ever communicate to 
 each other)
  Controls: A (Good, responsive controls, and easy to remember, but some of the squad commands are 
 hard to memorize)
  Singleplayer: D+ (Boring, unimaginative, and completely lacking in storyline)
  Multiplayer: B- 
 (A slew of modes and maps, plus co-op, but not much else. Feels like a clone of Call of Duty 4)
 
  Overall: C- (A Carbon Copy of RSV, so unless you love these games, this is not going to be of 
 interest.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheapshot72493
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and underrated for the pc
  
  Pros-Great Multiplayer Modes, Many weapons, Good graphics not great but good, Intense ranking system 
 (would take at least 2 months to get from start to finish if you are a hardcore gamer) , customize 
 your own character, many unique things you don't see in all shooters, cover system, breeching charges, 
 controlling rate of fire, thermal and night vision and many more, supports xbox controller for 
 windows, only 20 bucks now, also there is a terrorist hunt mode where you and up to 3 of your friends 
 can play map by map elimenating terrorists to specifications such as difficulty and amount of enemies, 
 and to top it off there is a co-op campaign where you and 1 friend can beat the campaign together
 
  
  
  Cons-Doesn't have a lot of online players, single player is short, takes forever to rank up (good 
 for some bad for others) , you have to restart the game just to change some of your options, the 
 single players storyline isn't good, friendly AI in campaign are braindead when you play on normal 
 and casual but amazing if you play on realistic,
  
  To sum it up buy Rainbow Six Vegas 2 at $20.00 it's a steal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpaw128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  without any previous rainbow six experience, I was surprised by this game. Splinter Cell and GRAW 
 had turned me away from Clancy games but this one was on sale for 10 bucks, so I gave it a chance. 
 The weapons are great, the shooting is satisfying, and the cover system is close to perfect. The 
 campaign keeps you immersed the whole time even though the story isn't so great. The graphics are 
 pretty good, but I really noticed the motion blur. The difficulty conforms to a range of players 
 making this a great game for newbies and hardcore players. The AI is by no means bad, it just isn't 
 as good as it could be. Your squad on the other hand is solid. Once you master the controls your 
 squad becomes very leathal. Basically, anyone who likes fps's should buy this game for a refreshing 
 experiance. oh yeah, the a. c. e. s. system is really helpful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFragcat
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  RainbowSix Vegas2 is a solid game to add to your Tom Clancy's collection. 
  
  You play as 'Bishop', a battlefield veteran called back to service in a time of crisis & by your 
 side are Bravo Team, which you rely heavily on throughout the story mode. As team leader, you are 
 in control of Bravo team, so it's up to you to use them wisely & to your advantage against your 
 enemies. Before you play the game, it's best to create your character with character creation giving 
 you the choice to build a unique character. If you have a webcam, you can take a photograph of 
 your face & overlay in onto your character, putting you directly in the action.
  
  You can do many things with Bravo Team to make your life easier in-game. You can make Bravo Team 
 'Stack up' against doors, & when they're in position, you can decide how they clear the rooms. 
 Some options are 'Smoke & Clear' in which they throw smoke and clear out any enemies & my favourite, 
 'Breach & Clear', where a C4 is placed on the door & when it explodes, it knocks enemies down nearby. 
 Good planning & quick thinking is a must.
  
  As you progress through the story mode, you'll start to find that the story plot itself is quite 
 dissapointing. Everytime you complete a scene or chapter you will get an insight of the plot, but 
 not enough information of what's really happening. The ending is the biggest dissapointment, once 
 you've defeated a combat chooper, all you have to do is shoot Gabe, your biggest enemy then the 
 game is complete. The story mode has three levels of difficulty for you to choose from, these are 
 Casual, Normal & Realistic. There are a variety of weapons to kit your character with, the weapons 
 are in sub catagories which are:-
  
  Submachine Guns
  Light Machine Guns
  Assault Rifles
  Sniper Rifles
  Shotguns
  Shields
  
  so depending on your situation, you 
 have the right weapons for the right missions. 
  
  The AI in Vegas2 is great. Once you get into a shootout with the AI they'll start to use objects 
 & walls for cover & the most impressive thing is they never stay in sight for too long, making 
 it harder on your behalf. This is where duck & cover pays off because showing too much of yourself 
 will have you dead within seconds.
  
  Terrorist Hunt is another mode, the object is to kill all the terrorists in a certain level. Terrorist 
 Hunt consists of 13 levels, ranging from being outside & in buildings. You have three levels of 
 difficulty, just like the story mode, these are Casual, Normal & Realistic. You also have the choice 
 to do the missions alone or have Bravo Team by your side.
  
  RainbowSix Vegas2 is a game that rewards you. As you play the game, you'll earn rewards that will 
 allow you to customize & evolve your character. When you succsessfully use tatics & skill to progress 
 through the different game modes you will gain XP (Experience points) . You can reach to a certain 
 amount of XP to reach to the next rank. Each time your skill exceeds your rank you will be promoted. 
 These promotions unlock new gear for your character, these include, amour, clothing & camouflage. 
 In addition to rewarded XP, you will receive speacialisation points through the ACES (Advanced 
 Combat Enhancement Specialisation) system. Points gained by completing actions within each catagory 
 will unlock weapons related to that catagory. These catagories are, Marksman, Close Quarters & 
 Assualt.
  
  RainbowSix Vegas2 is a great looking game with alot of gameplay involved. If you're a fan of the 
 Tom Clancy series, this is the game to get.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas 2 is the second rainbow six vegas game that is amazing overall. You play as Bishop 
 a elite commando and you lead a 3 man squad across las vegas killing terroists. the story is cheesy 
 you stop a dude with a bomb and is going to blow up vegas and you and your 3 squad have to stop 
 them. the cool thing is you use tactics with you team to open doors with enemys and you must use 
 them because they will save you when your in trouble. the game also uses a cover system that is 
 not as good as Gears of war but is still good. You must use cover cuz' if you dont you will be 
 dead quickly. 
  
  There are many cool things but 1 of the many things is that you can customize you charcter to make 
 him have diffrent hats, you can have glasses diffrent armor, clothes, etc.... the guns are also 
 realistic, they just dont look real, they feel real which means you have to pick a good weapon 
 when your in a bad situation.
  
  The gameplay is awesome but it could use some improvment. but everything feels good to shoot, dive 
 into cover, throwing grenades etc overall its a 9
  
  The graphics are also amazing. It uses the best engine in the world, THE UNREAL ENGINE. it makes 
 the game cool and it looks cool. the is still texture pop in but that is minor
  
  The bad thing is that the game is hard and thats it
  
  Overall the game is amazing and should 
 be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurtisLoew
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Please note: I've NOT played Rainbow Six: Las Vegas (the first game) . This review is only based 
 on the sequel.
  
  After playing all the other Rainbow Six (R6) games up to Athena Sword, it was great to yet again 
 lay my hands on a true "Tom Clancy" game. And I wasn't to be let down; the game is awesome!
  Installing the game went like a dream, and on my second try the game started and it automatically 
 updated the game with the latest patch. Sweet.
  
  The first impression is that the layout is intuitive and easy to learn, so to create your character 
 and equip your team doesn't take long. Many new features, weapons and outfit have been implemented 
 to the game, but some gems are locked until you gain some experience in the game. Then new weapons, 
 clothes etc. will be available to be used, and I kind of liked this.
  
  The stages in the game (the game is divided into Acts and Scenes) are truly spectacular, and the 
 maps and AI's make force you to use your team to the full. Your teammates have to breach doors, 
 cover your back, clear rooms and building etc., and you have no chance of completing this game 
 totally on your own. This was a factor which I held against the previous R6 games - they were to 
 easy. Here you get into hard fights and smarts AI's. Using your different weapons, grenades etc. 
 is a must, and as you play along you will get better and better and does this automatically :)
 
  
  I haven't yet played through the game, but I've played so long that I got a pretty good impression 
 of it. And I'm sure the rest of it will not let me down. When I've got through this game I'll surely 
 buy the first one and play that too. I don't think it will any worse, and the reviews I read about 
 it make me sure of that.
  
  So have a happy hunting for the bad guys - they won't safe as long as I'm in the game :)
  
 
  -- Curtis Loew
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samerym
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  I think the variance of opinions about this game is based solely on your PC; if your PC can't handle 
 the game, obviously frustration will be first on the menu, but on higher-end machines, the game 
 is awesome. I have not seen broken textures, experienced slow-down, or seen regressive AI (quad-core, 
 4 GB RAM, GeForce 8600)
  
  The action is amazing and hard-hitting, with blood-thirsty culprits every step of the way, which 
 should tell you to really use and rely on your teammates, without whom you are nothing. A great 
 selection of weapons and customization options, beautiful levels, and intense firefights are some 
 of the features that prompted me to give the game such a high rating, and I'm only talking about 
 the Terrorist Hunt mode, which to me is more enjoyable than the campaign (at the time of this critique 
 I was still playing the game.)
  
  The AI is very strong indeed, and the terrorists even offer some witty remarks every now and again. 
 I heard one of the terrorists ask his mate to give him cover, but the other bloke replied, "F... 
 you! You cover me." In another instance, after a I made a kill I heard a guy that I could not see 
 say, "Did they kill him? F..., he owes me money." The only flaw in AI that I experienced was in 
 my own teammates, who on rare occasions will just let an enemy kill you and won't do anything about 
 it, although they'd be standing feet from him, which is a bit strange considering how able they 
 are.
  
  I highly recommend this game, although I can't tell you how it compares to its predecessor, because 
 I haven't played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandy_can
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Its totally different from previous versions, its so fast, accurate... You must play this game 
 to know how this is??? but i was amazed from it...
  I always thought the original game needed more casino levels, and this one has even less, but there 
 are a few, and they are the highlight of the game.
  
  Gameplay- Pretty much the same, except they added a sprint button, which does add a little bit 
 to the game. Multiplayer terrorist hunt is really the best part of the game.
  
  Graphics- They are starting to look aged, but still decent.
  
  Sound- Nothing too special here, 
 but there is a sound loop glitch that happens quite frequently.
  
  Lasting appeal- There are quite a few multi-player options, and customising your guy can get addictive, 
 so it does have lasting appeal.
  
  Value- Depends on how much you want to play more of the same 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is called a sequel, but you'd be hard pressed to consider it a true sequel. 
 Think of it more like an expansion pack. It has a new campaign, albeit short, but it ties up the 
 story from the original. It also adds new equipment, a new ranking system, and new maps, but that's 
 about it, unless you consider the ability to sprint a new feature. 
  
  Online is fun, and if you liked the original enough to warrant paying full price for what could 
 be considered an expansion pack, then go for it, you won't be disappointed, but if you aren't sure, 
 at least you could wait for the price to go down. 
  
  I always thought the original game needed more casino levels, and this one has even less, but there 
 are a few, and they are the highlight of the game.
  
  Gameplay- Pretty much the same, except they added a sprint button, which does add a little bit 
 to the game. Multiplayer terrorist hunt is really the best part of the game.
  
  Graphics- They are starting to look aged, but still decent.
  
  Sound- Nothing too special here, 
 but there is a sound loop glitch that happens quite frequently.
  
  Lasting appeal- There are quite a few multi-player options, and customising your guy can get addictive, 
 so it does have lasting appeal.
  
  Value- Depends on how much you want to play more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danomeon
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The original rainbow six vegas was a great game. The interesting environments and flashy effects 
 made it an eye-catching shooter. 
  
  But Rainbow Six vegas 2, unfortunately, retains only the fun of multiplayer. I'm going to make 
 this quick, the single player game is INFURIATING, even on the casual difficulty. The reason for 
 this is the fact that even on the lowest difficutly, one shot from an enemy sniper spells death 
 for you, and this leads to infuriation, especially, when these sniper pop out at rediculous moments. 
 Imagine my frustration as I am sniped and killed instantly without warning as I watch my teammate 
 diffuse a bomb in an area that we had just cleared out. Another problem is that the game has no 
 good way of telling how damaged you really are, so just when you think you'll be able to take out 
 a few enemies, you'll find yourself dead in a shot. The game is worth a rental, if that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luciotss
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  One of the best games for a multiplay experience to evaluate with all! Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 2, better than the previous series, graphics and more refined with HD quality. 
  
  One of the things that motivates the player go until the end because with the rules of patents 
 as a sergeant, elite .... very good! multiplay so perfect, little bug and not need to have a fast 
 Internet to play online.
  
  congratulations for the game!
  is a good thing for lovers of tactical shooting. The new mechanical control, much more intuitive, 
 making the series more accessible to novice players. The visually impressive, but some textures 
 deserved a more polished. In addition, the soundtrack complements the action in a masterly. The 
 modality for a player is short but the game offers challenges left for days and days of combat 
 online via Xbox Live. In this respect, the greatest misfortune of "Rainbow Six: Vegas" is being 
 launched with titles like "Gears of War" and "Call of Duty 3". But for those who are tired or whether 
 something other than aliens and War, bet the chips here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  First impression was that the game was very much like its precursor. But as I get in to the roll 
 of it I got more and more addicted to get higher stats and rankings to unlock some new gear. Personally 
 I like running my character heavy with lots of protection for those CQC's.
  
  The game itself is very detailed and realistic. Nice 3d modeling and rag-doll effects. Its always 
 nice to be able to blow things up and shoot enemy's so they hang from a rope etc.
  
  Would have rated it 10 out of 10 if it were a longer story mode. Took me about 2 hours of intensive 
 game play to finish the story mode.
  I have yet try the multiplayer mode and Co-op story mode. If its anywhere near the regular story 
 mode I belive it can be a very enjoyable experience.
  
  For those of you out there I strongly recommend this game, action packed, good story mode, nice 
 effects and that realistic feeling of being in the fight for real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Extimor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  First impression was that the game was very much like its precursor. But as I get in to the roll 
 of it I got more and more addicted to get higher stats and rankings to unlock some new gear. Personally 
 I like running my character heavy with lots of protection for those CQC's.
  
  The game itself is very detailed and realistic. Nice 3d modeling and rag-doll effects. Its always 
 nice to be able to blow things up and shoot enemy's so they hang from a rope etc.
  
  Would have rated it 10 out of 10 if it were a longer story mode. Took me about 2 hours of intensive 
 game play to finish the story mode.
  I have yet try the multiplayer mode and Co-op story mode. If its anywhere near the regular story 
 mode I belive it can be a very enjoyable experience.
  
  For those of you out there I strongly recommend this game, action packed, good story mode, nice 
 effects and that realistic feeling of being in the fight for real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vianegativa85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  First and foremost I would like to say that I like the Vegas series. It's a huge breath of fresh 
 air from other Tom Clancy's GRAW and, I don't know, Counter Strike-esq shooters. The Vegas series 
 is smart, challenging and pretty realistic, but without being impossible. The cover system is great 
 (if at a few points buggy) , the weapon selection is on my top five for best gun selections in a 
 game ever and the action is great.
  Ever see the film Heat or how about Ronin? Two great films that had great action, but kept everything 
 to a point of believability, something that these games do.
  Vegas 2 is more or less picking up right where the first Vegas began. Just add in a little traitor-type-action 
 and a character that looks like he was pulled straight out of Splinter Cell (it's all Tom Clancy 
 stuff, so what do they care?) and lots of difusing of bombs and hostage situations.
  Everything that worked before is still here, plus a little bit more. 
  Now there's a ranking 
 system in which you can unlock weapons, armor and clothing sets. And about clothing and armor! 
 Holy cow! Cool thing about character-building - you can basically make your character look however 
 you want and right from the start!
  All in all it's a pretty good game, but the story-mode is a bit of a rehash of the first game. 
 You'll see a lot of old situations popping up here with this game: hostage rescue, bomb defusal 
 and the good old using computer-gig.
  But hey, you get to shoot at an attack helicopter.
  
  Still worth while game and with the terrorist hunts you can always keep on playing and with 
 mulitplayer you can do it with your friends and of course co-op storyline mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glutso
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 7, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Very buggy. Not much help from tech support. Finally had to bring it back to store. Real let down 
 after Rainbow Six Vegas 1. Problem was that AI had your team acting on their own and kept getting 
 killed over and over again. It's bad enough when you get yourself killed and have to replay, but 
 when your team just jumps through doors and gets themselves killed over and over again, it drives 
 you crazy. I spent more or my time trying to fix the game then actually playing it. Real disappointment 
 was that, even after admitting they couldn't fix the game, they refused to replace it or give me 
 my money back. Best Buy finally gave me my money back after I showed them a handful of emails and 
 chat reports from the company. I really believe that if a company can't fix the problem with a 
 game they should take the product back. I have a high end system and this game should have worked 
 perfectly, just like Rainbow Six Vegas 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwndOo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game ROCKS! Great things are: finally a game with costumisation weapons (not like crysis where 
 the suppresor just appears out of nowhere) , Great covering-shooting system, you have to think more 
 than just playing rambo-style, nice graphics alot of weapons (which are actually diffrent) , ranking 
 system just pulls you in with unlockables, rewards, AND FINNALY A GAME WITH NEAT COOP!!! Bad things: 
 PUNKBUSTER-i hate it cos no game that uses it i cant play cos someone stole my key, sometimes your 
 team just stucks and cant get out, and small amount of people playing multiplayer, you get bored 
 after playing alone same map alot of times. Difficulty is hard, but it can be manageble if you 
 arent rushing. WORTH BUYING!!
  For me its best of all Tom Clancy's series!!! Any rainbow 6 fan, buy it! Thank you for reading 
 my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkRockerVans
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Very nice gameplay better than the first part. You should but it very niceVery nice gameplay better 
 than the first part. You should but it very niceVery nice gameplay better than the first part. 
 You should but it very niceVery nice gameplay better than the first part. You should but it very 
 niceVery nice gameplay better than the first part. You should but it very niceVery nice gameplay 
 better than the first part. You should but it very niceVery nice gameplay better than the first 
 part. You should but it very niceVery nice gameplay better than the first part. You should but 
 it very niceVery nice gameplay better than the first part. You should but it very niceVery nice 
 gameplay better than the first part. You should but it very niceVery nice gameplay better than 
 the first part. You should but it very nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8jackitz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  The pros for Vegas 2 include earning new ranks, unlocking new weapons and armor, getting awards 
 in the form of ribbons and medals, and of course the 4 player co op mode.
  
  The cons are that the game is very repetitive, AI is questionable at best, and co op lacks any 
 real objectives.
  
  I still play Vegas 2, but in Co Op mode over LAN.
  It's fun as long as you don't have to control the AI team members. For me, after updating to version 
 1.03, the team AI seems to have a mind of their own, not following orders, and moving whenever 
 or wherever they please. After reaching elite, there is really no point in playing, A. C. E. S and 
 Elite both have 100 ranks with the latest patch, but you get nothing else to unlock. Hopefully 
 they will have another update or patch to add new weapons, uniforms, or game objectives for co 
 op.
  
  I did forget to mention than you can download some new maps, but it really doesn't do much for 
 the overall experience.
  
  Anyway, thanks for reading my review for Rainbow Six Vegas 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Skillett
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Take all that was good about the first Vegas game - the graphics, the sound, the effects, the AI, 
 the realism, the intensity and up it again! The XP system is brilliant, it makes standard play 
 much more interesting as you are rewarded for killing with grenades, head shots, in the back, from 
 long range etc with new weapons and armour. You earn XP offline and on line and your weapons are 
 available on both (something EA would never let you do with BF2!) . Playing this game over LAN with 
 a group of friends is intense. You clear rooms together, the built in team speak is brilliant and 
 it just build camaraderie. 
  
  My only problem is team mates seem a little bulky when you walk past them, they block you a little 
 too much. I have no doubt this will be sorted in a patch as the previous Vegas game had plenty 
 of patches to iron out problems and add new features. Other than that I can't praise this game 
 enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Oh how time flies! It was 2006 that we last saw Team Rainbow battling it out with terrorists in 
 Vegas, and 2 years later, the part prequel-part sequel is here with the somewhat unoriginal title 
 Vegas 2. It's not as well-polished due to the short development cycle and it's pretty much a carbon 
 copy of Vegas, but that still doesn't mean its a bad game, far from it. This time you play as Bishop, 
 a fully customizable character leading the same squad from Vegas that takes place before the events 
 in its predecessor. You're chasing a group of terrorists (again!) lead by the Cabreros brothers. 
 The story doesn't pick up from Vegas until near the end so, basically the prequel parts are practically 
 filler material. The story this time isn't very interesting and seems to be a step down from Vegas. 
 You'll also notice Las Vegas lost a lot of its luster and you don't see as much neon colored signs 
 like in the original. The game seems to be still utilizing an older version of Unreal Engine 3.0 
 which makes some of the environments look a bit sterile. It's not bad looking and I get that they're 
 trying to show the seedier, rundown parts of Las Vegas, but some color couldn't hurt. Sound is 
 90% recycled from the original as you'll hear the same action music and the same soundbytes from 
 enemies. It's good but reeks of laziness since they added very little new sound. The new features 
 with the game is the sprint function (shift button) , which makes reaching cover a lot more faster 
 and an RPG-like leveling system that unlocks new weapons and gear as you level up. This is a welcome 
 feature as it gives you a sense of accomplishment. There's a lot more gear here then Vegas. As 
 you progress, you'll unlock weapons (all of the Vegas weapons return) and gear such as tactical 
 armor, shoulder pads, arm pads, and leg pads to deck out your character and provide more protection. 
 The single player part is rather short, shorter then Vegas but you'll still engage in some intense 
 shootouts due to the easy to use cover system. The multiplayer will increase the longevity of the 
 game since there's a variety of maps and game modes included. It feels the multiplayer was given 
 more development time with the single player mode being tacked on. Vegas 2 is somewhat of a big 
 step down in quality from Vegas, but you should still definitely pick this up if you're a fan of 
 tactical shooters and you've played Vegas. Just make sure to patch to the latest version of the 
 game and enjoy shooting terrorists in the head! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiveMeIce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  *SPOILERS*
  
  I bought this game today and played the story mode through and messed around with some of the online 
 features, all I can say is it was worth the 50 bucks. The game has a few flaws but nothing bad 
 enough to ruin the fast paced action. The game is located in Vegas where a mysterious calamity 
 of terrorist activity has broken out. As a squad leader your job is lead the two members of your 
 swat team to rescue hostages, diffuse bombs, chase down wanted the leaders of the organized crimes 
 taking place in the city.
  
  As you play through the game you gain experience points for eliminating hostiles and leveling up 
 your marksmanship, assault, and close quarters combat skills. You receive skill points as you eliminate 
 enemies in certain ways which are explained in during gameplay. When you fill your experience bar 
 your rank up. Ranking up unlocks gear, camo colors, clothes, and weapons that you can customize 
 to your liking.
  
  The campaign is a good challenge that tests your reflexes and leadership skills. There are three 
 different difficulties you can go about doing this and Realistic mode is quite the challenge. As 
 you go through the campaign you unlock Acts which contain scenes that you have played since the 
 start of the game. After you complete the game you can select any scene from any act and start 
 it at any difficulty you want. Allowing you to skip parts of the game that you just cannot beat.
 
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  The gameplay keeps you on the edge of your seat most of the game. It's not one of those games like 
 CoD where you can just run through it shooting without thinking. You spend most of the game hugged 
 against walls firing. There's very little time in play where you arn't in combat unless you are 
 stealthing which takes timing and silence to get the objective done without attracting a lot of 
 attention.
  
  Controls 9/10
  
  Since it's on PC your can change your controls to however you like. I didn't really like the starting 
 controls but I love my settings.
  
  Atmosphere 8/10
  
  There is a wide variety of Atmophere's in this game. You go from Casino's, to factories, to hotels, 
 etc. There are some real buildings in this game that are in Vegas today which makes the game that 
 much more realistic.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound is great in this game. It isn't one of those games that says somthing really annoying 
 over and over again until you get pushed to the point of turning down character voices. The sound 
 of glass breaking, smoke grenades, bullet's wizzing by your head, flashbangs, all put you closer 
 to the feeling that makes your forget your playing a game.
  
  Physics: 8/10
  
  The game has your standard ragdoll physics that are in most next-gen games. One thing that caught 
 my eye when I was playing is when I ordered my squad members to frag clear a room, and after the 
 grenade went off a body flew through the window over my head that had just broke. Keep in mind 
 that this doesn't happen very often, but when it does it's epic.
  
  Replay value: 9/10
  
  After you complete the game there is still plenty things to unlock which keeps you coming back 
 for more. You can unlock gear, weapons, camouflage, clothes, and achievements from playing both 
 online and single-player. It's alot like CoD4 weapon unlock wise, but you don't need to play online 
 to do so.
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  
  It is definately worth the price of 50$ in my opinion. If I can stay entertained after playing 
 7-10 hours straight then it was definatly worth it.
  
  Bugs. flaws, glitches: 
  
  There were some small bugs in this game, one of which is when you tell your squad members to move 
 or follow or somthing, they get stuck and they just stand there, this only happens to one of two 
 but the other usually goes with you until there is another load screen which brings the member 
 back into action. This has happened to me 2 times for like 3 minutes each within the entire campaign. 
 Another thing is sometimes when I was shooting, it automatically makes me give an order and sends 
 my members right up to the enemies. Again that has only happened 2-3 times within the campaign. 
 One other thing i noticed is when the commander talks to you on the radio, he pauses and then responds 
 to you after you said nothing. Basically you can't hear yourself talk sometimes, and I know it's 
 not like Gordon Freeman because you hear yourself talk on the radio all the time.
  
  That about sums it up. If you like Tactical Shooters, this game is for you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  2008 should be a banner year for the Tom Clancy Rainbow Six franchise and its fans because it marks 
 the series official 10-year anniversary since the original Rainbow Six debuted on the PC in 1998. 
 Unfortunately, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 sends the original series that defined the tactical shooter 
 genre off with what amounts to a whimper instead of a well-deserved bang due to its console port 
 limitations, game stopping bugs and generally poor and unfinished quality overall.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 puts you in the shoes of a nondescript squad leader named Bishop, either as 
 a male or female, who is in command of Bravo Squad. Your (and the two AI soldiers under your command 
 from the first game, Jung Park and Michael Walter) mission is simple: Stop an army of terrorists 
 who have seized hostages, planted bombs and are causing general mayhem in the early hours of the 
 events you played through in Rainbow Six Vegas. That's right, it's a "prequel", or "parallequel" 
 -- The kind of story that takes place before, and along side the events of the first game. This 
 kind of storytelling device is not new or original, but it serves its purpose well enough this 
 time around. 
  
  As stated in previous reviews, "Bishop" is just a generic name for your personalized character 
 who (m) you create for both online and offline play. 
  Similar to the first game, you can customize your characters look, what weapons you carry (although 
 you must "rank up" online or offline like an RPG using the A. C. E. S. system to unlock more weapons 
 and gear) and they even added the ability to map a photo of your actual face onto your character 
 this time around if you have a webcam, or similar device attached to your PC. All of this would 
 be a welcome addition to the series except A) The amount of weapons isn't that impressive to begin 
 with, and B) Most feel the same once you get them.... Unlike previous R6 games where each weapon 
 had distinct characteristics and at least tried to mimic its real world counter-part to some degree. 
 Also, the character customization is obviously geared toward the casual gamer because they include 
 ridiculous camouflage patterns such as hot pink and neon green -- Patterns you would never see 
 a real soldier or SWAT member wearing in the field. The worst part of this customization is it 
 appears to be almost entirely cosmetic. Even though there is a rating for mobility and protection, 
 it appears it makes no difference what your character is wearing because it is easy enough to be 
 killed when wearing heavy armor as it is is no armor at all.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 runs on the new Unreal Engine 3, but it appears to be a stripped down version 
 of it. Don't expect Unreal Tournament 3, or Assassin's Creed-type visuals. In fact, it is so stripped 
 down the game looks like it is from the 2003, 2005 era with very bland and low resolution textures 
 (obvious console game elements) and sparse environments. There is zero interactivity with objects 
 in the world except for breaking glass and being able to shoot through simulated wooden surfaces. 
 There is no dynamic lighting, depth of field, bloom or any other "next-gen" features games like 
 Crysis and others now include as standard. Rainbow Six 3 on the original Xbox even looks more realistic 
 and visually compelling compared to Rainbow Six Vegas 2 on the PC... And R63 came out five years 
 ago and has a max resolution of 640x480!
  
  The sound in R6V2 is mostly recycled sounds from Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield (weapons) and of course 
 dialog snippets from R6V. There is a new storyline, of course, and the voice acting is passable. 
 Not great, but not as bad as import games where English obviously isn't the actors first language. 
 However, there are major technical audio problems -- that were present in R6V and carried over 
 to R6V2 -- That involve gun sounds looping over and over in MP and entire groups of sounds cutting 
 off in-game. For example, the sound of weapons firing will just cease in the middle of heated fire 
 fights! It is painfully obvious the games audio engine is designed for consoles who do not have 
 dedicated sound cards (which is the prime culprit for loss of sounds) and not discrete Dolby Digital 
 5.1/7.1 surround... Which is ironic because the Xbox 360 and PS3 can easily do home theater quality 
 surround sound by default. 
  
  The game play of Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the exact same as R6V. It uses a third-person cover system 
 which looks good visually, but in practice makes the game far too easy, in both SP and MP. However, 
 in R6V2 it appears the original cover system flaws have been exploited to the point of making the 
 use of cover obsolete. Meaning, you can be pressed against a corner and if a human player, or AI 
 enemy just happens to be at the right angle they can still kill you as if you were exposed even 
 if you appear to be completely in cover from your point of view. There are also major clipping 
 issues with the cover system with the barrels of weapons sticking through walls, doors, door jams 
 and corners -- Which might be why you can be killed even if it looks like you are in cover; These 
 are indicators of collision detection issues that adversely effect game play both in SP and MP.
 
  
  The original Rainbow Six games up until R6V all had a fluid lean and kept the player strictly in 
 first person to fully immerse them in the game (for a perfect example of this done right play Medal 
 of Honor: Airborne) . It wasn't until R6V where UBISoft decided to turn the series into a more cinematic, 
 action-shooter Halo-type game that featured a third-person cover system, regenerating health, etc. 
 It was this drastic shift in the games overall design to appeal to a more casual gamer that caused 
 a majority of the original R6 PC fans to abandon R6V and R6V2. This is why there are very few playing 
 online right now... Contrary to the review that states game piracy is the primary cause for a low 
 online community. The reality is most of the original R6 fans who started playing the game in 1998 
 just do not like the more arcade, Halo-style game play the series has evolved into. That and the 
 fact there are still large connection and disconnection issues still present from R6V. In addition, 
 there isn't a real dedicated server software available which makes hosting the game on commercial 
 grade servers like most games all but impossible. This is another main reason why the R6V2 online 
 PC community is very low compared to the 360 and PS3 versions. 
  
  Also, most of the competitive game modes that used to attract the original R6 PC players have been 
 changed to suit casual players via the inclusion of respawns which further alienates players looking 
 for a more realistic experience, I. E: One-life per round; One shot, one kill with no respawns.
 
  
  The CO-OP side of the game doesn't fair any better. This has been stripped down to only two players 
 (Story mode) , or four players (Terrorist Hunt mode) max. Compare this to eight, or six in games 
 like Raven Shield. Add the fact the story mode is set in linear maps that resemble a Doom-style 
 hallway shooter and AI Terrorists can spawn in areas you and your team mates have already cleared 
 (in Terrorist Hunt) and you can see why this game fails to set itself part, or even pull off the 
 very basics of realistic CO-OP play correctly.
  
  In closing, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a mediocre game from top to bottom. The visuals are not that 
 complex, yet the frame rate fluctuates far too much as if they were. The game play is uninspired, 
 bugged and the additional content and features (a sprint function and grenade indicator ripped 
 straight out of Call of Duty 4; three of four new maps; three or four new weapons) make this more 
 of an expansion pack... If that... More than a full-priced game. As painful as it is to say, R6 
 has fallen from grace and is going out with a whimper instead of a bang given its ten years of 
 gaming history and the high standards of realism and tactics it once set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 finally arrives on the PC version, but provides almost nothing 
 to set it apart from its console counterparts.
  
  Story/Presentation:
  Well, you're back in Vegas, this time around as the leader of Bravo Squad, in events that seem 
 to follow right along side the events of the first game, or at least within the same time-period. 
 The same scenario follows suit - bad guys with lots of guns, hostages, locations, and bombs... and 
 you're sent to mop everything up. Your character is fully customizable as a male or female - complete 
 with voicework. People familiar with the character creation in the multiplayer of the first game 
 will find it's been linked with the Single Player Campaign and Co-Op as well. Thanks to the new 
 A. C. E. S. system, everything you do - in story, multiplayer, offline, or online - will earn you 
 points in different categories to help you rank up. This unlocks everything from new weapons, armor, 
 clothing, and camo patterns. These unlocks can be used both offline, and online in one universal 
 character. It's a nice rendition that Elite (Rank 55) can be achieved without having to spend hundreds 
 of hours online, and that you are rewarded for Campaign performance as well. Players of the first 
 game will be happy to know that this one wraps everything up in one nice big package with no cliff-hangers 
 this time around, even if the locales aren't as flashy or exotic.
  
  Sound:
  There's nothing here that sets the sond apart from other games other games. The addition of a female 
 voice-over for your character is a small but welcome feature, and the low John Carpenter-esque 
 themes are a nice compliment to the action, without seeming too cheesey. All of the weapons and 
 explosions are meaty and proper, even if the dialogue is campy at best. The PC version suffers 
 from some severe technical issues with Dolby Digital and sound cards, but more on that later.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Vegas 2 looks good. It's running on a completed Unreal 3 Engine, unlike the last game (dubbed "Unreal 
 2.5") . The colors are much more vibrant, the textures more clear, and the shadows more defined. 
 There's a lot of post-processing effects which add icing to the cake. It's not the most beautiful 
 game and the same blocky character models with over-sized guns and a strange view of their weapons 
 in 1st-peron, but it's quite a sight to see.
  
  Gameplay:
  Vegas 2 remains a "light tactical shooter" like its predecessor, but seems to be less forgiving 
 of mistakes this time around. The A. I. is all accross the board, ranging from incredibly smart, 
 to incredibly dumb. Your teammates will actually move where you want them to, and actually take 
 COVER in that spot, but will still do bonehead things like walk past a window full of guards instead 
 of crouching below to avoid being seen. The enemy is much more mobile this time around, and will 
 generally not stay in one spot for too long. They flank effectively and will often advance on you 
 this time, instead of retreating, and abuse Blind Firing. However, they too have their flaws, as 
 they will still at times fail to run from grenades, take cover behind objects that provide none, 
 and do too much "peeking" without firing as if to say, "Here is my face. Please shoot it now." 
 The new "Sprint" feature might be a total rip off of Call of Duty 4, but it serves its purpose 
 well.
  
  There are a handfull of new weapons and armor selections, which will please some, even if the guns 
 do appear strangely blocky and oversized. Still, the weapon selection doesn't seem to impress as 
 many fan-favorites were simply left out, and since the FAMAS assault rifle still remains the "noob 
 gun" of choice. The gadgets in your arsenal remain the same, which the exception of a new Thermal 
 Scan that will reveal the location of enemies for a certain period of time, but must be "recharged" 
 for 90-seconds or so before using. It feels cheap, but since the difficulty is bound to irritate 
 many, it's welcome as well. Oh yeah, the difficulty? Brutal. Vegas 2 is much less forgiving of 
 mistakes this time around in its design. The abilitiy to tac-on more armor only helps you and not 
 your teammates, who cannot take nearly as much punishment. Casual feels too easy, but the other 
 2 difficulty levels are brutal, and Realistic is 'bound to cause lots of screams and moans. 
  
  The game supports full campaign Co-Op play, complete with A. C. E. S. rewards. The multiplayer 
 is pretty much the same as the first, with a few new maps. Terrorist hunts return, with a ramped 
 up difficulty and more options. The online community on the PC is pretty small as once again, Piracy 
 has had a profound affect on PC gaming.
  
  Performance:
  Here's where the woes begin. Just a fair warning, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 was not optimized for the 
 PC... at all. It's a 100% port if we've ever seen one, and it shows. The game requires a lot more 
 horsepower than it would seem, but some high end cards (like nVidia's 8800 GT) have issues running 
 the game smoothly. The framerate fluxuates horribly and the only real graphical options all deal 
 with shadows, AA, and post-processing (which doesn't seem to take much power, by the way) . The 
 sound is also very bad on the PC version. It seems as if there was zero support for sound cards, 
 as anyone with a 5.1 system is going to cringe. The voices appear muted and muffled, but at least 
 the guns and explosions are beefy. I ran the game on two rigs: The first being a 2.33ghz Core 2 
 Duo, 2 GB RAM, SLI GeForce Go 7950 GTX 512mb and Windows XP, and had a good framerate (40+ fps) 
 with all settings max'd an minimal AA at 1440x900. The second 3.0 Core 2 Duo, 3 GB RAM, 8800 GTX, 
 and Vista ran well at 1440x900, but barely chugged out a higher framerate than the other system. 
 And surprisingly, the game ran WORSE at anything below 1280x800, compared to higher resolutions 
 like 1680x1050.
  
  Overall:
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 feels like a port... and a mediocre one at best. Despite coming out over a month 
 after, it has nothing more to offer other than mouse+keyboard support, higher resolutions, and 
 more AA options. The optimization is attrocious and the butchering of the sound quality is abysmal, 
 and with the small online community, you might as well pick this one up on the Xbox 360 or PS3 
 if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  what happen to Rainbow Six? a long time ago that was one of the greatest games ever but in this 
 game?:
  
  The textures break - so so true!!!
  
  So does the frame rate - again SO treu!! you cant play that game beacuse of that Frame rate its 
 horrible
  
  The AI is occasionally backward. - mmm maybe
  
  but now in my words:
  
  graphics: yac i cant belive that this is 2008!?!?! it lookes like
  SWAT 4 game of 2005 yac
 
  
  sounds: this is the only good thing about this game
  the awsome sounds
  
  gameplay: total booring now worthy of playing
  
  this game is a total letdown ugly, booring, 
 problems with the frame rates!!
  thanks but not thanks for this horrible game i didnt like it at all
  and i hope that there will 
 never game like this again!!
  
  for 2008 i though about way better graphics and way better game and
  no problems with frame rates!1 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chechak7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME 
  it have several option with playing (go silence ,action, teamwork, alone, tactic)
  and you can customize 
 your character gear and armor and look
  game play is hell .. wowoo. using your sneak camera under the door and tag your enemy then order 
 your team to enter and clear area boom ... bang... kill them ....... you can use night vision too 
 .
  AI of game is great .... graphic is uoosooum
  this game is wowowowo
  most of all i like the additional system implemented in the game is the "Advanced Combat Enhancement 
 and Specialization" or ACES, where players will be rewarded with different weapons based on tactics 
 used in the game. The ACES system is divided into three parts: Marksman, Assault, and Close-Quarter 
 Battle. Certain kills the player makes are organized into one of these three categories and scored 
 based upon how the kill was performed (a headshot would count towards Marksmanship, killing an 
 enemy with an explosive would count towards Assault, and killing an enemy at close quarters would 
 count towards CQB) . By getting a high enough score in a category, the player unlocks a specific 
 item for that category
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickblah42
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 1 was a fairly well-executed, if often frustrating, game. The game plays much more like a 
 shooter than a strategy game, but carries over the often harsh penalties for not anticipating enemy 
 positions and movements, so you find yourself reloading often. Fortunately, Vegas 2 adds a Casual 
 play mode, so you can participate in more of the action without having to let your teammates have 
 all the fun.
  
  Unfortunately, Vegas 2 suffers from the same bad game design as the first version of this gameplay 
 style. In particular, because of the harsh and unforgiving nature of not being telepathic about 
 your enemies positions, and the fact that if you die it's a major setback (whereas your teammates 
 dying is a minor setback) , you'll find yourself using your teammates to do virtually all of the 
 killing. The designers tried to counter this by adding a couple levels where you're on your own, 
 but this fails as a design, and you end up sneaking around trying to get lucky, or constantly reloading, 
 praying for your teammates back.
  
  Also still missing is the ability to direct your team from the mimi-map. Since it's so vital to 
 keep yourself behind cover and out of the action, it would be nice if you could direct the mission 
 back at headquarters. Unfortunately, you have to point in 1st person, which means you're constantly 
 following behind your team like a sick puppy limping from vantage point to vantage point, hoping 
 you didn't miss anyone while you were directing your teammates through various areas to clear them.
 
  
  On the upside, the addition of experience and skill levels keeps the game somewhat interesting, 
 and adds some incentive to try to kill you opponents in various ways. But again, unfortunately, 
 since the game design virtually necessitates you not participate in the combat itself, this can 
 be frustrating also.
  
  Overall, I'm not sure I like the game design, but I did think it was well executed. The graphics, 
 effects, and sounds are all realistic, the story has a little substance, and the locations are 
 interesting. If you enjoy running from cover to cover, reloading when you get hit randomly, directing 
 your team to kill all the enemies, and you don't mind playing a shooter where trying to actually 
 shoot anything yourself is a sure way to die, this can be the game for you. If you're looking for 
 a tactical game, this isn't it. If you want a shooter where you can participate in the action, 
 this also isn't it.
  
  Perhaps in the next version the designers can figure out if you should actually be on the battlefield, 
 or directing the action from back at the base, and adjust the design either way accordingly. Currently, 
 the "being on the battlefield unable to participate" design isn't really fun, though, in my personal 
 opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj_Scratcher
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Only 7.0???? It deserves at least 8.5. Great job from Ubisoft. Rainbow six series really needed 
 this! Most of them were half-made games especially that Rainbow Sic Lockdown which sucks in every 
 segment on PC and PS2 too! Now about R6 Vegas 2...... the only thing I do not like in Vegas 2 is 
 the environment... Vegas. Well... it is not as interesting as jungles, deserts or snowy mountains. 
 I hope they will put the next game in other environment or even work on remakes of old good Rainbow 
 six on PSone with improved graphic of course and with these controls and camera which is one of 
 the best I've ever seen. Good addition to Vegas is gaining experience, new weapons and equipment 
 but it's a pity there aren't much video options to which can use the latest PC hardware because 
 of its conversion. There are more bright moments in the game like shooting sounds or reloading 
 sounds and AI sounds. I do not have anything to say about AI only that it is solid and could be 
 better. I would like to recommend this game to everyone who knows what is good and quality game 
 especially of its addictiveness and online mods and online coop :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Owl
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I rarely replay a game after finishing it, but after R6 Vegas 
 1 i was left wanting more and kept going back to the Terrorist Hunt mode to tide me over. So when 
 the sequel was released I bought it right away.
  
  Playing through the campaign i kept waiting for it to hit its stride, but it never really did, 
 at least for me. What put me off the most was the new character upgrade system. I realize the creators 
 need to add something to a sequel, and I think it was a good idea for multi-player mode, but should 
 have been left out of single-player game. The first game felt immersive and built tension along 
 the way, but scoring points for every kill detracted from the experience and pulled me out of the 
 experience by constantly reminding me that i was playing a game. It was also awkward to find that 
 i could not use weapons from the first game until i leveled up, even though the player character 
 is the mentor of Logan from the first game. It makes even less sense that you can pick up dropped 
 enemy weapons and use them to get around this limitation... until you decide to swap weapons. Argh!
 
  
  The levels also felt drab compared to the original, but apparently they were going for a more "gritty" 
 feel, according to the interviews I saw. I'm not sure what's so gritty about an amusement park 
 junkyard and tennis court, but if they say so. The convention centre was interesting, but since 
 it was decked out for a video game tournament, it ended up being yet another reminder that i was 
 in a game myself.
  
  Finally, i found it difficult to care about the characters or feel a sense of what exactly my overarching 
 goal was. I know it's a shooter but in Vegas 1 i knew what i was doing and really wanted to track 
 down that hag Irena! This antagonist was a whiny baby that felt yanked from a teen drama show than 
 a former counter-terrorist soldier. He never felt threatening, I just wanted to slap him upside 
 the head.
  
  Overall I consider Vegas 2 worth playing, but mostly if you're a multi-player fan. Online the formula 
 works well, and i did have a lot of fun playing co-op mode. But if you're looking for a single-player 
 shooter, there are better options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas 2
  This game portrays the conclusion to the previous Sequel. Nonetheless, the game has carried along 
 with it the tactical and stealth advantage from its previous part. A player can look forward to 
 many new additions in this game, like customizing the looks of your character, and selecting a 
 Male or female character at the beginning. and the kind of gear provided makes the customizations 
 even more interesting. i personally loved this option.... its never been done in any previous games 
 before..! The gameplay and storyline are awesome, with a challenging difficulty that grips a player 
 into wanting more of Rainbow Six and Vegas, the Action and shooting are superb !!!. The graphics 
 -- well, i personally didnt find it very problematic, except for the fact that having the anti 
 aliasing 'On' introduced graphic corruption in the game. The Weapons and AI are totally awesome.. the 
 environment and Physics of the characters are pretty good too. The music and sound while playing, 
 carries along with it the adrenalin of Vegas 2. 
  
  The game has a few faults... i had a frustrating gameplay glitch after installing the 1.02 patch. 
 the team sometimes used to automatically move to the position pointed to by my cross hair. i dont 
 know about the MultiPlayer issues coz i dont Multiplay.
  
  Over all i'd give Vegas 2 a 9.5 out of 10. Its an awesome game but could have been a masterpiece 
 if it had the right kind of Graphic Support.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  The game starts off in Pic des Pyrnes, France with a hostage situation and then promptly moves 
 you into the familiar surroundings of Las Vegas. 
  As soon as you arrive in Las Vegas it is taken over by terrorists (how inconsiderate of them) and 
 panic is widespread. As the story develops you get to go to different locations around Las Vegas 
 including the Convention Centre and a few other locations such as a small town in Nevada.
  
  Good Points:
  
  Decent graphics and sound.
  Better voice acting than the first one.
 
  Customisable load outs (weapons, armour, helmets etc)
  ACES system
  
  Bad Points:
  
  AI can be stupid at times.
  Frustrating at times.
  
  Vegas 2 is a lot like it's predecessor 
 Vegas 1 graphics wise, although the Vegas 2 graphics do seem to be much sharper than those of Vegas 
 1.
  The graphics aren't going to blow you away by any stretch of the imagination but they are decent 
 enough for what the game is... a console port.
  
  The sound quality seems to have gone up a notch, weapons now sound much better than in Vegas 1. 
 It also appears that they've fixed the sound issues that plagued Vegas 1 (repeating sounds etc) .
 
  
  Vegas 1 had some really horrible voice acting in it especially Jung and Michael. You would think 
 that two of the main characters would have decent voice acting but thankfully that has been sorted 
 in Vegas 2. The Voice acting in Vegas 2 for the most part is consistently of good quality.
  
  New to Vegas 2 is the fully customisable load out. Unlike Vegas 1 where you could only change 
 your weapon load out in Vegas 2 you can change your armour, weapons, helmet, camo paint and even 
 wear tactical sunglasses (gotta love those sunglasses) . Being able to customise your load out adds 
 another level of challenge, do you go in lightly armoured and fast or heavily armoured and slow?
 
  
  Another addition to Vegas 2 is the ACES system (Advanced Combat Enhancement and Specialisation) . 
 The ACES system rewards you by unlocking weapons, armours etc based on the tactics used in the 
 game. ACES in divided in to three parts Marksman, Assault, and Close-Quarter Battle (CQB) . For 
 example a head shot will count towards marksmanship, shooting through a wall will count towards 
 Assault, and killing an enemy at close quarters will count towards CQB. By getting a high enough 
 score in a category you can unlock a specific item in that category, for example the assault category 
 will unlock a new assault rifle.
  
  One thing that hasn't been fixed since Vegas 1 is the AI. I've found terrorists just standing in 
 the open while I blow them away or i've just slaughtered everybody in a room and two terrorists 
 are standing on the balcony outside oblivious to what just happened. 
  
  At times Vegas 2 can be frustrating especially when enemies know exactly where you are even though 
 they'd not even seen you. Other frustrating times are when one or both of your team mates go down 
 because they were stupid, usually by standing out in the open. Not forgetting the age old problem 
 of your team mates standing in your line of fire. I think you should get bonus points for shooting 
 your team mates in the back of the head. :P
  
  Overall Vegas 2 ticks most boxes but it's not for everyone. With no more mission planning, more 
 forgiving style of game play and a much more shooter orientation the Vegas series has very much 
 moved away from the roots of the Rainbow Six franchise. Die hard Rainbow Six fans may feel that 
 the game has become shallower as a result but one things for sure this newer formula makes for 
 a game that's easier to pick up.
  
  Review system: QX6850 Extreme (3.0GHz Quad Core) , 4GB RAM, 768MB Geforce 8800GTX, Windows XP SP2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiNoNaX
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  First of all props for taking a more CoD 4 approach with the character customization. I must say 
 the different types of gear and looks are quite realistic as well as the XP system to unlock diffrent 
 gear and weapons.
  
  Even though gear affects 2 traits Mobility and Protection I fail to see how they even slightly 
 effect the gameplay.
  
  With that aside Rainbow Six Vegas 2 still plays out like its predecessor so Ubisoft did a good 
 job sticking to the roots. The AI is still tricky as it was in the first one, but after a few hours 
 of play it is pretty easy to see how the AI works.
  
  Fantastic game if it was not for one point. I extremely hate how maps are divided into "spawning 
 sectors". If you clear a sector fully and move onto another sector AI's can respawn in the area 
 you have just passed and cleared. Which quite frankly pisses me off and takes out alot from the 
 game. This game is supposed to be a combat simulation where realism is supposed to be one of the 
 more important aspects of the game. Prolly done to lower system requirements or loading times anybody?
 
  
  Nevertheless an above par game that's worth its money if your a fan of such games.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymondcs123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  It's very surprising that Ubisoft decided to continue the path of making Rainbow Six into an average 
 First Person Shooter despite losing almost half it's fans since Lockdown. And it's the 6th and 
 presuming last in the series this time. And Montreal still has no idea of making a good "tatical" 
 Shooter as well.
  Vegas 2 picks up at Vegas, but from a different character's perspective. You play as a team leader 
 called Bishop. Again like in Vegas 1, Bisop has been called to contain some non-political terroists 
 just because the army couldn't navy seals nor the police were able to send SWAT teams and decided 
 to waste NATO funds and send Rainbow to take the situation.
  The story is easily one of the worst in the whole series. As you might expect if you've played 
 the last game, Gabriel is the traitor of Rainbow. But the story doesn't tell you that again until 
 the next to last mission. So you can expect not much of a storyline at the start besides containing 
 situations at random places and ask the question again "Why are the attacks random?" While the 
 ending, if you don't want me to spoil it, Do not read the NEXT PARAGRAH."
  
  The ending is one of the most expected ones in any happy story. You disobey the command's orders 
 and go for Garbriel, then you kill him. Awesome! Then you suddenly get promoted in some ironic 
 way of saying it. Many people that like a good storyline will be raising questions that if Gabriel 
 is the leader, WHY BOTHER LETTING HIM TO INFILTRATE RAINBOW. I mean there's an army of terroists, 
 all smart. Why the top leader? It just doesn't make sense.
  
  But enough talk on the story, most people here care is the gameplay. As you might expect, it's 
 mostly the same as Vegas 1. But what strikes different it the idea of ranks and ACES (Advanced 
 Combat Enhacncement Specialisation) . You basically gain ranks by killing people and you might get 
 to Colonel or something and ask a question, Aren't colonels supposed to be sitting back in the 
 room having a cup of coffee and sent your men to die? Nope, no explaination. The ACES is a creative 
 system that makes it for people of different styles. There are 3 categories, Marksman, Close Quarters 
 and Assault. You gain Marksman score by killing long range and etc etc.... So you get better long 
 range weapons if you gain more marksman score. It's nice for different players and make things 
 unique, but sometimes people might question Assault points, which mainly you gain it by using grenades, 
 but you don't gain better grenades. 
  The character you control is purely customised by yourself. You can fit different gears in it, 
 but using what camo doesn't exactly matter. As you climb ranks, you gain more pieces of cool equipment.
 
  Then the graphics, though using the same engine as Vegas 1, the graphics here are very different 
 form Vegas 1. The lighting are much better than the last one. Mostly noticable is that the sky 
 is no longer red. Which brings a lot much more reality inside the game. But in the PC game, somehow 
 you can see pretty lot of glitches inside the game. It; s hard to describe.
  Sounds are one of disappoiting aspects of the game just like the last one. Though with more weapons 
 this time, most guns sound like the same such as the PARA-AUG sounds exactly the same from te Type-5. 
 Montreal could have done a better job on it.
  But what makes people who likes arcade shooters and liked Vegas disappoint is that the same bugs 
 occur in here. Like enemy AI speak the same conversations about some scardy dude about Chris, though 
 there are more different types, you will still find a lot repeating same dialogues. Then other 
 bugs like you can cant move in some cover and you can't peek out of cover to shoot, or the enemy 
 AI moves in open ground.
  For tatical shooter fans the disappointing thing is Vegas 2 stripes even more tatical experience 
 out of this game. You will find the same team members you have in the last game. But there are 
 chapters that force you to act solo for no reason and make it look even more like an arcade shooter.
 
  Overall speaking, if you liked Vegas 1, you will find it as entertaining as the last game. For 
 people who never played this, if you want a good story, no this is not your choice. If you want 
 a good tatical experience, you will find it fairly enjoable. If you like a game with not much realism 
 in it, the this is your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deaconmon
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Looking at Vegas 2 from ONLY a single player view - Vegas 2 is a good, solid shooter with some 
 cool stuff built in. The action comes fast a furious. Overall gameplay is solid. The snake cam 
 aspect, and the 3 seconds of room entry planning is cool - it really helps that your teammates 
 are good shots and usually pretty good at what you tell them to do. 
  Team mates AI is _usually_ pretty effective. I've only had a couple instances where my team mates 
 got in the way. Once one of them stepped in front of me right as I threw a grenade - oops. Another 
 time I clicked about 30 feet down the catwalk and told my guys to go there. They went back down 
 the stairs behind me, walked through the middle of a room full of bad guys, then up the ramp on 
 the other side of the room - probably a trip of more like 500 feet. A couple times I have gotten 
 boxed in by my teammates and was unable to move into cover or away from explosives.
  The shooting part of the game is done well. You NEED to use cover in a firefight. It take nothing 
 to kill you - realistically, on most maps if you get hit twice you are dead, pretty much regardless 
 of how much armor you have on. But the levels are pretty well designed, and the enemies are spaced 
 reasonably, and use good AI.
  I hate the checkpoint system - it's a lazy port of a console game. That toughest section of the 
 map or level is always right before the end - so now you have to go replay the same stuff you've 
 already played and beat because you died later - just let me use a quicksave.
  Overall a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  When a new sequel hits the street you pretty much always know what you're gonna get, but Vegas 
 2 honestly surprised me, it beats the first one (which was great) by a great amount. The graphics, 
 textures, sounds, maps, ai everything has improved. (performance seems to be the same)
  
  But this game has so much more potential on the multiplayer front, the co-op is endless fun with 
 a good buddy, too bad they nerfed the 4 people co-op to a duo co-op.
  
  Anyways, no long review from my end, this game beats its maker and it's absolutely worth taking 
 a look at if you find tactical shooters and awesome realtime firefights interresting.
  
  The Cons do drag it down a bit, it seems very odd that they improved the co-op in every aspect 
 and really made it worthwhile AND THEN went from a 4 player limit to a two player limit, doesnt 
 make a whole lot of sense.
  
  The deathmatch and so on is straight on, it seems a bit more like counter-strike or battlefield 
 wannabe compared to the first one (this isnt a bad thing) .
  
  The story is awesome, also compared to the first one, although it doesnt exactly beat Grim Fandango 
 or Half-Life.
  
  Good game worth trying. Will keep you and ur mate busy for a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john0479
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  PROS: Great game storyline, combat and tactics of the game with the AI are very well blended. No 
 over situation of commands or babysitting of AI on gameplay. Multiplayer combat is very satisfying 
 and upgrade system is well defined. Different character appearances is the major cornerstone of 
 this game that makes it worth playing! Cover system and the ability to use night vision/thermals 
 is a MAJOR concept that needs to be adapted into all multiplayer FPS! Weapons are customizable 
 with various different abilities, similar to COD4.
  
  CONS: Playability issues created by Ubisoft patches, making the game actually worse than better. 
 Character appearance is customizable, but it would have been nice to carry the COD4 concept of 
 camo for weapons as well... Sometimes runs unstable...
  
  All in all RBSV2 is a solid multiplayer FPS that implements all of the things that in my opinion, 
 were missing from COD4. There are 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenczx85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  As part of this review, I must say that vegas 2 was a fantastic experience visually. If gamespot 
 gave it a 7.0 due to the poor framerate and graphical issues, I really think they need a serious 
 machine upgrade. This game runs beautifully on the machine I'm using and it's not exactly VERY 
 highend.
  
  Back to the topic, Rainbow 6 takes you on the journey of fighting terror at extremely high pace. 
 The story takes place all over various locations of las vegas ranging from Convention centres, 
 libraries, casinos, research facilities, factories. Most of the missions involves infliltration, 
 rescue missions, hostage situations, wipe out and take control etc. 
  
  The joy of playing las vegas is the fact that YOU are in control of the situation. Good or bad 
 decisions will render you XP or make you lose em. Vegas 2 has quite a good range of weapons although 
 ironically most of them would seem similar after a while. The weapons within the same class needs 
 to distinguish itself more. 
  
  As I was saying, the idea of being able to inflitrate from various entry locations makes you feel 
 as though you've brilliantly orchestrated an unprecedented attack which leaves terrorist feeling 
 helpless and in awe.
  
  The only setback could be AI gets confused sometimes when you're issuing instructions, they might 
 not be the best pals but they do get the job done, Occasionally they do get killed but often, its 
 due to a poor decision/order given.
  
  In terrorist hunt mode, this can get you extremely frustrated due to the fact that terrorist can 
 come out of no where and get you killed & killed fast. Such as sometimes a 1 shot kill. Which brings 
 me to my next observation. Why does an elite squad DIE so easily. I'm wearing all this gear and 
 bang 1 blast of the shot gun and I'm gone. For crying out loud, even Alex murphy from Robocop 1 
 could take 50 shotgun shells in the chest before he surrendered. Anyway my point being, dying is 
 inevitable in R6. 
  
  With all that has been mentioned, this game is a great shooter, one of the genre's best out there. 
 I really don't think counterstrike has what it takes to match this. Not even GRAW. Oh yes, but 
 crysis and this. Thats a tougher choice. I did wish for more interactivity and destructible environments 
 for R6V2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertofilgueir
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  The game is a nice 1st person shooter, but, like all others, missions with clear line and obvious 
 content. There are some fun stuffs that makes Rainbow Six Vegas 2 the best game of the gender this 
 year: first, the possiblitity to custom your character. That's a very nice resource, and you don't 
 custom only the visuals, and also the weaponry and armors. It influences directly on your mobility 
 and protection, so, be careful to choose the best set to each map. Second is the "snake cam" that 
 allows you to see throught the doors, actually down the door and use your teammates to annihilate 
 your enemies. At last, but not least, to protect behind the walls is much more simple than other 
 games that you have to guess where the shoots of enemies are going to aim. But other than these 
 three things you haven't anything much more creative. Is more of the same. The storyline isn't 
 innovative, the missions are like any other mission inside any other game of the genre and there 
 are several loading screens that makes the game boring and hard to play for long times extensions. 
 So, if you are a fan of 1st person-shoot and, most importantly, the Rainbow Six franchising, you 
 should play. Otherwise, don't even waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malad
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Sequels are supposed to be bigger and better. But Vegas 2 disappointingly played it safe and got 
 really boring halfway through. You can now sprint and get more gear but it's more of an expansion 
 rather than a full new game. In fact at times I feel like I'm playing a mod! Make no mistake I 
 still like this game. It's realistic, it has good graphics but there's just barely anything new 
 there. Visuals are nice, sound is accurate (at least to me) but it lacks oomph!, and your comrades 
 leave so much to be desired but they get the job done at least. If you have played Vegas 1 this 
 should be a rental. For those who haven't, I would still recommend just so for the taste of the 
 new path the Rainbow Six franchise has taken.
  
  Here's hoping that Vegas 3 will offer more or maybe another R6 storyline would be very welcome. 
 Or they could incorporate the planning stage back as an option. Newbies may bypass the planning 
 stage and hardcore gamers may enable it and tweak it to their hearts' content. Old school with 
 next gen graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MixMaxDancer
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I really would have expected more from this game sadly,
  
  Graphics as crappy compaired to the graphics of counsles today.
  
  Gameplay is... ok could have 
 been better...
  
  What really made me mad is well, how would i say this... inficted damage upon one another, I have 
 full protection ( except one bar ) and yet i still die from a shot ( anywhere ) ...
  
  It also looks like that it takes a awful long time to get what you want, specific guns gernaids 
 and so on...
  
  What I like about the game as making your own guy and style of what you want to look like... yes 
 thats basicly it
  
  The Human against computer thing kind of gets on my nerves they ( Computers/Terrorists ) kind of 
 run in randomly 2-5CM close to you and shot you with more bullets than you would, you might not 
 be able to shot a bullet until he/she/it kills you...
  
  So I recrommend you to either RENT or read other reviews about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Why Ubisoft's products are always the best ? Ubisoft comany make the best games in the world. Vegas2 
 is very better than last version and Ubisoft provers that is progressing. In this version when 
 you enter the game must make you'r favorite character with a lot options and interesting things. 
 Then when you go to new game and start a single player will see a nice graphic of game that is 
 seems very real life. Player moves are designed very well and also all of weapons are too. You'r 
 friends help you very good and AI in this game are written with very notice. Sound effects are 
 very real , When you command you'r frined its very real too. Vegas2 in one of the best FPS game 
 in the world and it could to broke Swat games. There are some lock things that you can to unlock 
 them by spend levels.
  Totally VEGAS2 is changed than last version and my idea is almost complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short. The Rainbow series games have always had great online play and while I haven't 
 tried online play yet for this one, I'd wager it's probably equally entertaining.
  
  The experienced based rewards system in Vegas 2 adds to the fun but only slightly. The different 
 clothes and armor in the first one are here but now you have to work to unlock them. Nothing interesting 
 there. Along with the rewards, there're also a number of challenges to complete... also not much 
 to speak about.
  
  The gameplay doesn't feel as solid as the first Vegas game. It might be my imagination but there 
 are things in Vegas 2 that don't work as well. For example, it seems to me that the smoke grenades 
 don't quite offer the same protection. Also, enemies who apparently aren't aware of your approach 
 can suddenly spot you through walls. This is pretty annoying when you have a room full of bad guys 
 and you do a quick attack from one door and run around to an opposite door only to have them try 
 to frag you before you even get a chance to open the door.
  
  On that note, it should be said that the enemies now make use of all types of grenades and shields. 
 The AI does seem to be a bit better although they have the same stupid voice clips as the first 
 Vegas... which was crap to begin with. I've got pretty close to the best CPU, GPU and the best sound 
 card and RAM you can get. As with the first Vegas game, the sound is pretty buggy
  
  My biggest complaint is still that the Vegas games totally robbed the whole R6 series of being 
 so unique... no more planning missions, setting go points, carefully choreographing timed attacks. 
 That was what made R6 what it was... now it's just another buggy first person shooter. The first 
 Vegas game had more personality than this one... this one seems like it was slapped together. But 
 I guess we live in unfortunate times when the good games are few and far between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -FAmas-
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  RSV2 is a great sequel. Being human, I did not spot any of the framerate and texture issues GS 
 mentioned. Gamespot, being overly meticulous and technical, lowered the rating for technicalities 
 most would not be aware of.
  
  Pros
  + More daytime levels
  + Smoother gameplay
  + More Blood
  + Gives good closure to the story
  + Spiritual Raven Shield maps revisted
  
 + More variety with enemies (snipers, shields)
  + Sprinting is an awesome addition/replacement w/ a great effect
  
  Cons
  - Sprinting is 
 another departure from the traditional RS tactical play
  - LOAD TIMES. Wow the load times here for loading scenes and the main menu are about 10x longer 
 than the original RSV.
  - A particular level that dragged on and on with enemies
  - Some occasional late checkpoints that cause you to repeat unnecessary large battles
  - What 
 have made a better expansion pack
  - Incendiaries no longer have the brutal "scream effect" and are no where close to as satisifying 
 as the original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is all about the action! It has nothing to do with tactics but then again, 
 you wouldn't expect it to have if you have played the previous game in the series.
  
  The story - we have one... and it must be connected to Vegas 1 but I couldn't figure it out mainly 
 due to lack of subtitles which is a serious negative when being briefed in a flying chopper. Anyway, 
 it is not important in this game. What's important is to get trigger-happy right off the start. 
 Once again you have two teammates and unrealistically many enemies which spawn like mushrooms after 
 a radioactive rain. Careful planning and tiptoeing are not a must. In fact, the game itself puts 
 you many times in situations where you have to defend against countless foes that flood the premises 
 from all directions.
  
  Now that I clarified this game is not a tactic action, but an almost-pure shooter, let's focus 
 on the fun part! There is a whole arsenal of real weapons which you use to get from point A to 
 point B. I must mention that Vegas 2 has the best bullet penetration model I have seen in a single 
 player game and here you can really use this to your advantage. You apply the forementioned weapons 
 on various human baddies. Enemies have a relatively weak AI but it gets the job done and helps 
 for some really fun gunfights. The checkpoint save system builds-up tension as well. As to your 
 squad members, the problems with the AI are solved by the fact that you can easily issue orders 
 to them. Though not very smart, your buddies are EXTREMELY deadly with a gun so you better not 
 always send them ahead or they will devoid you entirely of the fun in this game by flattening everything 
 before you even have a chance to see it. Not that the game is easy, mind you - even though the 
 game is not an extreme challenge, you will be forced to retreat and take cover especially when 
 playing on highest difficulty, which I recommend in order to shake off the fun-spoiling superman 
 feeling.
  
  A good idea in this game is experience and A. C. E. S. Earning points for stylish kills to unlock 
 weapons and more is fun. The only problem here is that whatever you do, you will most probably 
 advance through all marksman levels your first time through the game while assault points are very 
 hard to get just because you rarely have an opportunity to get them.
  
  I didn't have a chance to test multiplayer, but I hear it is great.
  
  As to technical aspects 
 of the game, all seems good. I must say I didn't experience any of the technical problems that 
 Gamespot mentions. System requirements are not that steep, either. I run the game on a two-year 
 old PC and it flies with everything maxed-out except shadows (which I have set to medium) . The 
 only problem is occasional choke-ups when engaging enemies which results in something that looks 
 like a Counter-Strike speed hack and ultimately, your death. However, this problem is manageable, 
 because it is not that frequent and it only happens the first time you get to the choke-up point.
 
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is a nice shooter and what is more, IMO the PC version is at least 
 as good (if not better) than its console counterparts. Many years have passed since the first Halo, 
 but still nobody can persuade me that a 3D shooter is better played with a console controller than 
 with a mouse and a keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian_takeout
Rating: 6
Date: May 14, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  this review is on the pc version only!!!!
  i will be honest with you, before i saw original vegas game, i tought vegas 2 is solid game.
 
  but after finishing the second part, and starting the first one i realize that i was wrong.
  what is wrong with making a game at least same quality as the first part? nothing.
  the problem 
 is that Vegas 2 adds a few things to off line play (like a few new options: create your own face, 
 unlock weapons) , but take a lot from the actual game play.
  after reading lots of possitive reviews on the first vegas, decided to scip it and buy the second 
 part. well, i did enjoy the game sort of, from the begining to the end... but didnt see anything 
 i never saw before. graphically, game is weak. characters looking good, but the rest of the objects, 
 building do need big time improvement. at times it looks like everything made of paper and wood.
 
  whats is wrong with the speach and lips movement? come on, this definatly should have been worked 
 on. this would look good 10 years ago, but not now days.
  weapon wise, there are a few tipes of diferent guns, bur i didnt find any diference between them. 
 doesnt mater if you use an assault rifle, or mini gun, or a hand gun.... you still can pick up 
 guys at very long range. i finished the whole game and used the sniper rifle no more than 5 minutes.
 
  AI is simple. enemy is stupid. they just stand steel, dont move at all. hardly changing posoitions
 
  
  anyways, if you have RB VEGAS one, dont buy the secong one... its similar, but not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  At the startup of the main menu, I was surprised to see how you could now customize your character's 
 appearance, in addition to default load-outs. Man, I'm really rocking the tuque + tactical sunglasses 
 combo.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the previous Vegas, with the exception of a few minor changes. 
 Now, you can order your team to throw grenades in a particular direction, so you're not just limited 
 to your own stock of arsenal. The full Rainbow arsenal is not neccesarily offered from the get-go; 
 you must earn experience points and get promoted through the new "A. C. E. S." system before being 
 eligible. Also, through the customization option, you get to equip yourself with various armor 
 combinations. Be like a scout and move just in your bare clothes or suit up like Iron Man and become 
 an unstoppable machine.
  
  I was initially very confused with the story and how it tied in to the previous game (as one of 
 the marketing points of Vegas 2 was to be a "part prequel, part sequel" to the Vegas's storyline) . 
 I think most of it has to be attributed to the voice levels being so low in the game. Even though 
 I've maxed out the voice volume and lowered down everything else, I still can't hear anything. 
 Sitting in the helicopter doesn't make it any better, since I think the developers coded the volumes 
 for pure silence situations and nothing else is interfering. Therefore, I probably missed out on 
 a lot of key dialogue that would have clarified various storyline points in the game.
  
  Let's put it this way: the game's good, but it doesn't really redefine the class of the game at 
 all. I'm just happy to be able to flex my tactical skills again and rapid thinking of on-the-field 
 strategy, as not many games give you the opportunity. The feel of the game just doesn't match up 
 to what I was expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohaib_bacha7
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Being A Tom Clancy's Title Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is one of the most precise and tactical games to 
 play with stunning Graphics And Catching Physics. The Gameplay Of The game Is great since it allows 
 you to make the most of the Environment. The Great thing about this game is the fact that there 
 are more than one ways in which you can eliminate enemy units. the map of this game provides players 
 with a tactical view of the environment and allows them to plan their attack. the team members that 
 are by the Player's side are a very good addition to the overall gameplay of this game. While taking 
 cover, players are allowed to blindfire their weapons and blind-throw gernades which is a realistic 
 addition since they are not so precise. There is a wide range of Armor and Weapons for a player 
 to select from. As players achieve higher rankings they unlock more weapons and armor. a player can 
 customise their character and equip them with protective armor and cutting-edge weapons. in choosing 
 armor, One must take in the account the balance between Protection and Mobility. Overall This Game 
 Is Highly Ambitious and should be played by those who are into shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacnar
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed my first trip to Vegas, so I said sign me up for another when Vegas 2 came out. It has 
 it's good points and bad. The ACES ranking system was a nice addition. Having to unlock weapons 
 though a ranking system. The ranks addition is a nice addition also. I was disappointed with some 
 of the things that you get with some of the ranks. I mean is another camo pattern really worth 
 the work to get to some of the ranks? The story mode isn't bad. I have played through it once and 
 started over. My favorite change is with the Coop story mode. Now I can play through the story 
 with a friend and we have two more guns to help out. The online games can be quite addictive also. 
 My biggest complaint is there are a couple of bugs still in the game. The biggest and most annoying 
 is the noise bug in some of the multiplayer games. At best it can be annoying to play an entire 
 match with the sound of a stuck machine gun over all the sound. At worst it can make it unenjoyable. 
 Over all if you are a fan of 1st person shooters it would be worth your time to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MwRYum
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  For those who've played Rainbow 5 Vegas, the good news is that there's very little new tricks to 
 master - same squad command system, same cover system, all weapon operations and so forth. But 
 of course, have it as a new game instead of as an expansion pack means there're more than just 
 new graphics:
  
  1. material penetration - now wooden table won't save you from incoming lead, sometimes this'd 
 operate to your advantage.
  2. unlike the previous installment, now even in the single player campaign your character is fully 
 customizable
  3. now you need to earn points to unlock more weapons, camo patterns and gears, this not just offer 
 replay value, but actually changes your tactics - for instance, to earn "kill from behind" points, 
 you need to sneak behind to do the job, that means no more gung-ho shootout.
  
  This time round, more maps that gives you further options in your attack approach, notably yin 
 more areas you and your squad mates won't need to squeeze through just one door, more often than 
 not you can practice pincer move and makes for effective tactical assaults. 
  
  Although there're more options available this time round, most new toys perform more or less the 
 same. Yes, I know the nature of Rainbow units, but it won't hurt to include grenade launcher or 
 RPG, eh?
  
  Problem with this game comes primary in its hardware department:
  1. network connection problem
  2, sound issues
  3. graphic issues
  
  Fortunately, this 
 is still amendable with patches, which leaves us to the old problem: UbiSoft is very slow when 
 comes to patching! Even so, at this time there's a patch available and that make the game very 
 much playable.
  
  The bottom line? This might not be a slam-dunk yet, it still worth 8.5/10 in my book., and worth 
 the penny you shell out to buy this game and get your rig up to date for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProphetofNerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is simply too cool. The ACES system is great, and the AI is pretty fair. It's really fun 
 to be able to command the AI so easily! I love the way the game feels - it's like you're actually 
 in combat. The outfitting boxes allow you to resupply in-mission, you can resume mission progress 
 perfectly, you can switch from single- to multi-player campaign easily and quickly, and you can 
 do cool things like rappell and attach breaching charges. Those two might not sound like much, 
 but they are awesome in-game. Also, there are always multiple ways to attack; for instance, in 
 one mission you had to storm a room that had hostages and terrorists. I ordered the team to go 
 to one door and my friend to go to the other, and I rappelled down from upstairs. Needless to say, 
 the tangos were down in a matter of seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  
  Strange mix, this one. Graphics decidedly clunky, framerate rather poor, considering the dated 
 graphics, however the gamplay IS fun. Mostly. Sadly, there seems to be a bug that, when you log 
 on online, there is a possibility of your single player campaign refusing to load any more (a Google 
 for "General Protection Fault" shows this is far from uncommon) . This is the case for me, hopefully 
 there will be a fix for this soon.
  
  There's lots to this game, the multiplayer maps are great, the single player campaign is great 
 when it loads, and the terrorist hunts WOULD be great... ... if the enemy positioning were implemented 
 better (MUCH better) . They only spawn close to you (sometimes behind you in an area you've just 
 painstakingly cleared) , so you can look out of a window across the whole outdoor area of the map, 
 sniper rifle at the ready, and you'll be waiting a long time, until an enemy spawns right behind 
 you. Rather than a terrorist hunt, its a game of "triggering the spawn points". Very poorly implemented.
 
  
  Then there's Tweedle-dumb and Tweedle-plain-brain-dead, your "sidemen" in need of constant babysitting. 
 Do NOT expect these muppets to cover your rear!
  
  Another quibble (easily fixed, though) is the gunsight zoom is defaulted to a press of the mouse 
 wheel, however a ROTATE of the mousewheel switches weapons. It really isn't easy pressing the mousewheel 
 without accidentally rotating it...
  
  I initially had a lot of fun, and the review was going to be much more positive (multiplayer's 
 great, the off & online rewards system is a really nice touch) , but the bugs and AI issues ruin 
 things, frankly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwilletts
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a sequel to the 2006 Tactical Shooter, Rainbow Six Vegas. After playing 
 both games to their entirety, it is apparent that between the two not much has changed. The Rainbow 
 Series' game play is based on tactical shooting, using cover and teamwork to accomplish a set goal. 
 The latest addition to the series uses this system to perfection but does nothing to innovate and 
 add to the gameplay. The one addition is a sprint button that does nothing but speed up the game 
 and make it easier to move from cover to cover. 
  
  Despite playing exactly as the original the action keeps you on the edge of your seat constantly. 
 Terrorists will flank and use grenades but thats the extent to which the enemy AI functions. Enemies 
 will still run out into the open and rely more on sheer numbers than actual tactics. In some scripted 
 instances, the terrorists will rappel down behind your position leaving the player and his team 
 in a tight spot. 
  
  Graphically Rainbow Six has never looked better. Comparing the PC version to the console, its hard 
 to notice any kind of graphical difference. In some cases the PC actually looks better but to achieve 
 those visuals a high end computer is needed. The campaign takes place in exotic areas such as Las 
 Vegas, Pic De Pyrenees and Coast Rica. Each location is a visual masterpiece, especially Coast 
 Rica the scene of the final mission. 
  
  Because R6V2 is a tactical shooter and taking cover is a vital game play element which means the 
 control scheme must work. By clicking the right mouse button the player enters cover and upon release 
 the player exits cover. This system works well because its extremely easy to enter cover seeing 
 as all that has to be done is moving your middle finger. The other controls are easy to use and 
 seem natural. 
  
  During my play through the game crashing bugs many people have encountered didn't plague me. I 
 was able to steadily work my way through at leisure and not worry about bugs or glitches, even 
 on Vista. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 continues on the success of previous entries in the series and while it doesn't 
 move the series in a new direction it is still a phenomenal game with a story that captivates the 
 player. With a fantastic story, unrivaled game play Rainbow Six Vegas 2 could easy be one of the 
 best shooters of the year. A must buy for all FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2533,0. html
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas was seen as reboot of the Rainbow Six franchise. Although it upset many hardcore 
 fans of the tense, realistic gameplay in previous installments, the game was seen as a success 
 both critically and financially. Wanting to cash in on that success, Ubisoft quickly set out to 
 make a sequel to the franchise. Following a year of development, has Ubisoft really managed to 
 create a worthy successor?
  
  At its heart, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is similar, gameplay-wise, to the original. It has the same cover 
 system, shooting mechanics, squad commands, etc. What Ubisoft did deign to add is a sprint mode 
 and the ability to shoot through thin materials such as wood. Now, I don't know about you, but 
 I was expecting a little more innovation and refinement in a full-price "sequel." The sprint function 
 is a shooter staple and should have been there from the beginning, and the penetrable cover is 
 a blatant attempt to steal Call of Duty 4's thunder. There's also a "prestige" mode that allows 
 you to gain points for new equipment and new ranks. It works over singe player and multiplayer, 
 but doesn't ultimately add a lot to the game.
  
  The single player campaign is less focused than that in the first one, starting before the events 
 of the first game and ending after Vegas ends. You are in command of another Rainbow Six squad 
 that goes to other locations in Vegas. The game starts before the first one and ends after it's 
 conclusion. Needless to say, there hasn't been much thought given to the story and you'll often 
 forget that there even is a plot.
  
  All in all, Vegas 2 is simply a $50 expansion that simply asks gamers to sacrifice to much for 
 little gain. It can be liked by hardcore fans of the original Vegas, but for others, there are 
 much better options out there for the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathcruiser
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Despite some people's complaints of odd video issues, slowdowns in fps, I haven't seen any in the 
 three systems I've tried it on. With the right hardware (any of nvidia's 8800 series) you should 
 be able to run the game with all the eye-candy on without any loss in performance, and it does 
 look amazing. Hearing the AI's shout orders to each other or yelling "Those f*$%ers shot Johney!" 
 never gets old. Some would argue that it's not tactical enough, compared to the Raven shield set, 
 but I can surely say it's a perfect mix of tactics and action. Not too slow where you're crawling 
 through the levels, but not too fast where you'll just break open a door, guns blazing. The AI 
 will take cover behind anything it can find, which is another big plus to the series, cover. Hiding 
 behind cover is one of the most important things you'll quickly realize, allowing you to peak around 
 corners, fire blindly (sticking the gun around the corner, pull trigger) , throwing grenades or 
 even opening a door is done in a way that minimizes your exposure. All weapons can be silenced 
 in game, not forcing you to choose between the scope and silencer is a much appreciated change. 
 Guards patrol random routes, and will come at you from every possible direction once they're alerted, 
 and that's well done this time around. Gone are the days when loud gunshots would only be heard 
 in a 10 ft radius, now the guards can hear the dog barking when you walk by it, making them suspicious 
 and likely send someone to investigate it. The enviroment is highly interactive, allowing you to 
 climb ropes, jump through windows **and yes, the AI does this as well to flank you - nothing like 
 being in a shootout and noticing they're comming through the windows**
  
  Multiplayer is something amazing with so many options, including co-op story line!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Its been a long time since I have wanted a game to endand this one broke the streak. Add to that 
 one of my biggest letdowns in my gaming history and the results aren't so hot.
  
  I have always considered Rainbow Six Vegas to be in my top 5 recent all time games. When I heard 
 they were releasing number two I was awaiting an experience equal to, or greater than the one before. 
 With the exception of the Tomb Raider series, this was my biggest let down to date.
  
  Graphics  I am not sure if Crysis raised the bar to high or if I just don't remember Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 1, but I saw nothing here groundbreaking or by any means cutting edge. The Unreal engine 
 was smooth, and I had very few crashes, but the physics were standard and environments were about 
 as textbook as they come. 
  
  Gameplay  Big ouch hereOther than the absolutely worthless upgrades to your character, it was 
 just more of the same. The fact that I could upgrade weapons and armor was a fantastic idea. But 
 the fact that the upgrades were worthless and mostly just for looks, threw that idea out the window. 
 By the second mission I had obtained a weapon or two that I would normally have to gain huge rank 
 to be able to use. Resultskill someone with a decent weapon, take their weapon and move on. I 
 never even qualified for a shield, yet I had one half way through the game. Not once, not once 
 in the entire game did I ever run out of ammo. I am talking never even getting close to running 
 out which made that aspect pointless as well.
  
  The games started out easy, and remained easy until the last couple of stages of the final mission. 
 Without giving a major spoiler here, the final scene fighting the helicopter was by far and away 
 the worst ending to a major game I have ever played.
  
  The AI was probably the best aspect of the game and it's a stretch to say that. My team did as 
 they were told, but throwing a grenade was rarely on target. Enemies could be lured out of cover 
 by simply shooting into the air a few times to draw suspicion.
  
  The lack of the ability to save the game on the fly added nothing to the game but frustration. 
 And the constant repetitive voiceovers were painful. For a game of this magnitude do you think 
 you could muster up a few various AI interaction. The comments of "do you think they are watching 
 meI bet they are watching us right now," and other overused comments just took away from any feeling 
 of progress in the game at all. Enemies never really changednew characters were rarely introduced, 
 and the fact that there were no hidden areas or out of the way pick ups, hidden items, or special 
 zones didn't help either.
  
  Storyline  Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz about sums it up. Bad voiceovers combined with a standard weak plot, 
 made this one I wish I could have fast forwarded through. but that is another aspect, you couldn't.
 
  
  I think I have said enough to get the point across that unless you are a die hard Tom Clancy fan, 
 and even if you are, this game is not worth buyingunless you are really really bored and don't 
 expect much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rombie1234
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Great customization-, scopes lasers side arms, smgs, breaching charges, anything on the uniform 
 from your hat to your boots. even a wide varity of camoflauge.
  
  Coop mode- up to 4 players coop in Terrorist hunt mode and 2 players in Campaign mode, very solid 
 and works well.
  
  Weapon diversity- a good amount of weapons for any situation, stealth assault, long range or CQB 
 combat.
  
  Graphics- although not the best still very good and makes the combat flow nicely. unfortuantly 
 it appears that the motion blur does not work?
  
  A. I.-actually fairly good you can hear them communicating with each other and almost always try 
 to outflank you. even casual difficulty for me was a bit tough
  
  Realism- 2-3 shots out of a gun can be lethal this goes for you and your enemies. although this 
 is a plus for me combat can be tedious and frustrating. You spend 10 min checking every nook and 
 cranny making sure that you dont get ambushed just to get shot in the back by some guy who came 
 out of nowhere, if you weren't behind cover, by the time you turned around you would already be 
 dead.
  
  XP system- you get points for shooting people behind cover ,CQB, nading enemies, stealth kills 
 which are used to level your rank to get new weapons armor and camoflauge.
  
  The bad:
  Sound- there are several parts in the game where I couldn't hear the people talking so I had no 
 idea what was going on in the story. the lack of being able to hear footsteps is a major problem 
 and because you cant hear someone until they fire on you makes your death more frustrating
  
  Stealth- next to impossible to stay stealth, even if the enemy didn't see you they know exactly 
 where you are at all and always fire at your exact location. in Terrorist hunt mode if one enemy 
 happens to get a shot off everyone in the entire complex becomes aware of your existance and rush 
 you and your team, which takes a lot of fun out of clearing out rooms when all you can do is camp 
 there waiting for people to run towards the direction of the shot.
  
  Controls- little tricky at first since leaning isn't done in the conventional way (q and e) instead 
 q is grenade. whoops. this really isn't a big deal and it doesn't take long to get over it.
  
  2-player campaign- really kind of urked me I was expecting play the campaign coop with 4 friends 
 aswell as Terrorist hunt. I just don't understand why they only made it two.
  
  No sound options?: I couldn't find any sound controls, if it exists its not in the obvious under 
 options.
  
  Side notes:
  My friends and I played this at a LAN it proved to be very fun (ny) accidently throw a grenade at 
 the wall cause I thought i was leaning and watched my teammates scramble away lawl. 
  
  The game was also hard but I chose to not include this as a con because depending on the person 
 you are you enjoy a difficult game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chavi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  It's been quite some time since the last game that had me swearing after dying several times and 
 yet acknowledging it was still my mistake. Later after beating the level, to forget the bad and 
 be that satisfied of the accomplishment. Its mainly due to the game mechanic that blends in such 
 realistic way no other game achieved for me. My respect to the developer! As a downside - short 
 story mode, some multiplayer connection problems, the textures indeed look cheesy sometimes - nothing 
 to worry about though. Overall - great title. And considering I was never a Clancy fan - neither 
 books nor games, it's even better. I would appreciate more freedom in controlling my squad mates 
 - the context system of Republic Commando comes in mind - this is more like a wish for the future. 
 At the end - this review is by no means unbiased as I'm very biased towards the game - I have to 
 confess that readers should consider lowering my score a point which will make it quite similar 
 to the gamespot own one. Have fun playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Lost
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Everything below here relates to the multiplayer version of the game. That does not mean that I 
 do not like the single player, but I have not had a chance to view it yet. I will update when I 
 have.
  
  
  I remember my first Tom Clancy game: Rainbow Six and all the add-ons that I purchased and played 
 online. They were great and cutting-edge then, and their modern counterparts are as well. I do 
 not own the original Rainbow Six Vegas, but I do have Advanced Warfighter 1 & 2, the latter of 
 which was a bit of a disappointment as a second installation of the first. That said, I could not 
 be happier with this purchase of Vegas 2.
  
  The beauty of this game is the satisfaction that it offers on several levels. The depth of personalisation 
 is fantastic. I even tried out the "put your face on the character" mode. What a great idea, and 
 well executed. It was a slightly prettier version of me, but definitely me. The other choices are 
 also good and very personalisable. The ranks are good, not too easy to achieve, but nor too hard, 
 with balanced unlocks at different stages. What I especially like is that it is not all just weapon 
 unlocks, but some personalising stuff as well; Armour types, headgear, camouflage types and of 
 course awards and medals.
  
  Weapon choices are broad and personal, and customisable, again. I favour the MP-45 and the Steyr-Aug 
 with red-dot sights, but the possibilities and combinations are vast, and increase with unlocks 
 and experience. Smoke grenades with heat-sensitive goggles is a great way to get out of some sticky 
 situations.
  
  The multiplayer games with co-op (4 vs 40+ Terrorists) , co-op single player campaign and versus 
 mode, is really good fun. Login, set-up and join in. 
  
  The gameplay is great, with the realism levels being appropriate to their mnemonic: Casual is that, 
 medium is harder, and realistic is a tough one, but exactly that, realistic. Step out into someone's 
 line of sight and stand still and you will get shot and killed, depending on their weapon and distance, 
 with varying degrees of ease. The maps are big, but not too big and completely non-linear. That 
 is the frightening thing sometimes. Watch your back, or get your squadmate to do it.
  
  
  Finally we come to the crowning ability: Blind fire. Get yourself into cover, poke your weapon 
 around the corner or over the top of an obstacle and fire. Yeah baby. At range it is useless, but 
 close up and in confined spaces, beautiful.
  
  All around this is one of the most entertaining and rewarding games that I have played on a "get 
 into the game quickly" basis. I put it up there with World in Conflict, highly addictive and easy 
 to join in, whilst offering a real challenge.
  
  If you like the genre, modern FPS, go out and get it. You will not regret it.
  
  One caveat. 
 There have been some sound bugs, and I have experienced them, but I am assuming that they will 
 be fixed in a patch, soon............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncannyChuckles
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I think I know what happened --
  All the competent employees at Ubi Montreal got assigned to the Assassin's Creed team, and the 
 slackers that were left had to make RB6: Vegas 2.
  
  There is barely enough difference from Vegas 1 to justify calling Vegas 2 a sequel. In fact, If 
 they would have called it an expansion (or even a patch) I wouldn't have felt overwhelmed with 
 their generosity. Actually, Vegas 2 suffers from pretty much all of the same problems Vegas 1 did. 
 But enough comparing it to the first one, it its own game, and it has its own full price-tag.
 
  
  Pros-
  The tactical and realistic fps action in this game can't be beat. Taking cover, blind-firing, popping 
 up or around to shoot, carefully firing and aiming, conserving ammo, throwing flash-bangs, flanking 
 enemies, and all other moves you do to survive really set RB6 apart from the other shooters out 
 there (even the 'tactical' ones) . This is what makes the game, and makes it worth playing. Vegas 
 2 adds 'sprinting' to the list, which is pretty useful when moving from cover to cover, and its 
 really satisfying to head-shot a guy while he is in full sprint. Ordering your two man squad around 
 is fun and their AI is solid enough to get the job done.
  Ranks and achievements, and the unlocks that go with them, have been added to the mix this time 
 around. This really adds something to the replay value as it is always fun to unlock more weapons, 
 armor, clothes, and camo for you character. If you are like me you will have alot of fun making 
 your character look 'cool' and trying on new armor in the outfitting screen. When playing online 
 you'll automatically know if you are cooler than somebody by what rank they are -- Right?
  Cons-
  Everything else. Everything great about the game-play is nearly ruined by the way it was 
 implemented. This game pretty much takes the cake for worst menu and interface created by a professional 
 studio. It is absolutely atrocious. Everything from the character creation/outfitting screen, to 
 the online game browser, to the options (or lack there of) screen should be completely redone. 
 There is no reason why game menus shouldn't be at least half as functional and sleek as the SteamWorks 
 setup. Also, the server that a player has to log into before being able to play online is also 
 very unreliable, it occasionally will not let you log in or is too busy.
  Vegas 2 seems to suffer from an extreme lack of attention to detail. While some of the post-processing 
 and lighting has been upgraded, the textures are often very bland or ugly, even on the highest 
 settings. Some of the textures and models for the clothing and armor are bad quality or just plain 
 silly. Little things that would be easy to fix, like guns not fitting correctly in holsters, have 
 been overlooked. Also, for a game as realistic as RB6, some of the gun models and statistics are 
 off or don't make sense. The textures on the Desert Eagle look like they were drawn with a pencil! 
 Die hard weapon fans will be totally underwhelmed and disappointed, though there are quite a few 
 guns to choose from.
  I haven't mentioned the story because it barely rates a mention, its short and pointless, and the 
 dialog is laughable at times. The enemy AI is adequate and the levels are decently designed, but 
 neither will blow you away. The terrorist hunt mode is good for a lark, but once you get killed 
 enough times by a terrorist who spawns 10 feet behind you in the room you just cleared -- then blows 
 your head off with a Spas12, you will be done with it.
  
  Deep down at it's core RB6: Vegas 2 is a really compelling tactical shooter, if only you didn't 
 have creep through terrible interfaces and poor matchmaking to get to it. I have this wild fantasy 
 that someone will take the the basic game-play, give it a little much needed attention, and graft 
 it onto a TF2 like menu system and interface. That would be a good game!
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasko229
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much that hasn't already been said in the previous reviews. One thing I"M SERIOUSLY 
 IRKED ABOUT, the voice of the main character, if you get the male. This guy's voice is SAME voice 
 that has been used in about every Tom Clancy game as the bad guy voice (Splinter Cell Series, RSV1, 
 others) . Not only for other games is he the bad guy, but in this VERY SAME GAME you can hear "yourself" 
 calling across the room, "THERE HE IS!" and you're like, did I say that? It's just beyond retarded 
 to use the same guy, like attack of the clones or something and everyone is played by him. This 
 may not seem like a huge deal but the whole game you're calling out commands to teammates and its 
 just painfully obvious. A big blow to realism. Not only that but his voice is so condescending 
 and rude to other characters, you're just like who wants to play as this jerkoff. Give me old Keller's 
 southern accent any day. 
  
  Other sound problems- You use the same two teammates in this version as the first mostly, Mike 
 and Jung and once using Keller as a teammate. They didn't bother to create any new phrases for 
 Jung. They kept some of the sounds for the English guy Mike, but made many new ones which sound 
 awful and snaky like he has a bad sore throat. There are many glitches in the sound where it won't 
 play some sounds at all randomly. Bullets may sometimes sound like clicks. Using good XFI card 
 so I have ample power. 
  
  There are some good new toys and features to the new Rainbow, like the custom clothing/armor features 
 and being able to direct your guys to throw grenades and smoke when you're empty, you can sprint, 
 can shoot through materials, nifty satellite heat sensor which will show you were people are waiting. 
 But if their may be nothing there and then they spawn clearly from nowhere. New silenced sniper 
 rifle is a joy. 
  
  Several missions are in the daylight which mostly look terrible as you need more detail in daytime 
 where theres higher visibility. Graphics are mostly the same which isn't a big deal. Gameplay is 
 still fun to blow through room after room and take down hostiles. Story is pretty lame as the bad 
 guy, former Rainbow Gabriel, doesn't really have any significant motivation to kill innocent people. 
 I like how at the end the main character is like "You guys wait here while I take on this assault 
 helicopter and 50 terrorists by myself." Not so realistic. 
  
  The game is mostly the same as the previous but with new levels and a few new features which isn't 
 always such a bad thing. Take for example Splinter Cell Chaos Theory totally changing format with 
 Double Agent, that was total crap. So in the end, good ride, but wait for the price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slem25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  If you aren't playing this than your missing out "BIG TIME" Love every minute of this game. A must 
 have!!!!!! Cover system is just what this game needed and it works great. I can actually play with 
 my squad again and leave the total chaos of COD 4 behind. Awesome selection of guns, 5 types of 
 grenades, and the ability to customize your character to no end puts this game at the top of my 
 list for sure. Decent size maps with just the right amount of complexity unlike COD 4 which has 
 tiny little maps where you are continually bumping into people. Mini map is great and it tells 
 you a description of where you are on the map and if an enemy is spotted by a member of your squad 
 it shows the last known location of the enemy just for a few seconds. Better than COD 4 uav where 
 you have to run a uav jammer all the time so that you don't show up as a bright red dot on the 
 map for the entire round because the uav is pretty much always up at any given time. My opinion 
 buy this and say goodbye COD 4!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Story: Your a member of a spec ops team sent to vegas again to stop terroists from blowing up the 
 city.
  
  Controls: Standard FPS Controls
  
  Features: Awesome MP!, Lots of weapons and gadgets and lots of charcter customization options and 
 for your team as well.
  
  A. I The AI has improved alot since vegas 1. They are alot smarter now and actually work in groups 
 to kill you. They dont get stuck in walls either. Your team is better to and follows orders better 
 and kills the enemy.
  
  Graphics: can you say amazing? these graphics are so good in this game. every little thing is detailed 
 down the the restroom signs. Evyerthing is really shiny 
  
  Audio: Pretty good. The gun sounds are realistic and makes you feel like you in a actual gun battle.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Online, Teroist Hunt, COOP 
  
  Requirements: A good PC, you must like hard, tatical shooters for this one
  
  The Good: a amazing 
 sequel, good sound and graphics
  
  The Bad: LOTS of crashes and bugs.
  
  The Ugly: Nothing.
  
  Replay Ability: Medium
  
  The Bottom Line: Vegas 2 is a great tatical 
 FPS that really makes you feel like you are in vegas killing terroists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjj65747
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Hello Fellow Gamespot Reviewers
  Rainbow Six Is just about the best game up to date
  
  In My Perspective ALL Tom Clancy's Titles
  Are All a True 10/10 For Numerous Reasons
  1. Gameplay 
 
  2. AI 
  3. Multiplayer 
  4. Storyline
  yaddy yaddy yadda
  
  The Whole Vegas 2 is really just... Wow O. o
  1. XP Based Stuff
  2. Unlockable Weapons
  3. Outfitting
 
  4. Multiplayer
  5. And Especially the Storyline
  
  Now Ya i realize its a short game (in my eyes anyways)
  i had it beat in under 2 days... (then 
 again i beat all the games i get in under a day so ya i guess its decent length)
  But The Outfitting and Weapon Testing Keeps u wanting to redo the Campaign
  Along with Multiplayer... (o 
 and wen on multiplayer BE A MAN STICK OUT IN THE OPEN GET PINK CAMO! lol)
  anyways This Game is a True 10/10
  and hope u buy it and enjoy it :D
  
  
  (and i dont care 
 about grammar... for all u grammar nazis out there :D)
  Cya Around
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardBoiledGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story of R6 Vegas 2 begins as a prequel to the first game, and later on, it will turn into 
 a side story where the events of the first game is happening while u r playing, u'll understand 
 what i am talking about once u actually play it. For me, this was really clever of Ubisoft because 
 not a lot of sequels can create such a storyline
  
  Characters:
  Unlike the first game, u can customize ur main character this time. You can also use ur webcam 
 (if u have one) to take a snapshot of ur face and use it as ur character's face
  
  Gameplay:
  The terrorists in this game have improved in terms of AI, better than the first game. 
 Now, the terrorists are more likely to throw grenades, flashbangs, etc at u. In the first game, 
 the terrorists either stay in one location waiting to die or moving to a nearby cover. But now, 
 the terrorists now come as close as they can towards u and sometimes they come in a pack
  
  Features:
  This time, Ubisoft has added a scoring system based on how u kill ur enemies. As u 
 progress through the game, ur character's rank will increase, depending on how u kill, allowing 
 u unlock more powerful weapons for ur inventory... but it would be a lot easier to pick up weapons 
 to bypass this feature. Ubisoft also added bullet penetration in the game so that it would look 
 more realistic, althought several items, that is able to be penetrated in reality, still remains 
 bulletproof.
  
  All in all, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is harder than the previous game, and also something that is worth 
 buying if u liked the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raihan_07
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I hope everyone will agree with me that Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is more attractive and 
 styles than any previous version of this game. I found something different in customizing character 
 though it is not unique. Storyline is superb. There is a large range of weapons and armors. Unlock 
 able items have added some extra taste in this game. Graphic is excellent. Sound quality is very 
 good. Background music is very inspirable and suitable for the game & gamers. Movement style is 
 extra-ordinary and quite realistic. Though most of them we've found in TCR6V1, the new plot have 
 made it more enjoyable. It needs a mid-high end PC to run properly. But now at present it is the 
 same case for the most of the games. So, What are you waiting for. Go for it. Youll love 
 this. Bye everyone. Take care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Occipital_Lobe
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I almost didnt buy this title because of the usual banter on the R6 forums.
  The so-so "Im never ever going to purchase another crappy Ubi-title" often stated for the third 
 or fourth time by the same person, almost persuaded me to let this one fly.
  MAN, am I glad I didnt. I am one of those sorry bastards who actually enjoyed the first "Vegas 
 encounter".
  I liked the changes in gameplay, enjoyed the campaign, and the multi-player part, even if the graphics 
 left a lot to be desired.
  I wish for the series to return to the roots, and be reborn as a true lightning-fast executed but 
 thoroughly planned phase, instead of the FPS quagmire we see in all the shooters today.
  The gameplay in V2 is the same as in V1.
  I find the graphics better (may only be in multiplayer 
 that it has been updated, but Im too busy to notice) , and the sounds are in the same league as 
 well. Nothing new here.
  The new weapons seem much more balanced between SMGs and ARs, so this time around there is actually 
 a point in thinking about your load-out.
  The shotguns handle better (read: easier to use) and the (enemy) AI seem a teeeeeny bit cleverer 
 than the last time I shot them to a bloody pulp.
  The one big complaint about the game is the horriffic load-time in both campaign mode and in terrorist 
 hunt.
  When completing or exiting a TH session, the chance of a black-screen freeze is 70-30, which is 
 unacceptable.
  I find it inexcusable that a major publisher like UBI allows a title to hit the shelves with a 
 flaw like that. When the title furthermore is patched before it is sold in europe, and STILL has 
 the same problem, then it tells a story of neglect that isnt worthy of a great franchise like 
 the R6 series.
  
  In short: Fantastic game, that should be branded with the "Red storm" logo instead of UBI-soft 
 Montreal.
  
  Get it before your neighbour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  I may not be a hardcore fan of the Tom Clancy games, but i've played my fair share, and the Rainbow 
 Six series is one of them. The series, from the beginning, had an interesting formula. Getting 
 into the shoes of an urban counter-terrorist force was fun. And giving squad commands at critical 
 times, although somewhat cumbersome, gives you a feeling of really being in control of the game. 
 Thus, the series always delivered good intense tactical games down the line. That is, until Lockdown. 
 That game was left a bad taste in my mouth so i decided to stay away from future installments. 
 Which is why i decided not to play Vegas 1, so i don't know what it's like. After a lot of persuasion 
 from others, i decided to give Vegas 2 a shot and found that the series had entered a new level. 
 The story is nice and the gameplay is intense. The third-person view while hugging the covers looked 
 neat and the blindfire was useful and fun to watch. The rappel moves were new to me and i found 
 them to be a nice addition. Graphically, it's not the best in the business but it's good enough 
 to do the game justice. My only complaint was the one-shot drop formula that the series still adopted. 
 It can be quiet frustrating with no quicksaves and the checkpoints too far apart sometimes. Other 
 than that, the game aced in every aspect i could think of. I'm glad the series got reinvented and 
 improved, so i'm definitely gonna check out Vegas 1. A must have game whether you're a fan of the 
 series or not. Let's hope to see more of these games in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psudonym
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Shooters. They often come in one particular mundane flavour. You, a seemingly invincible protagonist, 
 charge through a battlefield/corridor/spaceship kissing numerous bad guys with lead from your [insert 
 gun here] , leaving thousands of utterly useless mercenaries in your wake. Then, there is Rainbow 
 Six.
  
  Rainbow Six, like all Tom Clancy titles, provides a little extra realism: if you move from cover, 
 the chances are that you will end up in a body bag with a small memorial procession in your honour; 
 you can't jump (I mean, when was the last time you saw someone with more than twice their weight 
 in ammo, weapons, and armour bounce around like a ten year-old after drinking a full litre of coke 
 and several packets of Haribo?) and sprinting is also realistically limited. This is what makes 
 the original and intuitive cover system so essential to the game and what sets the game apart from 
 the other titles in the genre. Though it can't be said that Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is an essential 
 original title that belongs in everyone's collection, it is a change from the same-old run-and-gun. 
 
  
  Story-wise, we're not looking at a blockbuster here. Even on completion some will be asking what 
 the point of it all was. It loosely ties in with the story of the first instalment and is essentially 
 a prequel, sequel, and even a middle-quel of its forerunner; though playing through the first game 
 is not necessary. In fact, it isn't even recommended because the more you play Vegas 2 the more 
 it becomes apparent that it is simply an expansion pack of Vegas 1. It completes the story, fully 
 implements the reward system (which was missing on the PC last time round) , and gives better Co-op 
 functionality. All of which really should have been done first time around.
  
  Graphics are no huge improvement on the first instalment either. It uses the same graphics engine 
 as the first but it has fixed Anti-aliasing, which became an annoyance during its first outing. 
 However, it still looks slightly dated in comparison to, lets say, Call of Duty 4. 
  
  Sound also boasts a problem. It can stutter, sound too low or simply not play at all. At one point, 
 during a co-op story mode I wasn't receiving any sound at all from the goings on my HUD until it 
 all jumped at me while I was in the middle of a hectic fire fight which was slightly off-putting. 
 
  
  Multiplayer holds a variety of modes and undoubtedly increases the games longevity with the awards 
 system. Character customization is also second to none. Vegas 2 allows you to uniquely stylise 
 your character; however, it is largely superficial once you have chosen which gun (which there 
 are alot of) to use and how much movability you're willing to sacrifice for protection. The multiplayer 
 mode Itself also provides a nice tactical, yet fast-paced, break from other first person shooters. 
 If you're bored with Call Of Duty 4, this may give you something else to distract you for a short 
 while.
  
  Overall, Vegas 2 is a nice addition to anyone's collection of first-person-shooters; especially 
 if you haven't experienced a Rainbow Six shooter yet. But, if you've played Vegas 1 you'll be asking 
 why you're doing it all over again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesilentkiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  The GOOD: If you are a fan of Tom Clancy games (like me) , then you will definitely love this version. 
 It is a very enjoyable FPS to play that is addictive. Compared to the first Rainbow Six Vegas game, 
 the graphics are better. I like the promotion process where you gain rank by killing. Yyou are 
 able to unlock additional weapons and uniforms as your rank increases. There are more unique options 
 to select from in this version. I am a huge fan of this games unique ability to transition to 3rd 
 person views when looking around corners. 
  
  The BAD: I rated this game 8.5. It had the potential for a higher rating, but I didn't do so for 
 the following reasons: 
  
  ** There doesn't appear to be any new maps. The maps are all recycled upgrades from previous rainbow 
 six games. If there are new maps, I haven't encountered them yet. This is not a big issue, but 
 it is a little concerning since it is a new game. 
  
  ** Even though the graphics in this game are better then its predecessor like I mentioned earlier, 
 they still are not as detailed as the current competition (i. e. COD4, CRYSIS etc.) . It appears 
 to be that the designers stopped short from applying the last layers of detail to the graphics.
 
  
  ** I would like for each player to see their own VOIP icon displayed when talking. This will allow 
 each player to know if their speaker is open. Because this is not being done, I have experienced 
 several games when the players did not realize they had open microphones.
  
  ** Armor is not balanced. The heaver armor does not seem to absorb additional gun fire. 
  
 
  ** The AI's accuracy % on single player is far too high. I routinely get killed with one shot 
 (some of these shots are from behind solid structures) .
  
  ** Sound loop with gun fire
  
  ** Some graphic glitches that cause doors to open by themselves.
  
  Now, don't let the 
 "bad" bullet points deter you from buying the game. Even though the "bad" appear to out-way the 
 good; it doesn't,. Additionaly, several of the "bad" points can be fixed with patches. As I mentioned 
 in my first paragraph, the game is enjoyable and addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeda_blade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  The game Rainbow Six Vegas 2 or as from this point on ward call RSV2 affectionately has a great 
 pedigree to live up to. The reason that I liked RSV is that because I always saw Rainbow Six series 
 as a sort of an unsurmountable obstacle because it was so inaccessible to a lot of people like 
 me who like their shooters with a touch arcade to them. Cause I play games to jump out of my own 
 shoes and into someone else's. I never wanted to be sucked back to the same all over again. 
  Back to the game so what is new ? They have included a sprint button and a better yet easily hackable 
 rewards system. They have also give us a new conquest mod and they have given us a plethora of 
 new weapons and new story and bad guys to kill. And that is probably it...
  Returning players:-
  Now what about the rest ? To all of you that were paying attention to what 
 I was writing. The combat seems pretty much the same except that in Multi player the sprint adds 
 a whole different twist to everything. The enemies are all the same except for a pain in the butt 
 shield guys. Other than that the game dare not move from its previous game play experience the 
 combat feels the same. And here is where I start hating this game which I did ordered in advance. 
 The game looks the same and feels exactly the same even some of the Music is lifted from the old 
 game and to make the matters worse when you get to the weapons that they included you basically 
 feel that on some of the older weapons the designers just lost interest the weapons at the later 
 stage feel like different skins for the same weapon and this is what pisses me off it was as if 
 that they really didn't care to make the weapon selection deep enough that people could choose 
 some weapons to compensate for the accuracy and so on. And on top of that add a crash prone servers 
 we see the game eventually losing a lot of its potential. 
  New players:-
  But if you are new to the series than it is great for the start and you will probably love it especially 
 the cover using done wonderfully well. But its best bits are online where it shines buy it if you 
 want to have a great multi player experience and you already have call of duty 4 or else I would 
 tell you to buy call of duty 4. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoogieManFL
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to sit down and play this game, but minute by minute after all the initial dazzle 
 wore off, my enjoyment was dismantled piece by piece. The XP gain for unlockables is pretty nifty, 
 and so is being able to customize your character, but without solid gameplay to complement it, 
 it's largely pointless. If you're big into playing against other players and no such much for cooperative 
 play, you'll probably enjoy the game more.
  
  If you're one of those people who just don't like reading a lot, at least read section 9.
  
 
  1. The AI badguys are like playing against players with wall hacks and aimbots. If you remember 
 the original cheater infested Counterstrike days then you can understand how terrible that is. 
 They will shoot you through walls (sometimes multiple walls while they are in another building 
 all together) , sniper you with shotguns, and shoot you in the head .3 sec after peeking around 
 a corner. Additionally, they can sometimes get so close to a thin wall or a door that part of their 
 model (often their gun) sticks through it. They can and will abuse this to shoot you. Yes, I know 
 you can shoot through some objects, but they can do this through objects and walls you cannot shoot 
 through and they litterally clip their gun through entirely, not just shoot through as that leaves 
 visible bullet entry/exit damage which are not present after these events.
  
  Combining all that with internet latency means that unless you're pretty good, you're going to 
 die. A lot. They are too fast for most people to get comfortable with it, and considering you're 
 always heavily outnumbered makes it even worse. People new to the genre or who just aren't that 
 good at FPS will probably spend so much time dead they won't be able to get much practice in to 
 get better.
  
  2. The enemies aren't on the map until you cross some invisible line which will trigger their spawn. 
 And when they spawn they have a tendency to do so active and they know where you are instantly 
 and will rush you. The spawning system is extremely clumsy as many, many times I've been killed 
 because the room I was in was cleared, then suddenly I have numerous enemies that spawn in the 
 room with me and kill me instantly. It's both incredibly unrealistic, irritating, and immersion 
 destroying.
  
  3. The coop campaign is nice, but you can only play it with one other player and it's fairly short 
 and totally linear.
  
  4. Terrorist Hunts (without game file editing) are restricted to a mere 4 players.
  
  5. There 
 aren't that many multiplayer maps. Why they didn't keep the ones from Vegas 1, blows my mind.
 
  
  6. I quit playing because it got so frustrating dealing with the AI. I actually wanted to quit 
 and go do laundry and house work.
  
  7. 1st person viewpoint perspectives for the players are off. You can get shot in the head by an 
 opponent around a corner who can see upwards of 40% of your model and you cannot see any part of 
 them, and AI enemy animations are not very clean. It's common to get killed by an enemy who isn't 
 even pointing his gun at you or even looking in your general direction. At times this can trick 
 your subconscious into telling you that you have an extra moment to aim your shot. You don't. He 
 doesn't have to follow the same rules you do.
  
  8. Overall the game just feels like it was released too early. The sound system is glitchy and 
 causes lag for some people, myself included. Sometimes I can hear a gun fire, and it never stops 
 firing until I restart the level. Multiplayer terrorist hunts are especially disastrous if you 
 don't have buddies who understand the spawn system. Many players running around triggering spawns 
 mean you can find yourself safe one second, and the next be surrounded by enemies who apparently 
 just beamed down from the Enterprise. It doesn't feel tactical at all.
  
  9. One of the most important factors that it seems most people seem to be missing is this.. Really 
 look at what Vegas 2 is. Okay, now think about Vegas 1... Perhaps you realized that both these 
 are basically the same game. This game should be a half price expansion, not it's own full priced 
 game. They added a few levels, changed the campaign, added character customization and some things 
 to go with it, some armor, a few guns. That's it. 90% of the game is still Vegas 1. Yet they are 
 charging people full price. This isn't a new game and it's not different enough to really be a 
 second game in the series. Must be nice to have all the work already done on something, tweak it 
 a little and resell it as a new product. That seems a little wrong to me.
  
  In closing, the game has potential but they didn't improve much over Vegas 1, the AI is lame and 
 with the limited map selection means you get bored of the maps. I would not suggest buying the 
 game until it's price has dropped. Maybe after a number of patches they can pick it up to a decent 
 level. So until then, unless you're a die hard Rainbow Six fan (even though this game only shares 
 a title, not the essence with Rainbow Six) then I'd really suggest go by another game you are interested 
 in.
  
  If you're interested in seeing a typical game, check out these videos. In most FPS games against 
 players I'm in the top 30%. Doesn't help me too much against these guys.
  
  Video 1: Good example of how poorly optimized the game is. My PC exceeds recommend and it runs 
 terrible with minimal settings and a hardcore tweaked windows installation.
  
  http://media. putfile. com/Good-example-of-poor-optimization-my-PC-exceeds-recommended-specs
  
 
  Video 2: Watch how your AI teammates perform decently, then while they are both guarding a door 
 let 1 guy stroll right passed them and kill us all.
  
  http://media. putfile. com/Good-examples-of-AI-squad-mates-doing-well-and-really-bad-at-the-same-time
 
  
  Video 3: Watch how enemies often don't spawn in until you're vulnerable, like at the end of the 
 video when I use the rope.
  
  http://media. putfile. com/Video-3-65
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richcsst
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Vegas, which had a great story line. One understood WHY they were at a particular 
 location and WHY the course of action was necessary. It had a plot. I thought the story in the 
 first game was so good that I was a bit peeved when the "To Be Continued" flashed on the screen. 
 After picking up my jaw from the floor, I could not wait until part 2 was released.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the long awaited sequel to the original, well at least that is what the 
 title implies. Let's see, your in Las Vegas, there are terrorists you must fight, and you are the 
 leader of a Rainbow team. Hmm, you have some nifty weapons and goggles to see heat and amplify 
 light.
  
  That is where the similarity to the original ends. There is no real plot. In a way, it's actually 
 a poorly rewritten version of the first game, and we all know how it ended. Sure, the characters 
 names seem to be the same, but there is absolutely no connection to the first story other than 
 location and general game play.
  
  Why is Vegas under siege? Even bad guys have a point. This game had none. The ending was a poor 
 excuse to give reason for the mayhem. It was a story a 12 year old could have written better if 
 his teacher only gave him a C- for it.
  
  The game play was identical to the original, but the game was like being caught up in someone's 
 LSD hallucination. I think "WHAT??" was my common thought. "WTF!?" Was my reaction when it ended 
 so poorly.
  
  The game is not a part two to the first. The Tom Clancy like story of the first is completely absent 
 from this so-called sequel. I am very disappointed. It's just another run-of-the-mill FPS without 
 a point.
  
  I like games that allow me to be part of the story, and my actions affect an interesting plot. 
 Leave the mindless desire to get a head-shot to the online games. I mean, what's the difference 
 between one FPS and another if there is no good story to give it purpose? Nothing, just another 
 FPS clone.
  
  I want a real part two to the original game. This one sucks. This game has no single-player redeeming 
 value. Sure, it's probably a fun multi-player game (which is what I think was the intent) but sucks 
 as a single-person game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent_loner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game is very much like an add on for vegas 1. In some ways good and some ways disappointing. 
 Good because ubisoft didn't make vegas 2 worse than vegas 1. Disappointing because it's almost 
 95% the same games as vegas 1. The new upgrading A. C. E system is cool in that i finally get to 
 upgrade weapons and armour in single player as i'm nt much of an online gamer. And there is finally 
 a proper ending for the 'cliffhanger' ending at the end of vegas 1. But i'd prefer if the scoring 
 system rewarded teamwork more than solo feats such as headshots and close encounter kills. Rainbow 
 6 is about realism and teamwork after all. So all in all i think Rainbow 6 Vegas 2 is definitely 
 a great game worth playing and should appeal to all first person shooter enthusiasts. The cover 
 system is definitely something worth shouting about. Though vegas fans who have played vegas 1 
 would probably be disappointed for buying a near copy of vegas 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Is not always you see a Tom Clancy-inspired game get off-course. Only with Splinter Cell: Double 
 Agent have we PC gamers found true disappointment on political plots and tactical shootouts. Just 
 when the Rainbow Six series was starting to fade after Raven Shield, it received a much needed 
 high quality injection of life through the fantastic Rainbow Six: Vegas.
  
  This R6 Vegas not only had the mighty Unreal Engine 3 under its belt to shock our eyes, but also 
 it's magnificent cover system that truly gave the game a distinct, tactical-action-hero feeling 
 that just made it cooler.
  
  While it was one of my favorite games, it had one of the worst cliffhanger endings ever. So, when 
 I heard a second part was on the way, I started to prepare myself for another healthy dose of tac 
 goodness.
  
  But, oh, it was not meant to be. Not only does R6: Vegas 2 NOT continue the story, but it also 
 brings lots of problems to the table. Lets see.
  
  Ok, first, lets get the obvious out of the way. No, you don't know what happens after R6: Vegas 
 ends, since this happens at the same time. If just that weren't aggravating enough, the game feels 
 much like the original. No, wait, it IS the original. The new content on this game barely passes 
 the "mod" category, instead of being a full-fledged, FULL PRICED sequel. The musi, is the same, 
 the voice acting is the same (except for your main character, Bishop, which can be a girl now, 
 too ) the weapons are the same (except for around... 5, 6 weapons? Which are not that good and 
 must be unlocked after playing an unhealthy amount of time) . That wouldn't be that bad if the graphics 
 were the same, but for some VERY strange reason, the game is uglier than its predecessor. The game 
 at times looks worse Call of Duty.... 2! The facial expressions are stiffer than before, and lip 
 sync is a joke. The textures are all blurry, and everything seems to be made of cheap wood.
  
  Most people will say "Yea, yea, but look at the multiplayer!" Well, multiplayer, I regret to 
 say, is a rip off of CoD 4. Same unlocking mechanism, same XP bar, same outfitting section. Honestly, 
 it really doesn't pay to shell out another 50 bucks if you have either the original or CoD 4. If 
 you have both, skip this one. If you have either, skip it too. If you don't, buy either CoD 4 or 
 the original. It will be better that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwrqwr
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Hi there its my 3rd review and let me get back to were I was at. It was the best experience for 
 me to date. It has a sleek 1st person and 3rd person interface were only you switch from 1st to 
 3rd person when you take cover behind a wall, rock, etc. I played story mode and it was great but 
 not the Jem of the game. Then came versus but it was fun but has been done before. Then I came 
 to terrorist hunt. Thats the Jem because its part of co-op and its what makes co-op fun. You just 
 start off in an area and a bunch of enemys are spawned. Then you must killl all of the enemys to 
 win. Its been done before but not like this. The gamemode is combined with the gameplay of versus 
 and storymode which makes it very much more tactical. But thats what makes it hard but fun. All 
 I have to say is don't rent it, listen about how bad it is because people are graphics whores because 
 of crysis. Who gives a crap its a great game experience who cares about graphics uts gameplay that 
 matters and this games got it. The co-op is the best so far from all games for pc. Story mode is 
 co-op and same as terrorist hunt. Overall this game is worth all of its $50 and will be replayable 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I had the first RSV released a year ago and it was a very good game indeed, so I had no hesitation 
 in getting Vegas 2. However - what a total letdown !
  
  First of all this should not have been released as a full price retail game as it adds very little 
 to the first game and really should have been a cut price expansion.
  
  Further, Vegas 2 cannot be made by the same devs who made Vegas 1, simply because it is not as 
 good.
  
  Firstly the graphics suck. If anti aliasing is enabled, all you can see is white planes and all 
 the textures are screwed. I've got a good rig running in DX 10 with 4 gb ram, and I've seen quite 
 a few people complain about this on the forums. So without AA enabled there are horrid jagged lines 
 every where.
  
  Also the gfx just don't look as good as Vegas 1. The female character models are plain ugly. To 
 be honest, I have played every game released using the Unreal 3 engine so far, and this has by 
 far the worst Unreal 3 graphics.
  
  Sound is fairly good - pretty much what you would expect from this type of game.
  
  With regard 
 to gameplay, it is identical to V1, linear, and simply involves moving up to doors and checking 
 for contacts behind them with the snake cam. It soon gets quite repetitive.
  
  The AI is pretty dumb. Your team mates need to be told to follow you. Often when they need to rappel 
 down a rope, they don't do it and just hang there on the wall.
  
  The main difference with V1 is that the game has a rudimentary rank system which lets you unlock 
 weapons and armour as you go along. However this doesn't keep you gripped and wanting to rank up, 
 because the very first weapons you get in the game are excellent any way.
  
  Also, it seems that there are far too many controls that you have to master.
  
  Overall this 
 game is very easy and not much of a challenge. But the annoying thing is that they could have built 
 on the solid foundations of the first game and brought an improved second version, but actually 
 the devs have failed in every corner.
  
  This is a poor sequel. If you haven't played RSV before, save your money and buy the first one 
 which is probably now half the price but twice as good.
  
  Graphics 6
  Sound 9
  Gameplay 7
  Stability / bugs 7
  Value for money 8
  Overall 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  It's a fun game to play. I liked the fact that there are shielded enemies included in this game 
 (there weren't any in the first one) . The inclusion of riot shield wielding enemies mixes up the 
 action because the shielded enemies are good rushers. If people aren't careful or if people don't 
 keep an eye on their team shielded enemies can make short work of them. 
  
  The equipment/exp system is fun to mess around with but players can just pick up stuff off of dead 
 enemies (firearms and shields) to bypass the exp/equipment restrictions.
  
  The armor system makes the player character look really macho (I loaded my character with so much 
 armor that he looked like a Gears of War soldier) but it's rather useless in a firefight other 
 than weighing the character down. I didn't see that much of difference when I was shot wearing/not 
 wearing armor (but maybe I'm frequently getting shot with sniper rifles in the head, so I can't 
 really attest to the efficacy of the bulky armor) . 
  
  I thought some of the mission objectives were unclear especially the last one. I thought I had 
 to shoot a ton of foot soldiers for "it" to call reinforcements. But what the objectives meant 
 was shoot "it" until it calls for help (sorry if I sound odd, I don't want to spoil it for people 
 who haven't played the game through) .
  
  I thought UBsoft was smart in trying to implement bullet penetration through certain material but 
 I felt that they didn't take bullet penetration "far enough" because most of the cover the player 
 character hides behind is still "bullet proof". 
  
  The maps are very well desgined because I feel I had a lot more freedom to choose how I busted 
 in on the enemies (compared the the first game) . It was also great that UBsoft didn't have frustrating 
 levels like stripping the player of equipment other than the sidearm to wade through terrorist 
 ridden levels.
  
  I used blind fire a lot more because the enemies were a lot more aggressive than in the first game. 
 
  
  Overall, R6V2 is worth every penny and I can say I didn't regret getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  .... the control scheme is quite the same evan the way the game evolves but imagine everyting the 
 gameplay , graphics , story doubled in every way .... the only down side is that in ome mooments 
 the dialog seems like its made like an A+ Hollywood film & than in some moments some bad lines 
 pop up like so average TV show , the rest the wya the story links to the 1st game .... this one 
 being a sequel is superbly done + expect more surprises in the campain with more twists & turns 
 than the 1st game ! The new additions to the gameplay are: a thermal image satelite system that 
 you can use everytime after it charges up , you can now control your squad mates ... telling them 
 where to throw they grenades , \the enemy A. I. is 50% improved .. & jessus criest on REALISTIC 
 its the most hardest game i have ever player folowed by HL & GEARS ... & ow yeah the A. C. E. S. system 
 that lets you custumize your characters appereance thru armor & camoflouge faces + mask sunglasses 
 & other stuf ... now the armor inflicts weight on your body so expect to get tired quikly when 
 you sprint .. & yeah the sprint has been added :D & al of this are combined thru the campain & 
 the superb multiplayer system .... & from my point of wiew this is the most succesfull simulation 
 of a SWAT like assault against enemy troops ... its just to surreal & i still don't know why ppl 
 compare htis game to CoD4 which in my eyes is supremly overrated .... not havving phisX or a versatile 
 A. I. ...& a short & scripted campain ( no offence ) & it was good but innovatie & very very simple 
 & yes i have rated CoD4 (8.5) because of its atmosphere & story ... but still i consider R6V2 more 
 versatile evan in multiplayer because you can climb ropes , take cover use thermal & night vission 
 grenades & in some ways distructible enviroments ! Back to R6V2 ... this game now just let me wondering 
 how the story will end & especiially i'm more interested in the gameplay in the next R6V .... from 
 my poin of wiew i can't really think whatthey can do more for the gamplay & thats why i hope UBISOFT 
 will surprise me ... like it does most of the time especiialy with brand new gmes "Assassins Creed" 
 everybody ? & yeah i reapeat its the best simulation of SWAT tactics & more till today i can't 
 think of a better in door fast paced game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaymod
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  when i played rainbow six 3, i was very disappointed.
  the game was such as monotonic, it had very bad graphics and also
  it had a very complicated 
 gameplay.
  
  just after playing rainbow six vegas 2, i saw alot of changes in the good way,
  but also fatal 
 error of the creators. i think the grahpics are quite... BAD.
  i expected from a 2008 year game to have a better graphic engine.
  (and no, i have 8600 GT graphic 
 card) . after the first impression,
  i had some good times playing the game. but then i had experienced
  another disaster. the gameplay 
 ,for example got improved from the last game and now you are controlling 2 members: jung and michael.
 
  jung is a precision expert and a good hacker while michael is a demolition
  man and uses heavy arms. well thats the only team members you can have with you (unfortunately) 
 . so lets talk about the disaster: the game is monotonic and boaring, because it based on breaching 
 doors and rappelling all the time. god its too much! its quite boaring doing only that stuff all 
 the time so you cant expect something else will happen in the future levels.
  
  Also, about the sound, i didnt feel any action and the music didnt make its job during the actions 
 scenes.
  
  but there are some good things in the game:
  
  for example now you are controlling 2 team members as i said before,
  and its very easy to give 
 them orders such as breaching doors, moving around and target enemies. the whole gameplay system 
 is now very easy to learn and to understand. also, the plot is not bad, for a 1st person shooter. however, 
 i have seen better than that. the game ,for my opinion is not too short or too long (15-25 hrs, depend 
 on the difficulty ) . 
  
  in rainbow six vegas 2 you can also be promoted - after all you are a soldier.
  in order to get 
 a promotion, you will need to gain exp points.
  you can either killing terrorists or gaining points during battle (assault, cqb, sniper) for exp (by 
 killing even more terrorists) .
  
  conclusions:
  
  graphics- 7.5
  
  sound-6.5
  
  playing time- 8
  
  gameplay- 7.5
  
  storyline-7.5
  
  OVERALL: 7.5 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grampy_Bone
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 19, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  I've never much liked Tom Clancy's version of 'tactical' shooters. Mainly this is because I already 
 (according to my girlfriend, family, and the mailman) spend an abominable amount of time playing 
 videogames as it is, and thus I do not enjoy wasting even more time replaying the same battle fifty 
 times in a row.
  
  A Tom Clancy game plays much like any other shooter, except that in these games when you get shot, 
 you die. Audacious, I know. Apparently, hardcore realism translates into insane fun. However I 
 do not find it so much to be a 'test of skill' when an AI-controlled bot plugs me with a sniper 
 rifle that he is pre-programed to have a 73.5% chance to hit with. This isn't counterstrike, were 
 at least you can console yourself with the knowledge that you were beaten by another human when 
 some 14 year old kid from New Zealand scout-snipes you from the top of the building in the Assault 
 map (really, that takes skill) . Nope, here the game rolls some dice and I'm supposed to be having 
 a blast because it's soooooo realistic.
  
  But I digress.
  
  In Rainbow Six Vegas 2 you play some... guy who is in command of an elite counter-terrorism team... 
 or something.
  
  Hold on. *rummages for game manual*
  
  Okay, you play Bishop, the leader of Rainbow's Bravo team. Wow. That is all the info the game's 
 manual gives you. The in-game story doesn't provide any more info. Huh. Not who the bad guy's are, 
 or why they are terrorizing vegas, or what the hell is going on at all. Nothing.
  
  Doom had a more developed plot.
  
  (As an aside, I can't think of any elite military special 
 forces big manly-man soldiers who would want to join a squad that goes by the name "Rainbow," if 
 you get my drift.)
  
  Okay okay, the game itself is actually pretty decent. It takes place in a series of missions that 
 are quite linear, but usually feature a few different routes to tackle each battle. There is a 
 cover system; holding down the right mouse button will stick you to a wall, where you can pop out 
 and fire, or stay safe and use highly inaccurate blindfire or just chuck a grenade. Sometimes the 
 cover system doesn't really work, but most of the time its useful. Guns are accurate and pack a 
 lethal punch, with most enemies going down with few shots. There's a lot to choose from, including 
 submachine guns, assault rifles, heavy machine guns, sniper rifles, shotguns, and pistols. You 
 can hold three guns at a time and switch at any supply crate conveniently placed throughout the 
 levels, or just grab a terrorist gun if you feel like it. The problem here is that the difference 
 between each gun is so subtle you'll hardly notice it most of the time, and the first additional 
 guns you unlock are generally worse than the default ones. The unlocking system is more novel for 
 a shooter, in that you earn XP for kills, as well as three separate skill paths that you earn points 
 for by killing enemies in different ways. e. g. long-range kills give you Marksman points, while 
 killing enemies with grenades gives you Assault points. Even if the upgrades and unlockable items 
 aren't that great, it's still an addictive system and prevents it from being a complete waste when 
 you die, as you'll keep all your XP as you're sent to the last checkpoint.
  
  And die you will, often. You can equip a variety of armor but at most it will allow you to take 
 maybe one additional shot. Your health regenerates on its own but this isn't Halo, and you can't 
 take a full barrage of gunfire before you need to head to cover. Getting ambushed or sniped is 
 generally a game over, so you need to proceed carefully and cautiously through each map. You have 
 a handy fiberoptic camera that lets you look underneath doors, as well as a temporary thermal scan 
 that reveals all nearby foes, and you can always flood the area with smoke grenades and use your 
 thermal goggles to gun down the blinded bad guys. Still there are plenty of frustrating moments 
 where you will die after a long and arduous set of battles, and this really sucks. Thus the best 
 people to advance are usually your teammates.
  
  You have two AI-controlled buddies with you on every mission, and you can order them around easily 
 with a context-sensitive button. They automatically find cover, use a leapfrog advancing pattern 
 (one man goes while the other covers him) , and they line up nicely for door entry procedures. The 
 controls have some nuances, such as the difference between telling them to kick open a door and 
 throw flash grenades, to giving the order to blow open a door and go in guns blazing. But what 
 really makes your companions so useful is the fact that they're tougher than you. Not only can 
 they somehow take more direct hits than you (I've tested this) , but they also can be revived by 
 jabbing a syringe in their back (you can even order one to save the other) . Thus the best tactic 
 is often to order your teammates ahead while you stay behind and cover them; they may not even 
 need your help at all. This makes the game easier but it hardly makes it more fun, I thought this 
 was an FPS, not an RTS. If they're going to make the AIs so much more awesome than me, why am I 
 even in the game at all? Might as well just make this squad-based tactics game like Silent Storm 
 and be done with it.
  
  For a game with such high system requirements, and using the Unreal 3 engine no less, its graphics 
 are piss-poor. It's full of muddy, low-res textures and blockly, low-poly objects. The character 
 models look decent, but that's about it. It's hard to understand exactly where all the system specs 
 are coming from in such a graphically low-tech game. And there aren't many scalability options 
 either, so you need a good PC just to play the game at all. The music is okay, nothing great, but 
 it keeps up the pace of the action. It's too loud by default so you have to crank it down if you 
 want to hear the voice acting. The characters play their parts professionally but it's hard to 
 identify with any of the characters when the game does such a shabby job of setting ANY of them 
 up. Guess I missed out because I didn't play the first game?
  
  The story mode is quite short, even for today's standards, but there are plenty of one-off terrorist-hunt 
 missions you can play, either solo or with friends (you can play the main game co-op as well) . 
 Actually, my roommates have had this game for the 360 since it came out and when I asked them about 
 the story mode they were like "Huh? What story mode?" So I guess if you really dig dying when you 
 get shot, the game might be so fun to play with a friend or online that it will provide endless 
 entertainment.
  
  For me, the bottom line was playing this game felt like playing Counterstrike with bots. I'm not 
 going to become a Tom Clancy True Believer and start preaching the superiority of "realistic" shooters 
 any time soon. There is a line between realism and fun and this game is right on the cusp. It's 
 not as bad as GRAW, but it's close. It's not realistic when the AI has advantages in health and 
 armor which you do not. It's not fun to watch the AI fight itself while you sit back and twiddle 
 your thumbs. If this kind of hardcore FPS appeals to you, you'll probably find more to like with 
 Counterstrike, and certainly more sense of accomplishment as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  R6V2 is a tactical shooter, and the follow up to the original, Tom Clancy's R6V. In this sequel, 
 you play as Bishop, a battlefield veteran who has been called back into service. For most of the 
 missions, you will be accompanied by two other members of Team Rainbow - Jung - an electronics 
 and recon expert, and Michael - a heavy weapons and demolition expert. Throughout the single player, 
 you will interact with these men, giving them orders that they will carry out. 
  R6V2 has quite a good story, especially when compared to other shooters. While not matching, say, 
 Half Life 2, R6V2's story manages to support the action well enough. There are 6 acts, in a variety 
 of locations. The first, which also acts as a tutorial of sorts, is set high in the Pyrenees, where 
 you'll have to rescue some hostages from terrorists. For most of the story, you'll be doing quite 
 typical things - rescuing a double-agent from terrorists, trying to prevent a chemical bomb from 
 killing thousands at a sports arena, and infiltrating a facility. Although there is not actually 
 a "time-limit" for anything, the music and actions of your teammates create a real sense of urgency 
 and tension. The last act deviates from the formula, with a betrayal and a final showdown involving 
 a helicopter, then apprehending the betrayer. Though I wont spoil the ending, or what happens to 
 your character, I myself felt sympathetic towards Bishop, the way it ends for him.
  R6V2's graphics are hardly top-of-the-range, compared with other shooters, but they're still excellent. 
 All the locations seem realistic and vibrant, and your team-mates and yourself look great. However, 
 some things look a bit tacky - when coins come out of slot machines, it's little more than grey 
 blobs spitting out. And shooting a water dispenser will release a 3-second trickle of water, that 
 goes straight through the floor, and just looks bad.
  The sound is good. The music has some elements of Ubisoft's classic, Far Cry, while at other times 
 it's the wailing guitar of your typical military shooter. You can hear your enemies have conversations, 
 about jokes and how many people they've killed. However, you will start hearing the same conversations 
 again and again, after a while. The sound effects are great, as bullets ricochet off walls and 
 thud into surfaces.
  But R6V2's gameplay is excellent, because there's so many decisions you can make, and it's extremely 
 realistic. The AI is very skillful - if you're out in the open during a firefight, there's a 99.9% 
 chance the AI is gonna blow your head off. While you can take many bullets in other shooters, in 
 R6V2 you'll be on the brink of death from a few bullets. Luckily, there's the excellent cover system. 
 By holding down a button, you go into cover - hiding behind a wall or object. Then, you can lean 
 around the corner or over the object to shoot at your enemies from a safer position. For minimal 
 exposure, you can use blind fire - just holding your gun up and spraying randomly. This, however, 
 is highly inaccurate. If you're prepared to expose yourself a bit more, you can fire using the 
 normal crosshair. If an accurate enemy can hit you, you can easily just get back down behind the 
 covering object. But be careful what you hide behind - certain surfaces are thin enough to be penetrated 
 by bullets, like in COD4. You can also crouch and sprint, allowing you to dart from cover to cover. 
 In comparison to other shooters, R6V2 is quite hard at first, but when you learn to be patient 
 and methodical when clearing out your enemies, you can soon master it.
  The squad interaction is excellent - you can give your teammates an order to move, to hold their 
 position, or to follow you. There is also clearing rooms. When you approach a door, you can use 
 the "snake-cam" to look under the door, and examine the room. This allows you to decide how to 
 approoach the situation best. Also, while using the snake-cam, you can designate up to two enemies 
 as priority targets for your men. There a variety of ways to enter a room - open and clear, breaching 
 charge and clear, flash grenade and clear, frag greande and clear, and smoke grenade and clear. 
 Each situation will call for different tactics. If there are multiple entrances to a room, you 
 can send your men to a door, ready to enter, and you can enter from another direction, catching 
 your enemies off-guard with a synchronised attack from two sides. Your teammates can be killed, 
 but never instantly - they will lie on the floor for a while, until you heal them. You can also 
 order one teammate to heal another. As well as straightforward move orders, you can tell your squad 
 members to use a specific rappel or ladder. The Rules of Engagement feature allows you to tell 
 your squad to go "assualt mode", where they attack any enemy in sight, very loudly. The "infiltration" 
 mode is where they will keep out of sight, and not fire upon an enemy unless fired upon themselves. 
 This is very useful for ensuring your squad members follow your strategy.
  In R6V2, you can customise your appearance and equipment, both in single-player and multiplayer. 
 There is a massive variety of weapons to choose from, and each is more powerful in a certain way, 
 whether it's magazine size, penetration or damage (to name a few) . You can have two main weapons 
 for single player and terrorist hunt, as well as a pistol. For the "versus" multiplayer mode, you 
 can only have one main weapon ans a pistol. You can also choose your own armour for your body, 
 shoulders, legs and arms. Each piece of armour will provide a certain amount of protection, but 
 will also encumber your movement. There are two slots for gadgets - these include grenades and 
 breaching charges. You can also adjust your character's appearance, with a different helmet or 
 clothes. This, however, does not affect gameplay. Most weapons can be silenced, and some can change 
 their rate of fire. When you remove or attatch your silencer, your teammates will follow suite.
 
  The ACES system (Advanced Combat Enhancement Specialisation) , will grant you points for certain 
 types of kills - headshots and long-range kills go towards the marksman area, grenade kills and 
 killing shielded opponents go towards the assualt area, and short-range kills go towards the close-quaters 
 area. These will unlock new weapons specific to each area. In addition to ACES, there is also an 
 ordinary XP points system - every kill, performed by you or your squad members, will give XP towards 
 your next rank, which will unlock new guns and armour, ect. An acheivment system is present, while 
 it may not be as satisfying to complete as COD4's.
  The multiplayer is brilliant. You can choose a friend to join you in a co-op campaign, where you 
 fight through the single-player together. There is also Terrorist Hunt - where you and up to 3 
 other players fight through a map populated by terrorists. These levels can be customised, including 
 the diificulty, number of enemies and number of respawns. Terrorist Hunt can also be played in 
 single-player mode. There is also a more conventional multiplayer section, with game-modes like 
 team-deathmatch. You can play with up to 15 other players. For a more traditional tactical shooter 
 multiplayer game, the game may be set to have no respawns. There are loads of different game modes 
 that are quite unique - team leader, for instance, where you must escort your team leader to a 
 designated extraction point. Also, hostage rescue - where one team must free and evacuate hostages, 
 while the other team tries to stop them. There's alot to do on multiplayer front, and it should 
 keep you busy past the exhilarating single-player.
  So, all in all, R6V2 is an amazing tactical shooter, by all accounts. Whether it's too similar 
 to the original - I can't say, as I didn't play the original. But I'd reccomend this game to anyone 
 seeking a challenging and action-packed shooter, on the multiplayer or single-player front. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Originally, this PC version of R6: Vegas 2 was scheduled to be released with other platforms releases 
 (03/18) , but recently as it has become a customary awful service to PC customers the game was delayed 
 for "unknown reasons". Supposedly they were "fixing" PC-related issues. Right! ... so, why do we 
 have a brand new (and the first) patch issued on the day of the delayed release? Obviously, something 
 stinks in Ubi house, but ... lets move on. Even with the frustrating delays and the last minute 
 patch, the game is the top shooter so far in 2008. Really nothing you haven't already seen in the 
 first Vegas, but "more of the same" if it's good doesn't hurt. Actually, there is a very few differences 
 (besides obviously new maps) between Vegas 1 and Vegas 2.
  
  POSITIVE CHANGES:
  - online connectivity much better than initially in Vegas 1
  - "sprint" added to the assortment 
 of movements (otherwise no changes)
  - bots taking cover and not dying from clear headshots is not a widespread as in Vegas 1
  - the 
 game is better optimized for PC and runs smoother than Vegas 1 initially
  - join online multiplayer game in progress at any time ... very neat
  - a dozen or so new weapons
 
  - the AI somewhat improved on already rather decent Vegas 1 AI
  - more screen resolutions supported
  - reduced graphics blur compared to Vegas 1
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
 The singleplayer is well done and full length. Tactical gameplay has always been the trademark 
 of the R6 series and is still the best. Weapons balance is somewhat different than in Vegas 1, 
 for example, sometimes the same weapons that are also in Vegas 1 are more accurate in Vegas 2 (e. g., 
 FAMAS) but inflict less damage. Otherwise the gameplay is almost identical to Vegas 1. However, 
 check the new "sprint" feature. Multiplayer modalities are superb as usual in R6, however unfortunately 
 the "coop story mode" now supports only 2 players (rather than 4 as in Vegas 1) -- BAD UBI!. A 
 great feature is that in Vegas 2 you can join a multiplayer session that's in progress at any time 
 and not wait for the new one to start. The character customization is on par with Vegas 1 with 
 pretty much nothing new going on (except maybe slightly uglier models) .
  
  GRAPHICS/VIDEO/SOUND: R6 Vegas 1 was probably the first FPS game to feature Unreal 3 engine. It 
 had lots of performance issues, bugs, and such, tho it looked good despite some excessive blur. 
 Vegas 2 features the same engine and practically doesn't have any performance bugs. And that's 
 good. On the other hand, in general, Vegas 2 really doesn't look any better than Vegas 1 (except 
 for a better blur management) . Some scenes (aerial views) are actually better looking in the first 
 Vegas. Overall, the graphics/video is very good, not a contender for the best by far since we've 
 seen what's possible in CoD 4 and Crysis, but also not bad at all and some scenes simply look great 
 if you have a higher end rig. The game sound is very good too, definitively above the average. 
 Overall, the entire sound-graphics experience can be described as "above the average" and on par 
 with Vegas 1. A great piece of news is that Vegas 2 supports many more screen resolutions than 
 Vegas 1.
  
  NEGATIVE:
  - coop story multiplayer modality reduced from the "usual" 4 to 2 players (not sure what's the 
 reason for this super lame decision since "coop terrorist hunt" still runs 4 players as before"
 
  - ranking and achievements (as useless a concept as it is ... except for the very young XBOX kids) 
 needs some serious work. You probably won't be bothered by this system, but you'd probably wonder 
 why you need to work to unlock some mediocre rifle when you already have a much better one.
  - in modalities against bots, there is still (as in Vegas 1) a problem of bots' not being restricted 
 in movement by the physicality of their own bodies. This practically means that in instances of 
 physical collision with an enemy-bot you are likely to die 90% or more of the time since your movement 
 is restricted by the physical laws, but bots' are not -- they can move and aim that shotgun even 
 if your body is in the way of their movement or should obstruct the execution of the movement (so 
 far the only workaround for this is to take a few quick steps back and create a distance enough 
 so your shots are actually hitting the target)
  - the singleplayer end ( "boss" ) fight is somewhat lame or at least uninspired
  - artificially 
 raised difficulty for the difficulty sake in many places on the "realistic" level where instead 
 of harder more fierce fights one may experience more of frustration with the AI "unrealistically 
 exaggerated" accuracy and bots appearing (spawning) out of nowhere. The highest difficulty in a 
 game should be a challenge that encourages improving your skills -- however, Ubi frequently doesn't 
 differentiate between a challenge and frustration. Frustration, of course, leads to repetitiveness, 
 counting on luck instead of skills, and ultimately to boredom
  - and again, no manual saves which combined with the unrealistic spots on the "REALISTIC" level 
 provides you with the multiple opportunities to run longer sections of a map over and again without 
 learning much and mostly relying on luck
  
  UNKNOWN: Since this is a new game, I'm not sure if in multiplayer the "improved and intuitive matchmaking 
 system" that basically searches for other players with similar skills would prevent you from actually 
 hooking up with your friend who, say, is less skillful than you. That would be really bad.
  
  CONCLUSION: Overall R6 Vegas 2 shines. So far in this 2008 year this is the top shooter on 
 the PC platform (tho there hasn't been much competition in the FPS area in 2008 so far on the PC 
 platform either) . To buy or not? Well, if you liked Vegas 1, then this is more of the same with 
 some minor enhancements. Maps are nice and exciting and offer a great setting for some tactical 
 gameplay. If a tactical FPS game is not something very high on your gaming preference list then 
 you could simply wait a few months till the game gets cheaper ... but otherwise get it (check the 
 system requirements beforehand and make sure they exceed the "minimal" ) . My score for this game 
 is somewhat subjectively high since I like the game and usually spend lots of time playing the 
 R6 series. But objectively speaking this game should be scoring anywhere between 7.5 and 9.0 depending 
 on the reviewers preferences (and site/magazine ad money) . A perfect 10/10 would be a significant 
 stretch from the technical perspective and anything below 7 could mean that the reviewer is really 
 not into FPS or PC games in general. Anywho, enjoy, it's a good game.
  
  Score: 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short. The Rainbow series games have always had great online play and while I haven't 
 tried online play yet for this one, I'd wager it's probably equally entertaining.
  
  The experienced based rewards system in Vegas 2 adds to the fun but only slightly. The different 
 clothes and armor in the first one are here but now you have to work to unlock them. Nothing interesting 
 there. Along with the rewards, there're also a number of challenges to complete... also not much 
 to speak about. 
  
  The gameplay doesn't feel as solid as the first Vegas game. It might be my imagination but there 
 are things in Vegas 2 that don't work as well. For example, it seems to me that the smoke grenades 
 don't quite offer the same protection. Also, enemies who apparently aren't aware of your approach 
 can suddenly spot you through walls. This is pretty annoying when you have a room full of bad guys 
 and you do a quick attack from one door and run around to an opposite door only to have them try 
 to frag you before you even get a chance to open the door. 
  
  On that note, it should be said that the enemies now make use of all types of grenades and shields. 
 The AI does seem to be a bit better although they have the same stupid voice clips as the first 
 Vegas... which was crap to begin with. I've got pretty close to the best CPU, GPU and the best sound 
 card and RAM you can get. As with the first Vegas game, the sound is pretty buggy
  
  My biggest complaint is still that the Vegas games totally robbed the whole R6 series of being 
 so unique... no more planning missions, setting go points, carefully choreographing timed attacks. 
 That was what made R6 what it was... now it's just another buggy first person shooter. The first 
 Vegas game had more personality than this one... this one seems like it was slapped together. But 
 I guess we live in unfortunate times when the good games are few and far between
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas 2 is essentially the same as the first vegas in terms of storyline. you have 
 a team of 3 rainbow operatives, and you have to rescue hostages, defuse bombs, and kill terrorists. 
 you must plan your attack to win. however, an addition to vegas 2 is the experience system, where 
 you can get points for completing a certain task, and accumulate enough points to unlock certain 
 weapons or clothing. the controls are smoother than vegas 1, and is one of the greatest strong 
 points of vegas 2. your character moves realistically and more lifelike compared to vegas 1, and 
 the aiming system has been improved. like most games now, the aiming recticle will expand or shrink 
 depending on how you are moving. this realism in firefights make vegas 2 an excellent game by itself.
 
  but it is not without flaws, vegas 2 has a new ranking system, which seems half-baked to me. by 
 letting your teammates kill enemies, you gain experience points, and can then unlock new clothing 
 or camo. but these are useless except to make you look fancy. only if you yourself complete certain 
 tasks can you unlock weapons. for example, by getting headshots or long-range kills, you can be 
 a marksman and unlock sniper rifles or smgs. if you kill an enemy at close range or with his back 
 turned, you can unlock assault rifles. if you kill enemies with explosives, you can unlock machine 
 guns. unlocking these weapons are useful in the game, but it is really too slow to accumulate all 
 those points. by the time you reach half of the game, you probably would only be at level 3.
  furthermore, in order to gain XP points and advance in rank to unlock useless clothing, you have 
 to let your teammates do the work. ubisoft should not be encouraging players to give the orders 
 because 2 people is not enough. there will be times when your teammates are unable to see the enemy, 
 leaving you to do the kill, and you will not be able to gain XP.
  to unlock weapons, you do stuff like headshots, but each time you do something, they only record 
 one point. so if you do a headshot on an enemy with his back turned, you should rightfully get 
 two points but in the end get only one point.
  just for fun. if you do a headshot on an enemy who is far-away, carrying a shield, with his back 
 facing you, and is sprinting. you should get 5 points, yet you get only one.
  if you cant do it right, dont do it at all, ubisoft should have just left out the frustrating rank 
 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draske73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I was hopping this would be a "hell of a game", but...
  R6 V2 is far from R6V and other R6 specially.
  I like score system in this game and unlocking 
 of weapons, armory, clothes trough the levels but its only a make up.
  When you scratch the surface you will be able to see an catastrophe of your "comrades" AI.
  The 
 enemy shoot at me from everywhere and they just stood there and chew a bubblegum (not always but 
 its hard to believe when you see it) . Man this is unbelievable.
  Enemies AI is also far from first part of the game, noting challenging on normal difficulty and 
 much easier then in R6V.
  Easy and nice game-play, ammo boxes on every corner.
  There are no good colours like in first game, and chapter before the ending one remind me on F. E. A. R 
 environment.
  Why is my score 8.5
  When I putt as side first part ,and look this independently this is a dissent shooter.
  There 
 is no good shooters in past 4 months and because of good game R6V 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoublD
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Hey,
  I wanna tell you my experience with Rainbow Six Vegas 2.
  This is one of the best or even THE best i played for the last years (and i played a lot like: COD 
 4 or UT 3 and more...)
  This game is just amazing in my opinion its every gamer dream u can control your own squad and 
 make cool tactics and if u die u do it again! but in a different way...
  I experience a few Rainbow SIx from the older versions of this but i must say this is THE best 
 of Rainbow Six till now!!
  The graphics in the game is just overwhelming and cool.
  The game play in the game is the best i saw ever unlike Call Of Duty you can design your own player 
 and by clicking on a button u can back on well and shot enemies without getting hurt.
  Another thing i really like in the game its his level of difficulty its not as easy as all other 
 games in genre its harder lets say you get a bullet in your head in COD you will not die you will 
 get hurt, but in Rainbow Six u will die from it.
  in conclusion i want to say that this game you really should play!
  
  Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ge_vas
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  The sequel of Vegas is here!
  What's new:
  Now you can sprint to cover and you have ranks.
  You are getting points for every head shot, 
 close range kill, behind kill, blind kill, under cover kill, and all kind of kills.
  So you start as a humble privet and you are getting promotions as you collect points.
  Weapons 
 and armor and cloths are locked and as you are promoted you have more stuff that you can unlock 
 .
  Only 3 new weapons in the game tho
  The other cool think is that you can customize your character as you did in the Multi player first 
 game. cloths, armor, camo, face etc
  It is slightly more difficult than the first and slightly shorter than the first. (or i played to 
 much)
  You can hear the same talks of tangos as the first "kill em all"!!!
  Graphics and sound are great.
  I didn't get less than the first but I did expect more from it
 
  Multi player is really fun an now you have ranks so you will know who's the team leader 
 
  Over all is a great game to play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  .. was expecting this one for a while to come out on pc.. played it on 360 earlier but the pc version 
 is mindblowing. as soon as the game begins you will be amazed to see how you can transform your 
 face using a webcam into almost perfectly the game character in minutes.. and that too works like 
 a miracle.. i am enjoying seeing myself as one of the rainbow six team battling it out.. high paced 
 action, awesome graphics, especially seeing las vegas in bright daylight was new.. good unique way 
 of unlocking new weapons using points.. gaining points for each shot of bullet fired, improved AI, 
 solid graphics as usual, support for the xbox 360 controller, change anything from weapons, vest, 
 clothes, facial camoflauge, play as yourself from france to vegas its all it has to be in a sequel 
 and more.. perfectly crafted game.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
