-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tomclancysghostrecon3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Campaign is exciting and challenging, even at normal difficulty.
 Hardcore tactical shooting experience.
 Massive, extremely detailed environments.
 Real-time 3D tactical map is useful and flexible.
 Amazing graphics and presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 if your computer has a ton of horsepower.
 Inexcusable bugs and oversights in multiplayer implementation.
 AI sometimes leaves something to be desired.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.0, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 3,255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: GRIN
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     May 3, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the PC version of GRAW offers the most impressive and expansive campaign, the extreme system 
 requirements and multiplayer headaches make this tactical shooter feel rougher around the edges 
 than it should. 

  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter finally makes its way over to the PC, and as far as the single-player 
 game goes, this version of the game might be the most overall impressive of all. The massive urban 
 areas you fight in are even larger and more detailed than the already spacious areas in the Xbox 
 360 version of the game, adding a great deal of tension since this added landmass makes for many 
 times more possible hiding places for bad guys. Also, there's more interactivity to the world and 
 flexibility with the tactical map, which gives you more precise control over your teammates. Unfortunately, 
 all this added immersion comes at a heavy price, as playing the game is sure to put a strain on 
 even the highest-spec machines. Barely make the minimum requirements? Don't even think of picking 
 this game up, unless you're satisfied with big compromises in lighting, texture quality, and frame 
 rate. If you have a machine that can handle the game, though, GRAW delivers a hardcore tactical 
 shooter campaign that hearkens back to the original Ghost Recon games on the PC. It's too bad the 
 multiplayer aspect of the game is so bug-ridden as to render it inconsequential.  

          Scott Mitchell, are you a bad enough dude to rescue the President?     

  You take the 
 role of Scott Mitchell, a captain in the elite Ghost Recon squad in the US Army. You find yourself 
 in Mexico City as part of the security entourage tasked with guarding a summit between the leaders 
 of Mexico, Canada, and the US. Disaster strikes when Mexican rebels attack the summit, killing 
 the Canadian prime minister and causing both the Mexican and US presidents to go missing. Over 
 the course of the campaign, you'll explore the massive city -- fighting rebel infantry, armored vehicles, 
 and helicopters from within the dense, urban areas in the center to the dilapidated shanty towns 
 on the outskirts. You'll do this solo and with the help of three teammates -- who you can issue commands 
 to -- and supporting vehicles. Major landmarks, such as Chapultepec and the spire at Angel Plaza, 
 are represented fairly accurately in the game's depiction of Mexico City. The story arc in the 
 PC version of the game is the same as all the others, but the way the levels are laid out and structured 
 is noticeably different than any of the other versions of GRAW. The game's campaign should last 
 most players 12 or so hours, counting restarts from death -- maybe more depending on your familiarity 
 with hardcore tactical shooters.  

  The first thing you'll notice about the game is how breathtakingly massive and believable the city 
 looks. You take several helicopter rides throughout the campaign, and the city is literally sprawled 
 out all the way to the horizon with buildings and streets. Fires and smoke curl up into the sky 
 from patches of fighting or factories. As you land, you find yourself engulfed by the metropolis 
 and plying your way through the maze of buildings, streets, and alleys. The amount of area you 
 can explore in each mission in this version of the game is noticeably larger than the corresponding 
 mission in the Xbox 360 version -- there's also more detail given to each building, leading to more 
 nooks and doorways that you can take cover in. However, this added detail means more places for 
 possible enemies to be lurking, which necessitates a much more methodical approach to movement 
 in this version than in the Xbox 360 version.  

  The tactical-map feature gives you a nice tool to manage the bounding over-watch techniques you'll 
 need to use to keep you and your squad alive. While you can still give a variety of simple commands 
 to your squadmates (both singly, and as a group) from the first-person view, such as follow, move, 
 cover, and attack, a nifty overhead tactical map gives you even more options. From this map you 
 can issue waypoints to each of your squadmates and even set the direction they should face as they 
 reach each spot. It's tempting to sometimes use this view to play GRAW like a real-time strategy 
 game, as your soldiers are usually pretty effective at engaging and taking out enemies. The tactical 
 map isn't just a static overlay -- it's a real-time, overhead view of the surrounding area that lets 
 you track movement of enemy infantry and vehicles. It's not a god mode, though, as enemies beneath 
 rooftop areas or underneath trees can be obscured. As in other versions of the game, you'll be 
 able to control support vehicles from time to time, such as UAV drones for reconnaissance or heavier 
 vehicles for fire support against enemy armor and other hard targets.  

  The graphic detail that's so apparent from the city and environment extends to the character models 
 as well, which are some of the best we've seen in a modern shooter. The guns you and your teammates 
 carry are well articulated, and you'll notice folds in clothing and self-shadowing on character 
 models and other models in the game. The animation isn't perfect -- you'll see your teammates moonwalk 
 over the ground from time to time -- but in general, the human-character movements in the game look 
 nice and realistic. The interactive nature of the environment bears mentioning, as many aspects 
 of the environment are reactive to the battle around you. The game supports the AGEIA PhysX card 
 for more advanced physics effects, which do offer some added particles and other effects to the 
 game. You'll still notice principles of physics being used in the game without that kind of hardware 
 support, though. Wooden fences break apart under heavy fire, for example, and trees and foliage 
 sway as bullets whiz past. Vehicles never seem to come apart the same way twice when you blow them 
 up either, but that nifty visual trick would always send our frame rates plummeting into the single 
 digits any time we blew something up. Using the PhysX card didn't appreciably improve the frame 
 rate or even the detail during high-stress situations either, which was a little disappointing. 

          The game engine is incredible with the level of detail it uses to render an entire city. 
     

  To give you an idea of the kind of stress GRAW can put on your computer, the machine we tested 
 on, a Pentium 4 2.53GHz with 1GB of RAM and a 256MB GeForce 6800 Ultra, is considered mid-spec 
 by the game. You're not allowed to even try to set the texture detail to high with a 256MB card -- that's 
 reserved for the pricy 512MB behemoths. The game still looks nice and sharp at medium detail, but 
 as we mentioned, frame rates can drop precipitously when there are explosions or even just lots 
 of enemies in the surrounding area. All of our gameplay was done at a modest resolution of 1024x768 -- 
 anything higher than that led to an unacceptable frame rate. We also tried playing with a minimum 
 spec 128MB card -- with this type of hardware, the texture resolution is noticeably compromised and 
 frame rates are even worse. Load times can be an issue depending on your system -- on our test rig, 
 it took close to a minute to get back into the game. To get the most out of GRAW, you'll want to 
 have a pretty decked-out machine.     

  GRAW's focus on hardcore, tactical gameplay is what separates this version of the game from the 
 other versions. Unlike the Xbox 360 version of the game, which you could play by having your teammates 
 set to follow you as you took most of the shots, the PC version of GRAW not only rewards methodical 
 movement and intelligent command of your teammates but often demands it. Yes, you and your squadmates 
 can still absorb a few shots before dying, and you do get mysteriously healed at some checkpoints 
 or if you reload a save. But since there are no quicksaves available, it can still be quite a challenge 
 to get to the next checkpoint without dying if you don't advance intelligently from corner to corner 
 and check all possible threats around you. The artificial intelligence on both sides can leave 
 something to be desired, though. Sometimes after issuing an order to a squadmate, they don't take 
 up position or face in the manner you intended, leaving them exposed. Enemy AI is also fairly nonreactive 
 and scripted. You'll enter an alley and blast an enemy, for example, while another soldier just 
 around the corner never bothers to check on the noise. Perhaps it's better that the enemies aren't 
 so smart, though. With such wide-open environments to explore, and the odds against you as far 
 as numbers, the game's challenging enough as it is.  

          Get used to peeking around corners -- you'll do it a lot in this game.     

  Advanced 
 Warfighter affords you a good amount of control over your character. You can peek around corners 
 to minimize your exposed profile, as well as kneel or go prone, and you can even dive for cover 
 if you try to go prone while on a dead run. You'll see the AI-controlled characters (both your 
 teammates and enemies) frequently make use of the dive to get under cover. There's also a low-light 
 mode that you'll need to use for darker areas of the game. You can sprint as well, but you'll need 
 to lower your weapon to do so, which can be dangerous if you turn the corner into an enemy, as 
 it takes a second to bring your gun back up. What you don't seem to have at your disposal in this 
 version of the game are smoke grenades. That's a good thing in a sense, as GRAW is demanding enough 
 on your computer, but they sure would have come in handy while assaulting some machine-gun nests. 
 You do at least have a nice array of options in gun load-outs before each mission. Not only can 
 you select from different types of rifles and machine guns, but you can also select from different 
 attachments, such as red-dot scopes, silencers, and grenade launchers.  

  Outside the single-player game, GRAW offers 32-player online play, but the game shipped with only 
 two game modes -- cooperative play for most single missions, as well as a domination mode where players 
 try to control different sections of the map. Before we begin describing those modes, though, we 
 should mention the myriad of problems we ran into while trying to test out GRAW's online play. 
 First of all, the in-game server browser is bug-ridden to the point that it's nearly nonfunctional. 
 The interface you use to login won't work unless you press the enter key after inputting your screen 
 name and your password. As bizarre as it sounds, if you try to use the mouse or tab key to navigate 
 from one input field to another, the login interface will throw you a nondescriptive error message, 
 rendering it impossible for you to browse online games or create your own server. Ubisoft also 
 failed to ship dedicated server software for GRAW as of this writing. This means all the servers 
 you play on are listen servers off people's computers, which makes for a much less consistent experience 
 as far as network performance. Even when you manage to get past all those issues and attempt to 
 connect to the relatively low number of online games that are running at any given moment, most 
 of our attempts to connect to a game ended in failure. Either the browser is broken and is reporting 
 online games that don't exist anymore, or the network software has problems handshaking clients 
 with the available servers.  

  Assuming you actually jumped through all those hoops and managed to connect successfully to a game 
 (or set up your own LAN party) , the multiplayer aspect of GRAW is fairly enjoyable. The cooperative 
 mode is available for up to four players, but if you have fewer players, the computer will control 
 the rest of your squad. The team leader (usually the game host) has access to the tactical map 
 and can issue orders to other players, which appear as waypoints on their screen. What's odd about 
 the cooperative mode in this version of GRAW is that the game ends if the team leader dies. If 
 you're playing with a buddy who isn't the team leader and he dies, though, he immediately jumps 
 into control of one of the AI squadmates. Why this co-op mode is structured so strictly is anyone's 
 guess. Also, a standard terrorist-hunt mode is noticeably lacking, but it's still fun to play and 
 try to coordinate assaults with a few friends in the existing co-op mode.  

  The domination mode is a cross between a standard capture-and-hold mode and the onslaught mode 
 from Unreal Tournament 2004. Zones are divided on a playing field, connected by a weblike network 
 of nodes. In order for your team to capture a zone, it must be connected to a zone you already 
 control. What's interesting about domination is that you don't need to be at any specific spot 
 to contest or capture a zone. Simply enter an area, eliminate all enemies, hole up in any building 
 or hiding spot in the zone, and you can make a capture. This adds to the tension, as there are 
 fewer obvious areas to look for enemies, and any dark alley or window could be a potential death 
 trap, but it can also make the game somewhat chaotic as zones often change hands frequently. There's 
 a point system in the domination mode that rewards you more for capturing areas than killing enemies -- it's 
 often possible to be the team's points leader and have very few kills, while a sniper who sits 
 in one spot and racks up lots of kills won't get many points at all. You use the points you earn 
 to buy new weapons and attachments, but given how quickly and easily players die, having better 
 weapons doesn't afford you much advantage against players who are observant and cunning in their 
 movements. Unfortunately, GRAW only shipped with five playable domination maps, making the overall 
 amount of multiplayer content pretty thin at this point.  

          The tactical map is a flexible tool for planning out assaults or movement.     

  At 
 least there's some salvation to be found in GRAW's sound, which is an excellent complement to the 
 fantastic graphics. The different guns all have unique sound effects, and they're all very sharp 
 and impactful, which adds to the chaos of pitched battles. You'll hear enemies call out to each 
 other in Spanish as they engage you, and the bullets ricocheting around you make the appropriate 
 thunk or plink depending on the type of surface they're hitting. A lot of the voice acting in the 
 game is pulled directly from the Xbox 360 version of the game, and some new lines and parts have 
 been added as well, but the quality remains uniformly excellent all around. You'll hear dynamic 
 music spool up whenever you get into battle or when a scripted sequence starts up, as sort of a 
 cue for you to get ready for action. This music is generally pretty good and adds to the atmosphere 
 but never dominates over the sounds of battle.  

  Given the steep system requirements and, at times, frustratingly hardcore tactical nature of the 
 game, GRAW for the PC certainly isn't for everyone. Also, the major problems with GRAW's multiplayer 
 implementation are a huge disappointment when contrasted with the compelling and challenging campaign. 
 When you consider the overall package, GRAW for the PC just isn't as balanced and refined as it 
 ought to be. If your computer has the necessary horsepower, and you're looking for a hardcore, 
 tactical shooter experience, you'll have a grand time with GRAW's campaign. If you're fiending 
 for some multiplayer shooter action, though, you'll probably be better off staying away from this 
 one until a patch resolves the existing online issues.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (220 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 12:02 am PT
Review:  GRAW is a tactical shooter, somewhat like Rainbow Six but, with engagements long range. 
  
  Reviews suggest that GRAW is not for everyone ... it's not COD, MOH or Delta Force. Of the games 
 I have played it is closer to the Rainbow Six style "tactical shooters" albeit at a different scale 
 of operations. The scale suggests it should be similar to Brothers in Arms however BiA seems to 
 have intuitively more logical commands for the AI team. No doubt it is closest cousins are the 
 Ghost Recon games alas, while I own them, I'm yet to play, as GRAW seemed more interesting to dive 
 into first (plus I like to see the gun my character is holding not just a target reticule) .
  
  GRAW can be a difficult game to categorise; it's not a "pure" tactical shooter on par with, 
 say Rainbow Six or SWAT games ... in GRAW your "battlefield" is the streets and plazas of Mexico 
 City rather than corridors and rooms ... although beware as the enemy is still waiting around the 
 corner! Nor is GRAW a "solo man" player FPS (like COD, COH or MOH) ... you WILL need the assistance 
 of your AI team mates although in two of the eleven (11) missions you will be on your own. The 
 GRAW team AI is OK, but not faultless. You will notice that when you issue orders sometimes the 
 AI moves exactly where you want them and sometimes it's a case of near enough is good enough. Your 
 AI team mates reactions to the "attack" and "cover" commands can vary. I recall instances where 
 the enemy was firing from a distance and you could safely shelter on one side of a low wall ... 
 I issued a move order but my AI team mate went to the wrong side of the wall and he paid the ultimate 
 price. Perhaps it was the heat of battle! 
  
  Enemy AI likewise varies in its quality ... however the guys on the fixed MGs are usually deadly. 
 The tactical map is indispensible in most missions and gives a reasonable handle on where the enemy 
 is whether you want or need to avoid it or attack it. When using the tactical map try to move your 
 team mates provide them with a number of waypoints or they will "improvise" sometimes with unexpected/undesired 
 results like going around the wrong side of a building or other cover and get themselves shot! 
 Occasionally (it happened to me a few times) your AI guys will try to get to a location but due 
 to some obstruction encountered on will become stuck ... simply reissue the move command so they 
 can avoid/walk around/past the obstruction. 
  
  Despite this your AI team mates generally do the right thing but you should avoid using them to 
 "explore" a new map section ... they are more likely to stumble into a crossfire than you are (that 
 is if you use the Q and E buttons to peek around corners before you stick your whole head out) . 
 So scout ahead, use the tactical map and then send them in so that they provide mutual cover (use 
 bounding advances with cover provided diagonally across a street) . 
  
  I try to preserve the whole AI team for later in a particular missions ... you will need them to 
 support you in intense fire fights that sometimes occur in the final stage of a number of missions 
 (eg. I first learned this in the post VIP evacuation section of the "VIP 2 is down" mission and 
 replayed the mission until I progressed to having at least 2 of 3 surviving to get to mission completion) .
 
  
  Remember to use your waypoint marker (yellow triangle on your tactical view that shows up as a 
 distance-to marker on your HUD) to highlight enemey positions/snipers so you can edge out from 
 behind cover to take that all important shot!
  
  Missions in GRAW are reasonably difficult and you WILL need to use your tactical map to work out 
 the best way to "take down" the part of the city you wish to advance to or through. The automatic 
 game save system can be frustrating especially when you have traversed 4 city blocks and are almost 
 at the save point and get taken out ... only to start from the last save point all 
  the way back.
  
  The mission maps do NOT work on a simalar basis to say COD or MOH where you 
 are generally "locked into" progressing in a preordained way ... you pretty much choose your own 
 path. So think like Rainbow Six ... except instead of working out the best way to "take down" an 
 enemy occupied room you need to work on streets (instead of corridors) and plazas (instead of rooms) . 
 If you take this approach you should be able to progress reasonably well. You will die, but the 
 lessons learned will be worth it (as the bad guys generally respawn in the same places and react 
 similarly which to some degree compensates for the lack of quick saves) .
  
  To be honest over the course of the game I have had a "love-hate relationship" with it as I progressed 
 through the missions. At times it seemed it was inordinately difficult to complete a mission. However 
 as the enemy units reappear in (more or less) the same locations you will get through (eventually) 
 but sometimes it seems like a fair bit of luck is involved. Sometimes that surreptitious peek around 
 the corner to check for the enemy is the last thing you will do. Bang!
  
  For the record I found the following the most difficult mission segments ... of course in GRAW 
 there are many ways to skin the cat and perhaps I failed to find the best solution or route:
  
  "VIP 2 is down": the final stand-off at the destroyed US Embassy (after VIP 2 is evacuated) 
 will demand your full attention and as noted above you WILL need your AI teammates to help fend 
 of the multiple asssaults off.
  
  "Mayday! Mayday!": getting past the numerous defending units and then into the castle grounds to 
 spot the artillery unit for destruction by air support. (Beats me why if I can see these targets 
 in my tactical viewer the air support teams can't.) You are on your own in this mission ... your 
 AI teammates are back at base on R&R ... lucky for them!
  
  "Ready for Bear": shooting down the enemy Havoc helicopters seemed to depend more on luck than 
 good management.
  
  "Quarterback": the first section of this mission, getting to the shanty town, had its moments due 
 to a well defended road block and snipers. It's well worth exploring different approaches to try 
 and flank the enemy position, just watch out for snipers!
  
  "Guardrail IX": again you are on your own and getting to the enemy building atop of which sits 
 the antenna that must be destroyed can be frustrating ... I swung out to the west, headed north, 
 and came through the railway yards after several goes using a more direct approach ... just watch 
 out for those snipers in the nearby towers!
  
  The final mission "NORAD on the line" was relatively easy, except for entering the half-destroyed 
 US Embassy ... use the grenade launcher from a distance to clean out the snipers hiding in the 
 rubble on the floors and grenades before you enter the compund.
  
  No one mission is difficult all the way through ... each has its difficult/challenging segments 
 BUT you must complete the whole mission to move to the next one. Oh yes, you will notice that your 
 presumed KIA AI teammates will reappear at the start of the next mission ... presumably rescued 
 via medevac and treated at the local clearing station ready to go go go again! Alas you MUST survive 
 to continue ... no medevac for you!
  
  Note: the first mission is a training mission to teach you the system ... once it is over you can 
 select the equipment loadouts for yourself and AI teammates ... there are three (3) weapons (or 
 2 weapons & extra ammo) you can carry though this is not so clear when you first see the load out 
 screen (the third blank "slot" is used for extra ammo, grenades or the AT launcher) . 
  You cannot pick up enemy weapons or ammo however in some longer missions you are re-supplied. There 
 are no health booster packs ... if you take sufficient damage you die and the mission ends ... 
 ready to be replayed from the last save "checkpoint".
  
  GRAW graphics are very good. I did not notice any of the "bugs" mentioned in other reviews having 
 applied the latest patch (v1.35) and having a top end (late 2008 model) PC. The game is quite atmospheric 
 with deserted streets and rubbish blowing across the the filed of view. 
  
  The music and sound effects are used to good effect. There are numerous weapons choices and I tended 
 to go with the SCAR-L (2nd choice: MR-C) fitted with combat sight and grenade launcher and the 
 MP5-SD combo and extra grenades for the launcher. The grenade launcher is a great way to deal with 
 those dealy enemy HMG set ups and bunkers. I never used the sniper rifle or SMG during the campaign 
 (and always replaced the sniper rifle with an alternate assault rifle for my AI team mate) ... 
 perhaps I'll give these alternate weapons loadouts a go when/if I replay some of the missions.
 
  
  SUMMARY: GRAW is a "realistic" modern combat game. The plausability of the Mexican coup scenario 
 depicted, like all such "modern era" games, is questionable (and as is fashionable these days the 
 rebels are called "terrorists") but this game story is enjoyable in its own right. Graphics are 
 very good, gameplay is excellent (once you get used to it) and be warned this is a difficult game 
 (that, like Men of Valor, can become frustrating because of the save system) . You just need to 
 perservere!
  
  Overall and in retrospect I did enjoy this game and will move onto playing GRAW2 in due course 
 (after finishing Rainbow Six Vegas 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGamer911
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  To make things snappy, in short, GRAW is an awesome game. A computer from 2005 can run it (though 
 not always on high graphics settings) . When you begin to play GRAW the first thing you see is that 
 the in-game version of Mexico City is HUGE. This offers you some detailed streets etc. to travel 
 through. But it also gives enemies many places to hide. If you are in an intense firefight, your 
 fellow ghosts will gun down quite a few of your enemies. Be careful if you are fighting a tank 
 however. Your teamates often lag behind when you order them to follow you making them easy targets 
 for tanks. Anyway, this game is the definition of tactical shooter. You can issue commands to your 
 teamates to cover you, attack an enemy, follow you, or just move to a certain area. The tactical 
 map can also help you find enemies that might be around the corner, which can give you a slight 
 advantage. The multiplayer is awesome, though it can get frustrating to get killed by a sniper 
 over and over and ove... ok you get the point. Playing as the mexican rebels can be fun too. In 
 conclusion, GRAW is a great game, and will appeal to Tom Clancy game veterans and FPS lovers alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  The elite military special forces of the U. S called The Ghost Team are about to embark on their 
 greatest undertaking to date. They have a mission to recover some stolen U. S military technology 
  a communications tool taken by the paramilitary rebel forces. Meanwhile the U. S president and 
 the Mexican president is partaking in negotiations to fight illegal immigrants and drug cartels 
 in the hemisphere.
  The mission starts in an unfortunate manner  The Ghosts get separated during the parachuting, 
 and the area is crawling with hostile forces. A very dangerous series of missions lie ahead.
  
  You play as Commander Mitchell, the leader of the Ghost Recon elite team. The suspense starts 
 the moment you start the game  there's no place for prolonged tutorials which is refreshing. The 
 game takes place in a future version of Mexico City. The areas you play in have been deserted  
 the city is now a combat zone. The city is rich in details and every corner is a potential death 
 trap  the rebel forces are smart and can surprise you when you least expect it!
  Even though the game takes place in and around a huge city, there is some variation to the maps 
 you play on  there are industrial zones, inner city areas, plazas, residential zones, parks, outskirts, 
 suburbs and so on.
  
  As you start making your way to meet up with the rest of your squad, you'll notice that the area 
 is indeed very creepy  there's no sign of anything living. Some empty cans litter the abandoned 
 streets  here and there small fires still live on presumably after an explosion. This really sets 
 the mood of the game as it really puts some contrasts into focus  the dead silent and hollow city 
 streets can quickly become a raging battlefield, once the rebels notice the Ghosts in the vicinity.
 
  
  Before Mitchell has gathered up his squad, he'll encounter the rebels in some intense firefights. 
 The game will give you hints on how the controls work as you go, so it's quite friendly to newcomers 
 to the genre even though it throws you into these life and death situations early on. Your squad 
 members will need orders from you - otherwise they will just be standing around, and you'll have 
 to get used to the CrossCom technology the Ghosts use to issue commands and to communicate with 
 each other.
  Basically this is done like this: you select a member in your team by pressing 1, 2 or 3, and then 
 you bring up the command-list with your middle-mouse button. Simply point on a location with your 
 cross hair and select "move" to command that squad member to move to that location. Other orders 
 are "follow" which will make that squad member follow you or "attack" that will make them assault 
 an location with full force.
  
  When you or someone in your squad spots an enemy, the location of that enemy will automatically 
 be transmitted to your squad (and the intel-satellite watching from above) , and you will see a 
 marker on your screen where that enemy is hiding. You could think that this gives you an unfair 
 advantage, but it really doesn't help that much. If the enemy is hiding behind a wall for a few 
 seconds, the marker will disappear. So you absolutely need to keep an eye out for enemies all the 
 time.
  
  All in all the game works quite well. A miss-click when issuing orders can result in very idiotic 
 orders, such as telling your buddies to run into enemy fire. To make things worse, the squad members 
 can be very slow to react if you regret an order and immediately issue a new one  sometimes they 
 just want to die, or so it seems.
  Other than acting squad leader this game offers some tactical gameplay as there are many ways you 
 can use your squad members and you can use the strategies that you see fit. Mostly this game leans 
 towards being the tactical shoot 'em up that anyone with an affinity towards first person shooters 
 can pick up and love.
  
  As mentioned, the city is detailed and there are literally tens of thousands hiding places where 
 the enemies can hide. They'll shoot you from roofs, around corners, from behind cover and they 
 will use tactics to advance on you once they know where you are. Most of the time though, you'll 
 have plenty of chances to catch them by surprise and not the other way around.
  
  The firefights are outright deadly if you stand in the open. You will be dependent on staying behind 
 corners and lean out to spray some well placed salvos  and the rebels will do the same. You'll 
 have to keep an constant eye on the amount of bullets you have left in your magazine, because if 
 you are caught reloading your weapon at the wrong time you could be risking your life. You'll also 
 be wise to use as little ammunition as possible, because finding new ammo will not be easy in the 
 battlefield.
  
  The game is indeed very hard  even on the "normal" difficulty and that's fine, I really like the 
 challenge and that the enemies feel somewhat realistic. You'll die a lot, and that means that you 
 have to replay a lot  and that can, after a few times take anyones edge away. This is the biggest 
 problem with this game because the loading times between missions are really painfully long  even 
 on a dual core system!
  
  The graphics are good  although they definitely overuse the bloom effects. Everything looks like 
 a dream land of sorts  everything is shining and lush, even though the game is supposed to portray 
 an abandoned city in a miserable state. They also utilize the bump-map technology extensively, 
 which results in some odd looking textures  for example your clothes look like plastic or clay, 
 and the pavement looks like it has been waxed. But the overall art direction follows the theme 
 well and the UI looks futuristic and neat  just like it is supposed to.
  
  This game also runs a bit slow, even on powerful computers  the frame rate is fluctuating very 
 much, and there are slowdowns that should not be  the game does not seem optimized to run on PC 
 computers at all.
  
  The sound and music is great  the ambient music that plays in the game really builds up the tension, 
 the music dynamically changes when you reach certain areas and then changes back when you have 
 taken out the threats. The sound effects are also adding to the drama - you'll hear rebels yell 
 out orders to their allies, and if you happen to kick one of those empty cans lying around you'll 
 hear it clunk away. The theme song also stands out - it's cinematic and simply has an awesome melody.
 
  
  Like the previous Ghost Recon games, this one really relies on the multiplayer. There are some 
 interesting game modes, not seen often like the four player co-op campaign, OGR Cooperative, which 
 is a huge open area where you can play with up to twelve people in three squads and your mission 
 is to cooperate and eliminate the hostile forces in the area. Interesting to note is that in both 
 these modes you are out of the game if you die  with the exception that if you have AI controlled 
 squad members you will take control of one of them.
  
  There's also the Hamburger Hill mode, which pits two teams against each other and the objective 
 is to capture and hold a specific area for the longest time possible  the team that holds the 
 area for the longest time will win the game. There's also your standard deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 games. You'll need to download the latest patch to gain access to all available game modes and 
 maps. With the latest map-pack installed there are 12 multi player maps, which can be used in the 
 different modes.
  
  There aren't that many different weapons you can equip your squad members. There are two assault 
 rifles, a rocket launcher, a sniper rifle and some different grenades plus some light hand guns, 
 and that's about it. This is remarkably notable if you would compare to the previous Ghost Recon 
 games.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a very nice game, but you'll have to be ready for extensive 
 loading times should you play it. Playing the online modes with random people can seem pointless 
 as there usually aren't any strategy involved, but with some friends it can be more than awesome.
 
  If the developers would have optimized the loading times a bit, as well as the graphics renderer 
 - maybe allow users to turn off some of the effects, this game could have been totally mind blowing. 
 If they then also would have continued to develop maps and scenarios and introduce new game modes, 
 this could have become a timeless classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COBHC117
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Let's get a few things straight before I start:
  
  1) I bought this game for $20 in the bargain bin
  2) I didn't actually finish it
  3) I don't 
 own any other Ghost Recon games, but i have played them. 
  
  So I pick this game up from the local store, I only had 20 dollars on me, and i'd heard good things 
 about this game. 
  
  I take it home, install it, everything is fine in this department. (The best and most recent patch 
 for this thing is a bit over 200mb for anyone interested)
  
  So i start to play, figuring i'll get used to single player before jumping online. The game initially 
 seemed decent, although the controls and interactions seem a bit stiff and clunky. But the graphics 
 were good, the action was intense (to a degree) and the tactical side of things was beyond great 
 ( I love the aerial map) .
  
  But then things starting going down hill. The team AI is AWFUL. When issuing a simple follow command, 
 a team member can take up to 10 minutes to join you, although he is only 200 metres away, so i 
 pretty much found my team useless, forcing me to play by myself. It is also a VERY hard game, which 
 isn't necessarily bad, but it didn't feel like the kind of game that was meant to be this difficult. 
 For some reason enemies can spot through walls, and even when their backs are turned to you, making 
 it very hard to obtain stealth kills.
  
  Another thing i noticed was the game was appearing to lag. This isn't possible, I thought (I have 
 a Radeon 4870) . When i payed close attention, i found it wasn't lag, it was the crappy quality 
 of the game. The head bob is INFURIATING, it actually makes you feel, somehow, like your frame 
 rate is around 9! And the painfully slow animations and action, really screw the gameplay up.
 
  
  Multiplayer doesn't work. Enough said. Apparently the patch fixes that, but i can't be bothered 
 d/loading a 210mb patch just so I can play this already mediocre shooter online. 
  
  Steer Clear, unless there's nothing else to play besides Driver3.
  
  Tyler 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickoflancaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  There are a couple of problems with this game:
  Huge Loading time
  Only saves at checkpoints which are too far apart
  The team isn't always very responsive
  
 
  But once you get past these problems it becomes very fun. The ability to set off car alarms and 
 deflate tyres by shooting them is very nice. The ability to perform back slides and dives is also 
 very welcome. The AI are generally smart and quite accurate (Even on EASY!!!) This is a very pleasing 
 game and has some excellent graphics. The multiplayer is very reasonable to. This should be regarded 
 as a definite purchase for strategy FPS lovers. A great buy for a tenner.
  
  Note: sometimes it makes you very mad:
  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
 AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
  
  But it is worth it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  After basically inventing the tactical shooter genre, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six franchise branched 
 out from its embassy-storming, silenced weapons, counter-terrorist roots to focus on more overt 
 military operations undertaken by a special squad known as the Ghosts. The first title, Ghost Recon, 
 was a spectacular success garnering much praise and even a game of the year award from the sexiest 
 website in the business. There were a few decent expansion packs but gamers waiting for a full 
 sequel had to follow the franchise to the consoles. Our hopes for Ghost Recon 2 were flattened 
 when Ubisoft announced they'd be canceling the title to focus on, get this, Ghost Recon 3. 
  
  Whatever convoluted deviations it took on its way here, we don't care. Ghost Recon 3 has finally 
 made its way to the PC and fans of intense, tactical action have a reason to celebrate. The new 
 game offers loads of intense firefights in massive urban settings and some first-rate visuals. 
 While the new title's not without its faults (some of which are downright obnoxious) , it's an easy 
 bet that fans of tactical shooters will definitely get their money's worth with this one. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertdamli
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I bought this game late in 2006. My hardware at the time did not run the game well. 
 I was dissapointed of the game and the hardware requierment. I put it back to the shelves. Then 
 some days ago, I tried to install it since I had got better hardware now. I have a P4 3.0GHZ, 2GB 
 RAM, 8600GT. This game is very GPU demanding. Even with my old CPU, I can run this game on High 
 settings with 4XAS (no AA though) and I am getting an average of 40-45 fps. Yes, at time of release, 
 the game was ahead of its time. Not many had the power to run this beast. If the game was released 
 today, they would sold lots of more copies. 
  
  Because of the steep requierment of release, I think people was thrown of the game. It has for 
 me, everything I want from a tactical shooter. Great graphics, awesome soundeffects from both weapons 
 and impacsounds, great AI that actually hide behind cars etc, they shoot at where you hide for 
 cover even if they cant see you just to hold you away. Not many games has this kind of AI. In 
 all other games I have played, the AI only shoots at you when they see you. In this game they try 
 to flank you, the shoots several rounds after you hide for cover so you need covering fire to get 
 out of it. 
  
  Its so fun playing this game in coop mode. You can make your own levels or download lots of usermade 
 maps. If you hook up on teamspeak, yelling out "covering fire", "frag out" etc its just pure fun! 
 I mostly play coop with friends, and the little time I had played singleplayer was lots of fun. 
 
  
  Graphics is very like COD 4 and Crysis, maybe a low color palette. More richer colours would suite 
 the game. It has some "brownish" theme to it. Also, make sure you patch the game to 1.35. Lots 
 of bugs fixed and you can even start a coop game in multiplayer without opening any ports on you 
 router. 
  
  I think the game was released to quickly. The game without any patch has alot of bugs. Patching 
 it up solves a lot. All maps are big, lots of CQB and also some open areas. the fact you can make 
 maps yourself (need 1.35 patch to get editor) just make the game last longer. 
  
  What I dont like about the game is the lack of weapons. More weapons would be nice. Like Rainbow 
 six lockdown. You have scopes and redpoints, only one sniperrfile, 3 assaultrfiles, 1 machinegun 
 , 1 submachinegun and 2 pistols. You can customice your rifles with grenadelaunchers, redpoint, 
 frontgrip etc, but more weapons would be nice. Also, in multiplayer, you have the same choice of 
 weapons if you join US or Mexico. Also the low color palette and brownish theme is something I 
 wish was better. 
  
  If you are tired of CS: S and want some great online coop multiplayer with friends, I would higly 
 recommend this game. As of today standards, you can run this game in high settings and make sure 
 you play it on a 5.1 system! Just awesome sounds. Best weaponssounds I have ever heard in a game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the storyline. Still a Tom Clancy game at heart, GRAW puts you in command of Captain 
 Scott Mitchell and a trio of ghosts as they enter Mexico City, Mexico, to oversee the implementation 
 of the tri-country trade pact, NASJA. The game commences with a functional training session, but 
 it's the first in-game, real-time cutscene that gets you pumped. You start in a helicopter and 
 overlook the enormity of Mexico City, one of the highest populated cities in the world. Mitchell 
 perches in the open side of a Blackhawk, hands clasping a heavy caliber machine gun, as it flies 
 over what looks like 20 square miles of finely detailed urban architecture, countryside, and concrete.
 
  
  The storyline hasn't changed much as a narrative, but the way in which it's told and presented 
 is skillfully and artfully handled. When the helicopter lands, there is no rendered cutscene, no 
 cut to load screen, no transition from the ideal graphics to the unfortunate and actual graphics. 
 Nah, when you fly over that beautiful, enormous city and land, you step out right into it and start 
 playing. You're going to experience this seamless transition again and again, but the feeling just 
 doesn't get old. The resulting emotion is one of continuity, of unending intensity and spontaneity. 
 Technically, you get a real-world feeling, or at the very least, you're given very good reasons 
 to believe in the continuity of that world, without technical distractions or limitations snapping 
 the spell. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game is just too freakin hard.
  You're teammates dont help AT ALL. They just sit there and get shot at in the back without returning 
 fire. You give them a location to go to and they end up in the middle of the street WITHOUT cover 
 and get killed.
  The AI sees you a mile away (sometimes even through a small space like a hole in the wall or window) 
 and kills you with a couple shots. Even if you do sneak on them and peak around a corner they'll 
 do a quick 180 and start shooting even before you do anything. The game allows you to save ONLY 
 at certain checkpoints that are 30 mins of gameplay away from each other. Don't get me wrong the 
 presentation and feel of the game is amazing like gamespot said but for crying out loud... how 
 am i supposed to have fun with this if i have to deal with such crap in a game EVEN on EASY?
  Oh and the enemy has some sort of ridiculous granade/rocket launcher gun that keeps on firing shells 
 at you at about 2 second intervals without EVER reloading, so your pretty much screwed unless you 
 have an entire building between you and that thing or manage to shoot it while its turning towards 
 you. I don't know if the developers wanted you to go all around the city JUST to find an easier 
 route but when you can't save and if you die you have to start all over, id rather take my chances 
 with the rocket launcher guy shooting me like his gun is on steroids.
  This game is so crappy because of all this junk happening, the intent was awesome and i can see 
 what they wanted to do but seriously, FIX THE SAVEGAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belvucker
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I believe that gamespot has been a little brutal for scoring this game just for it's steep requirements, 
 like I mean look at Crysis... the graphics are nice and the engine is real cool but it gets fairly 
 boring after playing it for a while. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter has pretty good gameplay for 
 a tactical shooter and it accompolishes that very well. The story is alright not the best I've 
 ever seen but it will work, the sound of the weapons is very convincing makes you feel you are 
 actually there and fighting. The Envrioment of the game is amazing with breathtaking insertions 
 of Mexico city you feel like your there. I agree with the difficulty of this game, but I'll let 
 you in on a secret, you can reload at checkpoints and you and your team will recover to full health. 
 
  
  In conclusion, if you are looking for a realistic tactical shooter, I really suggest you give this 
 a shot, I believe it's "one" of the best tactical shooters for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muttley_69
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Yeah really totaly lame Hand Grenade controlability on this game, heck I myself mustve thrown different 
 types of grenades when I was in the Army and what I know is that a normal time fuse burns for about 
 5 seconds - not a split second like the one on this game that always just ends up killing your 
 character. Also this game has the hardest if not lousiest directional throwing of the grenades, 
 in real life even a 3 year old can "bounce" a frag with ease, unlike in this game where you try 
 to ricochet it and the grenade just bounces back in front of your feet - guys cmon really lame 
 throwing there now!
  
  AI - ahh yes Artificial Intelligence of your 3 Amigos in the team... WORST EVER! 
  
  No intelligence 
 in there if theyre supposed to be the best special forces soldiers well why the heck would they 
 be not too smart and get themselves right into the line of enemy fire and into the killing zone?
 
  
  You tell them to go to a certain place and they wander off somewhere else - now thats an obedient 
 soldier who follows orders alright! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I was looking for something differant in the FPS gender, having played too many of the popular 
 FPS's just too many times.
  
  It's on sale for $9.99 now (mar/08) so I've nothing to lose. - So here are my thoughts:
  
  
 Difficult beyond reason. Why not make easy easy and hard hard so players can select their skill 
 level? Easy is not easy, You die all the time and it becomes tiersome repeating the same level 
 time after time after time.
  
  Checkpoint save system.
  
  Graphics are very good but lack strong colours. Most everything looks to be a shade of brown. Can 
 be very difficult even at high setting to see a brown enemy on a brown background. Still the detail 
 of the city is well done.
  
  Controls are standard FPS but the interface with the sqaudmates is mildly awkward and I find myself 
 getting bored a constantly having to mash buttons all the time to order my sqaud around.
  
  Simple tasks are made difficult by awful player/game interface. Let me give an example. You need 
 to go to the roof of a garage to be resupplied. Your mission is to destroy a tank yet your most 
 powerful weapon is a grenade laucher. Now in any other game ever made by man you would have found 
 a rocket laucher at the resupply point. NOT in this game. Instead you need to know that even though 
 this weapon is nowhere in sight that by going into your weapon inventory and clicking on a blank 
 slot it magically appears. 
  
  Tactical vs standard FPS. -- The enemy is in fixed positions and will shoot you the second you 
 stick a hair out from around a corner. I'm pretty sure they all have gold metals in olympic shooting 
 events. It becomes nearly a puzzle game in how to approach each shoot-out and you simply try differant 
 methods over and over and over and over and over til you figure it out. You die and die and die....................... over 
 and over.
  
  If you are patient -- very patient -- this is a good but extremely challaging game. Make the game 
 a little easier and better explain the player/game interface and this game would be a 9.
  
  I'll give it a 6 --- but for $9.99 it's a bargooooooon. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Reviewed on a
  3.2 HT P4
  1.5 DDR2 ram
  ATI 1900xtx
  With Surround Sound
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter for the PC is a game that tastes bittersweet in the 
 gamers mouth. Fortunately, the sweet outweighs the bitter by far.
  
  GRAW puts you in the shoes of a member of the elite Ghost squad tasked with ridding Mexico of a 
 bunch of rather irritable, and surprisingly well trained and accurate guerrillas. It's yet another 
 dragged out faux Clancy plotline which is merely a shell of a vehicle to escalate violence and 
 action.
  
  From the moment I installed the game and began playing I was quite overjoyed to see that the Ghost 
 Recon classic first person perspective had returned, as had the tactical map with a myriad of improvements. 
 From the initial drop off in Mexico city it's immediately recognizable that this game will take 
 some getting used to. I hadn't played any of the Ghost series games in some time, hence the learning 
 curve was rather high.
  
  Once you get your sea legs, however, the payoff gameplay wise is well worth it, shortly after landing 
 in Mexico you get your squad together and begin crawling across some huge levels in Mexico City. 
 These levels are based on real world locations and evoke a very eerie sense of tension, as you 
 never know who is going to be around the next corner. Due to the high amount of city blocks and 
 buildings the game is extremely non-linear in it's pacing sometimes. The route you choose to take 
 is your own, though it should be noted that some routes have far less cover then others.
  
  The squad mechanics work swimmingly, as a simple scroll mouse allows you to easily select one or 
 all of your squadmates and give them simple commands to move or cover you. The squad AI does admirably 
 only ever so occasionally getting itself into a humiliating situation. You'll find that you're 
 going to want to doing alot of your command work on the tactical map. This map allows you to see 
 squadmates, buildings, paths, objectives, friendlies and enemies and it allows you to set way points 
 and cover zones for your squad.
  
  While I couldn't find too many people playing multiplayer, I did attempt some co-op with a friend 
 which was VERY fun, so I'm certain GRAW's devs have some good edge on it's multiplayer aspects.
 
  
  Easily one of the most useful tools at your disposal is the Marine Cypher drone capable of flying 
 high and spotting enemies and placing them on your map. This cypher is capable of saving you time 
 after time giving you the jump on guerrillas who always seem to spot you first.
  
  All in all gameplay is a cut above most squad shooters and I found it extremely entertaining, if 
 a bit difficult. My only qualms would be it's poor learning curve, very occasional AI problems, 
 and it's sparse checkpoints, which get very bothersome in the latter levels as you will die often.
 
  
  Graphics wise GRAW is a very nice looking game with some nice HDR, and depth of field, in addition 
 to some excellent post processing and mapping on soldiers and environments. The game can become 
 stale in some metropolitan areas when you aren't in a firefight, but when in the heat of battle 
 the physics system and particle effects are extremely entertaining as cars and boxes and trucks 
 fall apart and become useless as cover.
  
  One serious limitation of GRAW's graphics is it's lack of anti-aliasing, unfortunately due to the 
 engine it is incapable of utilizing this feature which is standard on most current and next gen 
 games. One must crank up the resolution (which may be painful depending on your GPU, not that I'd 
 know about that) to higher levels in order to achieve better quality. Another problem is it's lack 
 of graphics customization, but as I'm not sure what the engine can do I will recant.
  
  Soundwise it is excellent, with some truly nice ambience of a city under seige which invokes a 
 nice tension. The gunshots and explosions are dead on, and the music, while sparse, is very nice. 
 Overall, the voice acting is standard military fare and does it's job nicely and coherently. In 
 terms of stereo quality the sound actually becomes a viable tactical tool as enemies are often 
 heard shouting orders while out of sight, this can mean the difference between life and death.
 
  
  Overall, GRAW is a great shooter, hampered by a few graphical issues, and a scant few gameplay 
 flaws which bump it down a few points. It's attempt to return to it's roots, while not totally 
 successful, is a victory for a lot of fans of the original series. GRAW is a DEFINITE must though, 
 for any fan of a challenging and entertaining squad shooter, regardless of your opinions on earlier 
 Ghost Recon titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter
  This is the first installment in the Advanced Warfighter series from Ghost Recon, and i gotta say... its 
 amazing... fantastic graphics and gameplay. although i first played Advanced Warfighter 2, this is 
 been better compared to the latest. The gameplay and the storyline is pretty good. The tactical shooter 
 experience and the strategy needed to accomplish the missions are the highlighted features when 
 compared to other FPS games. The graphics especially is amazing... the details in and around the 
 city is awesome. the realism involved poses an added challenge. the learning curves needed for an 
 average gamer will be around an hour or soo.... the tactical map is pretty cool and provides flexibility 
 in ordering the Recon team. This game in a way is partly strategic, the times when the player has 
 to control the tanks and the infantry.
  
  The downside of this game has to be the AI of the Recon Team. they tend to 'disobey' your orders 
 and stand in the line of fire ! everythin else is perfect... i gotta say this game is a must have 
 for all those who love a challenging Tactical shooter game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Since this game is several years old I'm writing this review from the perspective of someone that's 
 been playing it off and on over the 2007 year. I won't bore you with the game plot details as Gamespots 
 review covers those in detail. Suffice to say the story is somewhat engaging and works well enough 
 to tie the missions together.
  
  The gameplay and graphics are the real treat for this game though. Commanding a squad of 4 has 
 never been so effortless and enjoyable. Your teammates AI is pretty solid most of the time and 
 you may find that issuing simple move orders is about all you need to do to get your teammates 
 to work together effectively. Once in position their impressive AI usually has them responding 
 appropriately. They are also generally good shots and unless overwhelmed will most likely come 
 out on top. That's not to say that they don't need some hand holding from time to time but most 
 of time they are a joy to have around. 
  
  The graphics are stunning even by todays standard. HDR effects along with realistic shadows make 
 the incredibly detailed and expansive Mexico City look fantastic. You really feel just like you 
 are there. And with a med-range system by todays standards (AMD 4200, 2GB RAM, ATI 1800) the game 
 runs effortlessly at maximum detail.
  
  Gamespots biggest gripe was the steep system requirements and poor mutliplayer. For me, this game 
 was well worth the money as a single player only experience. Any mutilplayer is just a bonus. Having 
 not tried the multiplayer I can't comment on whether or not the patch fixes the issues Gamespot 
 experienced but I can tell you if you just want an incredible campaign look no further, this game 
 delivers in spades! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  There're 3 imptnt points about GRAW that should be mentioned:
  
  1. The game demands exreme sys. req. Hmmm. A 3 or 4 years-old PC should run it but you've got to 
 set options down to low in order to have a smooth gameplay.
  
  /* PS:
  We'd the same problem about SC4: DA and RS6: Vegas and a few other UBISOFT's games. do these Ubi 
 ppl think that everyone can upgrade his/her PC time by time? Can't they make things easier for 
 ppl who can't upgrade this much rapidly?
  */
  
  2. The game is damn HARD! (And the fact that you can't save on your own and you've to reach checkpoints 
 makes it harder.) You'll experience a lot of pain in your @$$ until you learn how to manage yor 
 team's process. You've got to adopt yourself to gameplay and learn tactics quickly otherwise you'll 
 be bored by watching the LOAD and CHOOSE CHECKPOINT TO LOAD screen on and on. (Because in this 
 game you'll be killed so easily if you act silly during any fight) Using Tactical Map would be 
 helpful then.
  
  3. Your teammates don't look like neither ghosts nor soldiers nor an advanced warfighters. They're 
 suffering Low IQ! (AI I mean. LOL!) And because of so much loud noises of gunshots and explosions 
 they can't hear your orders very well (!) Don't you get upset on them! So don't rely on them very 
 much. Sometimes you really feel better while you go through the fight alone. Ubi guys really tried 
 their best to make a cooprative game for us but with those stupid teammates you can't expect very 
 much.
  
  * Don't overload your characters like hell! During the game, sometimes you've got to quickly run 
 for covers and if you get overloaded you won't be very quick then. Some equipments that can't be 
 ignored in order to lower your character's weight are:
  Handguns: Useful for close and shortrange combat. But because most of the game takes place in open 
 spaces, I can hardly say that you might really need that. So simply remove it out of your gear 
 box.
  Sub Machine Guns: They are as same as handguns and they're also inaccurate. Don't bother yourself 
 assigning and customizing them. Assualt rifles are your best friends. While customizing keep in 
 mind that SILENCERS are NOT a NEED. They're good but they won't make difference to your gameplay 
 very much.
  
  * Grenade is the best choice against canon's or machine gun's nests. Especially when you can't 
 figure out anyway to cross them normally or by using map. So use them carefully as they're limited 
 in your hand.
  
  * Use your tactical map often. It's a good feature of this game that you can continue playing and 
 managing your team on map mode. Sometimes when you get pinned down it's the only way to get the 
 hell out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepop4who
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is one of the best games I have played in a long while, but it doesn't mean it is the best. 
 The game is definitely A+ on graphics and sound, but the certain annoyances keeps the game at bay. 
 You play as Captain Mitchell, the team leader of the US spec-ops team to go into Mexico to fight 
 terrorists. Although you are accompanied by up to 3 team members, the mission can get quite hard 
 as there is no med-packs and ammo is scarce. This is a realistic change from other shooters but 
 the difficulty quickly ramps up on later mission, especially on missions where you have to go solo.
 
  
  The variety of weapons in this game is one of the finer points of GRAW. There six different weapons: 
 1 sniper (bolt action) , 1 heavy machine gun (SAW-variant) , and 4 assault rifles (the discontinued 
 XM8, SCAR-L &amp; H, and a weird looking gun which name i forgot) . There are also 2 sub-machines 
 gun and 2 pistols as sidearms. Of course, you'll get your usual assortment of grenades, both frag 
 and rifle-mounted. The arsenal of weapons is neither overwhelmingly complicated nor disappointingly 
 simple. Additionally, the fact that you can customize your weapons adds the authenticity of being 
 a spec-ops.
  
  The amount of tactic and planning is overwhelming for players who like counter strike or FEAR, 
 but those of us who prefer a slower-paced, military shooter, this is a game you should definitely 
 check out. Gamespot's rating of 7.8 is way too low for a game this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Ever since i've bought this game i've had mixed reactions. Sometimes it's brilliant, other times 
 i'm having a difficult time restraining myself from snapping the disk in half. First let me say 
 that this game has the best use of physics that i have ever seen. it's incredible the detail. for 
 example, i threw a grenade into the middle of a street. it blew up, the traffic light above it 
 realisticlly went up, snapped off of it's cord, and then game down. the nearby cars had their glass 
 shattered, some of them had their doors fall off. you get the idea. It looks incredible, and the 
 changability of guns is great. The plot is simple, but not really stupid. your teamates, when cooperative, 
 are fun to control and it's great that you can see the world from their eyes. the overhead map 
 is great aswell, it's like being able to switch from playing and fps to an rts whenever you like. 
 now onto the bad. It's brutally difficult, to the point that i uninstalled it twice before i finally 
 got through it, your teamates all seem to have downsindrome as they constantly get stuck behind 
 cars, small concrete blocks, and the like with no attempt to go around them, they are about as 
 accurate with a gun as a chipmunk is with one. yet your enemys can hit you every time from 1 mile 
 away. despite this list of problems, it's still a fun game when the ai works, and if you are a 
 fan of strategy fps's, you should get this for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I tried playing this game for maybe a total of 2 hours.
  
  Here are my observations.
  
  In terms of bugs, and the production value of the game, it isn't bad. It is a triple A game in 
 terms of there not being bugs, the graphics being decent, and the aspects of the game working as 
 they are meant to be. That being said, the game-play controls and overall design concept are not 
 good at all.
  
  The game is a squad based shooter. You get dropped into Mexico City, and the storyline is basically 
 you taking out Mexican terrorists. You have three squad mates. Their AI and ability to actually 
 help you kill the bad guys is actually not that bad. However, the way to control them is very complicated 
 and not intuitive at all.
  
  The way you use the mouse to place them for taking out targets is very wonky. It doesn't feel right. 
 You select the squad mate and click the center mouse button and then left click after scrolling 
 up or down from the menu that pops up and then they perform the action according to where you left 
 click. Doing this for 3 men is extremely time consuming and frustrating.
  
  The brutal difficulty of the game makes it completely unaccessible to all but the most hardcore 
 fans of the squad based shooter genre. And even they won't necessarily enjoy the clunkiness of 
 the game-play mechanics.
  
  You and your squad mates die after taking one or two bullets, even on the easiest difficulty setting. 
 Add the fact that you have to reach a certain point in the mission to even have the game saved 
 is a real pain. You have to constantly redo a huge part of the mission and survive just to get 
 to the point of saving. Also, enemies also die after taking one bullet from you. Basically you 
 need to take them down very quickly before they even see you.
  
  The last thing I will mention is that this game is probably the most graphics intensive game I 
 have ever played on my computer. It is even more taxing on the hardware than Oblivion.
  
  The game was designed to use the AEGIA physics card, which calculates physics. Unfortunately, it 
 makes regular graphics cards cry in inferiority.
  
  I have an AMD 3800+, 1 GB RAM, and a Nvidia 7300 GT graphics card.
  On the medium settings the 
 game ran pretty poorly. My frames per second were pretty bad and there were lost of slowdowns that 
 were very noticeable.
  
  However, you have to run the game on at least medium setting with a 1024x768 or something like 
 that for the game not to look like crap - because on low graphics setting the game really, really, 
 really looks crappy and you can see the edges all blurry, and the game starts to look like a Direct 
 X 8.0 game.
  
  Overall, the brutal difficulty, hefty system requirements, and wonky gameplay controls make this 
 game unrecommendable to all but pretty much the hardcore squad based shooter fans. If you are new 
 to the genre and have never played a squad based shooter don't buy this game, period.
  
  If you have a good system and you are at least somewhat deep into liking the genre, and have played 
 all the other squad based games and want something new, the $20 price tag could make the game a 
 worthwhile purchase, based on the low price.
  
  And for those in between, I would recommend not buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midfingr
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  For anyone wanting a challenge, this game is for you. When I first started to play this game, I 
 was a little daunted by the difficulty. However, I eventually learned to use the tactical map efficiently 
 enough to finish the game.
  
  I really liked the cam view of your team mates and the UAV, nice touch for the PC version. The 
 graphics are pretty heavy for older machines (3-4 yrs) , but it's still very much playable. My machine 
 is about 3 years old and it handles the game fairly well, with the odd glitch here and there.
 
  
  Probably the most frustrating part of GRAW is the A. I. of your team members. They sometimes lose 
 their way, or walk straight in to a machine gun nest, and even refuse to take orders. But by taking 
 things slow, using the tactical map, you can get them to do some reasonable tasks with a respectable 
 amount of efficiency. I think the sniper has the best A. I. and seems to be more careful than the 
 others.
  
  The sound is simply stunning. The pulse pounding music in intense battles, plus some really nice 
 weaponry effects makes the game more enjoyable. I would give the sound a 10 out of 10 for it's 
 realistic and appropriate drama music.
  
  The overall gameplay is good, with some quirks, but not too many. The computer enemy A. I. is fairly 
 good and will try to flank and hide from you. This makes GRAW worthwhile, the challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammy_Dodger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  After five years of waiting, the sequel to Ghost Recon has made it to the PC, and the wait has 
 been worthwhile.
  
  Set in Mexico City in 2013, the US President has gone missing (how careless) , the country is descending 
 into civil war, and the US Army is caught in the middle. You play as Captain Scott Mitchell of 
 the elite Ghost Recon unit.
  
  You lead your four man team (and occasionally strike out on your own) on various missions to rescue 
 the president, destroy crucial rebel targets, protect US interests, and so on. You command your 
 men using a simple menu system, pointing at where you want them to go using the HUD and selecting 
 the relevant action from the menu. Alternatively, you can use an overhead tactical map, which is 
 sometimes better as it offers greater precision in laying out your tactics.
  
  There are also air strikes and armoured units occasionally at your disposal. You command the tanks 
 in a similar manner to your men and can designate targets for fighter-bombers and helicopter gunships.
 
  
  Your squad, despite its size, is well-armed with assault rifles, machine guns, sniper rifles, grenade 
 launchers, anti-tank weapons and so on. The selection is not huge, but then I had always found 
 the massive lists of weapons in games such as Rainbow Six rather bizarre anyway. Can you really 
 spend that much time weighing up the pros and cons of two different guns? As long as they shoot, 
 lets go!
  
  The AI of your team is generally very impressive, they follow orders sensibly, will take cover 
 and return fire by themselves and keep you informed of targets. The sniper is especially good, 
 frequently taking down enemies before you have even seen them! Sadly, they do still do stupid things 
 like getting stuck on scenery, firing at targets they cant possibly hit, getting in the way and 
 ignoring waypoints, but its not too frequent. Its also a shame that your men lack a personality. 
 They are just names and there is no banter or conversation, despite the amount of time you spend 
 together, which is a shame.
  
  Enemy AI is a mixed bag. Often, enemy soldiers dont move much, they stay still and wait to be 
 killed by the Ghosts rather than organise themselves and go on the offensive. Their fire is accurate 
 especially the machine gunners - and they take cover reasonably well, though.
  
  One shot can kill in this game, but you can survive a few hits thanks to the body armour both you 
 and your team wear. Your progress is saved by checkpoints (no quick save here) which are mostly 
 spaced out evenly, but there can be some frustration where difficult sections have checkpoints 
 miles apart. Once you have to reload to the last checkpoint, yours and your teams health appears 
 to return to 100%, which can be handy when the going gets toucgh. GRAW can be pretty hard in places 
 so you need all the help you can get. Brilliantly, if you are shot up pretty badly, you can use 
 the tactical map and HUD to command your men effectively enough to get them to do most of the fighting 
 for you. They are surprisingly efficient.
  
  Graphically, GRAW is very good. Youll need a hefty PC to run it, but its worth it. Spend some 
 time reading up on tweaking the game on the various websites around the net to get the most out 
 of it. Music is also great and sound is full of all the usual bangs and stuff you would expect.
 
  
  This is an easy game to pick up and play, but you cant rush in to any of its scenarios. Forward 
 planning, slow and steady movement and quick and effective use of your men are all rewarded in 
 the combat situations you will come across. GRAW has its niggles, but when its good its jaw-droppingly 
 brilliant, and for that it is well worth 5 stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theclint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  i remember buying this game a year ago, not playing it because i had a 9800 and it didn't run good. 
 i started it up recently and i couldn't believe it, running on a x1900xt and a dual core cpu it 
 runs amazing, im too lazy to patch it because of my saved games but i want a higher resolution 
 then 1290x920.
  overall the graphics and game play is amazing and now im waiting for graw 2. the multilayer inst 
 bad but graw 2 is more promising with a new game type.
  the AI can do a lot better as they don't really react realistically. i could stand in front of 
 one and it would take them a couple of seconds to see me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petsfed
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I guess the three greatest criticisms I can level against GRAW are these:
  
  1) It cuts out most of the Ghost Recon-y goodness that made the original so awesome (that is, 6-man 
 teams with fast swapping between team members; persistent teams, so losing a man means he's out 
 for the campaign but using him often means he becomes a better soldier; legitimate use of the Recon 
 portion; etc) .
  
  2) Horrifically bad friendly AI, to the point that you never got a chance to pick up on the horrifically 
 bad enemy AI. Seriously, setting a waypoint behind cover only for the teammate in question to instead 
 run in front of the machine gun nest is to be expected. When you start adjusting your play style 
 to adapt to the nuances of the AI, you've got terrible AI.
  
  3) Bizarre design choices on the part of GRIN. They've gone to great lengths to fix these problems 
 in the sequel, but having your only option for a sniper/designated marksman rifle is a single shot 
 anti-material rifle is just inexplicable. Sure, if my team was just hanging out in a bell tower 
 picking off insurgents (as the semi-auto cousin of this rifle is in fact used in Iraq, at time 
 of writing) , it would make sense. But for a highly mobile infantry squad, it makes no sense. Likewise, 
 save points are hundreds of yards and dozens of enemies apart, and invariably following intense 
 firefights. Sure, on easy its not difficult to run a mission with zero losses, but set it to normal 
 or hardcore and these checkpoints seem unreasonably cruel, in light of the absence of even a quicksave 
 optioin.
  
  These gripes out of the way, the command interface is brilliant and the Advanced Warfighter system 
 is invaluable, to the point that I can't imagine operating without it (overdependence is quite 
 the liability when switching to other games that aren't similarly equipped, or certain levels where 
 you are denied it via the video game equivalent of a McGuffin) . The urban setting is incredibly 
 high tension and it demands proper planning and coordination between your squad to survive.
  
  The plot is hokey, but the situations feel real, and as the game goes on, Mexico City becomes 
 more and more of a warzone, ending in a climactic battle before the American Embassy.
  
  I enjoyed this game, I just could've enjoyed it a little bit more were it not for a few immersion 
 breakers, specifically the bad AI and the strange design choices.
  
  The game is far too short and with extremely limited replay if you don't care for multiplayer. 
 However, what it gives you is worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  I am without a Xbox 360 as of right now. So being the huge Tom Clancy fanboy that I am I decided 
 that I would have to settle with the PC version of Advanced Warfighter (GRAW) , because my only 
 other option was on the Ps2 which is getting even worse reviews then the PC version. I say that 
 the PC version of GRAW is a mixed bag, because I had some problems with the game that others did 
 not have (objectives not working etc.) so in the end it is really up to you whether the twenty 
 bucks is worth it. In my opinion it is, because if you cannot get the single player to work, the 
 game offers a great multiplayer mode that is definately worth the twenty dollar price tag.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter plays more like the original Ghost Recon for the PC and Xbox 
 than Ghost Recon 2 or the Xbox 360 version of GRAW. Unlike being in third person like the 360 version 
 the game is all in first person (think of Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Raven Shield and you have an 
 idea what the screen looks like) . The team control is fluid and it doesn't take to much time to 
 figure out. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter on the PC is hands down one of the hardest games that 
 I have ever played in my life. The decent-at-best A. I of the previous two games has been replaced 
 by Far Cry level A. I. The single player game is like I said before a mixed bag. Although the game 
 does provide a thrilling campaign that will keep you on your toes the single player has two 'issues' 
 (I try not to call them problems because they can vary between players) . The first would be that 
 the single player portion of the game is ultra difficult. Like I said before the A. I. is amazing, 
 and this game will take you along time to finish. For example, after four hours of gameplay I was 
 only on the second level. The second would be that the game can be buggy at times. I had problems 
 with an objective not working like it should, but other people didnt have this problem, so whether 
 or not there is a patch that fixes this or not, its just kind of random almost it seems.
  
  The multiplayer is really fun, although you will need to download some patches because the game 
 modes were lacking in the beginning. I have not played the game on Xbox Live, but this is a nice 
 alternative.
  
  The graphics in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter are the highlight of the game. The requirments 
 are high, but if you have the hardware to run them you will be well rewarded. Now I have not played 
 the Xbox 360 version, but I have a feeling that on the highest setttings this game looks just as 
 good if not better than the 360 version. Buying a video card for this game may have a steep price, 
 but chances are you will be running it for years.
  
  Like every Tom Clancy game the sound is amazing. The explosions sound amazing, as do the guns. 
 There is not much to say here except for the fact that the sound is awesome.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, is a must for series fans who are still without a Xbox 360 as 
 it is the best alternative. Even though the single player is buggy the twenty dollar price tag 
 is worth it for the amazing multiplayer. I would like to say however that even though I had a blast 
 with this game, I will most likely definately play the Xbox 360 version as almost every review 
 website says that it is superior to this version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper5030
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow, most of the time I agree with Gamespot's ratings, usually we're on the same page. We have 
 to see alot in a game in order to be impressed. That's why I'm so confused as to why we didn't 
 see eye to eye on this game.
  
  First of all, if you give a freaking game a 9.0+ score on one console, and they come out with the 
 same game another with even more features, potential, and replay value, then why the heck would 
 you rate the latter ANY lower? I don't know if it's because it came out later or what, but I really 
 don't agree with the criteria that the staff member that reviewed this game was looking for. I 
 base a game's rating in my mind on it's gameplay, graphics, quality, etc. Who cares if the requirements 
 are high? What does that have to do with how good a game is? Other games that are out now like 
 F. E. A. R., Neverwinter Nights 2, C&amp; C 3 that I've played are much more demanding on my system. 
 I guess my point is that even though for it's time it might have been too much for the PC (I wouldn't 
 know cuz I just got it) the game itself is extremely well polished with tons of replay value that 
 hasn't been credited to it. Let's put it this way, I've played practially every major FPS for the 
 PC and this is my favorite. It's definately the most realistic and the most dynamic (not the same 
 old thing every time you play) of them all. In my book, the single player aspect of it is up there 
 with HL2, though a very different style of play. And multiplayer just plain freaking rocks!!! So 
 many different playing modes, ranging from 1-30+ players at a time. If you're looking for a FPS 
 with so much realism you feel your heart pounding just about ever second of it, GET THIS GAME!!! 
 (and get 5.1 surround speakers, too) I'm hard to impress, but this game definitely did it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Bought it ... played it ... loved it ! That's what i can say about GRAW . Before i got used to the 
 controls i found it frustrating ... very frustating . I was getting killed big time , maybe because 
 i wasn't used to this kind of slow passed FPS . In fast passed shooters you can regain your health 
 using health packs , the entire communist army can shoot at you and u ain't dead... **** that. 
 Games like graw require a bit of brain from the player . Strategy must be planed before going in 
 the battle and if u've done something wrong , well , you get a bullet and you're down. The Diesel 
 Engine 6 does his job well , nice textures , effects , physics and realy gives life to the enviromnent.
 
  About the AI ... the enemys shoot a bit to well ( that is realy annoying ) and your team mates 
 are quite dumb :) ) When ordered to follow you , they lag behing a good distance , and when ordered 
 to move to a specific spot , they go to another.
  But the gameplay , sound , graphics and the story line are excellent and all in all they make an 
 good product. It's a must-have if you ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spgmaple
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warrior, is a great game that is demanding on both your computer, and you. 
 Here is a basic overview of the game, and its pros and cons.
  
  Campaign: The campaing is fun and innovative. The views of mexico city are beautiful, whether it's 
 when you are parachuting in over Mexico City, or flying in in your Blackhawk. The campaing is just 
 long enough so it doesn't get boring, and it is enjoyable all the way through. The campaing is 
 also extremely hard, because of the odds that do not favor you at all, and the fact that it only 
 takes a few shots to take you down, and this is on normal.
  
  Presentation: The graphics, well, they're wonderful. On my laptop with 4 gb of ram and an Nvidia 
 7950 Go GTX graphics card, i can max the game out at 1680-1050 resolution and it looks absolutely 
 stunning. The explosions are beatiful, the guns look real, and the character models look very real, 
 with shadows casting well on them and they have very well textured body armor. The sound is also 
 great, whether it is the gunfire, the explosions, the sound of a tank or apc driving down a roud, 
 the sound is incredible, there's not much else to say. However, if you do not meet the recommended 
 requirments, or just barely meet them, this game does not look nearly as good and can get very 
 sluggish during large firefights and explosions, as I experienced on my other computer, which just 
 barely met the recommended system requirements.
  
  AI: Here is where the game goes from Extrordinary to, well, just good. All in all the enemy AI 
 is good, and responds well to situations. It's actually ok that the enemy AI isn't any better, 
 or the game would be even harder, and it's already plenty hard. The real problem with the AI is 
 your allies. The other ghosts lag nearly 30 feet behind when you tell them to follow you, and it 
 can get frustrating to keep having to give them move orders, just so that they stay with you. Also, 
 sometimes, when you tell them to move behind cover, they seem to not realize that they are being 
 fired at, and go a few feet past the cover before they engage the enemy. However, assuming that 
 they stay with you and you get them behind cover, they are fairly efficient at taking enemies down.
 
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer had many issues to start, and even after numerous patches, still has 
 problems a little too frequently. Logging on can be a pain, and, assuming you can get logged on, 
 it can be hard to find a server with enough players to make the game enjoyable. However if you 
 do log in, and you do find a server that has enough people, the multiplayer is fairly enjoyable 
 with decent variety, and can lengthen the time you spend playing the game by a decent amount.
 
  
  Overview: Overall, Ghost Recon: Advanced Warrior is definitely worth the buy. With extraordinary 
 graphics, an enjoyable campaing that can last you a long time due to it's difficulty, and a somtimes 
 enjoyable multiplayer, it will last you for a long time, at least until GRAW 2 comes out for the 
 PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced WarFighter is the best tactical shooter that I have played. If you you have 
 the technical requirements then you will have a fun time with this game s heart pounding action. 
 GRAW is said by lots of people to be hard and that is why they don't like it and the truth is that 
 they are sucky at gaming and give up as soon as they die and go back to the beginning of a level 
 or just stop and that makes a bad gamer. GRAW pushes tactical and strategic shooting to the limit. 
 You can die really easily so thats why you need to take cover and think of something or you can 
 just send your squad partners in to die which does help you a lot.
  
  Guns are top notch due to the fact that they are from the actual military. Graphics are spectacular 
 when it comes to showing you an entire city while you are coming down on your parachute in the 
 beginning. I must go play this game some more now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigOne1
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I just read a review with a guy saying that the enemy AI makes stupid mistakes like letting you 
 run past them. Did he actually play this game? Or is he, like most people here, thinking of some 
 other game?
  
  I haven't managed to do that. In fact, I got killed so often, I'm not sure I'll even try that again. 
 I wanted my MG-gunner to provide covering fire on a square, and I was in a fire fight, so I did 
 not use the map but just tried to move him behind a cover and then wanted to order him to attack. 
 He went past the cover and into the center of the square, without careing for the 10 bad guys that 
 were shooting at him.
  
  Your Co-fighters tend to hang on 10 meters behind you unless you tell them to go somewhere and 
 I just don't fell like taking 15 minutes to pinpoint them to every single cover along a street. 
 They should stay closer and they should take cover against the advancing direction. Without braging, 
 where I have been, nobody is alive any more, so the action is going to be in front of us.
  
  Could you actually even call your own people's AI an AI? You can call the oposition's AI AI. 
 They advance under covering fire and usually use a crossing-firefields mechanism for defense. But 
 the AI of your people seems to stop working as soon as they are as far ahead as you are. I guess 
 they can't stand the excitement up front. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 28, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Great military Shooter. Great mulitplayer modes, good graphics, awesome weapons and super kool 
 tech... not to mention the simplified squad tactics.
  
  Ubisoft is very smart for licensing Tom Clancy's mind . Truely one the best writers of our times. 
 Most of all the developer ability to turn the novels into such entertaining, great games; make 
 GRAW one of my all time personal favorites (no wander they're selling by the boat load) .
  
  The franchise continues to improve well and it shows. I enjoy how the story is delivered, meaning, 
 it doesn't get in the way of the action. keep it up guys...
  
  About the graphix: They're good, not great... I'm expecting a much higher level of detail without 
 having to loose performce (memory) .
  
  Sounds: Awesome, this is one of the best feature of the game. From the guns to the voiceovers...
 
  
  Setting: Great! Weapons: Oh... this is a great example that a good shooter doesn't have to have 
 10 + types of weapons! Give us the basics, put them on steroids and we'll do the shooting. Thank 
 You! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfe
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  GRAW gameplay is very nice and has a modern shooter game... Quite difficult game and the AI are 
 weak (defensive) but they are good in shooting the enemies.. Player can control and command the 
 AI. Every mission are so difficult and long objectives and hard enemies. The guns are so nice and 
 so powerful, the only problem is budgeting of ammo.. About the game map, I like it because player 
 can see enemies through the map... About the graphics, I can say extremely nice .. The game atmosphere 
 is so nice especially the fog, smokes, exploding of tanks, and others...
  The game requires a great video card so that you can maximum all the graphics details in the game.. 
 The sound is quite nice.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ux4
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 18, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Holds it's own with later software. Challange is just about right; however, with the available 
 cheats, you get more realistic play AS WITH ALL of this genre, BECAUSE none of the genre that I 
 have encountered are realistic as to weapon change timing, reload timing, and reaction timing and 
 reality, weapon response. Thus cheats are GREAT for when you get frustrated with such.
  Even though I own later war shooters such as ADVANCED WARFIGHTER, I find myself returning to this, 
 and other shooters with cheats to mitigate the frustration factor. GET IT, BUT CHEAT after you 
 beat it the first time if the need be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 14, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  Not really intended to write a technical review to cover all about the game, especially I could 
 not beat the game yet. I agree GRAW is a very good title for benchmarking graphics card, CPU, staff 
 like that but I have to blame its hazardous difficulty and savegame system. My happiest moments 
 with this game lies with my buddies at Guru3d. Not sure whether the Xbox 360 version has lesser 
 enemy fire, I just feel GRAW is made to trip me over. Not health replenish or health packs, and 
 go through the whole mission? Inconceivable. Yeah, I died many times. Rage is long gone but dismay 
 still remains. The saving system is poorly done. Despite the game's tough difficulty (for me) , 
 only sparse checkpoints are available. Being forced to hyperspaced back to the previous checkpoint 
 and fight you damn way out all over again is just awkward. Realism. GRAW puts the emphasis on it, 
 huh? So, they call a soldier with no infrared sensor and binoculars advanced warfighter . I wonder 
 why. GRAW is a great game in its own right for people except me. You have my word that I will not 
 be buying games like this again. And yeah, I love jiuji 's review. It is very true that if the 
 Army trains newbies with this game, chances are, think it yourself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  7.8???? That is just stupid (no offense) . GRAW (sounds pretty cool) is one of the top shooters 
 and I've played almost every FPS out there. This is gonna be pretty long review but read it anyway.
 
  
  Gameplay- the futuristic/modern shooter is a great combination of team work yet action. Many games 
 where u control other soldiers becomes a drag and hard where u have to stop every second to place 
 your soldiers in the right place. But by the time you finish planning the enemy is dead and you 
 are left without firing a shot. In GRAW the enemy come in squads or more and they take cover so 
 you can get a proper intense firefight with bullets whizzing everywhere. There is a lack of guns 
 but in real life every1 only uses M-16s anyway. The missions r extremly long and HARD very very 
 Hard. At normal difficulty it may take you 8-15 tries per mission (which gets annoying but you 
 can't say a game is bad cause it is hard) The missions r pretty varied and the effects r extremly 
 satisfying.
  Graphics- Nice. Gives a convincing atmoshpere as well.
  Sound- Very well done.
  Value- there is only 11 missions : ( but each mission WILL take up to 
 one hour or so and the multi is pretty good. The multiplayer is quiet buggy and there isn't that 
 much people on but u can still get games up to 32 ppl in the server list. Well worth the $$$.
 
  
  A great game that combines strategy and fps action at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeamonAMD
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 2, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  I like this game allot, can't wait for the second one. I feel this is an over all good fps, but 
 some stuff could have been better, I hope they fixed it in the GRAW 2 game. I would like to see 
 more weapon types in the next game, thats the only thing lacking in this game for me. Loads of 
 action that will keep you on the edge of your chair. This was some nail baiting stuff if you ask 
 me. Over all the SOUND is very good the quality of the GFX is superb. It made the game for me. 
 It feels like I'm in those places were the stages takes place in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skateboardking
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics were nice, but the drab pallet got boring quick. The lighting effects were 
 very good.
  The Bad: AI on both sides is stupid to say the least. It seems like a step backward from even the 
 original game. At least in the original you could control your team. I found that team members 
 got stuck easily and would randomly stop thinking they had reached the destination when they were 
 clearly far from it. Enemy AI was even more frustrating, as they would not move intelligently, 
 but managed to have incredible accuracy. This led to many deaths, where instead of saying: that 
 was a respectable death you ended up with: how the f did that just happen? Killing the enemies 
 wasn't even satisfying as they wouldn't even react to their buddy getting killed.
  While the fact that you couldn't clip into cars and obstacles was nice, you also couldn't go prone 
 easily because your elbows would usually force you to shoot upwards at a 10* angle. Making this 
 position utterly worthless.
  The Ugly: At least on 64-bit Vista, this game was inexcusably buggy. Often times, the context menu 
 for the team orders refused to work or even show up. It was literally impossible to complete several 
 levels without going through different patches until you found one that fixed the particular problem 
 you were experiencing. Most patches fixed one problem and created several new ones. Often games 
 and levels would not save or load correctly. Game froze upon loading a new level about half the 
 time.
  Level design and game play were extremely disappointing. With an entire city, you would expect 
 and open environment, but instead were tunneled through specific streets by roadblocks, gates, 
 and piles of garbage. I have played many old linear games that gave a feeling of more open game 
 play than this one.
  
  Overall, I would not suggest this game. It is extremely taxing on your hardware and there is nothing 
 really good about the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiuju
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  well i got this game for $19.99!! boy it doens not even add it up. one whole thing i hate about 
 this: stupid teammate. they don't cover well, they look in the wrong way! your always force to use 
 the map and position them and the way they face!! not worth it. i guess the xbox 360 is much more 
 realistic then this one.. d'ont by it unless you loved stupid squad!! d'ont get me wrong it does 
 have its share of good things. graphics are good, sound, but the frustration of always dying and dying 
 is disastrous. thank god they d'ont used this game to train the real army! i traded in for bf2 collection. much 
 better. some of the reviews from others are way to much up there.. guess some must be die hard fans 
 of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Well I have not yet finished this game but I have to wright this review anyway. The graphics are 
 outstanding and the environment of the whole game is very satisfying.
  I have to mention that the AI of your enemies are a little bit flawless. For instance when they 
 are waiting for you there faces are looking at the wall instead of facing you to come in fire-line. 
 I hope that GRAW 2 will do this better but we will see.
  Single missions in this game are very hard and tight but you can do it after a time of trials. 
 Despite the fact that there are no save-game options is the game full of savings and when you die 
 your healthy is regenerated after the new restart. Weapons are very strong and the keys to manage 
 your team can be better but all the games of this type is a common problem to use your team as 
 required. Sometimes they're going the wrong direction and will be pinned down before you can tell 
 them to cover. Beware of that if you wanted survive the whole team.
  Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This game represents the rare reality first-person shooter. In the beginning , at the main menu, 
 you can see movements of soldiers and there you can create the image of the game.
  
  Story in this game is put in the future. Your group of soldiers and you, as their leader, have 
 to bring order in Mexico City which is in chaos. Weapons, which it can be used, are very well designed. 
 Missions have a very good story and they are not so easy.
  
  In a case of graphic, I can say that so far, developer can be very proud. Graphic is clean, sharp, 
 and with the card which control physics, we all know which card is that, you will have a real-time 
 game. Movements of soldiers and their behavior when you shoot on them .. you will definitely like 
 that. Sounds of guns and effects are very good. Not so good as the graphic but very nice.
  
  G. R. A. W. is the game that lovers of first-person shooter must have in their collection. The 
 game requires for good machine but nothing that 1GB of ram and graphic card of 100-130$ can't fix. 
 This game is must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobafett507
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  On the normal difficulty level, the game is fairly challenging, often necessitating several attempts 
 before successfully reaching the next checkpoint and thus saving your progress. Also, the AI can 
 get on your nerves at times, making your squad mates do some rather stupid things, and your enemies 
 some superhuman things. And if you don't at least meet the recommended specs, there is no way you 
 are going to be able to play this game at high-quality graphics levels, which is a must to get 
 the full feel of the game. Even with a good PC, the frame-rate can drop during particularly detailed 
 events.
  
  With that having been said, this game is extremely immersive. The graphics definitely draw you 
 into the streets of Mexico City, and the sound echoes that of a war-zone. The one-shot kill system 
 is both a blessing and a curse, making it fairly easy for you to kill the opposing rebels, but 
 also making you vulnerable to enemy fire. The plot line is not great, but it is enough to keep 
 your interested in the campaign. It should be noted that this game is not intended for those gamers 
 who prefer their action to be unrealistically fast-paced. This game requires strategy and sound 
 tactics to succeed. Rushing out to meet your foes head on is merely a quick way to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy has been know to be a great author of books that only he could think up. That also works 
 weel for his game develpment. This game tells the story of a 4 man squad of ghost in the year 2013 
 using the new landwarrior system in mexico during a revolution and a miltary coup. The game is impossibley 
 hard and very tatical. Controlling your squad is a breeze with a very easy to understand command 
 system. Its very slow paced but lots of action every where you turn makes up for it. Sounds are amazing. 
 Bullets wizing by your head and shells hitting the ground all to the sounds of hard rock and mexican 
 traditonal music. The game now is only 20 bucks now and is worth it.
  
  The good: Lots Of Action, Great Graphics, land Warrior Simulation
  
  The Bad: High System Requirmnts 
 Very Hard Very tatical 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 4.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I received this game free with the purchase of my current intel Core 2 Duo processor... so on the 
 one hand, it's good because it's free... but on the other, I certainly don't think it's worth the 
 MSRP of $19.99 it is now, and certainly not the $49.99 it was initially sold for. It's not bad 
 if you can get it free as part of a promo, but ultimately... not worth paying for, especially with 
 all the talk about how the 360 version is so many miles superior.
  
  As one of the few games that do employ Ageia's PhysX engine, the game requires you to install the 
 PhysX drivers, even if you don't physically have a card. Now, while I personally feel that the 
 PhysX card is a great idea in principle, it would have to take for a killer game that employs it 
 to really justify the cost of purchase and make it seem worth buying. So for the most part, you'd 
 really have to like this game a lot to invest $200-300 on a PhysX card in addition to what else 
 you'd need to be able to run it properly. Personally, I don't.
  
  That's not to say that there are positives. The graphics are gorgeous, and the real-time tactical 
 map does help in providing strategy... however, I think part of the problem is that as part of 
 the promo, I only received the game disc itself and that's it. I didn't receive the instruction 
 manual or really much of anything to help me understand the controls, nor how to employ these tactical 
 stuff in any successful manner. Even with learning most of this stuff the hard way, none of it 
 felt very natural, or very useful...
  
  But it seems the game tries to force you to use it in a manner because otherwise you die... a lot. 
 Between eternally stupid A. I. for the squad members in your group, and super-alert enemy A. I. that 
 could get a headshot with a glock from 1000 yards out, the odds certainly are stacked against you. 
 And in spite of the Xbox 360 version claiming to have the single best co-op mechanic before Gears 
 of War, I saw no way of being able to go into a co-op mission with anyone... it certainly would 
 have helped, because as brainless as the A. I. squad mates are, even the newest of players to the 
 game joining in would have been a stark improvement.
  
  There are many things in which this game earns merit. Graphics and sounds are gorgeous, and it 
 takes a daring step in creating value for people that chose to invest in the PPU. But really, it 
 just doesn't come together very well... it doesn't feel like it's worth that kind of investment, 
 unless you are one that really gets drawn to games like this, or that is willing to spend all that 
 time and resources to play the game as it's meant to run, in turn buying a super-expensive computer 
 system. Personally however, I'd rather trade this in and get the proper version on the Xbox 360 
 to see if that really is any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dudekiller2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i would like to start by saying THIS IS THE BEST GAME EVER! The main thing that makes 
 the game awesome is it's not-stupid-really-accurate AI. although, sometimes you can run right past 
 an AI who's looking at you without him shooting. Another great thing about this game is its awesome 
 physics. cans roll around when you kick them, cars explode when hit by RPGs or grenades (also sending 
 doors and windows slicing through you) and killed enemies can fly into other alive enimies, knocking 
 them down, giving you a chance to kill them.
  
  on the downside, though, it can be sorta tough to get multiplayer working, and you need the latest 
 gaming computers to run it smoothly. (it best runs on ATI graphics cards and Intel processers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManofHoliness
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Anybody that loves the military or loves games loves acronyms and GRAW brings that out in all of 
 us whether we like both or not. Set in the future not so distant, Mexico and the US are close allies 
 and the US has just given Mexico a nice new set of M1A2 Abrams tanks to play with. Mexico and the 
 US are also signing some type of document when rebel mexican soldiers attack the embassy and the 
 Mexican president goes missing and the Canadian Prime Minister is killed. Your job as an elite 
 team of soldiers known simply as Ghosts is to find and protect the Mexican president, and after 
 that to go kick some mexican rebel butt. Being the best version of Advanced Warfighter released 
 you have many more options in which the console counterparts do not. Your selection of weapons 
 before deploying is good from the M99 .50 CAL Sniper Rifle, MK48 HMG, M8 Carbine Rifle, SCAR H, 
 and SCAR L. Secondary weapons include M9 9mm Pistol, M18 Semi/Full Pistol, M8 Carbine Compact, 
 and MP5SD. Graphics are great many things within the enviroment are destructible, transition between 
 parts of the map are quite smooth. AI is great, you can select from easy, normal, and hard in the 
 options menu for game difficulty. overall this is a great game and you will spend hours playing 
 with some many different routes to take to get around the enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epousard
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  It 's great, I got it for free with a motherboard and was not expecting much but wound up pleasantly 
 surprised. The multi player is fun and after all the patches works well. If you like the slow, 
 but still exciting, realistic pace of these types of shooters, then this is one of the best. GRAWF 
 has great control, looks fantastic ( I have a C2D @ 2.5 with a 7900gt ) and tons of stuff is destructible, 
 the environments are very interactive, more than most games. My only complaints would be for the 
 lack of a jump and that fact that all building are closed off completely, if you could go into 
 buildings to the same degree as you can BF2 I would be happy. Over all I am very impressed, but 
 I am a sucker for games allowing one to blow everything up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titchster
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Simple. The graphics are absolutely beautiful (if that's the correct word?!?) 
 the sounds are breathtaking, especially when turned up, the missions are spot on - not too easy, 
 yet not mind-numbingly difficult - and the artificial intelligence is, erm, well, intelligent... 
 The view-in-view feature, one of the 'Advanced Warfighter' trademark features is particularly useful 
 as it allows you to see what your team mates can see... And then there is the online mode, this 
 features a great community, along with a range of modes, from Co-operative to Team modes, and also 
 a great range of maps, including user-made ones, meaning, chances are even when you think you have 
 explored all of the features this great game has got, up comes another map, and more fun... However, 
 there is a downside to all of this greatness, the system requirements, the game is quite demanding, 
 but, it is definately worth the requirements it demands... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olxter
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! recommend it to everyone. It's not easy of course. Remind me a SWAT with the 
 game-play, but environment is more beautiful and interesting. Better than hanging around in some 
 building. There are some minuses of course. first, your companions will stuck in some place, and 
 they wont get free. It's disaster, cause you need them in each end of the mission. The second and 
 the worst is that your companions have no brains. They can sneak and shoot, but if they are under 
 fire, they rather die to get cover. This review is only for single-player, and i can tell you, 
 that even if it has same bugs, it is VERY good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  GRAW offers a nice selection of modern and near future weapons, complete with various attachments. 
 The AI for the enemy is very difficult to counter, as they duck and dodge at the right times, but 
 the AI for your teammates is not as good. Your team can get stuck behind an obstacle which they 
 could easily move around, or go hiding in a silly little nook or cranny and not move. Getting killed 
 makes the game too hard at times. Go the wrong way, or get in the way, and you can end up replaying 
 an incredibly difficult section. All it is missing really, is a cheat compendium to make the game 
 easier to new players. Getting hit with something this hard when you have not been used to this 
 level of difficulty is very demoralising and can soon drain the fun from the game. Buy it if you 
 wish, but just be warned...
  IT IS TOUGH! But get into the game enough, or find a cheat to make it easier, and GRAW becomes 
 an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W short for Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a excellent tactical FPS Game. Ubisoft and 
 Grin did a great work in making this game. I would call it a hi-tech futuristic tactical FPS. The 
 graphics of the game is superb and thehigh detailed city's, environments in the game look's awesome. The 
 games soundquality is quite okay. You are Captain Scott Mitchell and along with three of your ghost 
 member's you 've to eleminate terrorists and save vip's , president from terrorist's clutches in 
 futuristic mexico city. You get fine tactical maps for planning out your strategy to hit upon opponents. AI 
 in the game is fine done. You get drones etc in the game. The firefights of the game look's cool 
 too. You get variety of weapon's in the game. But the game is really hard. It is no shoot and run 
 game rather you've to use covers , sneaking's , ammo saving to self survive and help your teammates 
 to survive also. If you are not careful you'll be instantly killed. This game need's patience to 
 beat. This games has multiplayer option also besides its single player campaigns. The game is quite 
 enjoyable. If you are looking forward to a graphically enhanced tactical fps then look no further 
 , G. R. A. W is the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  At first I kind of enjoyed the game.... but it is just so boring.... and the walk/run speed is so 
 slow.... basically you spend the entire time slowly scanning everywhere and then when you deem it 
 safe you slowly make your way to a corner and peek around it and scan the entire area to make sure 
 its safe, and it not you try to snipe off the enemies before they can get to cover. Also you have 
 computer partners that are completely retarded and they really dont listen to anything well enough 
 to make them effective. the graphics are pretty good but not good enough for the high demand in 
 hardware. You need a 512mb video card just to be able to choose high settings, thats rediculous. 
 The graphics are nice but not better than oblivion's or anything. The online is kinda fun when 
 its pvp, but when its players vs the computer its the same boring stuff except you have good team 
 mates instead of computer ones. ummm i guess thats about it, if u like slow moving tactical shooters 
 and have a lovely pc pick this up for cheap, if not plz stay away. the end :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbomagic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game is good, and it defiantly gets your blood pumping when youre commanding your ghosts 
 in the hot zone. I would rate this game 10/10... if they didn't spoil the game a little with less 
 choice of option and the multiplayer game play.
  The graphics are all good; I just wish they added the option to play the game in 3rd person view. 
 Dont get me wrong, I love first person shooters, COD 2 is my Favourite, but they should of at 
 least added a cheat so you could have the choice of what view is suitable to play.
  The next thing I don't like about the game is the online multiplayer game you can play. I have 
 a fast computer that can play 2 of these games at the same time (sort of lol) , however while playing 
 on multiplayer the game play changes, and it becomes more difficult to control your character and 
 to pull the trigger, by the time you do, your all ready waiting in the waiting room getting ready 
 to respawn to have another go. Its not my internet speed and its not my graphics card. And other 
 people I have spoken to have the same problem. Someone please tell me... why is multiplayer so difficult.
 
  
  apart from that, the game has a great story line, superb graphics and sound, and Im quite glad 
 to see a ghost game, because its been a long time.
  If you defiantly have got all the spec's needed to play this game, go ahead, but for those people 
 that buy this game just to play the multiplayer option (like me) , don't get your hopes up to soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edgemaster666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon is a solid shooter that nails the core elements of a tactical shooter 
 and remains, to its credit, as brutally hard as the former Ghost Recon games.
  
  The tactical elements of GRAW can be hard to grasp for newcomers to the series and/or genre, and 
 the first few missions can therefore be much harder than they need to be as players come to grips 
 with the 'CrossCom' interface and its many benefits. The squad AI is mostly top notch, though there 
 are a few times when the actions of your squad can become annoying and downright dense, but these 
 moments are few and far between. These moments can include your teammates colliding with you as 
 you're taking cover from behind obstacles and trying squeeze off shots at your enemies. Other moments 
 include them running blindly out into open streets and being cut down by machine gun fire, as they 
 instead fire shots back at a gun nest instead of seeking cover. But as said before, for the most 
 part these occasions are rare, and the squad AI is for the better part excellent, and they are 
 quite capable of holding their own when under heavy fire and are also crack shots.
  
  The enemy AI is not as good as the squad AI, as enemies occasionally seem oblivious to your squad 
 walking out in the open or even just a few metres behind them. But when you are spotted, it can 
 become a different problem, as enemies will take cover and provide covering fire as their team 
 mates will try to outflank you.
  
  The game difficulty is downright hard, though arguably not as hard as previous Ghost Recon games. 
 But it remains punishing just the same. There is a severely hard part of the game that happens 
 very early on in the campaign, and was literally game breaking to a number of players. This part 
 happens in the third stage, and can take literally numerous replays to get it right, and then the 
 game resumes its normal pace and difficulty, which increases at a normal and playable rate from 
 that point onwards. Another needlessly hard addition to the game is its checkpoint save system. 
 This system allows for no in game saves made by the player, and instead saves only at certain objective 
 updates during the stages. This can be incredibly frustrating, as most checkpoints are few and 
 far between, and always happen after a long and tense walk between checkpoints, often having to 
 be navigated through heavy enemy territory. This system provides for multiple replays of certain 
 punishingly hard parts in the campaign and can get very tedious and punishing, as players are forced 
 to replay points in the game very often.
  The implementation of a player save system would be much easier, though possibly limited by a certain 
 number of saves per stage would prevent the game from being too easy.
  
  What can make the game noticeably easier is the new CrossCom feature. The intuitive squad commands 
 can really help save a situation from going from bad to worse, and the careful and effective of 
 the placing of your team can go a long way to the the success and efficiency of a mission. Getting 
 the hang of using your squad as a unit is imperative early on in the game, as mastery of the CrossCom 
 system is essential for the later stages, which can get extremely hard. if you try the Lone Ranger 
 approach.
  The overhead Tactical Map is also a very handy feature, as it provides a real time overhead 3D 
 view of your surroundings and is highly useful for spotting enemy hard points and the occasional 
 patrol. but it can't always be relied upon, as enemies can be obscured from view by an overhanging 
 tree or roof, and therefore giving the player a false sense of security as they charge forwards. 
 Needless to say, it is always important to keep your eyes open in this game.
  
  The control layout of GRAW is standard FPS fare and easy to come to grips with, though the use 
 of the mouse wheel to give commands can be fiddly to use, and even more so during the a gunfight. 
 Thankfully the use of the number keys can make the commands much easier. Overall the game is, in 
 its basics, easy to get used to and adapt to, but mastering the smaller details and CrossCom is 
 much harder, though much more rewarding in the end.
  
  Graphically GRAW is a very attractive game, and its huge maps are well designed, with plenty of 
 obstacles to take cover and peek around, and the design doesn't seem to get repetitious or boring. 
 The player models are brilliant and animate extremely well with only a few occasional weird jerks. 
 The texture detail is satisfactory and downright great when considering the huge world the game 
 has to render in real time, and is complimented by great lighting and particle effects on the frequent 
 explosions. The physics engine is also above average, with no vehicle blowing up or fence shattering 
 under heavy fire the same way twice, and adds a nice 'real world' touch to the game.
  
  Audio wise GRAW is slightly above average, with nice bullet sounds and gunfire, and plenty of team 
 chatter across the CrossCom. The frantic music score that kicks in during gunfights or its lack 
 of during tense street walking do enough to alleviate the tension enough to make you stay on your 
 toes throughout the lengthy campaign and never seems to get boring or repetitive.
  
  Overall GRAW is an incredibly tense shooter that is rewarding to those who are willing to spend 
 time playing it. It is much more slower paced than other shooters, but this offers a nice change 
 to the standard run 'n gun fare that is considered the norm these days. It's lengthy campaign can 
 be hampered by inconsistent checkpoints and killer difficulty, but being able to complete a mission 
 offers great satisfaction. It's standout graphics and above average audio only ad to this great 
 package. If you are a casual FPS fan who wants to play this game for a quick fix, don't, as this 
 game requires much time and patience to be able to get satisfaction out of it. However if you're 
 a military buff who likes his dose of tactics and strategical gameplay, then this is the FPS for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlaw22
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Love the graphics. Love the controls. Love the premise of the game the story etc. But the lack 
 of an in game save mode totally spoils this game, the game saves at the stupidly long intervals 
 meaning you have to spend hours playing the same level over and over again only to get killed at 
 the same point every time, which totally spoils the experience. I can't remember that last time 
 I played a game with such a stupid method of saving your progress. Got to a point where I have 
 given up playing the game because of it. Pity!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter
  
  One thing is obvious from the minute you fire GRAW up  those early screen shots may have looked 
 great all those months back, but they dont even come close to preparing you for the visual spectacle 
 that this game has in store. GRAW is without a doubt the most amazing looking console game Ive 
 ever played, and to be honest Im hard pushed to think of a PC game that can match its visual impact. 
 The environments are detailed and convincing, the character models intricate and well animated, 
 but its the lighting effects that left me dumbfounded. There has been a lot of talk in the graphics 
 industry this past year about HDR lighting effects, but no other game comes close to GRAW when 
 it comes to HDR.
  
  Over the past year weve seen HDR effects start to filter into PC games with varying degrees of 
 success. Ive had several chats with both ATI and nVidia about HDR implementation, since most games 
 just seem to white you out in bright sunlight, but fail to implement any effect when walking into 
 a dark area from a bright one. And thats it, the sum of most HDR implementations seems to be a 
 white out effect, followed by your vision slowly coming back into phase.
  
  Things are very different in GRAW where the HDR lighting effects add a whole new dimension of realism 
 to the proceedings. Never before have I felt so immersed in an environment  not because of the 
 detailed models or convincing textures, but because of the realistic lighting. Theres one level 
 set in a train yard where you end up having to peer around a train carriage into bright sunlight 
 while trying to pinpoint enemy gunmen and take them out. One of the bad guys is perched on top 
 of another carriage with the sun directly behind him, making it difficult to even see him, let 
 alone get off a clean shot. Add to this the fact that when you duck back into cover from bright 
 sunlight, youre left feeling vulnerable as your irises slowly re-open and get accustomed to the 
 dramatic drop in light intensity.
  
  Once you get past the lighting you start to notice some superb atmospheric effects that make the 
 environment even more convincing. Water is beautifully done in GRAW and rainy levels are a joy 
 to behold. I found myself constantly dying in a multiplayer map set in a dockyard as I just wandered 
 around gawking at the scenery  the way the rain drops splashed into the surface water on the floor 
 was just mesmerising. As if the rainfall wasnt enough, random flashes of lightning would briefly 
 illuminate your surroundings and reveal detail that you had no idea was there  if youve ever 
 seen ATIs Toy Shop demo, its similar to that, but fully playable! At the opposite end of the 
 spectrum there are subtle heat haze effects that highlight the hot and arid locations  look through 
 your scope and the horizon will waver as the heat rises off the ground.
  
  Graphically GRAW epitomises next generation gaming, but theres a lot more to a great game than 
 graphics alone. Thankfully this game isnt just a pretty face, and theres a lot to be commended 
 elsewhere. The single player campaign mode is challenging to say the least and theres enough variety 
 in the missions to keep you plugging away to the end. I wont go into much detail about the storyline, 
 but its fairly predictable US flag waving fare. Set in the near future, Mexico is plunged into 
 turmoil as rebels attempt to overthrow the government  luckily the US is on hand to send in some 
 crack troops and save the day. Like I said, very predictable, but no more so than your average 
 mid-budget Hollywood action movie  throw Steven Seagal into the mix and GRAW could be easily a 
 Channel 5 midweek movie.
  
  Its clear that a lot of thought has gone into the control method, and generally it all works very 
 well. The default view is a first person method  this works pretty well. As with any urban warfare 
 game, running blindly into enemy fire is going to get you killed pretty damn quick  the key to 
 survival is making good use of the cover afforded to you. Thankfully Ubisoft has made it very easy 
 to make the most of the walls, cars and barrels that litter the environment. Simply move towards 
 a wall, keep pressing the stick forwards and youll automatically hug the surface. From there its 
 easy to peek around the edge and take pot shots at your enemies without ever having to venture 
 out into the open. A simple click of the contextual action button will make you step away from 
 the wall and carry on with whichever Spec-Ops mission you might be undertaking. The contextual 
 action button will do a multitude of things in different situations  it will make you roll while 
 prone, jump over obstacles when confronted with them and plant explosives when necessary.
  
  But GRAW is a squad based game, thats supposed to interject tactical aspects into the gameplay. 
 I say supposed to, because often when you need to make use of the rest of your squad, youre under 
 such heavy fire that you dont have the time to use them to full effect. Unfortunately the AI is 
 a bit hit and miss with your band of comrades. In one particular mission where you have to blow 
 up some tanks, you need to make sure that you order your squad to go somewhere else before setting 
 the explosives. If you dont they will simply mill around the tank and get blown to bits when the 
 explosives detonate!
  
  Of course you can heal your squad members as many times as you like, assuming that you can get 
 to them in time while the bullets are flying. You can even order one squad member to heal another 
 and herein lies one of my major gripes. If you can heal your men ad infinitum, and you can order 
 them to heal each other, why is it that you cant heal yourself, or order any of your men to heal 
 you? It seems that youre so hard, that you laugh in the face of medical attention, right up to 
 the point when you hit the deck, dead.
  
  Its not just your squad that you get to control though, you occasionally have access to air support 
 and armour support. So you can get an Apache helicopter or a tank to take out armoured enemies 
 for you  of course you still have to target the enemies before they can fire on them. You also 
 get access to a kind of flying recon drone. You can send this to any area on the tactical map to 
 scope out enemy activity, and hopefully save you from walking blindly into a trap
  
  If there's one major problem with the single player campaign mode, it's the checkpoint save method. 
 The levels can be very long, with several save checkpoints throughout  as you reach each checkpoint 
 your progress is automatically saved so that if you die, you will restart from the last checkpoint. 
 Now, the big problem here is that if you stumble past a checkpoint with barely enough health to 
 stand up, then promptly die, you will then restart from that same near death position. Theres 
 no way to go back to the previous checkpoint, so if you find yourself caught in this trap, youre 
 left with two choices  keep trying to finish the level with almost no health, or restart the entire 
 mission from scratch.
  
  If the frustration of the single player save point method gets too much for you, or you finally 
 tire of healing your comrades while no one sees to your medical needs, you can always try some 
 multiplayer action, and here Im glad to say GRAW excels. If you manage to join a game where the 
 other participants are willing to play as a team, youll realise what a squad based, tactical shooter 
 is all about. Forget about issuing basic commands to your computer controlled squad, simply tell 
 your real, live team mates where to go, what to do and how to out flank the enemy. The multiplayer 
 maps look simply stunning and add oodles of atmosphere to the proceedings. Although the general 
 game styles are standard multiplayer fare, GRAW looks and plays so well, that you cant help but 
 enjoy every moment.
  
  But despite the fact that the multiplayer aspect of GRAW is undoubtedly impressive, it too is not 
 without its issues. For a start, the control method is different from the single player version. 
 Neat touches from the single player campaign like being able to take cover behind walls and obstacles 
 are not possible in multiplayer mode. At first you dont realise this and will be busy trying to 
 stick to a wall and peer around the corner, while the enemy wonders what the hell your doing, all 
 the time firing in your direction. Also, although theres a cooperative mode, you can only play 
 limited cooperative missions and cant play through the main campaign mode with the help of your 
 mates.
  
  Ultimately Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is like a flawed diamond  its beautiful from so many 
 perspectives, but you cant help but notice that its not quite perfect. The graphics are nothing 
 short of breathtaking, and the gameplay can be totally immersive at times, but the annoying issues 
 like the save points and inability to receive medical attention soon destroy the illusion of an 
 urban combat reality that GRAW tries so hard to create.
  
  Verdict
  
  If you want to see what makes the PC so special; what makes it next generation, look no further 
 than Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. Id be hard pushed to think of a game on any platform that 
 is as visually impressive as this one. If the rest of the game had been as polished as the graphics, 
 this would be a classic of epic proportions, unfortunately the annoyances and frustrations that 
 you encounter during play, take some of the shine off. That said, even with its flaws, GRAW is 
 a great game and one that heralds the next generation of interactive entertainment  if this is 
 a taste of things to come from Ubisoft, Im very excited indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supermoocow3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why so many people think this game sucks, because personally I think it is a very 
 good game with very different gameplay than most shooters out there. This isn't to say that the 
 game is perfect; it does have some noticeable flaws, but these (in my opinion) don't detract very 
 much from the amount of fun it is to play. This is definitely not a game for you if you like fast-paced, 
 bullet-spraying action. This game focuses more on being slow and deliberate with your tactical 
 decisions than shooting everything you see. It requires some quick thinking and a level of concentration 
 I don't see in many games. No longer are you a super-human character facing off against many lesser 
 foes; every enemy you see is potentially deadly if you don't have quick reflexes and make intelligent 
 decisions on how you fight back. The levels in this game are huge and nicely detailed, allowing 
 you (most of the time) to be creative in your approach to each objective, which can vary from killing 
 all enemies in the target area to destroying tanks using artillery to defending injured VIPs. Your 
 squadmates are incredibly valuable if you use them well, if sometimes annoyingly stupid with their 
 decisions. They may get stuck on a car or wall and stop following you, or they may choose the worst 
 location possible to cover a field of fire, but all in all, you will need them to survive and accomplish 
 your objectives. The weapons all feel very nice and realistic, and take significant skill to use 
 effectively, particularly grenades. The only complaint I have is that the game doesn't seem to 
 care where you shoot an enemy, they will usually go down just as hard if you hit them in the foot 
 versus the chest, and head shots are extremely hard to pull off. All in all, this game is worth 
 your time if you want a great-looking, realistically tactical shooter, as long as you have a high-end 
 system to power it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Note this is a limited review as I have only played the first mission but if you are thinking of 
 getting the game hopefully this first impression is useful.
  First up, on my 2.13 Core 2 Duo / 2MB RAM / 7600GT and with the enormous patch via Gamespot installed, 
 it's looking pretty good and so far is running problem-free.
  I hated Rogue Spear (what was it again 6 teams of 6 to control?!) and didn't much like Brothers 
 in Arms. Loved Call of Duty and Sniper Elite. Ghost Recon (so far... I'm expecting it to get difficult 
 later on according to the other reviews I have read) appears to be a brilliant game that brings 
 together many of the best aspects of these types of games. It is essentially a FPS rather than 
 RTS (I would argue that complex tactical shooters are more RTS than FPS) , thanks to the fact that 
 aside from your own FPS character you only have three other team mates to control (not including 
 the extremely useful UAV drone etc) . This is quite manageable either from the 2-click mouse command 
 or from the tactical map and the intuitive command system is really what makes this game work. 
 After researching a decent military shooter to buy I decided I would not get Ghost Recon 1 simply 
 because there were that many more squad mates to control, which put me off (although I survived 
 and enjoyed Operation Flashpoint) . I would say a 30min or so learning curve is about right and 
 the first mission took me about an hour and a half game time to complete (but maybe 3 hours of 
 work getting used to the controls and after a couple of re-loads due to deaths!) .
  I am looking forward to the rest of the game and am glad that I wasn't put off by my previous Rogue 
 Spear experience.
  It would be good if there was a 'lone wolf' option to play the game solo but I guess that is not 
 the point of this sort of game although it would allow a faster pace option to the game as despite 
 all its merits, squad control can still be tedious (it is tedious but absorbing really!) . Similarly 
 though, I am glad there are only 3 others to control. In fact, it warmly reminds me of the first 
 Delta Force games only you have control over Alpha and Charlie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  The Good: This game is a bear and a half, both in hardware requirements and in game play. This 
 game strongly resembles training scenarios for the US Military. As such, there aren't any magic 
 health packs and be warned, it doesn't take too many hits to put you down. Some people are going 
 to hate this game because they're going to have to go low and slow and make extensive use of squad 
 tactics. No charge in with guns blazing in these missions. If that's what you want, go play Painkiller.
 
  The Bad: If you don't have a monster PC then you won't be able to play this game to its full potential. 
 The last patches have fixed alot of things since the release but it still needs some work, especially 
 in multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay:9.0
  Graphics:9.0
  Sound:9.0
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:7.0
  Singleplayer:9.0 (Very Challenging)
  Multiplayer:8.0 (Needs Work)
  
  Conclusion: This game 
 sets the bar high for other shooters to come. G. R. A. W is not for everyone, it's a thinking persons 
 game not a typical run and gun. I found the game to be very challenging and quite engaging and 
 would strongly recommend this game to folks willing to work for the win.
  
  My Score:8.4 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tboatcap
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I have had more fun playing this game with a friend of mine over the internet than a lot of other 
 games recently. The mix of real world tech with next gen weaponry is great. The easy of communication 
 and squad orders, even in multiplayer (coop) , make hours peel off the clock without me noticing.
 
  
  I love the easy interface and straight forward tactical map of the mission. It makes using all 
 the cool special weapons like the drone or artillary a snap.
  
  I love this game!!!
  
  The multi-player server menu does take a very long time to load anything and if you have a hard 
 time connecting to a server the time spent between tries is waaaay too long. That is the only thing 
 that I can think of that really detracts from the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adr_vergara
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  This game has good graphics but nothing else. The enemy`s IA is so badly done that the enemies, 
 when you encountered them and they haven`t see you, they seem to be doped. I`ve been in Mexico 
 City and I don`t remember that the city was so abandoned like a ghost town, when I played GRAW 
 I thought I was in Racoon City instead of Mexico City. The orders to your team are complicated, 
 you must turn your mouse wheel, then press a Letter, then press enter and then... I was killed 
 trying to tell my men to cover behind a car. The gps-view-like camera was one of the few things 
 I liked, but only the first minutes of using it because, when I tried to look where my enemy was 
 and give my men the order to take cover and fire, the enemy was right in front of me and I was 
 so angry that I uninstalled it and, since to day, it is covered with dust behind some books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyamericansn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Reacon Advanced Warfighter is a one of those next-gen first person shooters that incorporate 
 the many gems that modern technology has to offer. Though there are minor issues with the AI, you 
 can still get a great kick out of the single player, or multiplayer; be it a seasonal gamer, or 
 a total newbie at the game first person scene, GRAW is a good challenege for any kind of gamer.
 
  
  The story line has a good bite to it, though set in the near future, as the story holds some plaussiable 
 speculative ideas of how a war might happen between the States and Mexico.
  
  The interesting part is, if you are a military gear nut, the modern technology they managed to 
 incoorporate into the game. The Future Force Warrior Program is covered extensivly at the current 
 stage, or at least we think, that it is in. Though some know that Multi-cam has been scrapped as 
 the dissruptive pattern for the US Army/Marines, its still nice to see the many things that have 
 come out of it. We also get to see a glimpse of the XM8, and the SCAR- L/H. Although some might 
 not know the MR-C is a fictional gun the developers in UBIsoft invented. It is quite dissapointing 
 that we did not get to see other weapons hit the list. Even more prehistoric weapons for the games 
 time-line like the M4 or G36 could have landed in the hands of a Captain's hands if he desired 
 it over the current weapons for a more diverse tacticle edge on the battle field.
  
  The more entertaining side to the game has to be the combat. Playing it on normal and you can go 
 a little more gun-ho, and guns a blazing in a combat situation, but if you have played the game 
 already on hard, you would know that would be a fool's errand. The AI is a little weak at times, 
 as you find your squad mates getting stuck in a spot, or coming out into the open getting exposed 
 in gun fire, when you command him into a covered position. Thus you must play very conservativly 
 on hard, as you will never know what your unpredictable squad mates will pull at times. Despite 
 that, it can prove to be a fun challenege to shoot down the bad guys, although the repetitive nature 
 may apeal to some, it gets boring after you've faced all the different weapon the 'bad guys' wield. 
 Although when you get into a fight were the level pits you against a colabarative assault of the 
 enemies with their tanks and many foot soldiers, it can prove to be an intense shoot out, and satisfying 
 after you stand ontop of a mound of your defeated foes.
  
  The technical side can be a bit of a pitfall with the system specs needed to be pretty high, but 
 it should be a norm in this period of time, as the many PC games have to compete against the PS3, 
 Xbox 360 and what ever next gen console there is going to be pumped out that can handle extreme 
 graphics settings on a large HD screen...
  
  This maybe a typical tactical squad based shooter to some now, but it can still prove to be entertaining, 
 if you haven't tried it yet, I'd say give it a try.
  
  -Opi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I have achieved this game because everybody seems to enjoy it and i figured... what the hell, although 
 it`s not my kind of game, so i have installed it and big surprise, the game looks extemly god also 
 the sounds, and everything. The problem is it requiers a powerful system, i mean on my x1300 with 
 2.4 Ghz processor bearly works on 1024X768 with medium details and i solved the problem by switching 
 on 800X600 with high details (antistropic 4X) but the graphics were not the same. I will play some 
 more missions just for fun but i think i will wait until next upgrade. So if you think to buy this 
 game make shure u have a high end system.
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guylapierre
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game visually and although I haven't played many tactical shooters I think 
 I would like the genre as a change of pace from my favorite straight up shooters. However, the 
 AI of the teamates in this game are just terrible. I was hoping for more than what I experienced 
 in Rainbow Six Lockdown but the result was the same. It will be a long time until I probably try 
 this genre again as everything else in the game that is good - visuals, game play, story line, 
 etc. gets thrown out he windows because the dumb AI gets in the way or doesn't listen to the commands 
 or just play faces the wrong way or runs out into cover. I want to throw my mouse into the friggin' 
 screen!
  
  As a result, I've left the game unfinished... which this has only been the second game for which 
 I have done so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxAa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Overview: Mexican government has been overthrown and 2 Presidents have gone missing. Your excuse 
 to go in and be a bad ass with your teammates WOOT. Actually, now that the patch is up to 1.3, 
 the game is really intense and fun.
  
  Gameplay: It's really tactical... It's not like its 360 counter-part. You have to peak corners, 
 be quiet, and send your teammates out one at a time to really beat the missions. All and all much 
 like the original ghost recon tactical wise...
  
  Graphics: At maxed settings, AWSOME. There is no anti aliasing available since the HDR lighting 
 doesn't allow on current hardware out there. So it doesn't look as good as the 360 version, but 
 still looks really good. If you have any video card that doesn't have 512 mb or more, then you 
 can say bye bye to the high textures, sorry =/. If you want to play with more then 20 to 30 frames, 
 make sure you have a 7800 + or a x1800 + and a processor equivelent to 3 ghz or more. A psyics 
 x card would help too... Largest maps of all the versions, what makes this game so great.
  
  Sound: Let me just lay it out, INCREDIBLE...
  
  Multiplayer: It's pretty good, but really 
 the only fun game modes are siege, OGR coop, and coop.... Have Fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  One of the most challenging games that I have played.
  
  The GOOD: Awesome graphics and environments, awesome sounds. It's something new, GRAW is very challenging 
 and great game play which actually gives you the feeling that you're in a war. You get a team and 
 move them accordingly which is something I always wanted in a game/
  
  The BAD: Eats in to your system resources, so you will need a high end system to play it on Full 
 graphics. Can be very frustrating at times because some parts can be very difficult and there is 
 only a autosaving option in the game.
  
  Overall one of the more really games that I have played with bulles going pas you and close calls 
 with a good challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  The most graphically sumptuous, realistic shooter I've played. However, it is also rediculously 
 hard and buggy. I've just got to a mission called Bring out the Bear and the game hangs on loading. 
 Also, it is frustratingly hard. Take 20-30 goes to finish an objective within a mission because 
 the save spots are so distantly spaced out. For example there's a mission where you have to rescue 
 a VIP from an embassy, 49 goes to complete it on normal difficulty. Another is to blow up two bunkers, 
 26 goes to do that part and the next is harder then harder still.
  
  Just too darned hard to be the fun it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hans_h_kmn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  If it wasnt that laggy.., if it had real AA and a Ranking like Bf2.., and a view distance adjustment, 
 this would be the best Fps out there!!
  
  Best gameplay modes / Huge maps / Geat weapons / Great sound.
  I like Bf2, COD2, F. E. AR..., but 
 this one gives you the feeling you are really there.
  Hope they change a few things in a expansion pack (Would be nice if you could climb over small 
 walls / use ladders) Tweak a few and this one could be a Bf2 killer
  A must have!! Most realistic shooter!! It almost forces you to play serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  If there's anything to say about this game it would be that the Xbox360 version if far superior 
 to the PC version in every possible way, but that doesn't need to say that the PC version would 
 be bad.
  
  + Incredible looking, sounding and natural acting weapon models. Great graphic engine. Has the 
 same storyline as the console version, from a different perspective. - Doesn't match up the Xbox360 
 version, AI seem to be dumstruck a bit too often, tricky controls, the responses from your teammates 
 is sounding really bad, no civilians. The PC version of the Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighters offers 
 alot of eye-candy basicly everywhere you look, if you have an PC enough to handle the heavy textures. 
 You play in the eyes of a Ghost leader called Mitchell in the mexican area in which a military 
 conflict have occured and you and your team of the super-soldiers are called in to handle the situation. 
 To your disposal you'll handle the worlds most fresh equipment such as the Cross-com Monocle which 
 is a transparent screen which coveres your eye and gives you a more realistic approach to the regular 
 HUD as in any other game. But the Cross-com doesn't really change anything in the game, it just 
 makes the HUD feel more authentic and gives you the possibility to track enemy soldiers movement 
 as you have spotted them. But the cross-com isn't everything you'll get. You'll be armed with the 
 most high-tech weapon systems avaible together with innovative gear which provides better chances 
 for you, with all your gear, to survive in the hot mexican climate. The tasks you'll undertake 
 would basicly be to reach different objectives by shooting your way through, block by block, and 
 protect different locations and personell. There's no chance for you to survive as in other FPSes 
 with the Run &amp; Gun tactics, you'll need to command your teammates to approach different targets 
 and covers in order if You are to survive. Strategy is what this game is all about, you'll have 
 to handle the situations as in a game like SWAT 4, it might be foolish to approach a open area 
 alone, which is where your teammates come in. Once you're critically wounded/dead the game is over, 
 as always, but you can always patch your teammates up if they're shot. The game is fair, it has 
 alot of different weapons you can choose in the beginning of each mission as well as you can pick 
 up enemy weapons. There's also some spots when you'll be commanding different kind of vehicles 
 like the M1A2 Abrams Main Battle Tank, Bradley, Apache AH64D and Blackhawks, ect, just as well 
 as your regular Ghost teammembers. You can also play the campaign along with a friend of LAN and 
 even over the Internet as much as I'm concerned just as you can play the regular Deathmatch and 
 team Deathmatch modes, ect. Some moments of frustration when the controls are new or if you catch 
 up a bug of any kind, but more than that this game offers alot of value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6danny9
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  The game has very challenging missions and game play... Thats what I like to see in these types 
 of games. To finish a level requires out of the box thinking which most games don't offer
  But i find the controls are way too complex for pc. This makes everything hard while under time 
 pressure. Also the team mates lack AI so when you need them to just manoeuvre they start shooting 
 the enemy thus drawing attention to the whole team getting everyone killed. This is probably why 
 the game is hard
  
  Besides all of that, it is a very good game but dont recommend it unless you absolutely want the 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbavousett
Rating: 3.9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  The only reason for this game is to show off the PhysX ability. For some reason, you are unable 
 to shoot at enemies you can clearly see if you are laying on an incline, the gun simply will not 
 point lower than exactly horozontal to your body. The Advanced Warfighter is aparently unable to 
 scramble over obstacles higher than his knees in many areas, and is totally unable to move and 
 reload at the same time. Most frustrating when you miss a shot with the grenade launcher and are 
 forced to absorb fire while you reload rather than roll or slide to cover. I also love the way 
 an enemy will ALWAYS spot you the instant you are in his line of sight, even if he's looking the 
 other way. It's a shame when you have to search for cheat code just to advance the game. One last 
 gripe. No ability to save the game. It just randomly saves at certian objectives. What do you do 
 if you have to leave and can't continue playing to the next random save? Many times I've lost 30 
 minutes of gameplay because I had to go. Sad sad sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briggsxxx
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  Ok I just got done playing Graw , and I must say the game is the Hardest game Ive ever played on 
 normal/default settings .
  
  The graphics are nice , for some reason I had problems with the sound using the audigy extreme. 
 But I switched to software and then no problems at all .. The graphics are on par with BF2 , but 
 I think Bf2 may be a little better. Antilising in this game does nothing at all except make objects 
 in the distance a little blurry .
  
  The computer AI is really bad and really good , wich is to say totally messed up. Ive seen the 
 enemy walk into a wall and then continually walk in place as though he wer trying to walk through 
 the wall ... watching the enemy run into the street and then kneel down in the middle of road and 
 just sit there while my team mates run up to him and shot him . it was actually funny .
  
  when the enemy dies , they die mostly in the same postion , wich is weird.
  The enemy shooting 
 at me with a RPG with sniper precsion at extreme ranges is a bummer .. The enemy always seeing 
 you , wich leaves next to no room for sneaking up on them , dont get me wrong , you can sneak up 
 on them and get close , But somehow they always seem to know your there.
  So you have to be quick to shoot them , before they react to you .
  
  At times the Computer 
 Ai is really messed up , your team mates get stuck in the stupiest places . They cant Jump and 
 you cant jump wich makes no sense at all .
  
  The Semi open enviro is nice .. but it would have been better if in the game you could actually 
 use alot your surroundings to your advantage .. you cant climb up buildings to get on a roof to 
 scope out the area, you cant climb the numerous water towers for the same reason .
  
  People say you need a moster computer to play this game , But you dont .
  I was getting 54 fps 
 average. - low fps was around 34 but only for a few seconds at a time. mostly stayed around the 
 high 40's low 50's . wich is fine for a game like this , because its a slow tactical based shooter.
 
  my specs are xt850xt 3gig cpu and 1 gig of ram . and played at high settings..
  
  the graphics are nice and the setting is cool . your in a city doing missions and its really easy 
 to get caught up in the game, to a point .. except for the negatives I stated above .
  
  In my opion you have to be a Hard Core Tactical shooter person to play this game .. the enemy AI 
 being able to kill you so easy from long ranges
  and then at other times you can stand 20 feet away and they wont bother you.. this game will try 
 your patients .
  
  Its a Shame , The has has the potential to be a superb game ,but with all the problems , It just 
 doesnt cut it .. Unless - Like I said your a hard core tactical fan , If your not , then shouldnt 
 buy this game .
  
  This game is for the hard core tactial people and people who have a mass amount of patients to 
 put up with the problems . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauromb
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  i think that its a good game, is realistic shooter, excelent graphics, good sound, is a little 
 hard, but is funny and higgly adictive... ghost recon is a excelent tactical shooter, just play... 
 and you will see the good game... ubisoft carry on..... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carrottopcolt
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Ghost Recon games from the beginning. I have five of the games (including 
 expansions) and was satisfied by them all. I first tried GRAW in the demo and quite enjoyed that. 
 I enjoyed it so much that I went and bought the full version of the game four days after first 
 downloading the demo.
  
  This game is true to the series in that it was very fun with a decent plot and good gameplay. This 
 game however, disappointed me in that it seemed noticeably shorter than the other titles in the 
 series. This is amplified by the lack of Quick Mission style play. On top of both those, there 
 is a very sparse collection of guns in the game, including only one sniper rifle and one saw. The 
 only saving grace in the weapons selection is that variations such as grenade launcher or silencer 
 can be attached. It is also worth noting that the entire weapons selection (except the bazooka) 
 is available from the first mission. This may appeal to some players, however I feel that this 
 takes away the satisfaction of realizing that you have earned the right to a new weapon.
  
  In conclusion, this is a good game that I would recommend playing, though perhaps not purchasing 
 except for the multiplayer. It is a shame that there is essentially no replay value and poor armory. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmulrich
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright so the first one was good! It was intense and exciting. Then with a huge dissapointment 
 they didn't create the second one for the PC. Well ladies and gentlemen its back! G. R. A. W. Is amazing 
 it is a stunning visual expierence that is sure to pull you into the game. This game isn't for 
 the weak. Not only does it take a person with knowledge and good skill but it takes a computer 
 to handle it. This game is a drag on a computer and basically you need a brand new computer to 
 play it. If you can play it though it is amazing. This game is what we all have been waiting for! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics are very appealing, action always looks realistic, enviroments look detailed. 
 The most realistic modern day shooter out their.
  
  The Bad: The game didn't really suit me it was fun to begin with as mission wern't to difficult. 
 Then the game just started to get really repetitive, complicated and very hard. The game is far 
 to realistic as one shot kills you. No in game saves are avalible only checkpoints which are very 
 rare. The al seem to respawn making shoot outs very hectic and tough. The game is so hard at times 
 you will have to repeat missions over and over and in the process oyu might just give up on the 
 game in general. High pc requirements.
  
  I only recommend the game to people who are up for the challenge and dont mind to get fustrated 
 in the process. Also your computer has to be very powerful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figo1985
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  I liked this game, each one have ur likely... nice one, and the for fun is in multiplayer... game....
 
  
  Brazil: Five Times Champion World Cup!!!
  
  Jogo &eacute; maneiro e tipo, foda-se que os otros dizem so mais eu q jogo nao sao eles, entao 
 vao pra porra vcs, flw ae bando de negada! enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
 
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
 
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
 
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando
  enrolando 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8jackitz
Rating: 1.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Too many bad points to list. I wish I could give it a -10. Firstly why does it have to install 
 Physix drivers? How many gamers have a $250-$400 Physix card in their PC? My system onlys has a 
 Asus 512MB GeForce 7600GS, and 1GB DDR, 250GB SATA II Hard Drive, and my load time is around 30 
 seconds, WTF? Now let's talk about the game play . It's ok if you don't mind the lag, studder in 
 the sound, or the gun sway. I could'nt kill a man 3 feet in front of me with an assault rifle on 
 full auto, becuase the gun sways 3 feet in, out, and all around what I'm aiming at. I would'nt give 
 this game to my worst enemy. I wish I had downloaded it, cuase I'm mad as ***** about the money 
 I wasted on this.
  This game is just retarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I've installed the BFG PhysX Card to my friend's PC and to my SHOCK, this game plays like I'm there! 
 It's amazing how the graphics depict real time movement and actual explosions in the game or bullets 
 ricocheting around you! Just extremely cool to have this game! When you can, install a BFG PhysX 
 card to your PC, it's all you'll ever need in a rumble pack as I'm still holding on from the extreme 
 recoil when I was wasting the enemy! Pretty cool stuff, the card was worth the $180.00 dollars 
 he invested in it... I'm debating on buying one simply because I've got good cards alrighty on 
 my MoBo... Well, the game with or without the card is very impressive! I recommend it to the addicted 
 War Gamer, such as myself, to get this very intense, realistic game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 5.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Sorry but I just can't play it. Far too diificult, poor AI, difficult controls, and repeatedly 
 having to play the same bit over and over again. Great graphics (probably the best I have seen 
 in a PC game) dont make up for poor gameplay.
  
  To put it simply difficult and frustrating. I really cannot find anyhing good about this game and 
 I doubt anyone has bothered to coplete the single player missions.
  
  I have to say I am an afficianado of Battlefield 2 and the experience of Graw is the exact opposite 
 of probably the best game ever made.
  
  Multiplayer simply sucks by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  This is the review of the single player only
  This game is the best tactical shooter i've ever played when it comes to how close to reality a 
 game can be. But, the slow pace of this game make it harder and a lot more frustrating than your 
 normal tactical shooter. Gameplay:
  Like i said, this game is way too slow which make it tougher and less enjoyable. The gun battles 
 are intense and the perfect use of sound during those gun fights made me felt like i was actually 
 there, right in the line of fire. When it comes to A. I., enemies are pretty stupid but IMO with 
 the difficulty that hard, its better like this. When it comes to your teammates, they were actually 
 the dumbest ones but a patch came and i found that it really helped my teamates not getting killed 
 by walking in front of me while shooting or charging in front of a .50 cal. Still, there were few 
 moments of stupidity for ex: where i had to physically push them because they had corned themselves 
 between walls or fences etc. Graphics:
  I cant really judged this part cause i could'nt get the max out of this game since my computer 
 was not good enough. I could'nt play with better texture than medium with no HDR and at 1280 X 
 1024. But overall, the graphics were pretty amazing, specially the explosions. The only problem 
 is that there were not much variety, you're always in cities with buildings that all look the same 
 and are all the same colors.
  
  Sound:
  This is where the game gets its points. The sound effects are the best you can get from a fps. 
 There's a sound for every thing that a bullet hit. They zip near your head, when they hit a tire 
 you clearly hear the pffff sound if its near you, if it hit a car, a wall, wood there's always 
 a particular sound. What give the sound a more real-life-like feeling is its depth. For ex: when 
 you're covered by a car and the tire get popped, its a lot louder than when the car's tire get 
 popped 30 feet from you even though you can still hear it. Overall, a solid game for everyone who 
 wants to get the best near real life tactical shooting experience but with some drawbacks. Definitively 
 not a game for run and gun fans and for those who got no patience. My system:
  
  P4 HT: 3,4ghz
  2 gig RAM
  ATI radeon X850XT PE
  Sound blaster Audigy 2 ZS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afly727
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter or graw is no doubt a great tatical shooter. PROS
  
  1. Great GRaphics
  2. Downloadable map packs
  3. Great tatical commands
  4. Super hard 5. Online 
 play
  CONS
  1. a bit laggy
  2. big requrirements
  3. ai can be bad at some points Overall graw should be bought if you looking for a tatical shooter, 
 a hard shooter or a great online game. I highly reccomend you get this game. the learning curve 
 might take you about an hour. the graphics are good but get laggy the tatical commands are good 
 but the ai gets weird sometimes but overall this is a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aloucard
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  Its a good game, awesome graphics, and its actually a COMBAT-TACTICS game, that means its not similar 
 to Call Of Duty or like BF2. In Call of duty you just sometimes, if you want, spray and pray to 
 hit someone. In this game you must use your strategie and cunning AND your marksmanship to kill 
 your opponenet. I have noticed that installing the new patches also the AI of the PC opponents 
 its getting improved from good to best. i mean that if you trying to hit him from far, he'll start 
 running to hide or avoid your lead, or if you throw a grenade he'll not stay there looking at it 
 Duhhhhhhh..... is this a grenade ?! Anyway i think that this game improves the combat and squad 
 tactics, PROTECT your team mate and your leader, be cunning and you'll win. Unlike BF2 that you 
 use team tactics but not in so much grade like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  After my initial review I decided to replay GRAW on the hard difficulty and submit another review. Well, believe 
 it or not it was worse the second time through. This game has the absolute worst squad Ai imaginable. At 
 first I thought they were just brain dead but then I realized the game kept putting the squad members 
 intentionaly into the line of fire. I reloaded checkpoint after checkpoint to verify this and it 
 played out that way each and every time. After too many frustrating occurances like these I just 
 popped all their melons and went on solo. Yes they are that bad. This game has old and very tired 
 gameplay. You have a so-called tactical map but it is next to useless when there is nothing in the 
 area until you enter it. You can actually see them spawn around you. The enemy Ai is the type that 
 when one breaks cover he or they all know exactlly where you are and immediatelly fire and hit 
 you. Unrealistic to the exteme. There is so much wrong with this game it should have never been released. Yet 
 another next generation that dolled up the graphics and left the same old tired gameplay intact. Let 
 me give you some examples. You only have the drone for a couple of missions and one of those has 
 it scrambled for half the level or so. Gamey. There are 3 missions where the enemy drops almost entirely 
 MP5's instead of the usual assault rifles and machine guns. Gamey. Unbelievable garbage when it comes 
 to enemy Ai firing fixed or mounted weapons, even at fairly long range they will pop you on the 
 first burst and that is total garbage. A fixed weapon has to be walked into the target, sort of like 
 spraying. If I was standing by a vehicle they wouldn't even hit the vehicle on the first burst. Apparently 
 they are using smart rounds. Gamey.1-2 out of every 5 headshot does not count. Ahh, those pesky headshots 
 huh? Gamey. You are totally funneled throughout the game. There are no quicksaves or quick loads. The 
 audio is terrible. You can't hear an A. P. C. until he's in your lap, you might be able to hear a tank 
 maybe when he's a block or less away. The game will even crank up the music when your hearing should 
 be telling you where that chopper is. Silenced weapons makes no difference what so ever, just an 
 excuse for the game to reduce your accuracy. The graphics are mediocre at best, unless of course 
 if you're into brown scales. I've seen vehicles suspended 150 feet in the air, wow. The fact that 
 this game is broken out of the box should tell anyone all they need to know about this title. Trust 
 me when I say that all of these shortcomings are but a sample of what awaits the gamer when they 
 fire up this dud. The only thing that is tactical about this game are the uniforms and equipment. Just 
 another title to use the word tactical instead of ridiculous. I qualify what I say by having survived 
 27 months in south-east Asia, from '67 to '70. The real crime is that this title had great potential 
 and was no doubt rushed to market to join the new next-gen releases. This was my first and will 
 absolutely be my last title from the folks at GRIN. No excuse for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woody121
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  Sure GRAW has fantastic graphics and good features. The game is just too slow and boring for my 
 liking. You move incredably slowly arround a mission slowly commanding your troops to move out 
 to specific places. And then you get ambushed lose half your life (If you're lucky) and then can't 
 survive another and you just have to sit in the backgroun watching your troops die. Also, the game 
 lags a bit, rather, it's a bit slow, maybe it's my PC but I read reviews that agreed with me.
 
  
  From what I played of the game it didn't seem to have a particularly gripping story line and the 
 WOW factor wasn't there for me to continue playing. So I just stopped from.. boredom I guess.
  
  This is just my oppinion, I am sure that there are many gamers who love this style of game 
 play, but I doubt they like sluggish responces. Overall, not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the Latest in a series of games based off of Tom Clancy and 
 his "plots". Let it be known I have not played the first few. GRAW is a good game that really brings 
 urban squad combat to life, but is a bit rough around the edges and feels rushed. The Gameplay 
 is very intense in many moments, and the enemy and squad use cover relatively well. The missions 
 are, however, a bit dull. While some can be very good, many feel bland, repetitive, and constrained, 
 compared to the open -endedness that some of them offer. Tactically speaking, the game is adequate, 
 but the AI does not follow orders very well. They will often give away your postion and die by 
 leaving cover and making foolish decisions (like sniping at 100 yards, while out in the open) . 
 Overall, the act relatively tactical, but thier actual performance does not live up to thier flashy 
 animations. The graphics are about on par with battlefield 2, which, for the scope of the game, 
 is not bad at all. The game does not support very high resolutions, however, and the textures and 
 general feel of the game is lacking a crispness I've come to expect. The Enviornments, however, 
 are very detailed, and the graphics and physics behave appropriately. The Sound is very nice, and 
 distinct, so you can really understand what is going on. Overall, the single player campaign is 
 not that long in size and scope, but it is hard, and there is relatively good replay value. I estimate 
 it would take the average gamer about 25-30 hours to complete, Less, on low difficulty. The multiplayer 
 is decent, coming with deathmatch, capture, and coop modes, but none of them are anthing more than 
 standard.
  Overall, I feel that is game is good, but not great, and from what I understand, the earlier ghost 
 recon games are a bit better. 
  That being said. It is a good shooter, and is well worth the money. Series fans, or shooter fans, 
 its a good buy. It just wont draw from many other genres.
  
  -Crimson Major, signing out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrownick
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay first off, if you have a crappy computer dont buy this game. The graphics require massive 
 components (1-2gb Ram, 256 video card {nvidia not ati} ) anyway aside from that, this game has some 
 of the most inpressive graphics i've ever seen. The first mission shows them off quite well. One 
 thing I loved about the game is that you CAN see the gun and they look AMAZING. The gameplay, a 
 big *sigh*. This game is THE hardest game to date. Controling your team is hard, staying alive 
 is hard, and everything is just plain hard. The realism, very good, a little TOO good (witch makes 
 it a little unrealistic) The AI realism is to good. You can peak out a corner and a guy 300 yards 
 away will automaticly see you, and you can die from being shot in the arm 2 times. Dont ignore 
 the game just for that, game's that first hit shelves are never perfect, thats where the magic 
 of patches comes in. This game already has many patches and boosts the games rating to a 9.1. Get 
 this game, you will not be satisfied at first but then install the patches and it will be better 
 then the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connary
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Incredible game. Amazing. All work for a great combat experience, really hard,
  realistic (one shot = dead) , only for hardcore players (better in hard mode and without enemy marks) . 
 
  If u would a arcade fps this isnt your game.
  If u would a friend IA who made your work, this is not your game. 
  The IA need your orders 
 but they take this orders very well. 
  
  The best graphics (only a little problem, dont have AA) , the best effects. 
  Great dinamics, 
 great sounds and music....... gigantic urban maps.
  This game need a lot of time and patience but in rewards give u a sense of battle as never seen 
 before (You can feel the pain) .
  
  Multiplayer? Funny but nothing remarkable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancey's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (Published by Ubisoft) Is THE hardest games that 
 I have ever played. The AI (for both your team and enemies) . What the game lacks in Gameplay, it 
 makes up for in graphics and weapons. If you think about it, this game is unrealistically difficult. 
 As soon as you peak your head around a corner, the enemy automatically knows where you are. If 
 you even leave your arm partially exposed, you'll get shot and die. This game was the worst first 
 person shooter that I have played. GRAPHICS ARE NOT EVERYTHING. I wasted 50 bucks on this game 
 and 3 months beating it (yes it took me 3 months to beat it) . I recommend that you save your hard 
 earned money for something that you will actually enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konfuzd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Asside from being a proper slow paced tactical shooter, it looks good too. The only thing that 
 dissapoints me about the game is the lack of things you get to blow up. Explosions with the physx 
 card are absolutely beautiful. 
  
  Asside from that, the AI is good. It's a little too predictable, but good none the less. The graphics 
 are amazing. You don't even notice the lack of AA because you're too into the game. But, the sound 
 in this game is intense. With 5.1 surround and a decent sound card you get to hear the bullets 
 wizz by and richochet off the walls arround you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  
  Pros: 
  
  When i first started playing GRAW, the Graphics was very impressive (high setting) but ofcourse 
 you need a good computer to run it on high, then you will really enjoy it. Also the little things 
 as very detailed weapons, and the fact you see your arms and legs when you move, which gives it 
 more realism, when you run and press the Crouch button the guy you play throws himself to the ground 
 in a pretty neat action style.
  
  The Game also gives a nice challenge, so you have to proceed carefully and use things at your disposal 
 to complete the mission. The computer AI is also good, enemies aren't complete idiots and find 
 ways to take you down, but they don't sneak around to your position and nor do they flank you or 
 use some very good tactics.
  
  
  Cons: 
  
  Most missions are very similar and wears thin pretty quick. The checkpoint save system is also 
 not that great, if you die over and over and over, it makes you just want to quit. There is also 
 a high requirement for playing this game, if your computer doesn't meet the requirements it won't 
 be much impressive, the things that make this game is mostly the graphics and details. This game 
 isn't that impressive as there isn't many unique qualities in it. There is also some minor flaws 
 i didnt like.
  
  Conclusion 
  
  Not a bad game, but if you have Xbox 360 buy that version, because the PC version has many problems 
 with requirements and isnt much fun without good quality. i give it 7.2 Score : Good, Could be 
 much better in my opinion!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomMooreBox
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I purchased and played the newest edition of Ghost recon when it landed on the 360. I was amazed 
 by the graphics. The most beautiful on a console thus far. IMO. Almost everything felt right. The 
 controls, The animations. AI was decent. The one thing that did bug me was that I just couldn't 
 help feeling like an outsider looking in. I also felt very boxed in. As large as the maps were. 
 There could have been more interactivity. I wasn't immersed. I just couldn't wait to get through 
 the map in one piece. Which works on a certain level. 
  
  With the PC version although its a requirements hog, the first person element makes you feel more 
 in control. The maps offer up more than two ways to deal with a problem whether it be a armored 
 vehicle or a mg nest. you can enter and exit buildings. Get the high ground advantage. The levels 
 are larger and are more interactive. It just plain looks and feels better. I'm sorry but I have 
 limited interest in multiplay. Other than battlefield 2 and rainbowsix coop with a friend of mine. 
 So the issues on the pc are negligible in my opinion. My only real problem with GRAW PC is the 
 checkpoint versus quick save. I think the player should be able to decide when to save a game. 
 Anyway I have to say if you like tactical shooters, pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  The overall concept of the game is great. However, for some reason, Ubisoft has decided to limit 
 the actual user-interface flexibility of the game. Trackball Mice are frowned upon, and key mapping 
 is unheard of. If you would like to play the game, you may consider using as little technological 
 advanced utilities as possible. (ie: a 10 key keypad, and a serial 3-button mouse)
  
  Your PC has to be top of the line to run the application, but your user tools must be archaic. 
 What happened to the Red Storm Entertainment influences?
  
  Maybe Ubisoft was so pressed for release, that they figured to push a product before user interface 
 testing cleared.
  
  The entire point when developing a game of this stature, is to make the functions as flexible to 
 the user as possible in order to deliver a most realistic feel to the game being developed. Not 
 to completely remove the higher end user all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  The PC version of G. R. A. W. is like the distilled essence of Tom Clancy games; and all the better 
 for it. Firstly the graphics are superb. Not just the detail, but the sheer SCALE of the maps. 
 The sound, too, really drags you in and heaps on the atmosphere. The near future setting is, again, 
 inspired; you almost feel yourself choking on the dust on the city streets.
  
  After far too many games being too quick and too easy beneath the polish (even certain Clancy titles) , 
 this has steel beneath the polish; it's a TOUGH game! I actually like the save points as it helps 
 add the tension; luckily they don't seem too far apart, which was the only real gripe with Far 
 Cry.
  
  Obviously you'll need a pretty serious PC to get the most out of the game, but it's a next gen 
 title - so it's to be expected. With Crysis coming up, this game's spec won't seem quite so extreme; 
 in fact it can be taken as a litmus test for that game, if your PC struggles with this in any way, 
 you ain't got a hope of running Crysis!
  
  The only negative points are the daft AI & broken multiplayer, both of which are fixed with patch 
 1.20 (although the A. I can still be a bit D'Oh! at times) . Apart from that, well, it's the sheer 
 DIFFICULTY of the game - you have to be extremely tactical around almost EVERY corner, or else 
 be prepared to die. A lot. In fact, you'll die a lot anyway. There's simply no way to get around 
 learning how to use your squad to cover and flank.
  
  If you're up to the challenge, then this is the stuff for the serious tactical gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dualkleric
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  The cityscapes in the game look amazing. The various environments look beautiful... but only if 
 you are the proud owner of an X1900XT or a 7900GTX. The game looks like crap on very good systems 
 which is pretty disappointing. The Xbox 360 version looks much better and the game play is also 
 superior. When you're playing it on the PC it just feels like any other FPS game. The combat is 
 realistic but the death animations suck. When someone gets shot by a .50 cal Beretta high powered 
 sniper rifle they just tople to the ground. Where's the blood? Where's the effin' realism? I thought 
 this was war? On the Xbox 360 it's mildly interesting because you play it in third-person, you 
 have a cool command interface, and there aren't any graphic problems. If you feel like being a 
 government tool for a few dozen hours go and buy this game. 
  
  Don't buy for PC. Buy for Xbox 360.
  
  GRAW is neither worth buying nor playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  After coming to almost every console available, Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, (GRAW) 
 finally comes to the pc on May 3rd of 2006. Adding another game into the already great tactical 
 combat series, GRAW seems to make almost every aspect of the previous games better in this installment. 
 With the ability to use awesome technology, command up to three other squad mates, and be taking 
 on the top priority missions, the player is given the utmost chance to have fun in this title through 
 a single player campaign that should take up to at least twelve hours, but also with a decent multiplayer 
 component once the patches come out.
  
  The entire game takes place in Mexico City, Mexico where the American President is talking to the 
 Mexican president when everything goes all wrong. From then, youll learn that the Mexican president 
 has been assassinated and from there, you must secure both the U. S. president and the vice president 
 of Mexico. Are you up to the task? Against you will be ruthless Mexican rebels who want to see 
 the power of Mexico overturned and also want to gain codes from the U. S. president where theyll 
 be able to launch nuclear weapons and this comes into play because of foreign countries getting 
 nervous of a nuclear war on the verge. Youll play as Captain Scott Mitchell. A leader in the Ghost 
 Recon Division in the U. S. Army. Youll be able to command a small group of three individuals who 
 will accompany you on most missions. Youll be able to give them commands such as: move to this 
 area, follow, stop, attack, and cover. Utilizing these commands during the single player mission 
 is the key to surviving across the landscape of Mexico City. Youre also given a tactical map where 
 you can make tactical moves from looking down on the map. Giving each of your companions different 
 commands and being able to easily control their movements from a top down perspective. Throughout 
 the different missions, you can also call down air attacks on tanks and control some tanks to shoot 
 different enemies such as Mexican rebel controlled tanks or hunkered down groups of rebels hidden 
 behind barriers. Youll also be given the control of a drone which can detect enemies from the 
 air and be controlled by you alone. Another nice feature is to be able to look where your squad 
 members are going and whats in their site. What I mean, is that you can tell your squad member 
 to go around the corner and youre given a small window where you can view what theyre viewing 
 and this can be quite helpful when youre trying to flank your enemies. Its just one technological 
 device that you can use to take out your enemy.
  
  As some of you might know, Mexico City is quite huge and the developers of GRAW really gave that 
 experience to the player. When you first start off in the game, youll be dropped in the middle 
 of the fray and youll have to hook up with the rest of your squadron, but the path to each is 
 not direct or linear in any way. Youre able to take different alleys and streets to each and these 
 arent just bland undecorated streets, the developers took the time to make a vast realistic atmosphere 
 from wherever you are in the City of Mexico. The environments youre able to explore between point 
 A and point B within a mission are quite huge, but there are times where you might be traveling 
 the wrong way and your captain lets you know by telling you to, Get back in the war Mitchell. 
 This may get a little annoying to hear while you try to find alternate routes, but this happens 
 rarely in every mission because of the room youre given to work with.
  
  One thing must be said of Mexico City though, even though its immense in size, its extremely 
 unpopulated for some reason. Of course, youll come across dozens and even hundreds of Mexican 
 rebels, but youll never see a civilian and this is quite tragic because Mexico City alone is said 
 to have 8,605,239 people. At least that was the last time it was counted in 2000. Surprisingly, 
 all of these people are hidden inside homes out of your site and scope while playing through the 
 games eleven missions. Like most games that have recently come out, GRAW doesnt let you save 
 where you want, there are certain checkpoints you must get to and objectives you have to complete 
 before the game is saved for you, but not to worry, there are usually around six to eight check 
 points per mission. This style of saving really creates a better game because in some sort of way, 
 it creates a little more realism as compared to the save any time, however many times you want.
 
  
  The graphics in GRAW are pretty amazing, but only if you have a beast for a system. If you want 
 this game to run on medium settings with a decent frame rate, youre going to need at least a computer 
 that was bought in the past two years. Youre not even able to have the textures in the game on 
 high unless you have a video card with 512 MB of ram and we know that those are pretty common among 
 gamers today. (Please notice the sarcasm) Along with the environment looking great, all the character 
 models look superb also on higher settings. Of course, the X360 plays this game fine with outstanding 
 graphics, but youre able to get the same picture with a great computer, so no worries. In GRAW, 
 the player is able to utilize an AGEIA PhysX card which does add some particles and other effects 
 to the game, but nothing extremely noteworthy to make you choose a physics card over a normal video 
 card. Explosions look great with both types of cards and things seem to break apart each time. 
 Mexican rebels fall down from bullet shots differently each time you shoot them and many parts 
 of the environments are destructible or give way to gunfire. Throughout the different missions, 
 youll play in all times of the day and the graphics really shine in each mission with not only 
 their different times of day, but different locales.
  
  The sound within the game really shines as all of the guns youre given the opportunity of using 
 sound differently make different sounds whether you shoot a car of concrete wall. Also, the Mexican 
 rebels will yell at you and their own companions either in English or in Spanish as they come at 
 you in droves of five to ten, and even twenty at a time. The musical score in the game is something 
 to take notice of also as when youre locked in combat, the music speeds up and gives you more 
 of a drive to throw some bullets towards the rebels in response to trying to create a nuclear catastrophe. 
 Youll hear commands coming from your higher ups and each one sounds great and keeps you focused 
 on your mission at hand each level you play through. When theres a need to do an objective quickly, 
 the urgency in your commanders voice sounds realistic and this adds quite a bit to the games 
 overall presentation.
  
  The game shipped with a multiplayer component but before the patches were given out, the ability 
 to play online with anyone was almost impossible. GRAW offers a 32 player online experience, but 
 even getting the game to go online, and then to find an online game was unthinkable. The developers 
 didnt even ship a dedicated server software with the game, so any game you found online was on 
 someones own server and this gave problems with connection also. If you were able to play an online 
 game though, it was quite fun with the two different modes given. One mode is the ability to play 
 most of the single player missions in a co-op style of play and the other being domination mode 
 where players control different parts of the map in Mexico City. Both styles can be fun, but before 
 Ubisoft released the patches, they are next to impossible to play through.
  
  In the end, GRAW has a fun and entertaining single-player campaign with a decent multiplayer component 
 when you can get it to work. The graphics and sound are some of the best to date, as is the realism 
 of Mexico City in the game. If you have an awesome system that was purchased recently with top 
 of the line products, this game could very well look superb, but if you dont and want those amazing 
 graphics, you might want to pick up an Xbox 360 instead. Ubisoft really put together a great game 
 that could be considered an all around great total package if they can patch the multiplayer 
 and revive the initial crowd that was lost because of all the bugs that hampered the multiplayer 
 experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaggydoo29
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  GRAW is one of the more intruiging, and somewhat frustrating games I have played in awhile. On 
 the positive side, you have gorgeous visuals (assuming your PC has enough horsepower to handle 
 this game) , an interesting storyline, and some very cool gadgets. On the downside, and some of 
 these can be dowright aggrivating, you have iffy AI, teammates that respond half-ass to your commands, 
 and a checkpoint save system that very few people like. It amazes me that UBI Soft, the distributing 
 company of FarCry, would allow yet another checkpoint save system in another game... especially 
 of this caliber. This game can be very tough in certain areas, due to the urban fighting that takes 
 place. Multiplayer is alot of fun though. Alot more intuitive that the singleplayer aspects. 
 
  
  All in all, a good game, and with patch 1.20 out now, it does clear up SOME of the AI problems. 
 I am really hoping a patch will come out, like FarCry, that will allow for quicksaves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  Problem Pre-1.35 Patch:
  Severe Percentage of Times AI Teammates Going 10-20 Feet Away From, Behind or Beside Your Go To 
 Mark &amp; Smaller Number of TImes They Will Get Stuck Behind Your, Other AI And/or Objects.
  
  Game Being Too Hard And Friendly AI Being Too Inept To Be An Effective Fighting Force (Considering 
 Enemies Would Know Where You Are Throughout Once They See You)
  
  Controls/Movement/Weapons Offered Good Effects But You Moved Too Slow Without Sprinting, Your Recoil 
 Was Kind of Unbelievable (Too Much) And The Complicated Controls Seemed To Wear The Fun Down.
  
  Post-1.35 Patch:
  Friendly AI Now Moves Within 5 Feet of Where You Tell Them Too (Unless 
 You Set A Marker In The Middle of The Street, Then They Will Seek Nearest Cover) . The Problem of 
 AI Moving On The Wrong Side of Cover Exhists When You Move Two or More Teammates To A Certain Cover 
 But Can Be Avoided By Using The Tactical Map And Telling Them To Move To A Position And Cover A 
 Certain Area, Then They Will Move Precisley Where You Want Them :) They Still Get Caught Up On 
 Objects BUT Only About Half The Time. - Note, They Will Also Take Cover On The Appropriate Side 
 of An Objects If Enemy Fire Is Upon Any of You.
  
  The Game Now Offers (I Dont Think Before It Did) An Easy Mode, Meaning Less Numbers of Enemies And 
 A Little Less Kien And Accurate While Firing. The Allied AI Is Now So Good At Taking Them Out... 
 Easy Feels Like It Should :) They Also No Longer Know Where You Are If You Manage To Get Out of 
 Sight And Flank Them!
  
  Many New Control Features Have Been Added Such As Screenshots, Quick Weapon/Item Change Keys And 
 Judging From The New Keys, Namley Smoke Grenade , I Would Say (Though I Only Played The First Level 
 For Now) There Are Possibley More Weapons!
  
  If You Didnt Like GRAW The First Time Around And You Still Have The Discs or Your Download Key, 
 I Would Say Give It Anothe Try, If Only For The Improved Singleplayer (Dont Play Online So Couldnt 
 Say How Much Has Changed Thier) Campaign. If You Hated The Game So Much As To Get Rid of It, Well.... 
 It Simply Has Changed Enough To Be Worth Another 30.00 -Unless Your Desperate Until The 12th When 
 R6: Vegas Comes Out- But If You Can Get It For 15-20.00, I'd Say Go For It! The Game Is Still Slow 
 Paced (Specifically On Easy) But It''s A Great Tactical/Realistic Shooter, Which It Is A Perfect 
 Exzample of The Genre :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  In fact, to my mind, its what makes this game great. The enemy is always on the run, trying to 
 find cover, or a better way to hide from you - and then they'll pop back out at a different location 
 and zap you.
  
  I think that friendly A. I works well too - but you have to understand its game-plan. It wants the 
 player to back it up, so it will back up the player. In other words, the player can't sit back 
 and wait for A. I buddies to save the day. For example, in follow mode, your squad mates will move 
 ahead of you when they reach your position, which DOES seem dumb. But the player should take the 
 initiative at this point. You should take the lead and move ahead in tandem with your crew, hoping 
 your best guess is where the enemy is. Timing is everything with this A. I. - Although it might 
 seem stupid to some. Once you figure it out, it makes game-play better. 
  
  Now to the graphics. They are impressive. But doesn't justify not being able to use high detail 
 without a 512 mg card. I find that anti-aliasing is not worth the graphic price, and the game might 
 look better without it - at least I think it does. The games' color pallet is so dull; some experts 
 say that AA doesn't add too much of a benefit with a game that uses dull colors. That's my impression 
 as well. 
  
  This is a fun game, and captures some of the tension and style of the original game, which remains 
 my favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  This is the department where GRAW excels in. The grainy texture with the yellow hue filtered throughout 
 the levels truly capture the atmosphere of a counter-terrorist operation in the sandy/dusty conditions 
 of Central America. The loading screens are superb, with fluid translucent displays and HUD-like 
 text boxes. These are the first steps towards preparing the player to an adrenaline-hyped thriller 
 that is in GRAW.
  Another great aspect in the graphics department, if your video card and processor and RAM could 
 handle it, is the draw distance of the game. If able, you will be able to see an entire city with 
 towering buildings, shrubs, sidewalks, and low-walls without a cut-off point in your horizon. This 
 is an amazing sight, since most games' short draw distances will result in a sudden disappearance 
 of faraway objects, whereas GRAW lets you see the Central American cities almost as though you 
 were there.
  If your system is powerful enough to run GRAW at max video options and with a decent frame-rate, 
 then you'll be in gaming heaven... that is, until you reach the realization of the 10 year old 
 AI.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Without a driving music soundtrack to a suspense thriller, what do you get? An overpriced ad. In 
 GRAW's case, the music is quite fitting; for example, when you're engaging in a firefight, the 
 uptempo music kicks in, accompanying your adrenaline rush. However, a slight drawback to the good 
 soundtrack is the quite limited number of tracks, so after several hours of continued gameplay, 
 each firefight sort of blends into each other in a whirlwind of monotonous action.
  The sfx and surround sound is amazing, with the explosions of the grenades and rocket launchers 
 being the highlights. But don't completely ignore the gunfire, especially the whizzing noise of 
 bullets shooting past you. By the way, do bullets actually make such a loud (and distracting) noise? 
 ;)
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  Classics and masterpieces come with smooth graphics, realistic sound, and lastly, enduring and 
 captivating gameplay that simply sucks the player into devoting hours and hours into playing the 
 game. During their sleep the player would be dreaming of shooting monsters or planning their next 
 move in a turn. While eating breakfast, they would be hurrying to finish so they could squeeze 
 in that 15 minutes of gameplay. And at school or work, he'll be so distracted that his colleagues 
 would think he is reminiscing of his first date.
  Unfortunately, GRAW completely misses that mark of a masterpiece. As stated above, it may have 
 stunning graphics and exciting sound, but so does a movie, and how many times do you watch a James 
 Bond movie? Quite simply put, GRAW resembles a movie far too much.
  First, the missions are quite linear in the sense that the game forces you to choose to go left 
 or right, then having an almost fixed response to either choice. So no matter how many times you 
 go through that arch, even waiting behind it for different lengths of time, there's still going 
 to be that terrorist lurking on the other side of it. Also, the game wasn't designed to take into 
 account the eyesight of the HUMAN eye. I simply don't understand how a terrorist could spot a tiny, 
 camouflaged head peeking out of a bush from 100 meters away and immediately start firing. Since 
 GRAW's supposed to emulate reality, I don't understand how that terrorist could be so sure I'm 
 not a teammate of his or simply a bird.
  Second, the AI is downright stupid. For example, you shoot a terrorist at a distance, but his buddy 
 just 20 feet away takes no notice of the fact that his friend just got wiped out. That's the good 
 news. The bad news? Well, look no further than your OWN teammates, who will run straight into enemy 
 fire and 9 times out of 10 won't retreat... until you go to all the effort to "order" him to move. 
 It's as if the game's designed so that your teammates aren't bright enough to realize that they 
 need to MOVE WITH CAUTION through a heavily defended area. Instead, they make a beeline to your 
 first intended target.
  Finally, your teammates are actually quite difficult to control, since a "move" command could have 
 them facing a wall or in the opposite direction where the enemies are approaching. And usually, 
 they won't correct their position until they get hit, which is far too late, since in GRAW it takes 
 only about 3 shots to down your teammates.
  All in all, these major flaws in the gameplay completely ruins any enjoyment in watching such great 
 graphics and the innovative idea of teamwork in first person shooters at work.
  
  Value: 3/10
  The reason that I have specifically detailed out value is because GRAW's stability 
 is downright horrid. Expect crashes or bugs every half and hour or so unless you bought your PC 
 yesterday and it's literally top of the line. I personally used a P4 3.0 Ghz with 1024 Mb of RAM 
 and a Radeon 9600 XT 256 Mb video card and GRAW crashed at least 3 times over a 3 hour period, 
 and 15 minutes was spent on loading times as well. So it comes down to: what is the point of an 
 amazing visual experience for 25 minutes, then rebooting either GRAW or you PC itself, and renewing 
 the cycle again? Especially when there will be plenty of moments where you'll feel like shooting 
 your own teammates or physically hurting the terrorist who was hidden behind a ledge until he shot 
 you in the back as you unknowingly walked by.
  The online mode has as many bugs as an Amazonian jungle. However, the number of STABLE servers 
 with players participating in it are as rare as a civilized monkey IN that jungle. Anyways, you 
 get the picture, and it ain't pretty.
  
  Pros: Great visuals, good sound, and excellent array of weaponry.
  Cons: Horrible AI, highly 
 unstable, and very very buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  The title pretty much explains what you are to expect from this title it is a tough title to play 
 and run, and should not be used as a comparision of the Xbox 360 version. They are both very different 
 from each other.
  
  I cannot state how tough it is to run this game. The minimum requires a minimum of 1GB of RAM. 
 I recommend at least 2 GB of RAM. If you are using anything less than a 6800 don't bother purchasing 
 this game. To get default ultra high settings you need a very good 512MB card.
  
  The game is extremely tactical, and this transitions into most of the multiplayer matches. Conquest 
 is fun, and even deathmatch.
  
  Movement is remarkably slower than most combat games, which is good because alot of the weapons 
 offered will drop an opponent with a single shot, and very accurate when not rush about. 
  
  Environment is all urban, so cover is available in many areas, but be careful kill sacs are 
 everywhere as well. Physics even without the card are pretty well done, I have killed enemies with 
 blowing up vehicles, and watching it land on the poor guy. I have even been jacked up by a light 
 pole. 
  
  The yellow haze that many complain about is no different from most of the blurring, and coloring 
 from Need for Speed Most Wanted. Walking into shaded areas can leave you at a disadvantage for 
 a second or two while your eyes adjust. 
  
  When graphics are set to the hghest along with audio theyou can tell what your enemy is packing 
 along with the weapon reports the sound of footsteps can be a benefit, or a hinderance depending 
 on whos the target.
  
  I cannot stress enough you should have a high end system to run this game right, some people with 
 Nvidia cards have been having problems running this game, while ATi has been having a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  1st of all this game is not supposed to catch on the old Ghost Recon series at all , so ppl expecting 
 that are disappointed, then there are ppl like me that expect this game to be like bf2 and expect 
 ranking + team play ect they disappointed as well.
  
  this game is great in what it is, the problem it wont fit in right to FPS nor in war-simulator 
 category, there is no other game that comes even close to the physics and detail of GRAW, game 
 play is amassing if you enter the game 100% with out expectations.
  
  bf2 sold 1+ million copies because they had the guts to try something new, i do not understand 
 why in GRAW the makers had sh'ss to integrate new game play ideas, they should have knows that 
 even the slightest change in game play will make the most old Ghost Recon players unhappy.
  
  or they should just named something else, but integrate ranking + all team play features (not 
 just some) as they originally intended, this game would be the new hit since bf2, like this only 
 a hand full of servers are running full, and most ppl are disappointed in some or other way.
  
  i play this game because i cant get enough of the amassing graphics, but honestly after bf2 
 the game play seems flat, and the other gamers try to change this game to a FPS with integrating 
 deathmatch and playing it like a FPS.
  
  if you do not mind spending the $20-$50 for the game get it, its amassing and probably we will 
 not be able to see an other game like this until next year when the next generation of games come 
 out
  
  This game is way ahead of its time graphics and detail vise.
  i give it a 9.4 because it is by far far the best game in both FPS and war-sim in graf+detail+physics 
 even sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  On my opinion Ghost Recon advanced warfighter is a very good game!!!
  The graphic is impressive details very near at perfection and good
  gameplay!! but the thing 
 that on my opinion is very bad is the aim!!!!!!!!
  Because if you take sniper rifle is impossible to shoot to enemies because the aim goes alone and 
 is very difficult or impossible to aim shoot and hit an enemy!!!! is better not to use the scope 
 because is unstable!!!!
  i hope they will make some patch to do something!!!!!!!!!!
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                                           
  
  They have to adjust something before this game will be addictive!!! W CSS (counter strike source)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  In Tom Clancy's latest, you play as Scott Mitchell, leader of the Ghost Recon squad, a special 
 force known for its effectiveness in dangerous situations with relatively few numbers. You command 
 you fellow soldiers on a mission to rescue the leaders of USA, Canada, and Mexico from a group 
 of vicious rebels in Mexico City.
  
  Having been released a few months after the Xbox 360 version, "Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter" 
 for the PC has been revamped with a completely new graphics engine. "GRAW" for the 360 was hailed 
 for its realistic depiction of Mexico City and its lushly detailed graphics.
  
  The PC version, developed by Swedish company GRIN, takes that to the next level. Here, the graphics 
 have all the detail of the 360 version, plus much more atmospheric environments; I sometimes actually 
 believed I was in the middle of the pollution that sadly envelopes the city. The high-dynamic range 
 (HDR) of the game is even moreso convincing than the 360 version. Even though the initial release 
 of the game is without an anti-aliasing feature (a patch to be released in June will be fixing 
 that) , the jagged edges throughout the game were not enough to keep me from staring in awe.
  
  But behind all the beauty lies a game that wishes to be great but remains merely above average 
 due to almost limitless frustration. An easy difficulty level still left me screaming profanities 
 at the screen. That coupled with the fact the game has no cheats left me wanting to throw the game 
 away. This version of the game tries to be a simulation of what it's like to be in a real battle 
 rather than a more moderate shooter that we all can enjoy.
  
  The AI of the game (both enemy and team) also leaves much to be desired. While the AI can be sneaky, 
 these moments are very rare. Most of the time, your team and the hostiles alike spend more time 
 running into walls like an early first-person shooter. With all of the "groundbreaking" AI technology 
 promised in the game by the developers, I couldn't help but feel let down.
  
  I respect the game's other innovations, such as the ability to give each individual member of your 
 team orders, but sadly, it isn't used perfectly, even though it's decent. For a game as anticipated 
 as "GRAW," developers can do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syphoncell
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon, one word to describe it, revolutionary.
  
  The original came a few months after "Rainbow Six: Rouge Spear-Black Thorn." And it was a commercial 
 sucess. Unlike the building clearing formula of Rainbow Six, Ghost Recon was more revolved around 
 outdoors and camouflage. While Ghost Recon 2 was an alright game, it was disapointing compared 
 to it's ancestor.
  
  Now the game had a chance to be saved with "Ghost Recon 3: Advanced Warfighter." and that is just 
 what the game did. 
  
  Finally coming back to it roots on the PC (After the console release) , Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 
 (PC) is much better from it's console bretheren.
  
  Graphics: Amazing, Uniform creases, near perfect lip syncing, and weapons that look real.
  
 
  Sound: Dialouge doesn't sound scripted, weapons sound real, I feel like I am watching an A-Class 
 war movie
  
  Plot: Political, intriguing, cinematic
  
  Gameplay: Tactical, Difficult, Teamwork is a necessity, realistic future
  
  but there is something 
 missiing, but I don't know what. I think if they fused X360 version and PC version, the game would 
 be a perfect 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay Pros: GRAW is probably one fo the most intense and realistic military shooters you will 
 ever play. The firefights are truly amazing. For the most part your teammates hold up well enough 
 on there own during said firefights as well. You can choose your weapons load out before each mission, 
 even thought there arent too many to choose from, but still its makes the game funner to play in 
 the aspect of choice between each loadout. Very satisfying when you finally beat a mission. The 
 conrtols work really well, sliding , diving and peeking make the game feel more tactical and provide 
 good manuevers to take down your enemy and come out alive.
  None of the missions are by no means linear, so there are plenty of paths to complete your objectives.
 
  
  Gameplay Cons: It can be extremely difficult at times, but who doesnt love a challenge? The ai 
 of your teammates can really put a knife in your side at times. If you learn how to succesfully 
 move them around, they will be less likely to piss you off but even then they still can make brain 
 dead decisions. One of the biggest flaws of the ai is pathfinding. Sometimes youll put a course 
 for a certain teammat or all, but you might get one of them walking out into a very unsafe area. 
 Now like i said before if you learn how to move them (which is in short distances one at a time) 
 theyll be alot less likely to make mistakes. However this gets very tedious, and youll wish they 
 just made smart decisions like real soldiers. If you die you might find yourself having to replay 
 alot that you didnt want to because of teh spread out checkpoints.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good to say the least. However your going to want a fairly high 
 end system if you want to enjoy them and keep you fps steady. On a 7800 gt, 1 gig of ram, and a 
 p4 3,4 ghz HT cp ui ran the game all high except textures (which you cant unlock unless you have 
 a 512 mb card, unless you mod the xml file which is unfortunate) 1280 by 1024 resolution with a 
 steadfy framerate of 50 or more at all times. If you do decide to mod the xml file, make sure you 
 have a very nice system already with atleast 1 gig of ram, as i lost about 15 fps after i did this. 
 Anyways the graphics are very good with some nice HDR lighting and bump mapping her and there. 
 The best thing in the graphics engine without a doubt is the explosion affects. They look quite 
 awesome in my opinion. The character movement and rag dolls look very realistic and beleivable.
 
  
  Graphics cons: As i said before youll need a fairly high end system to run the game with nice graphics 
 and keep a healthy framrate. The biggest graphical flaw in the game is the lack of anti aliasing. 
 The game was recently patched to add a fix for all the jaggies, but it hardly does a good job. 
 Anyways i got used to the lack of aa after awhile and didnt really notice all the jaggies after 
 awhile but its still a flaw none the less.
  
  Sound: For the sounds that you get, there done very well. Howeever you wont hear much beside explosions 
 and bullets whizzing by and smacking concrete, but still there done exceptionally well. 
  
  Value: The ame is fairly lengthy because of the difficulty, and its fun to play missions over again 
 with different weapon laodouts and plans of excecution. The multiplayer, which i didnt play that 
 much, was very fun in my opinion. Some people have experienced problems in multiplaer, but im told 
 theyve been fixed in the newest patch.
  
  Tilt: Overall an excellent game. Just wish the ai was a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  this game is the best!!! Easy to learn and when finish the compaign got to multiplayer!!! Look 
 real! the best tactical game ever!!!! Don't wait and go buy  
 ok, this thing is so gay cos I hv to write 100 word! well i just writting stuff to get 100 word!!! 
 Ok i submited and it said a least hundred word, boring boring boring boring boring boring boring 
 boring boring boring boring boring boring i want a hundreed word. ok bye, going to play ghost recon 
 advance war figher! cant play yet need more !!! lala lala la la la lalal l alalala la la la la 
 al a ala la al ala ala a al ala la a a a a halo, halo 2, halo 3, huxley, gear of war, brother in 
 arm hell way hight (something like tht) and dead rising are going to be the best game!! going to 
 bye!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madamadam
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Ghost recon advanced warfighter is a so-so game.
  
  Its a good game don't get me wrong but you know could have been better.
  The graphics are awsome, 
 but for low standard computers its a pain in the a**, because of the high requirments even the 
 minumum requirments are tough to get by. The sound ehhh... like every other FPS game. BANG BOOM 
 HOLY S**T. The voice acting to me makes the cut, hey as long as they speak im fine. unless it sounds 
 like a demented robot. BREED BREED. The gameplay its the so-so, not bad though not good. I don't 
 see any problem as far as the sqauds AI goes, but as for the enemy AI lets just say if i saaw by 
 buddy's head explode right in front of me i'd check things out. And just two let you know it gets 
 boring a little fast. And the mutiplayer to buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laborang
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  I only bought this game a week ago and i've got to say it's great so far. I've been playing BF2 
 a lot and buying this game was a big change, in a good way. My computer runs it fine on med/low 
 settings (3.5ghz, 1gb, 6600GT) , the game looks and feels great. The squad reacts the way you want 
 them too and are very useful in huge firefight in which the explosions look awesome. The only problem 
 with the game is that i can't seem to order the squad around, i can only get them to move! Hopefully 
 this will be fixed in the next big "June" patch at least, i hope so.
  
  In conclusion, i highly recommend this game to anyone seeking a different experience in FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funny_bunch71
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Pros: Enormous levels, tons of detail, extreamly realistic character movement, classic 1 shot 
 1 kill method continues it rain in Ghost Recon 3
  
  The Cons: Multiplayer is lacking options, walking with character gun can be annoying because you 
 walk so slow!, many small glitches but nothing major.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced warfighter for the Pc was definatly worth the wait but doesnt quiet measure 
 up to the level that the Xbox 360 version had laid out but despite the horrible lacking of multiplayer 
 modes I still found it way more enjoyable than Graw online for the 360 but then Pc will always 
 dominate in video games online. Graws detail is amazing though costly for people without ugraded 
 computer with the latest graphic cards needed and the atleast 1gig ram minimum which for most people 
 is a pretty hefty change but either way Graw was extreamly impressive and the single player was 
 great and engaging Graw was worth the wait and I cannot wait for the updates soon to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Like i said in the short description, the game is only for very high end computers and since i 
 only own a decent computer i can't get this game work propperly. 
  
  You could ask yourself, is it really honest to give a game a lower grade then it should have just 
 because high end system requirements? Usually i would say no but i think this game could be lots 
 faster then it is now, Because the graphics are not superior and with a little tweaking it should 
 run a lot faster, well im no game-designer but im sure they could have fixed it.
  
  Besides the system requirements, the game itsself seems pretty nicely done , i do not own the full 
 game but i surely will recommend this game to people with a high end pc (damn how many times i 
 wrote that word?: P)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bracket_man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Throw out your 360 (Or sell it like I did) since this is the way games are meant to be played - 
 on the good old PC (well, maybe not so old) . This version of Ghost Recon is so far superior to 
 the 360 version its not even worth typing a lengthy review for, except this:
  
  360 Version: Looks good, horrible AI, lag problems, very very easy on both difficulties, run and 
 gun game - nothing tactical at all, multiplayer a joke, game itself worth the bargain price of 
 $24.99.
  
  PC Version: Looks just as good as 360 version and no lag issues (with an up to date PC) , moderate 
 to hard difficulty, AI will actually try to flank - seriously (that didnt happen in the 360!) , 
 quite tactical, multiplayer was a joke (everyone knew the patch was coming though - much better 
 now) . Game is easily worth double the 360 price. Only thing not needed is the physics card, since 
 it would be kind of useless (unless the card was $20, but at $300, give me a break) . Another plus, 
 modding the weapons and seeing the difference in accuracy, recoil, etc.. as you play.
  
  While I'm at it, I'll stress to the 360 owners that have better PC's or are getting a better PC 
 in the near future - sell you XBox now while you can still make a few bucks back. Soon PC's will 
 be so fast, the 360 and the already outdated PS3 will be just that - outdated. The next gen consoles 
 are already just your typical console, by January, they'll be the last gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TargetDog
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  GRAW for the xbox 360 was released and was quickly found to be one of the best X360 games to date. 
 During that time, the developers of the game, Ubisoft, promised an even better and more tactical 
 version of the game for PC gamers. Is the game more tactical? Yes, most definitely, to the point 
 of frustration. But is the game better? Unfortunately, no.
  
  First off, I don't think I need to explain all the details to you since you've undoubtedly read 
 about the details of the game already; you have a squad of ghosts who clean out enemies, basically. 
 Lets get down to the gameplay mechanics.
  
  Gameplay:
  The core gameplay is pretty decent. Make no mistake that you'll have to be careful with your decisions 
 in this game if you want to live, especially since this game is VERY HARD (which is not helped by 
 the fact that you cant quick save and you can only save in checkpoints.) Basically, what you do 
 is order your team to get to an objective in the level, fighting enemies along the way. There are 
 a couple of problems with this. While it is fun to duck behind cover and shoot your enemies and 
 stuff like that, two things bring this down; AI in general and the order menus. First of all, the 
 AI sucks. Both your team and the enemy AI are really dumb and can not do their job well. Oftentimes 
 they will be right next to each other and not notice each other, and they will do ingenious things 
 such as bump into walls. This is much more noticeable with your team; a lot of times when you order 
 them to do something they either dont do it or do it in the worst possible way. They can also get 
 stuck for no specific reason, which is kind of dumb. Secondly, order menus are pretty annoying. 
 When you want to order someone to do something, you press a mouse button which brings up a menu. 
 This is a problem when youre in the heat of battle because scrolling and choosing the options is 
 too slow, and you'll probably get shot while youre doing it. Also, you have a tactical map. You 
 can bring the tactical map to order your teammates to go to places and such, which is quite useful. 
 Game levels are normally very big but you'll end up proceeding only 1 or 2 ways to your objective 
 anyway; it seems very open-ended but in fact its quite linear. The formula of the game is always 
 the same; Get to an objective and kill enemies along the way, do the objective, go to another objective 
 and kill enemies along the way, do the objective, rinse, repeat. Luckily this doesn't get stale 
 simply because you fight enemies in different situations. The core gameplay is fun, but mostly 
 brought down by the AI.
  
  Note: I was not able to try the multiplayer.
  
  Graphics:
  Make no mistake, GRAW is beautiful if you have a monster rig. If not, it can still look pretty 
 good. But either way, this game is definitely poorly optimized. A computer that can run almost 
 every other game with high detail and high resolution will probably only be able to run this game 
 at medium detail and medium resolution if its not top-of-the-line. Also, this game does not have 
 a stable framerate. When things explode or a lot of enemies are on screen, this game's framerate 
 WILL DROP, sometimes horribly. Once I blew up a gas tank in the game and it went to 1 frame per 
 second. Anyway, the graphics are quite detailed; HDR looks very good in this game, probably some 
 of the best use of HDR I've seen in any game yet. Character models are very detailed and very good 
 looking, and cities are huge and pretty well detailed. A problem with this game is that the entire 
 game takes place in Mexico City, which does not make for much diversity in setting and you'll probably 
 get bored of the same brown background by the end of the game. Graphics themself are good but because 
 of the poor optimization I'm only giving this a 8.
  
  Sound: Not much to say about this. Most of the sound in this game is gunshots and ballistics, and 
 they sound pretty good when youre in battle and you can hear stuff chipping off and guns shooting. 
 Music is not much to speak of, and voice acting is alright; a little bit cheesy though. 
  
  Value: The main game took me probably 10-20 hours. Note that the value of this game is increased 
 beyond other games simply because you will be dying over and over in missions because they're so 
 goddamn hard.
  
  So in the end, GRAW is a good game, yes. But I really would not recommend it unless you have a 
 monster rig, because then you wont be able to run the game well. And by monster rig I mean a computer 
 with 2 GB of RAM and a 512mb video card. If you have the necessary equipment get it by all means, 
 otherwise, you might not have fun since the graphics WILL not look as good as other current games 
 and the fps will probably blow too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRandom
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Played on 1 GB Ram X700 pro at 800x600
  
  PROs
  . Stimulation-like Gameplay
  . Climactic Situations
  . Sounds
  . Tactical Map
  . Huge Landscapes
  
  Cons
  . Team 
 mates get stuck and do not comprehend with orders
  . Enemy AI deteriorates in later part of the game
  . Saving Ballatine is less challenging than 
 I thought. I was hoping he and some secret service agents were fighting for their survival.
  . Multiplayer is a cliche
  
  The game benefits a lot from the tactical map, but the AI ruins 
 the gameplay a lot. Although the multiplayer does not increase the value of the game, the huge 
 landscapes does by providing opportunities in trying out different tactics once the game is finished.
 
  
  If you have the 360 ver. or vise versa, there is no point in getting the latter. They have the 
 same objectives, but different kind of gamplay thats all. Obviously with X700pro, I didn't get 
 much eye candy from the game, but I am contented with the graphics. Honestly, I bought this game 
 due to the hype, thinking it would be revolutionary. Overall, I didn't regret it. I had fun throughout 
 the game and wouldn't mind playing it again. Recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reunion
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I totally dig the Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon titles -- except GRAW. I like most of you have read the 
 Clancy novels, rich in detail and deep core military ethics. And when Ghost Recon first hit the 
 shelves, I couldn't wait to grab this FPS and lay down some hurt on those Slavic baddies that embodied 
 Red Storm Rising. It was good gameplay. Then those titles went towards other third world entities 
 and sure enough, they rocked just as well.
  
  But what confounds me is why would the Programmers cross genre blurring the lines between FPS and 
 RTS? And why can't I execute an F5 / F6 quick save command after wending my way towards the next 
 check point?
  
  However, for whatever reasons they have the one that really gets my goat is having to install software 
 I really don't need. I'm talking about the secondary installation of AGEIA Physx. Although the 
 disclaimer says even if I don't have this particular video card, installing the application wouldn't 
 harm anything.
  
  Then why should I install it?
  
  On the plus side -- yes I do have a few. You do have to tweak your mouse to match the required aiming 
 and command -- but ain't that how it goes? The graphics are good, better than those earlier GR titles. 
 The HUD works well, expecially with a scroll wheel. But the mapping command could be better -- BF2 
 has a cool command map with Right Clicking options.
  
  Aside from having to work yourself into a frenzy only to get capped just before the next checkpoint, 
 this is a rather fun game. But as I mentioned earlier, it's the not the best title for the GHOST 
 RECON series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfoy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  The key to winning in this game is careful planning and, above all, good squad tactics. In this 
 instance, you're supposed to be the brains of the outfit, not the primary shooter. 
  
  For example. I've had good luck with the sniper rifle by keeping my squad out in front. That is, 
 I'm constantly moving from the tactical map to first person and back as I move each squad member 
 forward, one at a time, leap-frogging in such a way that they provide interlocking fields of fire, 
 while I provide long range cover. 
  
  The squad is good enough to handle most small-arms equipped bad guys, but fixed 50 cal machine 
 gun emplacements, roof-top snipers and APC's are the targets best handled by the sniper rifle from 
 range. 
  
  Sometimes, of course, I can't help myself, I have to take point. But I make sure the squad is properly 
 positioned to provide covering fire for ME. With these tactics, the 36 rounds for the sniper rifle 
 is plenty. Even when not equipped with the sniper rifle, good squad tactics will help keep you 
 alive. Occasionally, one of your guys will go down. Well, that's real. He'll be med-evac'd out 
 and be ready for the start of the next mission.
  
  Id give it a 9.0 if some of the missions werent so ridicules. At one point, the President of 
 the United States has been kidnapped you have to rescue him with nothing but your 3 man squad. 
 No armor, not even an APC. No Air cover, not even an attack helicopter. I mean, come on, this is 
 the PRESIDENT! Oh, what the heck, most shooters have ridicules missions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  First off, I have an alienware system that is loaded with armor so I of course have nothing negative 
 to say regarding system requirements. I have heard that the game is tremendously hard to run if 
 you have a mediocre system. 
  
  With my setup, I have found nothing so far that tells me this game is not a great shooter. Not 
 had any trouble executing orders to my team members unlike some other reviews have said.
  
  It must be noted that if you are into run and gun shoot em ups, this most certainly will not be 
 the game for you. You must take your time. You must look around every corner before moving to the 
 next spot. Even then, your chances of survival on the normal level is slim. Very tough game, easy 
 to learn how to play, staying alive however, that's a different story. 
  
  I gave this game a 9.7 and highly recommend it to anyone with a high performance PC. This game 
 really does an outstanding job of putting you in the line of fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guun63
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit should i get this or what is it worth it, and the answer is yes. If you like a game 
 with Tactics and realisme and still is a FPS this is the game. when the first bullet came flying 
 at me i was stunned be the Great sound effects its was really something. when you come flying down 
 in your black hawk and you get out that chopper 2 min. after bullets flying around you enemys shouting 
 your teammates shooting back it all very cool and cinematic.... but but if we look behind the great 
 grafik and sound effects. The AI,, let me speak freely about im not prout to say but you teammats 
 are dumb ass hell, yes they are exellent at shoot the enemy and no they are not. and the enemy 
 isen't much better they tend to just stand there and look even thou you are standing almost right 
 in front of them, and you teammats kind of like too run in too thing and get stuck anoying yes, 
 but its someting you have too be very unlucky too see but it can happend...
  
  But overall this is and will most likely be the best and most intens tactical shoot i have ever 
 played...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alby1481
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Good game but is it me or anyone else has the same issues with the mouse movements like me. It 
 looks a little slow or just not quick enough with a response to movement. I think controls is a 
 little off or could be done just a little better but modifying the keys does the job.
  
  On MP level I think the HUD map could have been done much better then what they put there, the 
 bold thick white lines that overshadow the map. I don't know how well is it doing on line gaming 
 comparing to BF2 but I think its worth playing for a change sometimes.
  
  Anyway, good plot. good story and very realistic. Some people complain but just like always you 
 can't please everyone. Overall, great graphics , great game play experience and does feel like 
 you get enough realistic action .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion_89
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  This game can be very frustrating at worst and very adrenalin pounding at best. After 14 years 
 in the Army, this game is the closest to "real" as you can get. Even going slowly and planning 
 every move, things can go very wrong! Just like in real military OPS. This game is not a run and 
 gun, even though you can be prodded by "superiors" to move faster. Ubisoft got it right with the 
 way most operations are conducted. Your superiors are always prodding you to move faster, even 
 though they know that you are in a "Hot" combat zone.
  You play this game and you get a feeling what it is like to be "caught in the middle" trying to 
 move, shoot, command, take orders, think under pressure and try not to get you or your team KIA'd.
 
  I admit, I feel more comfortable with the original GR, but this one is more realistic. And after 
 playing this game for what seems like days, it is beginning to become my favorite. I recommend 
 this game to anyone who wants a "real" feeling of combat in an Urban area, but doesn't want to 
 experience it for real.
  Man, such a great game!! I've played in both versions, X360 and PC, both with it's differences, 
 but both with it's great gameplay. As far as the eye candy goes, there's plenty of sweetness to 
 go around, pretty impressive graphics and of course, impressive demands for pc. Hey! You can't 
 have it all my friends.
  The storyline is what you'll expect from a tom clancy game, which is indeed a pretty good one.
 
  The sound... well, the effects are all pretty well done, it delivers a very very realistic sound 
 experience, you only hear music at emotional moments and as for the rest of time, you'll get ambient 
 sounds.
  For gameplay, the tactical and the authenticity of combat makes it a very engaging and challenging 
 game to play. But, as far as my opinion goes, you don't get a real feeling for this game until 
 you play it on hard mode, and that means one shot, one kill (a kill for the bad guys that is, you'll 
 be an instant corpse) . The online play is a very different experience also, so either way, you'll 
 be having at least 3 games in one, single player campaign, multiplayer match's, and a coop campaign 
 makes this a very complete title.
  So, in other words, if you still have your doubts, rent it and see for yourself, and if you don't, 
 then what are you waiting for? It's a total must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javo_007
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Yes, one of the best tactical shooters i've ever played, actually, one of the best games i've ever 
 played.
  
  Stunning graphics, of course if you have the computer for them, great physics, great story, i'm 
 Mexican and i'm really surprised how how precise are the locations, the weapons are great and with 
 some difficulty added, reloading in the wrong place can get you into trouble once or twice during 
 the game, not really amazed by the multiplayer options and maps, so if you are looking for a great 
 multiplayer performance this one is not for you, but single player or as some may call it, solo 
 campaign is just fantastic.
  
  Xbox 360 version is also good, but this one is much, much better; bigger maps, and as i said before 
 better graphics, not just than the xbox 360 version but all of them, that will give you a feeling 
 of reality.
  
  Difficulty is just as i thought, some maps are more difficult to place your backup in the tactical 
 screen, some are way to easy, but some times, you just keep screaming to the screen filled with 
 frustration.
  
  You will probably need a very powerful system to run this game, physX card can add a bit more reality 
 to your eyes, a 7900 or maybe two, a great sound card and speakers are really recommended to get 
 the best out of this one.
  
  I just loved this one, in my opinion this one is a keeper... It's worth every cent spent in the 
 game retail store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 29, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  In Tom Clancy's latest, you play as Scott Mitchell, leader of the Ghost Recon squad, a special 
 force known for its effectiveness in dangerous situations with relatively few numbers. You command 
 you fellow soldiers on a mission to rescue the leaders of USA, Canada, and Mexico from a group 
 of vicious rebels in Mexico City.
  
  Having been released a few months after the Xbox 360 version, "Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter" 
 for the PC has been revamped with a completely new graphics engine. "GRAW" for the 360 was hailed 
 for its realistic depiction of Mexico City and its lushly detailed graphics.
  
  The PC version, developed by Swedish company GRIN, takes that to the next level. Here, the graphics 
 have all the detail of the 360 version, plus much more atmospheric environments; I sometimes actually 
 believed I was in the middle of the pollution that sadly envelopes the city. The high-dynamic range 
 (HDR) of the game is even moreso convincing than the 360 version. Even though the initial release 
 of the game is without an anti-aliasing feature (a patch to be released in June will be fixing 
 that) , the jagged edges throughout the game were not enough to keep me from staring in awe.
  
  But behind all the beauty lies a game that wishes to be great but remains merely above average 
 due to almost limitless frustration. An easy difficulty level still left me screaming profanities 
 at the screen. That coupled with the fact the game has no cheats left me wanting to throw the game 
 away. This version of the game tries to be a simulation of what it's like to be in a real battle 
 rather than a more moderate shooter that we all can enjoy.
  
  The AI of the game (both enemy and team) also leaves much to be desired. While the AI can be sneaky, 
 these moments are very rare. Most of the time, your team and the hostiles alike spend more time 
 running into walls like an early first-person shooter. With all of the "groundbreaking" AI technology 
 promised in the game by the developers, I couldn't help but feel let down.
  
  I respect the game's other innovations, such as the ability to give each individual member of your 
 team orders, but sadly, it isn't used perfectly, even though it's decent. For a game as anticipated 
 as "GRAW," developers can do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameFace06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  this is 1 of my fav game single player is so fun!! i use to love this game!! and when the patch 
 cames out in jun the Multiplayer will be fun to!!, good game!! THE BEST GHOST RECON GAME GRAW GRAW 
 GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW 
 GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW 
 GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW 
 GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW 
 GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW 
 GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW GRAW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rbrad1
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  This game can be very frustrating at worst and very adrenalin pounding at best. After 14 years 
 in the Army, this game is the closest to "real" as you can get. Even going slowly and planning 
 every move, things can go very wrong! Just like in real military OPS. This game is not a run and 
 gun, even though you can be prodded by "superiors" to move faster. Ubisoft got it right with the 
 way most operations are conducted. Your superiors are always prodding you to move faster, even 
 though they know that you are in a "Hot" combat zone. 
  You play this game and you get a feeling what it is like to be "caught in the middle" trying to 
 move, shoot, command, take orders, think under pressure and try not to get you or your team KIA'd.
 
  I admit, I feel more comfortable with the original GR, but this one is more realistic. And after 
 playing this game for what seems like days, it is beginning to become my favorite. I recommend 
 this game to anyone who wants a "real" feeling of combat in an Urban area, but doesn't want to 
 experience it for real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattwbrad
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 24, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game I would like to say that the only thing in this game that is great is 
 the dazzling graphics and the large-scale maps. Other than that, everything else could have used 
 a lot of work.
  
  First thing is first. The Mouse Acceleration made navigating the tactical map and aiming weapons 
 more difficult than trying to plan strategic movements for three other soldiers. It would have 
 been nice to choose whether you wanted Mouse Acceleration.
  
  Do all of the rebels have the eyes of a hawk? The whole Ghost Recon team might as well have all 
 been wearing glowing pink jump suits. This made stealth completely out of the question in about 
 90% of the situations, and even then, the rebels would get the first shots off. There is nothing 
 Ghostly about this Recon team.
  
  Sound while traversing across the map was acceptable, and most of the sound effects were good, 
 but as soon as someone started talking to you, you could not hear a thing they were saying; this 
 caused me to miss important storyline points. Normal ambiance music was set to an adequate volume, 
 but when combat started to get going, the music volume would sky rocket, which caused me to take 
 my attention away from taking action to turning down the volume.
  
  After you have perfectly taken down a large group of enemies, there is nothing worse than coming 
 up on a new group of enemies that completely destroys you; attacking mounted cannons was always 
 a death wish. You cannot load your save game named "Perfect Takedown 087." You have to load from 
 the point at which the creators felt a checkpoint was good; they missed many good places. The game 
 has no save file what so ever. Perhaps Ubisoft can make a quick patch that makes saving a possibility.
 
  
  The A. I. in Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six was better than this game. When you order one of your squad 
 members to stand in a position by a corner and cover around the corner, you do not except him to 
 get to the corner then turn his back to the corner and start walking backwards around the corner. 
 Frankly, I would have felt safer to be on the Rebels team.
  
  Would it have been too much to ask for cheats? How hard could it be to add God Mode and Infinity 
 Ammo to the game? I use cheats to blow off steam in frustrating situations, but because Tom Clancy's 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter had none, the game was just frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tode
Rating: 6
Date: May 23, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I play PC Games for enjoyment not frustration. Some gamers probably enjoy going over the same territory 
 over & over again. I don't. Where I came from, Dead was Dead. No restarts. Restart is the biggest 
 "Cheat Code" on the book. If you are going to give random "saves", "continue", "restart", then 
 give us back the "Save Game" function. Hell they have "Cheats" for the console's. ALL I WANT IS 
 MY "SAVE GAME" CHOICE. Now that I have vented, I'll load up the original "Ghost Recon" and really 
 enjoy myself. 
  Seems to me that somewhere along the line, someone got lazy as hell and shoved this out the door 
 to damn fast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 23, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Well I got this game hoping to be a great Ghost Recon game as in the prior years but to me it was 
 a pain. 
  First off you needed a kick arse card to play it on good graphics.
  Second the aiming was a tad off 
  Third Moving when prone would reset me if I moved to far
 
  Fourth the idoitcy of my own AI
  the list is ever growing for me.
  
  But the thing I hated the most was how slow you moved. I mean the levels are huge and even with 
 sprinting its slow. Ubisoft should have intervined with a walk button.
  It is also very hard when in a firfight to control your squad and then also shoot at the enemies. 
 If one bullet hits you most likley your dead but if 10 bullets hit your men they fall and get back 
 up. The AI are stupid and I dont kno if a patch would be released to fix it but it ruined my game 
 expericence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: granposho
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  Man, such a great game!! I've played in both versions, X360 and PC, both with it's differences, 
 but both with it's great gameplay. As far as the eye candy goes, there's plenty of sweetness to 
 go around, pretty impressive graphics and of course, impressive demands for pc. Hey! You can't 
 have it all my friends.
  The storyline is what you'll expect from a tom clancy game, which is indeed a pretty good one.
 
  The sound... well, the effects are all pretty well done, it delivers a very very realistic sound 
 experience, you only hear music at emotional moments and as for the rest of time, you'll get ambient 
 sounds.
  For gameplay, the tactical and the authenticity of combat makes it a very engaging and challenging 
 game to play. But, as far as my opinion goes, you don't get a real feeling for this game until 
 you play it on hard mode, and that means one shot, one kill (a kill for the bad guys that is, you'll 
 be an instant corpse) . The online play is a very different experience also, so either way, you'll 
 be having at least 3 games in one, single player campaign, multiplayer match's, and a coop campaign 
 makes this a very complete title.
  So, in other words, if you still have your doubts, rent it and see for yourself, and if you don't, 
 then what are you waiting for? It's a total must have!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 21, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  GOOD:
  
  Stunning depth in missions
  Good story-driven gameplay
  Physics are good if you have a PPU
  Intense tactical combat
  Graphics are great/ wide city 
 environment
  Easy to learn, good control feel
  Squad AI is highly responsive and useful
  
  BAD:
  
  PhysX drivers have to be installed
  A horrendous syatem hog
  Steep requirements
 
  A slightly un-optimized game engine
  No quick save function/only checkpoint saves
  A bit too difficult
  
  OVERALL:
  
  PC GRAW is a highly immersive game, that encourages 
 you to be slow and tactical and plan out your warfare. Those of a stratergy and patient disposition 
 will enjoy GRAW, but for those who are more used to Quake and Unreal Tournament, definately try 
 the demo and see if you like it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tfwest
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 20, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be fantastic! When I first got it, I was so into the graphics and gameplay 
 that I stayed up too late into the night. Now most of you already know the pros and cons, but for 
 those who still haven't bought this game yet, here's a warning: The computer A. I. is HORRIBLE in 
 this game... There are many instances where they stay in one place and DO NOT MOVE (even when ordered 
 to) and there are instances where they move AWAY from where you are, even though you told them 
 to MOVE TO YOUR POSITION. Then there are times when they move in to attack the enemy (when ordered) 
 and STILL they can't defend themselves well enough that they get killed!
  
  I was very frustrated, banged my table, slammed my keyboard, sweared so loud that my lungs started 
 hurting, and even punched the monitor. If you have plenty of patience and don't mind the horrible 
 A. I, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 19, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  The gamespot review for the PC version of this game is dead on, really. I am running an AMD FX-53 
 processor OC'ed to 2.8 Ghz with 2 Gigs of super low latency DDR2 RAM and a 256K GForce 7800 OC'ed 
 and XFi sound card. Contrary to this review, I CAN set my detail to HIGH... I dont know if that 
 is because of the extra RAM in my machine or the OC'd clock speeds in my card, but I choose to 
 keep the detail at Medium for performance reasons.
  
  I don't know about the multiplayer, but the only thing that really detracts from the experience 
 is not the AI of the enemies, but the AI of your own squad. I had abandoned other Clancy Shooters 
 inthe past (most notably the Rainbow Six Series) because of the absolutely horrible AI of the squad, 
 which, in my opinion, made the games totally unplayable. In GRAW, there is a lot more choice, flexibility, 
 and mobility than in other games, but many of the very frustrating and obviously incompetent bugs 
 in the AI remain. For example, if you set your troops to move to an area, and they happen to run 
 into an enemy during the course of their movement, they WILL NOT RETURN FIRE, but just keep blindly 
 moving to the assigned point. They will literally just keep walking by as a single, exposed and 
 easily dealt-with enemy wipes out the whole squad. This requires you to, when they come under fire, 
 pull up your SATCOM and issue the squad a COMMAND to attack the enemy. This is more than just frustrating: 
 it's downright infuriating and totally inexcusable on the part of Ubisoft for a game of this caliber. 
 Additionally, if your squad is on one side of a wall and the enemies are on the other (or around 
 a corner) , you cannot command your squad to simply bum rush around the wall or corner and attack 
 them. You have to move them to an area where they have a line of sight of the enemy FIRST and THEN 
 command them to attack: this totally ruins the ability to surprise attack or blitz an entrenched 
 enemy, as by the time your guys are in positon and can see the enemy in order to be commanded to 
 attack, the enemy can see them and are already shooting at them. Once again, totally inexcusable 
 in a game of this caliber and really makes one wonder how Ubisoft (who I have always loved and 
 does great on so many other games) mucked this AI up so badly. 
  
  Aside from this, the game is nearly perfect. What happens over time is that you get intuitive about 
 how to command your troops and you get used to having to micro-manage everything. Another option 
 is tha tyou tell your guys to stay home and go out alone.... only calling them in when you get in 
 serious trouble. 
  
  Like the review said: if you have the HP in your rig to crank this up and go on it, the FPS experience 
 is breathtaking and the graphics are unbelievable (on par with FEAR and Halflife 2) . But, the learning 
 curve to compensate for the shortcomings of the AI is pretty big and pretty frustrating at times. 
 All in all, a great game with one big flaw that takes it from a 10 in my book down to an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Montague
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 25, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  When i started playing the game, i was in awe at the graphics, sound, and the control of the player 
 and the AI of your teammates. The ability to do the satellite commands are great, but many times 
 the satellite shows no enemies around the corner and soon as you round the corner you will get 
 mowed down by a couple just waiting for you. Even when using the drone that fly's right over their 
 heads they will not show up. Even if they do show up if you can not see them directly you cannot 
 order you teammates to attack them. Which is kind of bad since if you can see them directly, you 
 will get shot trying to do orders in satellite view. 
  
  Here is the big kicker, i have had three separate points in the game that i have come to a point 
 where i was peaking (yes that's right, peaking) around a corner and instantly died because a NPC 
 with a rocket launcher hit me from farther away than i could see with a scope. Actually, the first 
 time i was standing behind a huge barrier, it magically flew over the 1 1/2 story barrier and went 
 straight down to kill me. Each one of these times, it took at least 2 minutes to load with a fast 
 computer, then at least 3 to 6 minutes just to get back to that point in the game to die again. 
 There is no quick-save, actually there is no save at all since the game saves in between each mission. 
 So basically you have to magically go through and do the missions perfectly, psychically know where 
 every NPC is since the satellite doesn't work properly and pretty much pray for luck. 
  
  When you are not using the satellite view, which i forgot to add makes it hard since you cannot 
 see cover and hallways through buildings and cannot tell teammates to use that (even thought you 
 can see it right in front of you) , but when you are in actual battle, the command menu is slow 
 and their are no hot-keys (as well as the fact this menu doesn't work properly as you may tell 
 a teamate to move to a location and the game takes it somehow on the other side of a building when 
 you wanted them to move 10 feet from you) . You have to bring up the members menu, mouse wheel through 
 the options, then middle mouse click on the one you want. You can't just hit a hot-key for follow 
 or move here or cover here. Died a few times just trying to get the stupid orders done. If you 
 don't give them orders, they are pretty stupid, and run out like a deer in headlights and play 
 bullet catchers. With orders the AI is great.
  
  I think i got through the meat of the reasons behind my review. There have been several patches 
 and not a one has fixed these issues, and many posts have been made on their forums and they have 
 not made any comments or attempts to fix these issues. 
  
  Did i mention i was playing on Easy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvoStvO
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Great game Awesome graphics... Requires a High grade graphic card... I Play every night and i see 
 people glitching like crazy.. Makes for easy kills.. HAHA I have a 7900 GT SLI Setup and it rocks 
 this game @ 120FPS on 1600X1200 but for a $1000.00 graphic card setup its worth it to play this 
 game on high resolution. Needs better servers ,likes to boot you out all the time. OC3 is the best 
 server out right now and it has been great.. other servers need some updates or something.. All in 
 all 9.5 took .5 off cause thay need to fix the servers. Very smooth game play not as fast a counter 
 strike or Quake 4 but more realistic... grenades need improvment it take too long to setup the grenade 
 and throw it.. (Has a power bar that takes to much time) need to be able to throw it fast ,not wind 
 up and then throw thank god there is a grenade launcher thats perfect in operation and gives you 
 alot of grenade rounds.
  All in all this game rocks... Tell crysis comes out... cant wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 18, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  The Good : A good series of campaigns were each & every mission has it's own style & ways , they 
 are challenging & demand u to be as accurace as possible . The way that the gameplay is starting 
 from tactical shooting to dangerous gun battles between your team & the enemies , were you can 
 get all the advantage over the enemy by useing the eyes of your teamates to locate the enemies 
 , & the tactical map to get a head view of the battlefield . The soudn is great & more better than 
 it are the graphics which make the enviroment so real & it also make it interactive with the gun 
 shots that fly around . 
  
  The Bad : The way that the gameplay goes is good , but the way that the AI of you teamates go then 
 it is messed up , they are accurate & smart dont get me wrong but if you give them a move order 
 to a cover , they go to it but instead of having the wall give them cover , they cover the wall 
 . But other than these problems , the AI of you teamates is deffinetly better than those of Rainbow 
 Six : Lockdown ( no offence & I am not comparing between these too good games ) . As to the other 
 bad thing in the game , well it is the graphics , the graphics of these game are so real that they 
 need a god made graphic card to play them , also that the graphical options are few ( only 5 or 
 6 options ) . 
  
  T personly dont think that you should buy this game , if you are looking to just have fun , because 
 you will get frustrated , & I also think that you should not buy this game if your mind is considering 
 it between another list of games , but if you defenitly into the FPS games then consider buying 
 it normally , but if you are into the Ghost Recon Series , then you should buy it no matter what 
 other games are around & no matter what people say to you about it . I know that i have never played 
 other Ghost Recon Games , but this game is defenitly a game that should be played . Yet I still 
 hope that make patches for this game that fixes some of the bad things . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odja
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W has the most exciting gameplay I've seen in awhile. Debris and sparks playing everywhere, 
 while you and your team are out numbered 5:1! Run and slide for cover... your hearts racing...
 
  
  That pretty much sums up every battle scene in G. R. A. W. The environments are incredibly detailed, 
 and really get you immersed in the game. The sound and music is great, and again helps get the 
 blood racing through your veins.
  
  Also one of the best things about it is, the graphics engine doesnt appear to be that demanding! 
 I have to disagree with gamespot's official review here... My PC isn't fantastic (Only ATI X600 
 Mobility 256MbGraphics Card) but it seems to run the game at full! To get a engine looking this 
 great and running this well is a fantastic achievement!
  
  G. R. A. W is one of the most immersive tatical shooters ever made... Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: to0slickforyou
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  pros: great graphics, easy to learn, co op multiplayer is awesome, domination is awesome, definately 
 a buy
  
  cons: gamespy server suck, is down periodically, draws players away
  
  this game is pretty intense and requires teamwork. you are likely to die if you go out solo. co 
 op pretty much forces you to work together which is the basic idea of the game. also the game is 
 pretty easy to get a hang on and doesn't lag online. however, the requirement for graphics is up 
 there, but since i have a x800xl, i'm fine =) . the only downside is that the gamespy server goes 
 down, but in a way which made it seem like it was my router or firewall problem. it wasn't until 
 i read on forums that people were facing the same problem in which i realize, gamespy sucks. 
 
  
  game is great, gamespy server sucks. no further comment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muttyd
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the preview for GRAW, I knew I needed to buy the game. When May 4th rolled around, 
 I found myself with a copy installed on my PC as soon I was out of class for the day.
  
  When I first installed the game, there were SEVERAL bugs/problems. I was having to run the game 
 at 800x600 with med/low settings. After some advanced tweaking, creating an SLI profile, and updating 
 my drivers, I was running the game at 1152x864 with everything set to "High."
  
  The gameplay is fun, and the levels kept me enthralled throughout. I enjoyed using the tactical 
 map, ordering air/artillery strikes, and commanding my squad. I have always enjoyed first person 
 tactical shooters, and GRAW was everything I expected it to be.
  
  The graphics are stunning, despite antialiasing. With 1152x864 resolution, high textures, lighting, 
 and effects, the game looked amazing. People complain about the lack of AA, but this can be countered 
 by using a high resolution and setting the textures to high. People have to realize that computer 
 games today require advanced hardware to run at full settings. For those of you who are using SLI, 
 create an SLI profile, using Coolbits, and select "alternate frame rendering." There are several 
 other advanced tweaking settings you can use to increase performance of this game. Sound was also 
 unbelievable on a 7.1 system. Nothing like actually hearing what direction a shot is coming from, 
 having something explode behind you, and so on.
  
  If you have the machine to run this game, I highly recommend it. The only gripe I have with this 
 game is the lack of antialiasing, somewhat lacking artificial intelligence, and replay value. However, 
 since this game has a multiplayer option, I don't see why anyone would want to replay the campaign. 
 Overall, great buy, great game!
  
  Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvikatarn
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  ... I know i love it. The graphics dont look good on my PC and the framerate does get chuggy sometimes 
 but it doesnt break the game. The AI of the enemies and your team is amazing. They will ALWAYS 
 find cover and if you destroy it they will slide near another cover. Then there is commanding your 
 team. Its really a pain in the a*s in the start but if you get the hang of it you will do good 
 in the game. The Sattellite view ( where you get a more strategic view of the map and you can give 
 orders to your men like where should they take cover or where should they go to flank some bad 
 dudes, its really good but it does make the game easier sometiimes cuz u can actually also see 
 enemies from the sattellite cam. Then there are the weapons. There is not a wide choice but they 
 do pack a punch. Sniper, assault rifle, SMG, its your choice in the start of the mission. You can 
 also put silencers, eyesights, grenade launchers on them but they will make your weapon heavier 
 and harder to aim. Sidearms are also a lot of fun to handle. You can play it Bruce Willis style 
 but you will need the hell of an aiming skill. Then there are the Evironments. They are HUGE. i 
 mean HHUUGGEE. If you get stuck in a mission just go take a trip on the map and attack your enemies 
 from behind. Thats what i love about the game that you can choose dozens of different ways to complete 
 a mish. Although something makes the game badder. Sometimes your characters feels like a submarine 
 to handle. The movement is hard yes but it can be done without TOO much hassle. 
  
  Its a great game and i think every FPS fan should definetly check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatSeeJay
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 17, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  This game is what I would call an orgie of hot graphics but with the lack of originality.
  The game is great don't get me wrong..
  But I get tired sneeking up and down streets more or 
 less the same to objectives located 300 yards, wich is a painful distance when you have to walk 
 slowly and watching every corner.
  
  But the feeling is great, the first part when you parachute down to the first objective sure is 
 breathtaking, even though I had to run on medium graphics on my "one month before next gen"-computer..
 
  
  This is a game wich gives "one time play" a face and I would probably not pick this game up more 
 than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zracxes
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 16, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  well the game is okii (a ghist game typical) little quiet not too much too do. just aim kill and 
 loock for moore.,
  Bf2 is much better game. its to liitle possibilities in the game genraly.
  graffics is nice but 
 it dosent (lock) as great as the bf2 modern combat at 360. im sorry too say that 360 bf2 rules 
 all 1 shooter graffics, not on demand from ur power but in eye sith. 
  one thing i like in game is that when u shoot it feel pretty good , and the town are big full off 
 specs, but satill not the smooth nice new city arkitect as i hoped for. (after playing 360 modern 
 combat in 1900*1200 its nothing.
  they should make it for pc version 2 it woulkd be laughley easy for the pc and it would loock even 
 Greater! MrBEFjeld 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LancerVI
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  First and formost, I own both versions of the game, Xbox 360 and PC. And both are great. I traded 
 in my Xbox 360 version though, because I am a mouse and Keyboard, PC Gamer. 
  
  Mainly, I will address, briefly the hardware reqs.
  
  ALL of you complaining about "stuttering" 
 and "this is the worst game ever" you should check your hardware specs. 6600's in SLI??? Give me 
 a break.
  
  I have a 7900 GTX SLI system and a 1900XTX Crossfire sys. I've tested on both extensively. IF you 
 have a powerful ATI card.... your good, but I noticed a huge performance hit with nVidia. This game 
 was clearly optimized for the ATI cards. It runs great on my 1900 XTX and mediocre on my nVidia 
 setup. Check for an nVidia driver release to address this in coming weeks.
  
  Also, the sound in this game is nothing short of INSANE!!!! I have a Soundblaster X-Fi Fatal1ty....... man 
 this game sounds good with this card. It also helps in the FPS dept. as the card has memory on 
 board.
  
  So if you are a hardcore PC guy, with the right hardware, definately the best version of the game. 
 If not, get the Xbox 360 ver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Occipital_Lobe
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game meets almost all my expectations.
  It feels impossibly hard to complete the missions, just as it did in the original GR, which by 
 the standards back then was extremely difficult.
  There is a limited variety of real (or at least believable) weapons. You have a better chance of 
 carrying a varied arsenal than in GR, which is a welcome change, as is the customizing options 
 of your weapons.
  I dont really understand the complaints about the lack of weapons or the limited zoom options 
 of the assault rifles.
  Theres no scopes available for the ARs (at least not at the point Ive reached) , and thus no 
 super zoom.
  
  My only complaint at this time is the lack of a quick save option.
  I have no idea why that was left out. Well, of course its the single most effective way to raise 
 the difficulty of the game, but its only achievement is frustration and anger when you have to 
 start the mission all over God nows how many times. That has to be fixed with a future patch.
 
  
  Multi-player: No idea! I have had more than enough to deal with getting halfway through the campaign, 
 so Ill just wait and see.
  
  In short: Get the game. If you enjoyed Ghost Recon, this is just what youve been waiting for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun373
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 15, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, henceforth GRAW, is a completely different beast than its X360 
 counterpart. That said if you are going to try this game based on the console version just step 
 away now, place or cash/credit/debit card back in your wallet and continue with the X360 version. 
 That being said the game is very good, but very frustrating at times.
  
  First I will start with the negative and make my way to the positive. One of the parts of this 
 game that I cannot stand, the single most glaring issue I have with GRAW is the total and utter 
 lack of the ability to save where ever and whenever you wish. This would not be so bad but coupled 
 with the difficulty of the game, even on its default setting, and added to the sometimes absurdly 
 long interval between check points can become a hassle. An example of such would be a section of 
 a mission that requires you to dispatch two of "fill in the blank enemy units," you have just won 
 a hard fought fire-fight, vanquished the enemy and blown his armor/bunker/APC/radar unit/etc. to 
 a million flaming bits to turn the corner and take a bullet in the head. Since you did not complete 
 the second part of said mission you must now re-complete that hard fought battle again. 
  
  My second negative issue is the overall difficulty of the game. Many FPS/Tactical squad based shooters 
 require you to think and prepare and in most you will die several times before completing the game. 
 In GRAW you had better be ready to think 6 and 7 moves ahead. This isn't the kind of Tactical shooter 
 where you can set your fire team to auto follow run into enemies and then start blasting them and 
 handing out orders. You have to be in a constant state of high alert, making sure your party is 
 constantly in the right place facinf the right direction, ready to shoot. Hardly ever will you 
 be able to just hit the auto-follow option for more than a brisk job down the street to the next 
 possible fire-fight. You have to constantly be giving out orders. This can sometimes degrade into 
 a trial and error system of play where you round a corner get destroyed, the next time you get 
 to that trap you know to poke your head around while giving a team mate orders to flank, then get 
 to some cover and have your team mate shoot the enemy in the back. Sometimes it feels a little 
 too much like they expect you to be a military tactichian. 
  
  This last point brings me to why I gave the game the score I did. When you are able to put all 
 the games parts into harmony and make it through a mission you have a real feeling of accomplishment 
 (with respect to video gaming) . Because of the degree of difficulty you don't ever really have 
 a blase mission in the game. You never really have that level where you sit there asking yourself 
 why they felt the need to add something so easy into the game. However I still think the made it 
 a little excessively hard in some points. 
  
  Graphics and sound are great, just make sure you are running an ATi or a really, really high end 
 Nvidia as the fact that the game was optimized for ATi will become glaringly obvious. One annoyance 
 is the total and complete absence of Anti-aliasing, even for those people running an ATi X1000 
 series card. So if you don't have a high res moniter you will get some of those jaggy-edged lines.
 
  
  Multiplayer leaves alot to be desired however. The menu is often buggy with many dead servers listed. 
 Sometimes it won't recognize your password and you will have to try to log in several times and 
 there is coop online and domination mode. Not too much variety. A good experience once you are 
 in though. Has a Counter-Strike meets BF2 flavor too it.
  
  As difficult as I find this game it keeps drawing me back in for another go around with the Mexican 
 terrorists. It has some intangible quality that I think I have given up on a mission, but no I 
 must try one more time to defeat the AI, which can be rather magnificent at times with its ability 
 to find cover, move, alternate fire and reloads with coordination, etc. It's just a really good 
 game that can be difficult and satisfying at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anyulled
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  even with the recent reviews they've writen about this game. i still consider it a wonderful game, 
 for those real strategy fans, in there you'll find all the action you want, and all the strategy 
 the game can be itself, an excellent choice for LAN/multiplayer games, but not for online games, 
 because it almost always freezes up, the weapons, and the characters details are just incredible, 
 and all the game enviroment makes you feel like any ohter game before.
  
  the only thing that's not too positive for this great game: you've got to use a state-of-art PC, 
 coz is a heavy game, with complex graphical engine, multiple thing flying all over the screen 
 and you need a quick frame rate capable card.
  
  nonetheless, i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markie200
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 15, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  Graphics are really good, even without a 512mb card, bullets seem to damage nearly everything in 
 the environment, also the detail in the environment is amazing.
  Maps are large and is seems like you can go in any direction which makes it really good for flanking 
 enemy positions.
  The sound in the game is exceptional and when your behind a pillar or car with a couple of guys 
 spraying bullets at you, it can make you feel like your in a real life battle.. although Im playing 
 with 5.1 speakers and the extreme sound level selected in the game.
  
  Where the game is really let down is with the AI , although the game can be quiet hard in some 
 places. Problems with the AI include, team mates sometimes not doing what you tell them to do. 
 And if you have the team set to follow.. they will , but mostly at a good distance. Commanding 
 team mates is the only way to go in single player mode if you want to survive. I think commands 
 are some what limited though and more options would have been nice, commands include: move, follow, 
 attack, cover, stop.
  The enemy AI isnt really good either and i have found that they will mostly just spray bullets 
 in your direction and only sometimes take real cover as some will stand in the open taking fire. 
 They dont seem to try to flank you or seek you out.
  
  Ive played the game in multiplayer mode with only one other person in coop mode, which I have 
 to say was really fun and rewarding. Having the game end when the host player dies is strange and 
 can be frustrating at times and I think this should have been an option rather than just how it 
 is. I would have to say if you had up to 4 players the multiplayer would definitely be great fun.
 
  
  All in all the even though the AI isnt up to a lot this doesnt take too much form the game and 
 still makes it hard enough for most people due to the urban domain that you play in as the enemy 
 can be anywhere, game play is good but you may need to remap some keys to your liking.. and of 
 course, lots of weapons to chose from but you have to be careful of weight.
  
  Id recommend this one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MF_2
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  As i play this game i say to myself, this is really cool. If i join the army i want this gear. 
 The reason this game is cool is only because it shows us the possible future soldier. Other then 
 that, its almost like every other Rainbow Six game. This isn't a bad thing at all but I've played 
 enough to see all Rainbow Six can give me. The one thing i am angry about in this game is simply, 
 it requires you to have a dedicated PPU (Physics Processing Unit) in order to take advantaged of 
 the full physics engine. I've played this game at the store to demo it with a PPU. There is nothing 
 fancy here that my CPU can't do. I think PPU's are going to be fads and doesn't need a dedicated 
 Card. The Physics of Half Life 2 are far more impressive then this game's physics. So i believe 
 the Ubi Solf sold out on us here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is sweet!! I'm loving it, to me it's a very challenging game. If we were to compare Ghost 
 Recon 1 for the pc and G. R. A. W, G. R. A. W will definitely win it by 100 points!!
  
  In this game, the most part that i love the most is the sound, the effects that were put in were 
 extremely good, it makes you feel as if you are in the game,
  the impact of the explosion, makes the game looks realistic.
  The graphics are nice, but in order 
 to obtain it, you must have quite a high end 3d card. And of course, this is the best, easy to navigate 
 tactical game i've ever played.
  
  But of course, nothing is perfect.. what bothers me the most is the A. I of this game, the enemies 
 seems to notice you easily, and they will keep on firing at you once they notice you. Even though 
 you are taking cover behind the wall, cars, woods etc, they will gonna keep on firing at your spot 
 till their next reload of weapon. So that will be the time you are free to shoot them. Though it's 
 possible to shoot them while they are firing at you, but it's a bit risky. And one more thing about 
 the A. I is that, most of their (enemies and our teammates) shooting accuracy is perfect, they'll hit 
 you easily if you stand still on one spot, and the strange bug is that, the oponents are very alert, they 
 can see you even though you dont see them.. strange huh?? try itif you wanna know
  
  And also there are a couple of missions where you have to go solo, on that mission, i felt like taking 
 the rifle and spray onto myself.. That's not a realistic mission, try to imagine one soldier against 
 more than 20!!
  That is definitely deadly..
  
  But if you get use to it, you'll find this game as easy as spelling ABC. I think the developers 
 are trying to make a challenging game so that you'll take quite a long tme to finish it. I took 
 about 2 hours on completing one of the missions, coz i kept dying..
  
  Oh one more bad thing is that, there are no quicksave/quickload, loading times are quite long everytime 
 you restart a last saved checkpoint or the level itself, but the game has auto save, it will save 
 your progrees after you've completed one objective, so after every objective, it will auto save.
 
  
  But if you add up all these bugs, i can say that the game is made good. The gameplay is really fun 
 and enjoyable, and it's instense at every moment, coz at every corners, there might be enemies.. try 
 this game.. it's a good buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyBerWoLff
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 13, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Definatly not all that I expected it to be, but then again I really don't know what I expected, 
 something new? something revolutionary? but sadly it didn't bring anything new to the field.
  
  The only 'futuristic' part of the game is the HUD and the weapons. The idea of the HUD is great 
 but it doesn't seem like it's used to its fullest. The weapons look great, but its no different 
 than an M4 from America's army other than the look.
  
  Oh and theres no zoom really. Unless you want to carry around a sniper rifle and use only the secondary 
 semi-autos then you dont get a scope effect from any of the 'combat sights'. 
  
  This game is basically ever y concept of "Full Spectrum Warrior" but in first person. The tactical 
 map on GRAW is just like the one in FSW only in real-time. 
  
  The AI of your team-mates is quite under-developed. I've told my team members ot move to one spot 
 and my man ran out into the middle of the street where a machinegun nest was firing.
  
  The game is quite fun, but it was a let-down from what I was hoping it was going to be. The graphics 
 are amazing but its just like playing any other war game really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stranglet
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 12, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  i dont care about the tech stuff off the render blabla... the game is awesome to play but ugly 
 in graphics. the textures are a bite poor and AA should be possible because the game is not that 
 great in the graphics. only the physics and the interface saves this game from total disaster. 
 i dont have exactly a state of the art pc but it has nice specs and i dont really find the game 
 very demanding in the hardware side. perhaps because oh no AA!!! dame... plays very nice ate 1280x1024@85Hz 
 on a P4 3.2 on a X850Pro. DON'T BUY! Play the demo first and if you are not demanding in graphic 
 quality it's up to you. it would be almost perfect if the graphics and AI were better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 15, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  In the time when good gameplay is being traded for high budget eye candy aimed to capture as much 
 attention as possible, it is easy to forgive a player who approaches Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 with a certain caution. Another recent tactical creation from Ubisoft, Rainbow Six Lockdown, greatly 
 disappointed some fans of the series with its shallow execution. Advanced Warfighter has been advertised 
 for a long time before it hit the Xbox 360. After a while it has finally arrived on the PC, and 
 now we get to see if it's as good as it appears to be. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The story resides around you, as cpt. Mitchell, and your Ghosts team that's been sent into the 
 Mexico City as a help package from the US to the Mexican president that has recently lost his country 
 to a coup. The missions will entrust you with eliminating targets, escorting, designating targets 
 for aerial strikes, saving the president; in short, the usual tasks of an extremely elite special 
 operations team.
  
  The idea behind this GR game is to give a player a glimpse into the reality of the way wars will 
 be fought in the near future. Obviously, a certain amount of innovation is expected. One of the 
 most important things in any warfare is information. The map in GRAW is, in fact, a real time satellite 
 video feed. Its a great help in locating enemies before they locate you. It eases the gameplay 
 to a certain point, but a careless use of this feature will result in your team getting wiped out 
 by the enemies who remained hidden from view under tree canopies or roofs. Apart from the satellite 
 view, the player has access to the view of each team member through a mini cam. This feature is 
 not particularly useful, but it doesn't have to be. Some things are fun just because they exist. 
 In missions where the player is on his own he can also rely on a UAV (Unmanned Arial Vehicle) to 
 be an extra pair of eyes in the air. Once the enemy is detected at a certain range by a team member 
 or the UAV, the enemy is marked for easy tracking. 
  
  You start your operations by parachuting out of an airplane. As you fall you see the whole of Mexico 
 City stretching to the horizon. The integrated into the first mission tutorial quickly makes you 
 realise that, unlike the previous Ghost Recon games, this time you will not be given direct control 
 of your team members. Instead you're given an easy to use interface that allows you to send your 
 team mates where your aim points or by assigning positions on the map. Advanced Warfighter will 
 make you encounter all kind of vehicles, both on the ground as in the air. Yes, they can all be 
 blown to smithereens.
  
  It is natural that an elite team must be armed appropriately. Much of the weaponry in Advanced 
 Warfighter is barely off the drawing boards. New age rifles like XM8 are still in some peoples 
 memory from the exhibition of 2004. Many of these weapons can be modified with mods like grenade 
 launchers, scopes and silencers. These modifications increase some features while decreasing others. 
 Beside the player has to watch his weight limit, as coming close to it will decrease performance. 
 
  
  The AI is probably the games both best and worst feature. Your team mates have a tactical mind 
 of their own and they will move carefully from cover, peek from it, report enemies and shoot with 
 grenade launchers, not only bullets. The complexity of AI also causes complex problems, as at times 
 your team mates will have a problem figuring how to execute your order even if the order is to 
 get to some place only meters away. Sometimes they will simply move back and forth a few steps 
 trying to make sense of your order. At other times they will decide to take a huge detour, getting 
 themselves killed in the process, of course. As for taking cover, Ghosts sometimes position themselves 
 with their backs exposed to the enemy. 
  
  The enemy poses an interesting challenge. When youre detected, enemies will open suppressive fire 
 to keep you pinned down behind cover. They will often keep moving around and some of them might 
 make it into your flanks, although it seems to be more of a coincidence rather than a developed 
 AI. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  At maximum graphic settings GRAW will reward you with a highly destructible environment and superb 
 texture quality. However, the promise of this feature might as well have been written with a fork 
 on water. In order to play this game on maximum settings one is required to have a 512 MB video 
 card and an extra physics card installed. Such a requirement puts the real price of this game at 
 a number that will give any casual gamer a heart attack. The value of the game does suffer as a 
 result, but a reasonable level of graphic enjoyment can be achieved with medium settings. The view 
 distance, apparent at any high point, is perhaps the longest in the gaming history. Effects are 
 at a more than decent level, as heat sources give off realistic heat waves and. Physics are fine 
 too at medium settings. Glass shatters, tires get pierced and the ground is littered with trash 
 that's being thrown aside when stumbled upon. Pieces of rock splinter off stone surfaces with sparks. 
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  It doesn't flow as smooth like a river, but Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter for PC partially escapes 
 the recent marketing curse and is able to give a player a lot of fun with its tactical system. 
 The unrealistic graphic requirements keep the game's full potential hidden from most players, yet 
 what is available is not too bad at all. The AI could use some tweaking and, actually the whole 
 game could use some polishing, but GRAW does provide a satisfying tactical experience and shouldnt 
 let down neither a casual gamer nor the fans of the series. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelpimp
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 11, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  
  I'll admit I was REALLY looking forward to this game - The pre-rendered trailers were amazing and 
 the in-game footage was raw and intense... but upon getting the game I soon realised it was nothing 
 but a standard squad based shooter which led to frustration as opposed to fun.
  
  The command modules are awkward and complex. The squad AI is questionable and the enemies have 
 an uncanny ability to know your position before you do and open fire on you and your squad. It 
 all leads to a frustrating experience with very little reward for accomplishing your goals and 
 missions.
  
  The missions are slightly varied and the locations are very similar making you feel like your in 
 one giant empty city - A city where you cant open doors or get to roof top to snipe and cover your 
 men (which is what woulkd happen in the real world)
  
  Particle effects and physics are nice - textures and lighting is a little undesireable. Everything 
 appears to have an orange, milky glow to it - I think they where trying to emulate hot, dry and 
 dusty, but it ends up looking like you're running around on mars. Not earth.
  
  If you're a tactical, Tom Clancy fanatic - then there may be a few crumbs here for you, otherwise 
 move along and wait for the X-Mas 2006 line up of games coming out later this year.
  
  A huge dissapointment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the most intense FPS Ive ever played since F. E. A. R, GRAW has 
 all the elements of a Tom Clancy game, even if it didnt day "Tom Clancys" when you play this 
 game you can tell that its a Tom Clancy game. You command your Ghost team and lead them into battle 
 as you try to accomplish your mission as well as surviving and keeping your cool. GRAW gives new 
 perspective to the Tom Clancy series of games and gives players a new way to play. As all FPS, 
 GRAW gives you intense battles and explosions and gives players a new way to defeat the enemy with 
 the new Drone to see above ground to give you a better view of the battle filed, strategise your 
 attack with the new birds eye view technology.
  
  GRAW has new high tech weapons and systems that you use to help you strategise your attack and 
 as well as using good tactics. Improve your battle strategies and tactics as you battle your way 
 through the enemy, look at your teams point of view and see what they see and order your team to 
 do various things to help you fight the threat that is "GRAW". 
  
  GRAW not only has great realistic sound but also allow you to use real proto type weapons that 
 the army are currently testing. The game play is awesome and intense and will get your heart beating 
 faster then before. This game will be the ultimate test for you to see how good you strategic and 
 tactics are not only to accomplish your mission but also to survive. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sal_va182
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of the GR franchise.. actually of the Tom Clancy franchise... GRAW has just reminded 
 me why i like them so much. As a owner of the xbox 360 version, GRAW PC gives the PC gamers what 
 we have been wanting since the classic GR1. Yes lots have been changed... but changed for the good. 
 Despite an unfinished MP, and bugs... the games soon to be released major patch/addon will complete 
 this game into being another classic.
  This is by far one of the best single player games i have played in a long time. Great storyline, 
 great level design, and a nice challenge to keep you playing for a while.
  The attention to detail is amazing in all the maps (MP aswell) 95% of everything in the map is 
 not static and reacts to explsions and gunfire... creating a very realistic worrld. The software 
 physics are just brilliant.. and atm i dont see a reason to get a PPU!!!
  The sound is the best ive heard ever.. Large echo effects on the guns in open areas, explosions 
 raw from a distance.. this truly makes my 5.1 setup come to life!!! the sound gives so much immersion 
 its great.
  Graphically graw is a beautiful game. Despite the lack of AA because of the type of deffered lighting.. 
 its easy to get over at resolutions of 1280x1024. The HDR is done perfectly not over the top like 
 HL2 Lost Coast.. but done realistically. All objects are high res and detailed well.
  
  All in all desipte the lack of AA, bugs, and getting this baby to run smooth. This is deffinalty 
 a next-gen game, with such potential for future expansions and mods.. If you love tactical realism, 
 action and immersion.. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter will satisfy you.. and bring you as close 
 to the real thing any gamer will get to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RD_Vel0city
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I picked it up today, its not bad at all, gameplays just a tad bit to slow for my likeing. But 
 the gadgets and gizmos you have at your disposal are awesome. The HUD is very well organized and 
 not cluttered at all. The Cross-com was very impressive and definately a nift little feature for 
 looking around corners and for gauging the right time to attack a group of enemys. You can use 
 the cross-com to monitor enemy movements, since all enemys in the game follow a pattern which they 
 dont break. The game has some gorgeous graphics if you got a system powerful enough to experience 
 them. I personally with my rig (in sig) can run all medium w/ dynamic shadows and lighting off 
 at a decent 40-60fps. It can drop lower when looking outward into a large clutter of buildings. 
 But the game is definately where it should be as far as system requirments are concerned. Its gonna 
 take a monster of a graphics card and at least 2GB of memory to store all the textures presented 
 in this massive city at a high frame rate. Literally multi story buildings are greatly detailed 
 and you feel like your walking through a real city. And the battles in single player will never 
 reach a massive scale which is great for those with lower end CPU's such as myself. Overall its 
 a very enjoyable game with some amazing graphics and political hot storyline. The gameplay could 
 use some refineing. Its just to low and muddy, movements are very slow, even going from prone to 
 crouch can take some time. The controls at default are wacky at best and anyone with experience 
 in 1st person shooters will want to re-map a great deal of the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_pwnerer324
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Well when I first got G. R. A. W., I expected it to be somewhat unplayable on my PC. I heard all of 
 the reviews of people saying that they had computers that wouldn't go obsolete for 10 years and 
 that G. R. A. W. wouldn't even run smooth on THEIR computers. This concerned me the most after I had 
 picked it up. To my delight, when I started it up, the game ran surprisingly smooth and the graphics 
 looked great even on medium/low. This was a relief to me and since my only worry about the game 
 was passed me, I could enjoy it.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing. There is nothing better than seeing the heat waves off of the 
 explosion from the grenade you tossed. Watching a car rip apart piece by piece is also a novelty. 
 I expected the game to be all graphics and tactics with no gameplay, but that was a wrong prediction. 
 The graphics are overdone, which is a downside for some people with not-so-up-to-date computers. 
 But for those of you who spent that 150$ for a new video card, your expense will soon pay for itself. 
 
  
  Now to the gameplay. I have never played a game that pays so much attention to detail. Everything 
 that occurs can affect how you do. From running too much affecting your aim to not checking one 
 little corner and getting popped from behind. At first, I was a little frustrated because I couldn't 
 run in and kill everyone. But after an hour or so, this style of play made the game addicting and 
 actually made me feel as if I was there. The comment some have said stating that the lack of save 
 points is annoying is very true. I found myself playing one 500 yard section for over an hour and 
 by the time I mastered it, I completed it. The good part of lack of save points is the fact that 
 accomplishing the mission feels that much better. It also drags the game out longer so that you 
 don't beat it the first day you buy it. The save point scarcity adds to the gameplay and actually 
 makes you better at it.
  
  Overall, G. R. A. W. is an excellent game. I found almost no problems installing or playing it and 
 still have found none. It starts off slow, but if you stick with it, you'll love it like I do. 
 So if you have a nice computer and $50, but you don't have G. R. A. W., I suggest you remedy your 
 situation. Go out and get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 10, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the original GR; I'm disappointed in thsi long delayed sequel. First off.......... the 
 hardware requirements. 3.6GB Prescot on a 915P chipset, through an 800MGHz BUS, with 2GBs of PC3200, 
 through an 6900 Ultra; latest drivers and everything that can be tweaked is. This game still lugs 
 badly in places (really seems to be affected by the number of AIs & effects in a scene. This certainly 
 suggests less than optimzed coding. Great sound and very good graphics, though the tinted coloration 
 of everything, due to viewing the game world through the CrossCom eyepiece is annoying. 
  
  Tactical? More real than arcade FPSs? Except for the one (or a few) shot/s, one kill factor................. don't 
 think so! The AI (friendly and enemy is well behind the standard set by FarCry, HL2, F. E. A. R., 
 and others. The friendly AI frequently does not go and face where directed. Doesn't make much diff 
 if you use the in game commands or direct your team mates from the map. Friendly AI FREQUENTLY 
 walks in front of me or other team AI during firefights, not to mention walking around corners 
 into a maelstrom of enemy fire when instructed to stop well short of the corner.
  The Ghosts are supposed to be Special Forces personnel at the PEAK of their careers......... they 
 should move with you, take up proper positions and face the correct direction autonomously. Instead 
 these idiots frequently have to be micromanaged, then all to often don't do well anyway. Not being 
 able to jack vehicles, no smoke grenades, or flashbangs, not being able to use weapon emplacements, 
 AND......... what's up with friendly troops and vehicles assets appearing for short scripted periods 
 then disappearing from thegame? Something going on in Mexico City that's MORE important than rescuing 
 the president? I'm thinkin' not! SF Personnel at this level of excellence get to pick ANYTHING 
 they wan't for gear, not the EXTREMELY limited slection provided in the game menu. 
  If the President was MIA or threatened by rebels, I'm thinkin' the four guys who've been dropped 
 in to save him would get ANYTHING they asked for, and probably some stuff they didn't want! On 
 top of that...... would you want to be the person who only sent FOUR guys to rescue the Pres? 
 
  
  Enemy AI? No it's not. Troops standing around the corner after their compadres get capped, looking 
 off into space when something blows just down the street from them, etc, etc. 
  
  Stupid  the convoy (all two vehicles of it) in the thrid mission 
 comes to mind. Then being told by command that you're all clear and there's no enemies near you. 
 I got capped several times by hidden AI before I made it 25 meters from my original position (yea, 
 yea, I know........... no intel is perfect......... but still; that kinda gameplay element should 
 not be in an A class game) .
  
  Did I mention badly wounded team mates who miraculously heal if you reload a checkpoint, or reappear 
 in the next level after having died? What's up with not being able to access almost none of the 
 buildings??? Every door in Mexico City made of impenetrable unobtanium? And what happend to the 
 10,000,000+ citizens? 
  
  Don't get me wrong......... I like difficult "tactical" shooters (arcade style too) , but GRAW is 
 not tactical, it's an amalgom of pooly planned and/or executed game elements and ends up being 
 neither tactical or arcade, way too scripted (and not in a good sense like the COD or MOH series) . 
 
  
  Anyway................. you get my drift; Ubisoft is the one who billed this as a tactical shooter 
 (consulting someone who's done it might have been a good idea, and if you did............. they 
 should have listened to them) , filled with the gritty fast paced action and violance of modern 
 urban combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cknoos
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  A good coop game is difficult to find. Heck, a coop game period is hard to find these days, so 
 I was more than a little excited when I learned that GRAW would have 4-man coop capability.
  
  The actual experience in-game with your buddies is phenomenal, one of the best in fact. The 
 problem is that you are liable to spend far more time outside the game, then you are actually playing 
 it.
  
  As an example, with 4 human players we have been unable to play the map "Bulldog" even once, without 
 having at least one, often two players "fall through the earth" at the start of the map. There 
 are several other severe clipping bugs like this. To further aggravate the issue, there is no quick 
 way of restarting the game, you have to completely abort and restart the server, reload the map 
 etc. With the sometimes obscene loading times, it means that on any given map, you'll be spending 
 an inordinate amount of time loading etc, compared to the time you'll spend running & gunning as 
 it were.
  
  The overall implementation of coop is poor, to put it mildly. No save points combined with the 
 no-respawn and if the leader dies the game is over, makes for a very frustrating experience at 
 times, if rewarding at others.
  
  If you are looking at GRAW for your next coop game, I would sincerely recommend that you wait until 
 a patch has been released that addresses the multitude of issues surrounding it, as it, it's barely 
 playable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxx_2T
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  If there is a Tom Clancy 'tradition', then this game heads the tradition southward. I start with 
 game Sound. Compared to solid full sound of Raven Shield -- another Clancy tagged game -- this 
 one is tinny. Second, I use a mid range gaming computer. It lagged and stuttered with this game. 
 Even with a gig RAM and 256 on board the video card (Nvidia 6800XT) . Raven Shield used the Unreal 
 Engine. This engine platform requires at least 2.8 -3.0. Mouse sensitivity is an issue. Sniping 
 is a major part of the game (referring to the demo) . Even using the scope, the enemy was fuzzy, 
 reaction of firing to hit was delayed and did not have a realistic feel even with a kill. I gave 
 this game a low 7 rating and that was generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: activematx
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  I was a little scared to buy this game, after reading the gamespot review.
  
  My computer has a hard time running Oblivion, but it pushes out this game like nothing.
  
  
 My specs are:
  
  AMD Opteron 170 @ 2.65 ghz
  2 gigs ram
  ATI X1900xtx (slightly overclocked)
  
  The game runs at a very high FPS, and I never notice 
 any lag at all. I am playing at a 1680 x 1050 resolution with all settings on high and 16x antitrospic 
 filtering. Gamespot, way overhyped this game to make it seem like it takes SLI to run this game. 
 It doesnt.
  
  The game's graphics are well polished, (much more than Oblivion) to make use of the hardware. The 
 game runs really well for me, and I love its graphics. The point of this thread is to, encourage 
 those who are considering buying the game. If your computer can run oblivion, then you can defintely 
 run this game.
  
  The game is really fun. It took me a while to adjust to it, (since I am used to run & gun fps, 
 like FEAR, HL2, Quake, etc) .... so it took a while to get the hang of it.
  
  But once I did, all I can say is "wow... what a experience" Sure is different from other FPS games.
 
  
  What I really like about this game is that it feels like you are playing multiplayer. Have you 
 ever been in a multiplayer game, and wished that you could tell your teammates to go left, and 
 you go right, so that it suprises the other team, and you win the match. Or wished that you told 
 your team mate to go in front, pop out, start shooting, and then you come around from behind.
 
  
  Well this game takes care of all that. You control your team mates, and they do exactly what you 
 tell them to do. I love it! I finally have people who will listen to me. :)
  
  I also like that fact that I can see over-head the entire map in real time, and see where the enemys 
 are hiding. I like the fact that I can use the cameras on each of my teammates heads, so I can 
 see what they see in real time. It just gives you a whole arsenal of tools to use at your advantage 
 to make the most of the game. I like how if you get shot a few times your dead! It makes it feel 
 like real life.
  
  I like how a few shots is all it takes to kill a enemy,. just like real life!
  
  This game 
 is really something new. I tell my girlfriend that this is the game that they give marines and 
 army people to help train them for war. (she believes me) ... and I sorta believe it too.... (sarcasticly)
 
  
  Its a great game, and if you are into FPS shooters, or tactical espionage games, then check this 
 out. Make sure your computer can handle it though. I wish gamespot gave it a higher rating though, 
 because those types of things really effect sales, and I think this game deserves to have a lot 
 of sales. Have fun~ Now im going back to playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshayroyden
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2013. The U. S. Army has been developing - and can now deploy
   the Integrated Warfighter System (IWS) , a complex combination of
  cutting-edge technologies 
 that transforms an individual soldier into the
  ultimate fighting force. IWS combines advanced weapons systems,
  satellite communication devices 
 and enhanced survivability into one
  fully integrated combat system that is finally ready for the true test
  of the battlefield. Combining 
 the advantages of next-generation console
  technology with future military technologies, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon
  Advanced Warfighter includes 
 a wealth of groundbreaking features,
  including the Cross-Com, a communication device attached to the
  soldier's monocle and powered 
 by satellite technology, which will
  deliver constant and complete battlefield awareness seamlessly within
  the action.
  
  In 
 Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, players will embody
  Captain Scott Mitchell as he commands the Ghosts and Special Forces
  allies equipped with the 
 IWS in the quest to save the president of the
  United States, recover stolen nuclear codes and eliminate a vicious band
  of renegade soldiers 
 hell-bent on unleashing catastrophe. The game
  unfolds entirely in Mexico City, where numerous, meticulously researched
  and detailed environments 
 will deliver complete immersion into the
  future of urban warfare. Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter
  will also include multiplayer 
 and cooperative gameplay with exciting new
  elements, continuing the Ghost Recon tradition of setting the bar for
  multiplayer action.
 
  
  The face of war has changed. Enemy lines blur and there is no longer a
  clear opponent. New enemies and new threats require a new type of
  warfare - a new type of soldier. 
 Enter the Ghosts. In 2013, the U. S.
  Army will implement the Integrated Warfighter System evolving what we
  know as the modern soldier. 
 IWS combines advanced weapon systems,
  satellite communication devices and enhanced survivability into one
  fully integrated combat 
 system. The IWS program has been developed to
  meet these new threats head on. Now, it can be tested on the
  battlefield.
  
  Following an 
 insurgence in the heart of Mexico City, the U. S. Army's
  most elite Special Forces team is deployed to the center of the conflict
  to regain control of 
 the city. Greatly outnumbered but fully equipped
  with the IWS, this elite team is the first and last line of defense on
  the battlefield. They 
 are the "quiet" professionals. They are the
  Ghosts.
  
  Next-generation gaming technology: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced
  Warfighter is built from 
 the ground up for next-generation consoles,
  maximizing increased power to deliver phenomenal graphics and a host of
  innovative features. 
 Current-generation versions will be custom-tailored
  for each platform.
  
  Become the soldier of the future: Gain access to the future of military
  technology. Using a 
 fully integrated combat system with cutting-edge
  weapons and communication systems, gamers will embody the soldier of the
  future. Based on actual 
 military research, the Ghosts give gamers a
  realistic view of how war will be fought in the next decade.
  
  Revolutionary feature: Use 
 the revolutionary Cross-Com, a communication
  device powered by satellite technology. Attached to the soldier's
  monocle, the Cross-Com provides 
 full situational awareness and command
  of the battlefield. Command the Ghost squad and remote allied forces and
  drones, and direct 
 artillery and air strikes. See what the squad sees
  and receive visual and auditory intelligence from allied forces and
  unmanned drones.
  
  
 Stunning urban environment: One capital, multiple locations. Tom
  Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter takes place entirely in Mexico
  City, one of the world's 
 largest cities* A stunning, meticulously
  detailed universe will provide complete immersion in the urban war of
  the future.
  
  Top-notch 
 multiplayer experience: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced
  Warfighter returns to deliver industry-leading multiplayer and
  cooperative gameplay for one 
 of the hottest online franchises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is not the harsh review I had planned to write. This game IS a solid FPS with many great 
 features and outstanding presentation. It is indeed an ambitious and immersive shooter that will 
 have you hanging in suspense turning that last corner.
  
  That said, I was taken aback and HUGELY disappointed in how steep the req's are for this game! 
 I mean the levels are huge and the gameplay is sound but damn the graphics (to me) are just not 
 as vibrant (as BF2) or as forgiving as (well, BF2 again lol) . If you play with a 256mb video card 
 you can't even park your car in the high level setting for graphics? WTH??? I mean, QUAKE 4, DOOM 
 3, OBLIVION, HL2 and BF2 are examples of damn great graphics, but this game is an "also ran" to 
 the outstanding X360 game of the same name. You know developers and Microsoft just want you to 
 buy a 360, you know. UPDATE: I recently forced the "High" settings to this via the xml. and I have 
 to say this game looks incredible now, and with new skins from "ghostrecon. net" the game has improved 
 ALOT in my book! Also, the great patch released June 21st really picked this game up. 
  
  The PC version basically got the shaft, from the "barely there" booklet to the bland way the demo 
 was dropped on us, this definately plays second fiddle to the 360 version. Sad to think about that.
 
  
  Anyhow, the game is great for control (still just 4 man squad-grrr!) you can go everwhere on the 
 map. No indoor or forest maps so far I see, but that could (and might) change later on with expansion 
 packs. Great audio effects, these bad boys rock the guns in this are killer! Not a whole lot to 
 choose from yet but they sound G-R-E-A-T! The AI are still suffering from "dumba** syndrome" here 
 and there but they shine quite often, downing tangos without me even pulling the trigger. They 
 do get to move around the map and do it smartly and will even refuse to attack a position blindly 
 unless you really set up a better plan of attack. The gear the men wear is spot on. The only thing 
 I did not see the logic of supporting a whole game based on technology the US ARMY may or may not 
 even end up implementing. Where can they go from here? Ghost Recon 2020? I don't know about that. 
 Maybe a re-tooled Ghost Recon 1 on a stronger engine? You never know! 
  
  Insertions are top notch and you do feel like you just got dropped into the middle of the largest 
 urban battlefield possible, Mexico City. You can see for miles in this place. I had to update my 
 drivers but all the textures look normal with minimum slowdown.
  
  Well, we GR'ers waited a LONG time to get a new GR PC game (almost 5 years) and was it worth it? 
 Is this game better than the the "holy trio" of GR, DS, and IT? Not by a long shot, but I do enjoy 
 it. I also think it is a more balanced game than GR2 ever was. Only irritating thing is still the 
 cheeseball voice acting throughout. Especially the General who calls for everyone to turn tail 
 and run once Mitchell goes down. 
  
  Have fun! I still recommend this one! Buy!
  
  "Cover fire, Roger!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  My, are these levels awesome... The guys at GRIN did a fantastic job in recreating Mexico City 
 (at least when it comes to size) . I don't think I've ever seen such an apparently big city from 
 above in a game. It's apparently like the cities in Mafia or GTA but with much greater view distance.
 
  
  Missions typically start and end with a helicopter ride, and those drop-offs and pick-ups are very 
 cool. There are a lot of nice touches with regards to physics, such as palm tree leaves that move 
 as you brush by, or shoot them and explosions that satisfyingly tear cars appart.
  
  The story tellling seems to have taken some clues from "24" since the missions are a continuous 
 roller-coaster ride from the moment things turn sour. There are no mission briefings: you're updated 
 on-the-fly. While this does keep you convinced of the urgency of matters, it feels awkward to only 
 get an inventory screen in between missions, and it leaves you wanting for some more background 
 information.
  
  There is no doubt about the nature of this game btw, it's a hardcore tactical shooter; if you want 
 run and gun action, you won't find it here. As such it's faithful to the franchise, unlike RS: 
 Lockdown... Thankfully there is also no obvious trace of "consolitis", it's great to see that we 
 PC gamers are still not forgotten!
  
  Aside from all the positives there are definitely some issues:
  
  The weapon selection is too 
 limited, there are no smoke grenades, 1 sniper rifle, 1 machine gun, and a few rather similar assault 
 rifiles. The end result for me was that I picked my favourite setup and hardly ever used anything 
 else. 
  
  No anti-aliasing? What's up with that?
  
  The tactical map controls don't work well for me, and the mouse is very laggy.
  
  The team 
 mate AI is pretty poor. You're almost certainly going to be frustrated from time to time as your 
 team mates will flatly refuse your orders, go around corners back-side first or keep facing you 
 as they walk backwards towards the location you pointed out. And so on and so forth.
  
  Either way, at the end of the day it's a great game, that's well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 9, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Okay here's the deal. You are a member of an elite military unit dropping into Mexico City to take 
 care of a brewing political situation. I'll break it down into plusses and minuses.
  
  PLUS: Great graphics. Mexico city looks stunning. Character animations are top notch. You can dive 
 for cover, lean around corners, go prone, and you look totally cool doing it. There's all the good 
 stuff like shadows, heat shimmer, bloom and all that. But it does come at a price. You'll need 
 a beefy computer to run this game well at all. Even then you will probably still lag on explosions 
 and things like that.
  
  PLUS: Good FPS feel. You know what I mean... some games just don't feel right. In GRAW there's 
 just enough kick to the weapons. Each step you take feels like a individual step, not just some 
 dude moving around an X/Y plane. You can withstand a few hits, and so can bad guys sometimes, which 
 is good for a tactical FPS.
  
  PLUS: The sound is awesome, bullets whizzing past your head, debris on the ground being kicked 
 around, enemy soldiers yelling in Spanish, lots of voiceover action.
  
  PLUS: This is just opinion but the game is quite hard. Since it would be a bad thing if it were 
 too easy, I think this will really satisfy the crowd it was intended for, the tactical FPS community. 
 Enemies sometimes advance on your position unexpectedly, and they take cover quite well, making 
 them difficult to kill sometimes.
  
  MINUS: The UI for the game is a bit wierd. You have to command your unit with either the number 
 keys or the middle mouse. However your weapons can only be selected by holding F (default) and 
 scrolling the middle mouse. This makes it rather clunky to switch to a grenade real quick, toss 
 it, and switch back to your assault rifle. I think it would have been better if they had the weapon 
 selection on the number keys and the squad order giving on the mouse wheel alone. Other problems 
 are when you are on your tactical map you have to click a location for a soldier to move, then 
 move down and hit EXECUTE to perform that command. It would have been better to just click the 
 location to queue the command or double click to execute.
  
  MINUS: If you die, game over, reload from previous save. This also counts for multi player for 
 the commander. If your squad leader dies you all lose. This is a harsh restriction to put on people 
 who might not necessarily know each other in a online environment. Especially without voice communication. 
 How many retarded people do you play online games with daily that will not get the concept that 
 they need to keep their damn heads down or you all lose? There should have been lots of options. 
 Having this style of play as an option would have been fine but to be honest, I don't know anyone 
 who would willingly select it. Alternatives should have been the standard Red Storm "x number of 
 spawns per player"
  
  MINUS: Squad AI is pretty retarded. When you issue commands from the tactical map you can set waypoints 
 to define the path you want them to take to reach their objective. But that would mean that you 
 are having them go multiple waypoints, hence a little distance. The problem with this is if they 
 encounter an enemy on their way any logical person would assume the condition has changed and maybe 
 they should take some cover and stop advancing, but noooo they will blindly complete their move 
 objective unless told otherwise, even if that means walking out into the open and getting shot 
 until killed. Sometimes they are good at killing bad guys but it is too inconsistent to be of any 
 real use. Also when you issue commands from the FPS mode (looking at a corner and saying MOVE TO) , 
 sometimes they do retarded things like moving the other way around the building and walking around 
 its front (and uncleared) side to reach it.
  
  MINUS: There is a serious lack of weaponry. What they did include they did a good job on which 
 is a blessing, but in a Red Storm game I'm used to seeing everything from Mini-Uzi's to AK's. It 
 would have been nice to have seen even 1 or 2 more assault rifles. There is literally one sniper 
 rifle, and it's bolt action. It's a .50 cal Barrett bolt action, which is retarded because there 
 is also a semi auto version of this weapon that is so close to performance in comparison that the 
 semi auto feature alone makes you wonder why they even make a bolt action.
  
  In summary, Ghost Recon is pretty cool from a technical standpoint, but it has some really annoying 
 qualities to it that would have been really simple to fix. Maybe they will be fixed some day, but 
 I don't play the buy now patch later stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitcher812
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 9, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Looking back at the release of Ghost Recon I have to say it was one of the most enjoyable games 
 I have ever played. Fluid is the one word that comes to mind when I played. 
  GRAW had my hopes high what I had come to expect from GR was not lived upto in GRAW. Dont get me 
 wrogn I think the game looks great once you find a setting that does not cause you headaches to 
 play. The sounds WOW from a tin can to a gun shot and the spanish. I am impressed whith what they 
 have done.
  Interface now GR to me had one of the best command systems I have used. This rolling of the mouse 
 wheel to select you orders is a large pain in my *&^%. 
  Fighting with the AI of your team members can drive one to shoot his own man willingly, whoops 
 he did it himself .
  As for system needs I have to agree with Gamespot on the recs. Yet even though I meet them it took 
 some time to find the right setup to not be sick.
  Piss me off Multi-player 4 give me a break in the age of Lan Parties why would you take away the 
 enjoyment of have 8 players going for it all in co-op. There have been 5 lan parties with 4 people 
 playing. What were they thinking?
  Will they patch it I hope so, I think I will wait to play it some more when I get 7800 SLI setup.....
 
  I would have to say buy it for the future. personally, right now though I should have waited. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottwilkins
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 8, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  After playing only about 10 hours both singly and multiplayer, I've got mixed feelings about GRAW.
 
  
  OK, first, the interface is FULL of bugs and issues. Just attempting to log into the multiplayer 
 setup (using Gamespy, which has issues by itself) was a test. It wouldn't accept by normal Gamespy 
 login, so I had to create a new one. The game kept replacing what I typed in with what I typed 
 in previously. Annoying as hell. And the automatic video card recognizer is nice, but it comes 
 up as a surprize while you're trying to do other stuff. Bad move. You'd think that game companies 
 could do better than this. Needs more modes and maps.
  
  It also seems a bit thin on playability. The levels are not very well designed is all I can say. 
 Not that their bad, but it seems they spent 90% of their time on the visuals, which are amazing, 
 and 10% of there time on the actual level progression. I personally can't stand "needle in the 
 haystack" and they do exactly that. Multiplayer seems to be good, but strange on it's take on who 
 shot who. But, many games have that problem.
  
  Last, WHERE'S MY FSAA!!! No anti-aliasing? What the H E double toothpick are they thinking? Idiots! 
 I don't care how good it looks, it looks like crap if it's jaggied. I've got the latest and highest 
 end video you can get and I HATE jaggies, pixel poping and such. GRIN, dump this graphics engine 
 and get one that works with FSAA. They can take HDR and stick it as far as I'm concerned. Though 
 ATI has shown they can get HDR and FSAA in some games.
  
  My system:
  AMD 4400+
  2 Gig ram
  ATI x1900xtx
  (soon) Physx card
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyheam_tss
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  The gameplay was far greater than i had expected. however the gaphics were not top notch but they 
 were up there and some of the controls were really bizzare but it was fun it just took a while 
 to get used to. the sniper rifles sucked but were still fun this game could be better if it had 
 more accurate shots with the sniper. one thing i really enjoyed the comanded set ups for your allies. 
 then the day and night vission helped out alot during the game that would have to be one of my 
 favorite aspecs of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeoffy
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for months and man i wasn't disappointed. They graphics are awesome 
 and the sound effects are top notch. Calling for an Apache or calling for Artillery was a nice 
 touch. 
  
  It didn't take long to figure out the Ai still is not all that great at times it frustrates me 
 that they cant follow orders. They move out into enemy fire and stand there looking stupid till 
 they get blown to bits. So the learning curve for Ai takes some getting use too.
  
  Game play is amazing its taking me about 51 minutes per level right now. Just as you think you 
 have an area clear or bam dead. 
  
  CONS. The Ai sucks ass but after learning this and playing a bit you learn how to adjust and they 
 eventually help. No in game save is frustrating. 
  
  PROS. Graphics are the best to date. Game play on normal is finally hard. Artillery fire, Apache 
 support and the drone are great tools to kicking your enemies ass. 
  
  I cant wait to see what Tom Clancey has in store next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuickCharger
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Game play: I found the game play of GR: AW to be utterly amazing, Although the lack of weapons was 
 quite a letdown. The cross-com is a "cool" added feature allowing you to receive intel from any 
 and all of the ground and air-borne units you come into contact with. Another smart thing added 
 was the Tactical map, the ability to split your team up into groups of 2 and flank your enemy while 
 giving sniper support fire is second to none. Dispite the cross-com and Ta-m (for short) the game 
 itself is iincredibly hard. There is nothing more depressing and well just crappy then to peak 
 a corner and get mowed down by a .50cal already looking right at you. This is where the AI comes 
 into play, i myself found the AI to be a little... To AI like. Elevated Terrorists seem to never 
 stand back up after you shoot at them and they duck for cover. Some .50cal Machine gun nests seem 
 to just wallhack. One more interesting feature is the fact that the game seems to take place over 
 the course of hours, if you finish a mission and hop in a black hawk... the start of the next mission 
 your still in the same black hawk getting your new brief... Loved it
  
  Graphics: Immersion, Total immersion the graphics are amazing even on my crappy rig. Light refracts 
 off of windows, the shimmer on car windows, the dust that gets kicked up by a backhawk pulling 
 out. Most complain about the AA+HDR issue (so do i) i doubt it will be resolved, but that is what 
 we said about Far cry. To see the game in its full glory you need a pretty high end rig... just a 
 tad higher then the Requirements, this will allow you to see the glare of the sun or feel your 
 eyes adjust as you enter a semi-lit room looking for tango. The engine and HDR do such a good job 
 sometimes it is just hard to kill someone because the sun is in your eyes.
  
  Sound: Also complete and total immersion, hearing ringing and dust as a RPG goes off just feet 
 from you, as your vision gets blurry from the blast is just ... well just cool. It seems a few of 
 us are unable to run the game with EAX ( unknown at this time why i think ) which is a letdown 
 but not as much as the AA+HDR ( I wont leave it alone ) . The crack and whiz of rounds shooting 
 past your head is nice. I did have a problem with the soundtrack, as i did with all ghost recons, 
 i have just always thought they should keep it like the R6's ( not Lockdown... Letdown should have 
 been called ) a sort of neo-classical... i think :)
  
  Value: Just buy the game... stop *itchin ( First review ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suisfonia
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  While I'm kind of mad that some of the things in the 360 version weren't included, I'm equally 
 as mad at how Gamespot didn't treat this game with the respect it deserves
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter offer's so much more. Tactical shooting and the ability to give 
 order's are natural elements of any tactical shooter
  
  But the difference come's from how you handle yourself. Give the wrong order and you could end 
 up with three dead team mates with just yourself being the only survivor
  
  Without realizeing to much about the single player let me go a few ways
  
  The Enemy use's 
 vehicles more in this game than they did in the original Ghost game's, enemy tank's make an apperence 
 and boy do they hurt, you either have to blow them up before they get a beet on you or avoid them 
 at all costs, much like you have to do for one particuler level where intel didn't think any armor 
 would be in the area, uphold and behold an enemy tank shows up sometime during the middle of the 
 mission, thankfully you just need to avoid it 
  
  The game's graphic's are very exthreme, excellent and well thought out, the missions are equally 
 as challening but could use some more work, not much though, the ability to get on top of a sky 
 rise building and be able to have your sniper point out targets and snipe would be a nice addition, 
 but saddly thats not in the game
  
  But that doesn't hurt it's reply value, or anything else that a person may like. You still get 
 to kill the enemy left and right, but the enemy is more cunning this time around. Instead of a 
 pre-scripted path they seem to have there own thought process where they'll flank you if your paying 
 to much attention to one side, and that hurt's espically if the enemy in question has an LMG... 
 if he does then you'll quickly say hello to the "Game Over" screen
  
  Luckily some of the AI are dumb, like when you shoot at a car door they'll sometime's stand up, 
 if they are hiding behind it, to see who fired on them. Nice head shot right there
  
  However most others won't, and the AI does seem to under the 'surpressing' fire aspect, turn the 
 corner to soon and you could end up with more lead than your armor can withstand, again, instant 
 "Game Over"
  
  Although there is a nice touch to this game: You can call in all sorts of support, Air Strikes, 
 Apache's, even a nice little drone to spot enemy's for you (Come's in REAL handy mind you) are 
 just a few things you can bring in
  
  The insertion's are quite interesting, although they get repetitive after awhile, mostly by APC 
 or Helicopter, never by foot. The only interesting one to mind is the entrance to the first level 
 (not saying!) that blew my mind away 
  
  All in all the game's worth getting, and is a worthy addition to any Tom Clancy fan's collection, 
 it's already apart of mine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 9, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Alot of us PC gamers wanted another Ghost Recon game, and now our wishes came true. Even though 
 Ubisoft didnt develope it, GRIN still did a great job and kept the good old tactical Ghost Recon 
 style to Advanced Warfighter. Alot of console gamers may think that this is a port... but its not. 
 Its a complete different experience, this version is more tactical, you get more enemies and harder 
 difficulty, a neat tactical map wich can help you out in the huge city you are in, and more. The 
 story remains the same. You take the role of Scott Mitchell, a captain in the elite Ghost Recon 
 squad in the US Army. Your in Mexico City as Disaster strikes when Mexican rebels attack the summit, 
 killing the Canadian prime minister and causing both the Mexican and US presidents to go missing. 
 The graphics in this version is also different. Wich i prefer the xbox 360 graphic engine, because 
 the PC version uses too much of that deferred lighting (wich is the reason why the game has no 
 Anti Aliasing, its forcing a over exsesive HDR effect ) the lighting can be rather annoying at 
 times, because the game looks way too orange in day missions. The texture quality is ok, could 
 have been better. This game hits hard... and when i mean hard, your high end PC can suffer a bit 
 with higher resolutions. You can play it on older hardware, but dont expect much without lowering 
 the anisotrophy or removing shadows. The special effetcs in the game ROCKS! you can destroy anything, 
 throw a grenade somewhere sorrounded by objects and you will see all the carnage. The sound and 
 music in the game is great, you can hear dogs, motorcycles and other sounds that you occasionaly 
 hear in a city. The voice acting is well done also. The controls are good, but the switching to 
 crouch and prone and getting back up is rather annoying. One big problem is the Multiplayer, its 
 really buggy, you dont have much options either to add to the gameplay. Its not like the Xbox 360 
 MP. Expect to see alot of patches for the MP alone.
  
  Overall, G. R. A. W is an excellent tactical FPS. Wich should be in your collection, thats if.... you 
 have a beastly PC that can handle the game on higher settings.
  
  Graphics:
  
  + high detailed city, huge enviroment and special effects.
  +/-even though the game is very detailed, 
 the textures still look a bit bland.
  +Great physics, you dont need the Aegia card to experience all the destruction.
  -System hog, 
 will make even high end PC's suffer a bit when it comes to frame rate, Exsesive use of deferred 
 lighting ( diferent type of lighting technique to create HDR ) and no Anti Aliasing.
  
  Sound:
  
  + Awsome sound effects, real loud and voice acting is great.
  + Awsome war music, 
 if your not in the action, music is calm, when engaged get ready for that cool war theme
  
  Game Play:
  
  +continuse the tactical experience from older Ghost Recon games, great tactical 
 map and interface.
  +Awsome weapons to choose from, you can even choose the weapons for your recon.
  + fun Co-op 
 mode 
  + difficult enemy AI make this game challenging, even though ther are times when your team AI is 
 weak.
  - bad Multyplayer, its really buggy and not much features included
  +/- good controls but the whole crouch, and prone thing is annoying
  
  Replay Value:
  
 
  +Single player campaign has plenty to offer, and is very challenging
  -Multiplayer aspect in the game needs plenty of patching to be done lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyerz
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  So after the console versions have been out for a while, the PC version finnaly hits the stores 
 on may the 3rd. This game had alot of hype and my personal opinion is that i believe that its true.
 
  
  This game is realistic... you cant run out in the open and just shoot your enemies done. If that 
 is done you will most likely die. but some people just dont like those kind of games, others dont 
 like it because its different from the 1st GR game, but some people just cant accept a change. 
 Others dont like it due to it not being able to run on the machine. This game takes a very expensive 
 machine just to run this.
  
  Onto the Pro's
  
  The game has a very nice tactical and realistic feel to the game, its not very arcadey and you 
 have to make lots of decisions to complete levels. The weapons are superb and really feel like 
 shooting guns, and the physics are nice with shooting and breaking apart cars and lights and everything.
 
  
  You dont need a physX card just to have good physics, its already good and stable too. The coop 
 is a big fun part and is very addicting along with the conquest style mode is pretty fun. Some 
 of the levels are GIGANTIC and are really cool looking just to ride in a helicopter and look at 
 all the buildings. Along with iron sights make it feel better too, and you can customize alot of 
 the weapons to add different parts onto them any time you enter a mission. Some of the AI is great, 
 like enemies will flank you and stuff, and the team isnt that bad, you just gotta command them 
 alot.
  
  The Con's
  
  The game takes a big powerful machine just to play. Some of the missions are extremely fustrating 
 like the first night level you come across "Mayday Mayday" because you have to fight a huge amount 
 of enemies with no support from your team.
  
  The weapons have recoil, but its a bit overdone, like if you shoot a gun in sights, it kicks up 
 more than if you were just running and gunning. Sometimes when you break a light on a night map, 
 it takes about 10 seconds before the light to actually respond to the breaking and it goes off. 
 Some of the enemies have too crazy AI, like they can see you in a pitch black area, and sometimes 
 your team can do stupid things like getting shot and doing nothing about it and then just dying, 
 they dont try to get out of a line of fire unless you command them to.
  
  I was expecting A LOT of more guns to be in the game too, but the weapons are fine but just at 
 least 5 or 6 more would be better. The multiplayer can sometimes be annoying and the lack of game 
 modes make it not last as long, but its still a fun game.
  
  OVERALL:
  Fans of tactical FPS and coop players should really pick this up. It is alot different from the 
 xbox 360 version and some may not like it. Some missions are frustrating but the multi player is 
 good. All we need is just some patches to fix up some thing and add some more game modes and this 
 game will be great!
  
  9.4 out of 10. Very great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreeSF75
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 14, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game had so much potential, and enough time, for Ubisoft to release a game of the year candidate. 
 Unfortunately they did not. Chalk up yet another average game to a franchise that has become mediocre, 
 if not stale. I actually enjoyed RB6: Lockdown over this.
  
  This game was supposed to rival BF2 or COD2, but instead reminded me of Kill Switch or the self 
 proclaimed Halo topper, Killzone. A lot of hype, and little content. Ubisoft should have used more 
 money on game development, instead of TV commercials.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I do like this game, but I am disappointed it did not live up to its billing. 
 The problems this game have aren't major. They are however, very annoying and could have easily 
 been corrected if Ubisoft had done some research.
  
  GOOD:
  
  Satellite feature - I really like the overhead view, and how you can use it to command your men, 
 look for tango's, and choose routes to take.
  
  Weapon modding - I've always liked the ability to choose weapons and their accesories. They could 
 have offered more optics though.
  
  Next-gen uniforms & equipment - I thought it was really cool to see the gear our military will 
 probably be using in the near future.
  
  Missions - I like how they were layed out. Not condensed into a small arena and spread over a big 
 environment.
  
  Enemy AI - While they're not up to par with the bad guys in F. E. A. R., they're better than most. 
 I actually found myself being overly cautious going around corners.
  
  HUD - All the displays on the screen are just right. They do not dominate or distract from normal 
 viewing.
  
  Corner peeking ability - I have always liked games that allow to look around corners before committing.
 
  
  BAD:
  
  No antialiasing - Right off the bat, I was shocked to discover no anti-aliasing feature. GRAW was 
 supposed to be a next-gen game for our next-gen GPU's, yet they neglect to put in one of the most 
 prominent and basic functions. The reason I shelled out the cash for two 7800GTX was so I wouldn't 
 have to see those lightning bolts (squiggly lines) . My PC clocked in as in the top 3% on The Windows 
 System Check, and I still have substandard graphics. Talk about a great way to alienate your base 
 players, by making a game that only 1% of the gamers can play to the highest degree. 
  
  No jump feature - It's so annoying, when the only way you can traverse a 3 ft wall is to go around 
 it rather than jump over it. Especially when the bad guys are shooting at you.
  
  Limited use of the environment - What's the use in having a street or an alley way I can't use? 
 Several times I wanted to flank the enemy by using a side street or alley but was told I was leaving 
 the battle area. Flanking is a basic military fundamental, but I couldn't for fear of the game 
 ending. Also, why have one of your men equipped with a sniper rifle when you can't send him to the 
 high ground? There were all of these beautiful rooftops and water towers I wanted to send my sniper 
 to, but couldn't. What's the use of having a large environment if you can't interact with it. The 
 best way I can describe the environment is, have you ever seen a mouse in a maze?
  
  Retarded AI - I don't know if its just me but I hate it when AI doesn't interact the way it should. 
 Multiple times I send team members to a covered location, and they look the wrong direction, look 
 around imaginary walls or do not use appropriate cover. Sometimes they get shot & sometimes they 
 don't. Either way it looks stupid.
  
  Stance selection - Several times when I wanted to raise myself from the crouched position I had 
 to go prone first, before I could stand up.
  
  No binoculars - Yes I know that the satellite is supposed to act as my eyes ahead, but what's wrong 
 with getting a first hand view once in a while.
  
  Summary: 
  
  It's not a bad game, and there are some aspects I truly like. However, after the last couple of 
 misfires this franchise has had, I was expecting much more this time around. At a minimum they 
 should have looked at the benchmark set by games like BF2, COD2, F. E. A. R, Far Cry, & HL2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedenmillis
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 7, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Did i click on BF2 or ghost recon?
  I had expected something in the Ghost Recon 1 style. Not Battlefield 2 online crap.
  
  I want 
 the singelplayer, stupidbots, tom clancy style.
  
  Everyone that was there ~2001/2 when Ghost Recon 1 came out really saw something in it. Here i 
 can't describe it better than 'Been there, done that'
  The gameplay is fair though, i like the graphics and i sincerly like the sound effects that they 
 have put togather.
  
  But something is wrong when i like the gameplay better than the story ;: )
  
  Anywho, im off 
 to play some rainbow six / Ghost Recon one : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  What a sad day, really really sad.
  
  this game for the PC is an excellent game ruined by a couple
  of things that would've made this 
 a must have.
  
  1 - ANTIALIASING not available not even by forcing it in control panel.
  
  2 - HDR effects are totally overused.
  
  starting from the AA issue, that's why i sent 
 the game back
  to the shop and got BLACK & WHITE 2 - Battle Of The Gods expansion,
  the game textures are terrible even at 1280x1024 and no amount
  of tweaking takes away the Jaggies. 
 it looks like 640x480 rather than
  high resolution.
  
  on the other side the Animations are truly superb and the
  physics are awesome.
  
  the gameplay 
 is what you expect and is far away from the garbage
  Rainbow Six - Lockdown, excellent gameplay.
  
  the Audio is over the top and lovely, the bullets 
 fly from every angle
  and you can hear everything. nice voices too.
  
  HDR is so overused that the screen looks 100% of the time ORANGE
  colored, i had to tweak the 
 .XML file to turn it off. it looked decent
  without it. why developers use HDR the wrong way and ruin the
  experience of players is beyond 
 me.
  
  OBLIVION ELDER SCROLL IV have great HDR effects
  and used proper.
  
  in the end gamplay wise GRAW is superb, animations are superb,
  audio is superb.... graphics = 
 ****
  the lack of Antialiasing means this game dont immerse you
  and if a game doesn't immerse you, means you dont enjoy it
  then might as well send it back (which 
 i did) .
  
  Sorry UBISOFT..... unless you put out a patch that enables AA
  then i'm not gonna buy this game again. it simply looks shit
  without it. this ain't a fuking 
 XBOX..... this the almighty PC! 
  i didn't spend 1000$ on nVidia SLi to play a game with shit
  textures and no AA.
  
  if you're 
 blind..... this game is recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 7, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Why command Ai squadmates against heavily scripted redundant events when you can talk to a squad 
 full of humans in BF2?
  
  You cant use the vehicles, you cant pick up discarded weapons, and the graphics just dont scale. 
 Running out of ammo may be realistic but it aint fun. I have 7800 GT SLI and can just barely run 
 this game full res with everything turned to minimum.
  
  They put all the horsepower into having a huge environment, but I would rather it be smaller and 
 more rich in open-ended gameplay.
  
  I guess I have always felt this about TC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ploppy3000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Since this was previewed for the XBOX360 I've been really looking forward to it, but in my opinion 
 the PC version seems to be a bit too RAW...
  
  Here are the gripes..
  
  Enemy AI: Jobsworth
  What would you do if your mate standing right next to you got shot? Keep 
 standing there looking in the other direction, nothing to see here - if you're one of the mehican 
 rebels in GW: AR... 
  
  Squad AI: Spoon fed
  Your squad weren't that far up the line when it came to queueing for brains either, they need spoon 
 feeding:
  
  I've since traded it in and bought Battlefield 2, this ticked all the boxes I expected GRAW to 
 tick and then some, looks great, fab sound, huge levels and the AI is much better too (although 
 that depends on your online colleagues!) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACV3
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 7, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  it is a very exciting game. I can play it for hours, I love it. There is only one defect by me. 
 Sometimes the A. I. of your friends isn't so correct. For example when they are under enemy fire 
 or when they expose their selves, but only sometimes. However, it is fantastic by me. When I want 
 to enjoy myself, I know what to do. I must switch on the pc and start ghost recon advanced warfighter. 
 It's so easy. I'm sorry for my english but I'm an Italian teenager. Im lovin' it. Take it, buy, 
 it play it. Like Mac Donald's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsl2020
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 9, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  
  The Bad - No saves
  - Silly AI Team mates
  - Occasionally Dumb AI Tanks
  - Unfinished Version
  - Bugs on Single and Multi player
  - This game is trying to be a real 
 hardcore shooter but the AI is not that hardcore brilliant.
  - Load Time
  
  The Good- Sound and game play
  
  The Ugly- AI Dumbness (avoid this game if you had high blood 
 pressure )
  
  My Advice- A superb game should be a just a Game and for fun period not trying to be a real thing (what 
 is real if you still call this a game and played on a PC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimberWolf_CLT
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a bear and a half, both in hardware requirements and in game play.
  
  This game strongly resembles training scenarios for the US Military. As such, there aren't any 
 magic health packs and be warned, it doesn't take too many hits to put you down.
  
  Some people are going to hate this game because they're going to have to go "low and slow" and 
 make extensive use of squad tactics. No "charge in with guns blazing" in these missions. If that's 
 what you want, go play Painkiller.
  
  I found the game to be very challenging and quite engaging and would strongly recommend this game 
 to folks willing to work for the win.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  First of all the game is fun and challenging. The problem is the challenge while welcome at first 
 starts taking from the fun. "GRAW" does a great job at placing you in a covert type team warfare 
 mission environment where you feel you have real control over your men. Directing your team is 
 as easy as using mouse wheel commands or going to a overhead tactical display which is real time. 
 It does a good job at creating a real life combat atmosphere and alot of tension. Adding to that 
 tension is the fact there is no save game feature but rather the infamous checkpoint saves. This 
 is not a bad thing, but what is bad is the space in between checkpoints. This is especially aggravating 
 due to the nature of this game. You cannot run and gun through the city and expect to live, you 
 rather must meticulously peek around every corner and move your team one by on into cover positions. 
 It can take several minutes to manuever down one street properly whereas in a regular FPS game 
 it would take 5 seconds. So when you finally get to where the bad guys are and you get killed it 
 gets a bit aggravating to do it all again. 
  The graphics are beautiful, but even with my SLI configured 7900 GT system I am not given the option 
 to choose high settings. This because you need 512mb of video memory, which I have between my two 
 video cards but the game fails to see this. Either way you should be allowed to set it how you 
 like so I do not know why this was kept from us. Word has it there is a way around it though. Saying 
 that, my machine runs on high res and highest settings allowed to me without so much as a stutter. 
 I run a Athlon 64, 2gb ram, 7900 GT SLI. If you have similiar and cannot run this it is your PC, 
 not the game. 
  All in all it is a fun game, but even on easy the game can be very difficult. If there were more 
 frequent checkpoints this would not be a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a superb game in every department. My heart goes out to those 
 who have crappy systems and weak video cards.... but that is a poor reason to dis the game. UPGRADE 
 YOUR FRICKEN SYSTEM or don't write a critical review. The game delivers and is probably the most 
 fun, realistic and kick butt FPS wargame ever made. For all you multi-player boo hoos... well... play 
 BattleField 2 because that is what you want and no one is going to top it in the multiplayer wargame 
 genre. I must say that the RPG explosive effect is the best I have ever seen in a video game and... believe 
 me... I have seen them all. The drone is a very cool touch giving one a video eye in the sky. The 
 video head cam's on the ghosts helmets really give the game a new tactical tool that is very cool. 
 If you miss this game because of a group of 'weak kneed willies' with sub par systems giving it 
 unflattering reviews then you are missing a real good thing. Don't believe the critics on this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielson
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 6, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  luckly i didnt buy the game i played it at my friends house and for the past 3 years i have hated 
 the tom clany titles since there consolized irritations have been realised yes im a hardcore graw 
 pc fan and i did purchase the 360 version which has its own set of crap problems with hopes hi 
 grin pooped all over my expectations continuing the CRAP you call GRAW i think im better off buying 
 the original graw and all its expansion packs game sucked oh yes pretty but no gameplay worth mentioning 
 
  im not a little jaded fanboy of consoles or Pc's im not easliy blinded by online features and graphics 
 im old skool its all bout game play in this regards yesw i am jaded
  
  if your like me swat 4 ,BiA is the game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackKyo20
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 6, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is one of the most challenging and rewarding tactical shooters avalible on the PC market.
 
  
  This game reminds me of what gaming should be like. So many games out now days spoon fed the difficulty 
 to the player. And most games can be completed by anyone, even a five year old. All it requires 
 is some time instead of actual thinking. GRAW though does the total opposite. The game doesn't 
 care for trying to please people who want easy mode. It doesn't have a quick save option and you 
 can't even save the game when you want to. Instead there are saving points through out the levels. 
 If you come upto a challenging point in the game, you have a option. Succeed and reap the rewards, 
 or fail and go back to the last auto save point. 
  
  The game also makes it clear when you've done something right and when you've done something wrong. 
 For example you might spend a good hour or so simply trying to clear a certain part of a map. And 
 it's true that each time you might be learning the spawn points of the enemies. But you will also 
 be learning how to control your squad better. And then eventually after so many tries and when 
 you pin down exactly how to use your squad efficiently and when you clear this certain part of 
 the map there is a great sense of accomplishment. Because you've used your squad members properly 
 and because you've learnt more strategic knowledge of the game.
  
  The graphics are quite good and are atmospheric. Although I will admit that the lack of anti aliasing 
 does hurt the overall presentation. Performance was good on my x1800xt. some people with mid range 
 rigs have had some problems with the game. So that is something to take into consideration.
  
  The Ai is quite good. The enemies are clearly running on very linear scripts. But the environment 
 means that the gameplay is anything but linear. There are multiple ways you can finish a mission. 
 And there are many paths you can take to your objective. The Ai on your squad members is good. 
 I'll admit that sometimes they do some stupid things that will make you think they're dumb soabs. 
 But overall they're quite smart and will duck behind cover and hide behind walls. 
  
  The Ui is very well done. You can get video feed from each and every sqaud member which is nice 
 touch. For example you can put a sqaud member with a sniper rifle up on a high buliding and watch 
 via video feed as he snipes away at the enemies. Also the enemy radar feature is a good also. You 
 actually have a advantage over your enemies because if you make full use of your equipment and 
 squad members you will know where the enemies are before you are with in a hundred meters of them. 
 This is a great feature because it actually does make you feel like a sqaud of advanced soldiers 
 that have high tech weaponry. Because if you do the right thing you can walk into a battle field 
 knowing exactly where all your enemies are (a bit like CS with wallhack) .
  
  The campaign is also alot of fun. It's full of political mumbo jumbo. But the gameplay touches 
 in the campaign are very well done. For example you might play a whole mission where you use nothing 
 but assault rifle weaponery. But then you will get to the end of the mission and will have to take 
 on a heavy armoured tank. Well you can't fight a HA tank with rifles. so you will have to go and 
 retrieve better weaponery from a drop off point. Or maybe you will be given the power to command 
 a air-strike.
  
  Anyway overall, I'm very happy with the game. So if you have a decent rig, if you're bored with 
 playing games that don't present enough of a challenge then I recommend you buy GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talanto
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  It is a quite difficult game but this keep it fresh! You must follow the game logic and you will 
 also need to take about half an hour in order to be familiar with the game play. The most improrant 
 thing in this game is to keep your team mates alive. They can give you excellent back up and this 
 because of the highly A. I of the game. In the graphic field I must admit that it is one of the 
 best game I ever play. Especially if you have a good SLI combination you will enjoy the game as 
 much as possible. The sound is also an asset to this game. Realistic sounds makes you feel like been 
 in the battlefield. The big tip of the game is always to stay cover! Be patient, make your move 
 with low profile tactic and always check your corners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Despite wonderful, massive enviroments and a great campaign this game seems like its still in beta 
 form. I own a pretty powerful PC and there are plenty of graphical glitches and times when graphics 
 in the game seem sub-par to what my PC can handle. This game feels like Rainbow Six sometimes which 
 made me quite upset especially since the original Ghost Recon was one of the most impressive and 
 challnging shooters of its time. I'll admit this game give me a run for my money but sometimes 
 its to the point of unenjoyment due to unnecessarily clunky controls which bog you down in tight 
 spots. There are fun points to this game though, such as destructable civilian vehicles and miscellaneous 
 object that scatter or blow up due to bullets or explosions. What disappoints me even more is that 
 it seems like the good version was given to 360 and the unfinished version was given to the PC 
 gamers. Hopefully this disturbing trend doesn't continue for much longer.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizzarshady
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 6, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  For those people that want to get this game you should know that it requires a LOT of ram for the 
 game to run smoothly (thats including having a good vid card) ..
  
  
  
  This game is supper hard for me.. every time you shoot your gun bounces all over the screen even 
 when your proning The game is very realistic. You also have to command your squad which could 
 be annoying sometimesin this game you cant rush at your enemies in like most games. If you try 
 to do that youll get killed in a sec.. it takes about 3-5 shots until u die which makes it difficult. 
 Every move you make, has to be thought over 2 times or more but this game is very good and fun 
 if you dont die.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manson-doll
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 6, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  The whole idea of the game is pretty good.
  I was pretty enthusiastic the first time I started to play it.
  Though I found out soon that 
 the game was very difficult, and it makes you lose your patience pretty fast and made me quit the 
 game occasionally.
  There is no such thing as a tutorial or anything in the game, you'll just have to see the difficulty 
 of the game at the start, which gives it a very long (patient-requiring) learning curve.
  I haven't played it too much, but I'm not that happy about this game.
  They should''ve released 
 this in 6 months, when people have some decend systems, and the anti aliasing in this game is pretty 
 bad too.
  buy this game for xbox360, I heard it should be better on that system.
  
  Thomas Kooiman, holland.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Finally, some attention to detail... i feel that tom clancy has finally got things back into motion 
 as far as the ghost recon series go (R6 is screwed) . A very good job w/ controlling team members 
 and feeling like you would in real life rolling down streets filled with enemy. Ive found myself 
 jumping a couple times from being surprised. Very dynamic gameplay, you really have to use tactics 
 or your not going to make it... flanking, surpressing, teamwork... its all there, however it does 
 take some time to get use to!
  
  And when i mentioned attention to detail i meant, a lot of things
  1. Explosions... parts fly 
 all over the damn place, come flying by your face and what not, very good job with this.
  
  2. Weapons... Just little things like leaving a round in the chamber if you change a mag. w/ rounds 
 in it. Or if you change drums on your saw, and lets say you leave 3 rounds on the link, your chearacter 
 will simply open the feed tray cover and sweep the rounds off onto the ground (where you can see 
 them) and simply load another up. Most games just magically have whatever rounds you had left just 
 disappear... i could go on with this all day, Little things like this impress me, and this game 
 did a good job with this.
  
  3. Particle effects, No its not so realistc when you shoot a door of a car with a 5.56mm round 
 and it comes off after like 10rounds, however in the game, its pretty cool... makes you feel like 
 your carry'n some real firepower (like F. E. A. R.) I like it.
  
  Downsides ive ran into is multiplayer... a little buggy, and laggy. Im sure they will be addressed 
 too! Oh, and this game is a serious system hog. make sure you PC whoops ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrysavast
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Well I Can Say This The Game Is Awesome,
  OK Graphics If Set Right, Game Play Is Sweet, And Sound Is Sweet,
  Had Trouble At First Settin 
 Up Game But Alittle Tweaking With Video Card 
  & Off I Went Runs Great No Glitches What So Ever.. Im Running Nvidia 6800gt
  1 gig Of Crosair 
 Ramm And Audigy2 zs With Surround Sound .
  I Recomend Haveing The Lastest Drivers For All Hardware..... I Loved all The Recon Games But Id 
 Have To Say This Game Is The Best By Far......
  If You Have A High End PC Its Worth Playing. 9.5 
  
  ~JERRY~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie_hellspaw
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is one of thoes games thats full of great ideas that come close 
 to being just right but then fall down and graze the knees.
  
  Whats good:
  Graphics are very nice
  Nice use of physics
  Fantastic animation, especially on weapons
  
 Lots of memorable gameplay moments
  Weapon modeling is impressive
  
  Whats not-so-good:
  Tiny arsenal of weapons
  AI leaves little to be disired
  command system 
 should work really well but doesnt
  
  What sucks:
  Massive system requirments
  FPS drops when played with a PPU due to additional stress on GPU
  Not enough save points on some 
 levels makes it feel as if you are being ganged up on
  Not enought GUNS!!!!!!! 
  
  This is the kind of game when you need the AI to be able to think for itself, but at the same time, 
 not do it too much. When i give vague orders i want my men to think for themselves. When i use 
 the tactical map i want them to do EXACTLY as i say and nothing else. There are times when to AI 
 path finding works great and time when it is poor. 
  
  My main complaint about an otherwise entertaining and challenging game is that the small number 
 of guns makes the action become repetative before its time. There are only 6 main weapons, two 
 of which are almost the same gun (SCAR-L &SCAR-H) then there are 4 secondary weapons 1 of which 
 is almost the same gun as one of the primaries (M8-C) and this will mean that after 2-3 missions 
 you will have used every weapon in the game (you some times get to re-equip mid mission) and if 
 you've played the demo you've already seen everything which is a bad thing. These weapons are fantasticly 
 well made however and watching your team mates fire and reload is brilliant as their weapons animations 
 are just as detailed as the ones you see when you reload. But theres just not enough. 
  
  This game could really do with a brain transplant and an expansion pack that adds nothing but weapons, 
 then it would be pushing the 9.0 mark. Thats said it wont be to everyones liking because it is 
 more simulation then arcade so some may not like that. I cannot say however that i dont enjoy this 
 game and i'm sure it will keep me entertained for a few weeks yet.
  
  As for multiplayer i havent tried it, not really my thing you'll have to look elsewhere for an 
 opion sorry
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukbullseye
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 6, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  I hoped the full game would be more up to date than the demo, Ohhh NO! Terrible AI (your team mates 
 are bullet magnets) . No AA (i'd rather AA than HDR) . Crashe alot during multi-player, which is 
 also boaring! Only a few guns to choose from (all of which are in the demo minus the zeus) . AND 
 most of all MOUSE LAGGGG! Join the drunk special forces today! Do any others think HDR is a bit 
 Naff? Far cry, splinter cell, serious sam and this. sorry i think it's rubbish! i hope they stop 
 this HDR craze soon as! Lets hope they patch the hell out of it soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everon22
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 8, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  My rig: 2.5ghz, Radeon x800 series, 1gig of RAM.
  Stable at 1024x800, medium settings (textures on high) , 40fps
  
  Graphics: Fares well enough 
 in my opinion. Some textures are a little drab, but for the most part its pretty enough. Physics 
 and special effects are nice.
  
  Before I begin let me say I've played a variety of tactical shooters. Rainbow Sixm, Brothers in 
 Arms, Swat, and Americas Army. I love the genre and felt hopeful when I learned the GRAW was going 
 to be an outside environment only. Finally something refreshingly different.
  
  At first I was surprised when I saw my team move methodically through the streets. Checking six, 
 watching rooftops, etc. But when they come to a stop its a different matter. They often decide 
 not to take cover or when they do take cover they decide not to peak their heads around corners. 
 Sometimes they decide that my constant stream of cover fire is something they should wander through. 
 On the fly orders are only good for moving teammates to general areas. If you want proper area 
 coverage you MUST use the overhead display. 
  
  Since the game becomes less forgiving as the difficulty goes up, the Team AI was something I couldn't 
 depend upon when I cranked it to hard. Even at easy I should mention though I ended up reloading 
 checkpoints several times because of enemies suddenly appearing from nowhere. After a while I was 
 progessing through levels because of memorizing scripts - where hostile forces would magically 
 appear, where to reposition my "meatshields" for optimal distractions - instead of having fun. 
 It became more about beating these scripts than using tactics.
  
  The combat is partitioned into sections and rarely will they cover large areas. So you'll usually 
 have to walk long distances before you hit a cluster of hostile forces. If you're patient and watch 
 the overhead, you'll sometimes be rewarded with patrol movement and be able to catch them with 
 thier flanks uncovered... Although that might have been the designers intent, usually I didn't 
 have to bother being sneaky. The enemy AI can be notoriously dumb. There were some cases where 
 nearby forces didn't notice the bodies of fallen squadmates and pathed right through my sights.
 
  
  Playing through this game, I feel like I have more questions that popped up that were never answered. 
 Maybe I was expecting something that wasn't going to happen. It feels incomplete and inconsistent.
 
  
  Where are the smoke grenades from the opening cinematic? Why can't I prime my grenades or for that 
 matter hold onto them to adjust my arc? Why is there no pre- and post- operation briefings with 
 maps and intel? I guess the briefing is limited to 20 different guys barking orders from that hud 
 display in the right corner. (Who are these guys by the way? Half of them seem to be wearing civillian 
 clothing ordering me around.)
  
  The storyline is played out from that little corner of you screen by the way. So for anyone looking 
 for a compelling plot, its pretty much non-existant.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seshkii
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Reviewers~
  
  Alright for the information to everyone who says this game doesn't run for crap, your pc sucks! 
 Don't complain because you have 512 mbs of ram, you have a geforce 4 video card and expected to 
 run it. I meen all these new great, shocking games are comming out and you need a high-end graphics 
 card for them, I've bought Oblivion, BF2, GRAW, HL2 there all good but you have to understand they 
 take alot to run, I'm running all my games off a ATI x850xt Videocard, and 1 GB of DD2 ram. I run 
 great and I don't expect for my card to go outta date for a while! Alot of people are saying the 
 graphics for this game are bad, there not just a get a good card and see for your selfs!
  
  Game~
  
  This is a great FPS, packed in with Tactical fighting, teamwork, great bot AI, and 
 great graphics! You can customize your weapons, they don't give you a large exception but that's 
 why you can customize it!!! You can get extra ammo, rocket launchers pistols, all kinds of stuff. 
 You need to be very carful with your leader to keep him safe, he dies and you loose! You can see 
 your enemys diamons because your little Eye thing on your glasses. this game takes alot to beat 
 but I like it because all those first person shooters we've all been playing, there just too damn 
 easy. So think about it , go get your self a good video card, and play this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 5, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a choice about what you think is fun in the tactical shooter genre. For me, "fun" from 
 a tactical shooter is that tension as you go down the second, then third, then tenth empty block, 
 navigating each one as carefully as the next -- and then the adrenaline surge of combat that resolves 
 at such a distance that you can't even really see the man you've killed, followed by sweating more 
 bullets as you move ahead again and again until the job's done, the mission's complete, and the 
 men under your command are home safely. No other game gets that feeling just right like GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  
  Good points:
  
  * Amazing graphics. I am especially impressed by the long draw distances, you can literally see 
 thousands of buildings all the way to the horizon. The special effects and attention to detail 
 are also great. You have heat haze, great physics and even the water spraying out of the fountains 
 have special effects distorting the light as it passes through the water.
  
  * Solid tactical gameplay. Forces you to play it as a tactical shooter, or you will die a quick 
 death.
  
  * Tactical map lets you plan even advanced tacticts easily.
  
  * Low entry level, you will get into the game quickly even though it has many advanced features.
 
  
  * Immersive and realistic.
  
  Bad points:
  
  * The use of save-points instead of a free save game feature makes the gameplay more realistic, 
 you really feel like you only have one life to spend. But, in practice it is a lot of die and go 
 all the way back to last savepoint. Running through a lot of easy area over and over again to get 
 to the challenge is a bit tiering, especially combined with long loading times each time you die. 
 Save points should be more frequent.
  
  * Hyperactive tem-mate AI. When you issue orders, like "go here", your team mate might go there 
 then run around the point a lot exposing himself. Hard to have them follow orders accurately enough 
 for their survival sometimes.
  
  * Lack of graphics modes. I have to play at a lower resolution than normally.
  
  * User interface 
 a bit cumbersome. A bit slow to issue complex orders necessary in many hectic situations.
  
  * It is easy to get lost in this huge city, so without any navigational help you might stray 
 off easily. Usually you will get a marker showing you where to go though, but in some odd missions 
 you have to find your own way, which really is time consuming.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanchan68
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game contains all the things I wanted, good graphics, sound, control, AI, strategy and most 
 of all the game play!!!! I read some of the reviews by other giving this game a low score, I just 
 felt heart broken! GRIN deserves more credit for this astonishing, awesome game. I think people 
 just love to compare with the xbox360 game but I would say both game got merits and it's depending 
 on the taste of the player. Personally I got a medium class PC but the game works so fine. (Intel 
 3.4, 2Gig DDR2 550mhz, Radeon X800XT and a Audigy Z soundcard) No problem with the game at all! 
 I don't understand why people are saying this game is rubbish because it requires a high spec PC. 
 May be it their PC that needs upgrading instead of complaining!
  
  All I want to say is that this game is great and deserve at least a score of 9.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac8317
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed was the realistic weapon aiming. I plopped down to the deck and was taking 
 out the Mex Army Commandos and noticed the weapon swaying in the wind. I also noticed the recoil 
 effects as well. Great graphics awesome textures and modles. The only thing I didn't like was the 
 4 man team only and the command keys. I said follow and they do... but only until you stop then 
 you have to say it again. The weapon modles are superb but I did noticed they used the wrong integral 
 suppressor on the MP5SD6. It has indents while it's real steel counter part does not. Oh yeah, 
 I have personally fired an MP5N and let me tell you they did great in replicating the sound, fire 
 rate and accuracy on that series of weapon. The SCAR's are both excellent. I cannot wait to start 
 making MOD's for this game but then again they already have the SCAR, lol. I can't wait until the 
 boxed version comes out today or tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Yes everybody... this is GRAW and it's the game everyone expected what they've been dreaming for, 
 But unfortunetly some people created they're own immagination of how it will be!!! But one thing 
 is for sure and that is that this game gets you really to the next gen gameworld will be...
  
  The movments in this game is so good that it makes you wanna do it again and again and it doesn't 
 let you down for every single mission you complete... and lets you play more and more til your eyes 
 are burning. The good things is that the AI aint so bad at all you have just let your ghosts do 
 your job... I mean they really kills every single enemy YOU can't take out... they take cover fast 
 and respond with coverfire fast too... the gameplay in this one is High and it give you plenty of 
 ways to play it... The graphics are good but not THAT kinda of impression it makes you like games 
 as FARCRY or HL2 but it is good as what it've been made for as a tactical shooter... And the sound 
 I can't discribe it but the sound is so beautiful that it makes you scream of happiness and you 
 just want to shot more to hear that lovley sound it get HIGH score... the game doesn't have that 
 LONG story but it is enough I mean it is hard to go from corner to corner and that makes the gamestory 
 even longer than what it is....
  
  The negative is that the multiplayer in this one is hard to get in and it lags for now but we hope 
 for some patches to solve this one or otherways the Multiplayer is incredible and specially the 
 Demolotion alternative.... and that the game don't have any quicksave wich gets you to do alot of 
 thing again if you die and the save checkpoints are far from eachother....
  
  Overall this game got more than I expected and is deffinetly WORTH every cent and sec you spend 
 on it.... BUY IT WITHOUT TRYING IT!!! you will thank me!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhotmann
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  My computer passed all the minimum requirements, and all of the recomended except for 2 categories... ram 
 and video card.
  
  If your computer is like mine and only has 512mb of ram and a 128 mb video card then i would not 
 recomend getting this game. I had to put everything on low settings and it still lagged. Either 
 upgrade your pc or get a 360.
  
  But if you have a good computer this game is pretty excellent. By far it surpasses the previous 
 ghost recon games. The details look great, the controls are pretty simple, and the gameplay is 
 fun and intense.
  
  This game has many ways for you to control your squad which makes taking out the enimies easier 
 and less frustrating.
  
  If you are a fan of the other ghost recon games, a fan of squad based shooters, or just a fan of 
 any shooter then GRAW is the perfect game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to the PC version, hoping that it would provide the exciting single and multiplayer 
 gameplay experience us GR fans have enjoyed in the past. This product however is prematurely released 
 and shows numerous signs of being unfinished.
  
  - Graphics are average compared to what's on the market now. I'm running it in 1900x1200 with everything 
 cranked and I can't say I'm that impressed.
  - Load times are slow and frame rates are poor. With a 4800+, two 7900 GTXs in SLI, and 2GB RAM 
 this game runs terribly. Serious gameplay engine optimization is needed.
  - Physics model is average, but shows inconsistencies.
  - Sound is good, better than the 360, 
 specifically gunfire.
  
  GR for the PC feels completely rush and unfinished. The 360 version of GR is significantly superior 
 to the PC version and in fact, is so superior it doesn't even warrant comparison. I'd much rather 
 play an FPS or tactical shooter on the PC, but not in this case.
  
  Save your money. The developer blew it on this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 7, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  -decent graphics
  -good sound
  -potential to be a great game is there
  -co-op mode is promising forcing you to be a team
  
  Bad:
  -prematurely released (a sense 
 of an unfinished product)
  -had to delete one of the InstallShield folders from my computer in order to install the game ("Error 
 Code: -6001")
  -installs PhysX whether you have the card or not, and even puts an icon in the taskbar
  -pretty 
 high system requirements for what it seems a mediocre show (I mean this is no F. E. A. R. by any stretch 
 of imagination)
  -distant save points
  -no options to respawn in multiplayer
  -LAN multiplayer works fine; can not connect to Internet multiplayer (yet) ; bizarre way of entering 
 your account info (unless you press ENTER key after each line the error comes up)
  -long, long, long loading times even on some high-end systems
  -a very limited number of weapons 
 to choose from
  -movement is slow -- even running is slow
  -no option to "always run"
  -no quick saves feature
  -no anti-aliasing due to the use of deffered lighting approach by developers
 
  -no screenshot utility 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jodoanyore
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 5, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  I down loaded the demo last week. I was waiting for this game since last year, so I was very excited. 
 Well, I started playing and it was familiar to me because i had played GR2. But, I was amaze by 
 the nwe game interface, the way you control the bots and the fact that you have to plan a strategy 
 to attack, and you can do it very easyly.
  
  One gaming issue that I miss is the spot option we have in BF2, and the minimap, both are very 
 useful.
  
  Well, at the middle of the game I realize that it was kind of difficult to aim at enemies... what 
 a hell? MEN, I did'nt activate the antialiasing. Go to the options, and NO AA !!!!! WHAT A DECEPTION 
 !!!! 
  
  I read in tweakguides. com (one of the best help for gamers) that Grin CAN'T use AA and that it 
 won't be available with any patch. I have to say that the GRAW forum it's full with comments about 
 WHO CAN DID SUCH A ERROR
  
  I was thinking in buying the game, but it's so difficult to aim with no AA. I did'nt bought a 300 
 US$ video card to play with that low quality. A shame.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: msy670
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  I tried this ghost recon advanged warfigher experience and as I saw graphics are cool however I 
 gotta admit that sounds are perfect!
  If you are using creative x-fi sound card so you can be able run game with extreme sound option
 
  gameplay atmospheric conditions are very realistic
  
  By the other hand, If we'd think about negative factors;
  game needs very high (thought imposible) 
 systems to run under high details 
  Ai is not good enough as I expected and game is really difficult even in easy mode
  If you thinking 
 about to play game on lan (in cooperative mode) I advice that you play with more than 3 players 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hecksign
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 5, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  This game looks really cool... The Difficulty is really hard.. Although the game controls is hard 
 t learn at first especially controlling team mates, but after hours of play, player will find it 
 smooth and ea to control the ai teammates.. 
  graphic i great although need a good pc to play it.. But i don`t quite understand of the need of 
 installing AGEAI physX driver to install and play the game because i don`t have AGEAI hardware... 
 come on, right now, who does own the AGEAI hardware? The weapons is the best.. Player can attach 
 multiple Accessories to the weapons such as silencer.. hehehe cool... The Tactical map also have 
 been design beautifully and easy to understand. The physics also work great. The car tires will 
 puncture if it has been shoot, the car`s door also will open if been shoot..
  The feature in the game that i like the most is the red marks at the enemy. The red marks help 
 me alot in this game because i will know where the enemy is so i can create my strategy or tactics 
 to kill it.. This is the first Ghost Recon that i play and i really like it. The only downside 
 of this game is it does take a long time to load a game and because of i need to install the AGEAI 
 software and driver although i don`t have the hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BulutBey66
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Great Game, Lots of good effects. Not a lot of gun's but full add-ons you can put on your gun. 
 Beautiful enviroment and Big Enviroment, Nice AI, Teammates react excactly on you command. It's 
 a very Realistic game. You can plan you strategy do lot's of other things. Use drones so you can 
 detect enemy's. Cool effects nice dynamic lights, cars blow up stoplights blow up full effect enviroment. 
 The First of the GR series where pretty good but this one is the top. If you want to buy a tactical 
 shooter then this one is a Recommender.
  
  I don't have more to add. 
  
  Simply one of the best tactical shooters ever. (Recommender) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSboy
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  GRAW its one of most good looking games that came out recently!!! Extremely good textures and the 
 city is gorgeous when you see from top. The physics are great, you shoot at the cars glasses are 
 broking, doors are felling and many other things.
  
  It has a very good gameplay, althouth Al is pretty stupid at times and is difficult to put them 
 an order and execute it well. Many weapons that are beautifull designed and big areas to plan your 
 ways of continuing the missions. It has incredibly good sound!!!
  
  A minor disadvantage is that you need a good computer to pull of graw at maximum requirements and 
 see the great graphics and effects of this really beatifull game.
  
  i highly reccomend it for anyone who likes strategy first person shooters and wants to see really 
 good graphics!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  now we got the xbox 360 version and around one month we got the pc version and man those two version 
 is not extremely different but still quite different now ghost recon 3 on any system takes a while 
 to get used to. the graphics, the physics is all pretty good on pc but man this game is a whole 
 lot better on the xbox 360 and it was mainly developed for the xbox 360. this game on 360 has better 
 graphics, better sound and when i mean better graphics and shorter loading times then i mean a 
 lot better graphics everything from the enviroments and when you in a helicopter and just seeing 
 the whole mexico city and the character models and a lot more is a lot better on 360 and the xbox 
 360 version has the 3D person perspective which is a lot better than the pc's first person perspective. 
 but i've tested the pc version and i doesn't like the pc version so much just please believe me 
 and listen to me that pc version has very long loading times and just a lot badder than the original 
 xbox 360 release. please get it on 360 if you wanna have it and you better have it because it is 
 one of the best game ever, ever made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlgrasso
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of first person shooters, BF2, ENTIRE half life series of games and mods, and 
 some WW2 games. I have an alienware with dual GTX7800s, dual core cpu 3.0ghz, and 2 Gigs of DDR2 
 Ram, and this game made my computer choke slightly at some points (i am running highest settings 
 though) . I was waiting forever for this game to arrive, and then it did. I don't like the AI, it's 
 bad enough having to babysit 3 retarded soldiers as they don't really follow your orders as perfectly 
 as you would like, but then again, i'm not used to having to do that. Graphics are good, sounds 
 are well done. I recommend this game, I am still getting used to it though, it can be frustrating 
 because it is more life-like than other games i've played. I don't like the way the mouse has the 
 3D movement option because the movement isn't crisp like in Battlefield2 or Counterstrike, making 
 the time it takes to aim on an enemy a little longer, but I think it can be fixed with tweaking 
 the settings. I look forward to playing the missions with my friends over LAN because I wouldn't 
 have to babysit them like I do the other AI Ghosts. I think this is a good game in a disguise, 
 we're all too used to other games that you can get shot 15 times and eat up a healthpack and be 
 ready to go, here everything is more lifelike and you have to take things slower. Maps are good, 
 but frustrating, I am so used to a linear approach to FPS games and having these open ended maps 
 are a change. This game is an acquired taste, that I am starting to enjoy more and more as I plan 
 my next attack.
  
  UPDATE: Upon further playing, I have found the game to be rewarding, and using the tab option to 
 see the map/sattelite and commanding your soldiers that way seems to be the best also because you 
 can see where enemies are if you look closely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yahoo1979
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 4, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  not so good graphics
  not so great AI
  average gameplay
  but awesome sound though. 
  
  It couldn't been better game. way better game than this.. 
  This is where know-how come into 
 play. Grin... they need more experience. 
  This game might be great homework for them. 
  I don't know but battlefield 2 looks a lot better and run wayyyyy better!! 
  They need to work 
 on the patch as soon as possible.. 
  I mean it seems to me that game don't support dual-core and AA at all.. 
  I don't know why would 
 i need 512MB video card to play ugly game like this in high detail. I was looking for vivid city 
 setting, not the orange background. 
  Get the xbox 360 version if you can. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdiza
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 3, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for as long as I can remember and have been following its progress 
 from start to end.
  Once completed, I couldn't wait to get my hands on this game, and once I got it, my dreams were 
 crushed!
  This game, although graphically beautiful is just like Battlefield 2, a awesome game that requires 
 you to spend 1000's on your PC just to get it running smoothly!
  I don't think of my current PC as top-of-the-range but I did expect it to at least be able to run 
 with most settings on medium at 1024x768.
  Well GRAW put me and my PC in it's place!
  I run the game at 800x600 with everything down and it still stutters like hell which obviously 
 says 'upgrade to play' and I honestly don't see why anyone would want to spend 1000's to play this 
 game, it's just another 3D shooter that pushes you to upgrade by introducing new technologies, 
 I mean, I can play Oblivion at a high resolution without problems and that game is beautifully 
 designed and no new technologies are in that.
  All I can say is, to enjoy this game, be prepared to pay other than the game cost to play and enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinkFloyd2003
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I got to admit, this game kind of felt like a roller coaster. First I was greatly amazed by the 
 visuals. Then I really got into to the urban combat aspect. Then I felt betrayed by some of Friendly 
 A. I. Then I got over that problem and just started having fun.
  
  First and foremost are the graphics. This game truly is beautiful. The landscapes are incredible. 
 The frame rate is solid even when I maxed all the settings. The look and feel is right on. Most 
 importantly the sense of immersion is very noticeable. Many have complained about the graphics 
 being a letdown. I'm not actually sure what the complaint is because this is easily one of the 
 better looking games I've ever played. Despite not having a 512 MB card (the only way to allow 
 for high texture settings from the in-game menu) I was able to force them through the xml data 
 file thus increasing the graphics far more and not taking a very large hit in framerate. Running 
 on an AMD 3000+ XP, 1 Gig of PC 2700, and an Nvidia 6800 GT, I get around 25 fps: an extremely 
 playable framerate (considering TVs are 24 fps) . The physics also work extremely well. While I'm 
 on physics I should probably say that the people who also complained about having to install Phys 
 X drivers DIDN'T try just pressing the CANCEL button before it asked you to install. Just another 
 minor grievance of mine.
  
  Next is the style of gameplay. I'm very happy that this game boasts a very tactical approach to 
 each level. Planning is everything and the large open areas allow for multiple plans, while some 
 are much better than others. I prefer a first person shooter over the third person combat of the 
 360 version (not to take anything away from the 360 version, it's just personal preference) . The 
 game takes a lot of patience, good tactical strategies and often times trial and error in order 
 to successfully navigate many of the missions.
  
  Finally, comes the Friendly AI. It's not that it is broken. It just takes ALOT of getting used 
 to. Issuing commands requires practice and an understanding of what exactly the commands do. Simply 
 issuing a follow command will not necessarily keep your squad within inches of you. Likewise the 
 Move command does not imply that they will simply go to the exact point in which you send them. 
 Your squad attempts to find the best possible angles of cover and attack at all times meaning if 
 a building is within 30 ft of where you actually want them to be, in all likelihood they will move 
 to the building using it for cover. While a good idea in theory, this can and will get frustrating 
 at first. Occasionally it can feel like you are simply babysitting due to incompetent AI, especially 
 when you send your squad to their death for the first time when they stray too far from where you 
 intended them to be. Once you realize how the squad operates and reacts to certain commands the 
 more likely you will be to keep them alive and busy. Although the ability to change the Rules of 
 Engagement (Return Fire Only, Hold Fire, Weapons Free, Silenced Guns Only, etc.) on the fly, a 
 la original Ghost Recon for the PC, would be greatly welcomed. For instances when killing quietly 
 arise the only chance of a silent take down is from your own with your squad mates out of sight. 
 Any enemy in range and in view is fair game for loud kill as far as your squad is concerned, so 
 sneaking by enemies is highly unlikely.
  
  All in all I was greatly impressed with Advanced Warfighter. It definitely earned its place in 
 the Ghost Recon/Tom Clancy Universe. I highly recommend it to fans of the series and anyone looking 
 for a good tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineterrorism
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  At first experience the demo really disappointed me because lack of graphics settings and options 
 in the game menu. The graphics are not on par with current games like F. E. A. R. and yet it is graphically 
 demanding. Which points out bad engine optimizations. It is obvious the developers cared more about 
 polishing the game for the Xbox 360 than giving the same attention to the PC. Above all, the gameplay 
 is excellent and definitely worth the money. Biggest problem? No Dedicated Servers!
  
  Pros: 
  1. Tactical element
  2. "deferred lighting" is appealing
  3. incredible partical 
 effects and physics
  4. character movements
  5. nice weapons/modifications
  6. COOP is relatively fun
  7. enemy AI is decent at "Hard" setting
  8. overall gameplay
  
 
  Cons:
  1. Badly optimized engine
  2. dated graphics
  3. requires a high-end graphics card
  4. Friendly AI is very slow/incompetent
  5. no multiplayer/SA 
 Dedicated servers.
  6. many bugs
  7. no blood/signs of impact on the deceased.
  8. no AA
  9. horrible loading times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jofy
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  One simple word ,EXCELLENT!!!!!!, best tactical shooter this year and bautiful effect and grafics 
 if you play at 1600 1200 with everything high, need high end computer with x1900xtx, it runs much 
 better on ati. But has some minor bugs I advise you to use the tactical map for moving your team 
 because of its pinpoint accuracy, and the the use of the drone is superb, so well done, its reel. The 
 realism of this game is close to perfection, the enemy AI is excellent and the effects remind me 
 those from fear especially with the bullets hitting the walls and the sparks. The gunplay here is 
 dynamic and exciting, with superb sound and graphics that really capture the chaos and uncertainty 
 of urban firefights, The geography is lushly detailed and affords some amazing views. The dire news 
 is that the graphics engine is a serious hardcore test of your computer's power. This is not a 
 game for the faint of hardware. Without God's own system, you're not going to get a decent framerate 
 until you make some serious compromises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Steady
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Test System
  CPU - P4 3.2 GHz
  RAM  1GB
  VID  NVIDIA 6800GT 256MB 
  
  After playing the original Ghost Recon for years and loving it, I was really disappointed on the 
 new G. R. A. W. The AI players would not fight back and just stand there, seamed to get sluggish in 
 some parts. I have to give the graphics a thumbs up as it was an extremely enjoyable to watch. 
 Game play wasnt that crash hot and gave me endless frustrations throughout the game. It was a 
 long time coming and is very disappointing to see the end result. It feels like they have rushed 
 the game out and not streamlined it properly. After saying all this, I still feel it is a good 
 game with heaps of potential, but at the moment, not right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radnoah
Rating: 1
Date: May 3, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  this game bums me out very much its sad to say this is graw after playin the p. c version i was 
 xpecting more ther this it is bad. the graphics are not good at all. neither is the ai its all 
 pretty much bad. the guns dont even look good. no i forgot the mr-clw i think its called sounds 
 cool but that is all
  this is all i can say about this game im sure many people are sad it did not met up to standards 
 let me tell ya its no fear. this is all i have to say of this game it is a supa mega duper dissapointment 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisfitsDanzing
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  if u think about it when a company spends time on just one console or system they generally dont 
 care for the other one as much takes to long. Like when doom 3 and half life 2 came out for pc 
 it took a whole year maybe more to come to the xbox. Like uhmmm halo for xbox that was a good game 
 but for pc it was kinda different with the gameplay when i play a game that is ment to be a system 
 its perfect like bf2, doom3, half life2, Fear those r the games with smooth controls ghost to me was 
 kinda awesome but i knew when i couldnt go above high graphics i was like no option for it???? 
 witha 7600 gt and 2 gb,3.1 p4 ht cessor ???... im not a fan of fps on consoles but the one on the 
 360 was amazing it was just plain amazing... dont like get scared off to buy this game but all im 
 saying is consoles vs pc the xbox one wins and the pc was decent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 3, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advance WarFighter,
  
  All and all it was a pretty good game but it was made out to be so much better I my self thing 
 it isnt the best game in the world because its controls are so messed up it aint funny and the 
 guy walks slower then a turtle with a corn cobb up his butt. I have seen alot better games from 
 Tom Clancys like Splinter cell blows this game away...
  It needed alot of more work before they should have came out with this game but it wasn't ready 
 to be realesed yet.
  
  The Graphics Are Awesome on my 7800 GTX and sound is great to but the game play is horrible.
 
  
  Well I hope this helped you guys out.
  
  Thanks alot and Remember Nvidia And Leadtek Rock :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poppen695
Rating: 5
Date: May 3, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Keeping in short here: Terrible AI, your teammates are absolute idiots who can barely take 2 steps 
 forward without you having to babysit them for every step. These guys should be in a home for the 
 mentally challenged, not running spec-ops for the US military. The graphics are nothing short of 
 sub-par at best. BF2 looks much better graphically with a lot less overhead. I'm not sure what 
 the developers were thinking, but retro trashy textures and unoptimized shading was probably a 
 bad idea. The control layout is confusing at best, and very hard to get a feel for. If you remap 
 things it feels a little more comfortable, but you never really know whether you are trying to 
 play a FPS or a Tactical shooter.
  
  The sound is so-so, and the voice acting is ok at best. Missions are very buggy, with the only 
 really good AI being that of your enemy, who seems to be blessed with ESP and the ability to see 
 you through walls, 1000 yards away. This game needed much more polishing AI wise, and a COMPLETE 
 graphics overhaul. There was no way this POS was ready to go to the consumers at all. Rushed.... and 
 a waste of $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BajaBravo
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  I'm basing my comments on the PC demo. This game ROCKS! It has the same feel of GR Classic and 
 improves on it in every way.
  
  The environment is vast and detailed, the tactical control is sweet, the AI is greatly improved. 
 I love the fact that "run and gun" isn't an option - you can run, you can gun, but you can't do 
 both at the same time realistically.
  
  I was initially concerned about going from multiple squads down to one, but you can do so much 
 more with your 3 squadies that you could ever do before. 
  
  Tactical options are abound here - there are multiple ways to achieve your objectives. IMHO this 
 is what a tactical shooter is all about.
  
  Graphically I can't say too much... unfortunately this game nearly brings my rig to it's knees. 
 I have to turn down/off all the eye candy to get it to run smooth enough to play. I'm looking forward 
 to upgrading to a current gen video card (and one of these new physics cards) so I can play it 
 in all it's splendor.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteMercenary
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Reviewed on a 
  3.2 HT P4 
  1.5 DDR2 ram
  ATI 1900xtx 
  With Surround Sound
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter for the PC is a game that tastes bittersweet in the 
 gamers mouth. Fortunately, the sweet outweighs the bitter by far.
  
  GRAW puts you in the shoes of a member of the elite Ghost squad tasked with ridding Mexico of a 
 bunch of rather irritable, and surprisingly well trained and accurate guerillas. It's yet another 
 dragged out faux Clancy plotline which is merely a shell of a vehicle to escalate violence and 
 action. 
  
  From the moment I installed the game and began playing I was quite overjoyed to see that the Ghost 
 Recon classic first person perspective had returned, as had the tactical map with a myriad of improvements. 
 From the initial dropoff in Mexico city it's immediately recognizable that this game will take 
 some getting used to. I hadn't played any of the Ghost series games in some time, hence the learning 
 curve was rather high. 
  
  Once you get your sea legs, however, the payoff gameplay wise is well worth it, shortly after landing 
 in Mexico you get your squad together and begin crawling across some huge levels in Mexico City. 
 These levels are based on real world locations and evoke a very eerie sense of tension, as you 
 never know who is going to be around the next corner. Due to the high amount of city blocks and 
 buildings the game is extremely non-linear in it's pacing sometimes. The route you choose to take 
 is your own, though it should be noted that some routes have far less cover then others.
  
  The squad mechanics work swimmingly, as a simple scroll mouse allows you to easily select one or 
 all of your squadmates and give them simple commands to move or cover you. The squad AI does admirably 
 only ever so occasionaly getting itself into a humiliating situation. You'll find that you're going 
 to want to doing alot of your command work on the tactical map. This map allows you to see squadmates, 
 buildings, paths, objectives, friendlies and enemies and it allows you to set waypoints and cover 
 zones for your squad. 
  
  While I couldn't find too many people playing multiplayer, I did attempt some co-op with a friend 
 which was VERY fun, so I'm certain GRAW's devs have some good edge on it's multiplayer aspects.
 
  
  Easily one of the most useful tools at your disposal is the Marine Cypher drone capable of flying 
 high and spotting enemies and placing them on your map. This cypher is capable of saving you time 
 after time giving you the jump on guerillas who always seem to spot you first. 
  
  All in all gameplay is a cut above most squad shooters and I found it extremely entertaining, if 
 a bit difficult. My only qualms would be it's poor learning curve, very occasional AI problems, 
 and it's sparse checkpoints, which get very bothersome in the latter levels as you will die often.
 
  
  Graphicswise GRAW is a very nice looking game with some nice HDR, and depth of field, in addition 
 to some excellent post processing and mapping on soldiers and enviroments. The game can become 
 stale in some metropolitan areas when you aren't in a firefight, but when in the heat of battle 
 the physics system and particle effects are extremely entertaining as cars and boxes and trucks 
 fall apart and become useless as cover.
  
  One serious limitation of GRAW's graphics is it's lack of anti-aliasing, unfortunately due to the 
 engine it is incapable of utilizing this feature which is standard on most current and next gen 
 games. One must crank up the resolution (which may be painful depending on your GPU, not that I'd 
 know about that) to higher levels in order to achieve better quality. Another problem is it's lack 
 of graphics customization, but as I'm not sure what the engine can do I will recant. 
  
  Soundwise it is excellent, with some truly nice ambience of a city under seige which invokes a 
 nice tension. The gunshots and explosions are dead on, and the music, while sparse, is very nice. 
 Overall, the voice acting is standard military fare and does it's job nicely and coherently. In 
 terms of stereo quality the sound actually becomes a viable tactical tool as enemies are often 
 heard shouting orders while out of sight, this can mean the difference between life and death.
 
  
  Overall, GRAW is a great shooter, hampered by a few graphical issues, and a scant few gameplay 
 flaws which bump it down a few points. It's attempt to return to it's roots, while not totally 
 successful, is a victory for alot of fans of the original series. GRAW is a DEFINITE must though, 
 for any fan of a challenging and entertaining squad shooter, regardless of your opinions on earlier 
 Ghost Recon titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P047
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 2, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I have yet to finish the game, however, what i have played so far has been a beautiful, yet an 
 intense game.
  
  The firefights in this game are awesome. It really gets you in the game with multiple enemies shooting 
 at you from one direction or the other. Your squad mates thankfully can also hold their own as 
 well. 
  
  Graphics are great as well. It's worthy of the next gen era gaming and if you have the hardware 
 to play it on, well, you're in for a real treat. The explosions in the game are awesome. The engine 
 creates a slight visible ripple effect that really adds to the visual delight. Trucks, armoured 
 cars and civilians all display a well done explosion.
  
  AI wise, that's where it's sorta lacking. I have had trouble trying to get them to go where I want. 
 When I see an obvious point of cover and fire, the AI seems to totally ignore it no matter how 
 many times I point them in that direction. Their movement seems more like it's based on a radius 
 where they are free to find cover. Sometimes, they may not see cover as the way you do.
  
  Another pitfall is that sometimes, the AI will wanders around on it's own. And then when they run 
 into enemy gunfire, you try to call them back, but they still keep shooting and if there's a well 
 placed RPG-er, your squad mate is history.
  
  Issuing a follow command is tough as well. It takes a while for them to actually catch up which 
 can be annoying if you have to wait for them or get caught in a tough spot.
  
  The saves are definitely, what makes the game even harder than it already is. There are only certain 
 points where you can actually save. Usually when you're finished with a certain group of enemies 
 will it auto save. You won't be able to actually save the game so if you've done a part 10 times 
 already and you want to save the game to save you some transportation time, your out of luck.
 
  
  The maps however, are very well done. They are all open ended maps, you can virtually go almost 
 anywhere. There's always a different route you can take. The satellite map makes it really easy 
 to plan out your attacks as it includes, a real time birds eye view of a particular area so you're 
 able to see enemies and plan out your attacks accordingly.
  
  The only problem is, is that unless they're out in the open, it's tough to see them. So if they're 
 on a balcony or hiding somewhere, you can't account for them when you check out the sat. map.
 
  
  As for gaming mechanics, it seems like it's a move to the checkpoint, shoot this many bad guys, 
 save, and repeat. Which makes it feel like a real drag sometimes when you can't finish the next 
 checkpoint and seeing how the AI doesn't change depending on how you play the game (there's only 
 2 difficulty settings) , it can get really frustrating sometimes.
  
  The weapons load out is pretty cool and features an array of different weapons and accessories. 
 My only gripe is that you can't choose the SRAW as you will encounter enemy tanks and without it, 
 it makes it very difficult to destroy it. Another downside is that the SRAW takes forever to track 
 and lock on which leaves you vulnerable to enemy fire.
  
  All in all, this game will keep you challenged, mystified and banging your head on the keyboards 
 at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: De3emon
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is amazing simply because it has that same awesome feeling that I had during the first Ghost 
 Recon. The guns are cool and good looking, that graphics are very good for how much stuff they 
 do and it all works out so well in this game.
  
  First of all the graphics are awesome at what they are meant to do, like making mass enviroments 
 and handling many things at one time, the catch is that you need a really good computer to run 
 it well enough to play at high settings. I have a x850 xt pe and my computer will run it fine with 
 full settings and 1024x768 (i think it is) but if I want the game to actually looks good I have 
 to have it on that resolution instead of my LCD's 1240x1024 resolution, without that resolution 
 the game looks utterly horrible, the textures are also a bit iffy, they look good with the nice 
 bumpmapping and everything but if you just lok at the textures you will see thay are pretty basic.
 
  
  The gameplay is amazing if you use your teammates properly. I have read other reviews and people 
 also saying that the teammates are really stupid and look away from battle sometimes or run in 
 your fire, and they do.. if you don't command them. When you command your teammates the game becomes 
 alot easier and more fun, you can flank your enemies or do objectives simply by the full screen 
 window you can open to take over and enemy area, while trailers and the main menu movie show otherwise...
 
  
  All this overall makes this a great game but with the common issue of requiring a very good computer 
 to run the game and see it with its full potential. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
