-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Athena Sword
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rs3athenasword/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 528 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Milan
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Mar 9, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The expansion to last year's excellent shooter differs very little from its predecessor, in terms 
 of plot, and heaps on more of the same tense tactical combat. 

  It is said that history repeats itself. Apparently, Ubisoft does too. In last year's Tom Clancy's 
 Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield, you had to take the elite Rainbow commandos into battle against neofascists 
 who were determined to detonate a weapon of mass destruction in the middle of a major city. In 
 Athena Sword, the expansion to Raven Shield, you have to take the elite Rainbow commandos into 
 battle against neofascists who are determined to detonate a weapon of mass destruction in the middle 
 of a major city. Sound familiar? As Yogi Berra once quipped, "It's dj vu all over again." 
 And this attitude pretty much sums up Athena Sword. The expansion to last year's excellent shooter 
 differs very little from its predecessor, in terms of plot, and heaps on more of the same tense 
 tactical combat we've come to expect from the franchise.  

          Soak in the lovely and historic city of Dubrovnik while you're busy taking down neofascists 
 in Athena Sword.     

  Athena Sword has a decidedly Mediterranean flavor to it since it's a direct product of Ubisoft's 
 Milan, Italy, development studio. (Raven Shield came out of the company's Montreal, Canada, offices.) 
 This time around, the neofascists that you stopped in South America have shifted their activities 
 to Italy and Greece. Once again, you have to uncover what they're up to in a series of disparate 
 missions that take place in exotic locales that would make James Bond envious. There's a swanky 
 Italian art museum set in an ancient medieval fortress, as well as the historic and beautiful old 
 city of Dubrovnik, Croatia. Follow that up with a couple of trips to a ritzy Monaco hotel, wrap 
 it all in the heart of Athens, and you've got a tour of duty worthy of 007 himself.  

  Not only are all the levels in Athena Sword quite large, especially by Raven Shield standards, 
 but they're chock-full of personality and color. There's almost a sun-drenched atmosphere in the 
 daytime missions that brings out the vibrancy of the textures. Ubisoft Milan has definitely upped 
 the cultural quotient of the franchise by packing in tons of classical architecture, artwork, and 
 statuary that really conveys the feeling that you're battling it out in the middle of Old Europe. 
 And it's not all just eye candy either. For instance, in the art museum level, each wing of the 
 museum showcases a different period of art. Smart players will quickly be able use the art to orient 
 their location. Plus, the statues make handy reference points on the urban maps as well.  

  More importantly, nearly all the levels are superbly designed to offer a range of tactical situations. 
 The art museum is a mix of wide-open courtyards, long, narrow corridors, balconies, and gatehouses 
 (which serve as excellent choke points) . The Milan, Dubrovnik, and Athens maps are a warren of 
 narrow alleyways and streets that are dotted by spacious plazas and markets for marksmen. However, 
 there are also lots of opportunities for claustrophobic close-quarters combat in buildings. There's 
 a factory level that's a nightmare of catwalks and tunnels, as well as huge open spaces for a sniper 
 to feast on the unwary. The single-player campaign maps in Athena Sword are among the best we've 
 seen for the series to date.  

  Sadly, the single-player campaign is still festooned with holdover problems from Raven Shield. 
 The biggest problem is the AI, which is still schizophrenic in nature. For example, there are times 
 when the AI won't react to you at all. You can have a massive firefight in a hotel hallway only 
 to turn the corner to see bad guys not 10 feet away, oblivious to what just happened. Hostages 
 stand idly by as bullets whiz around them, and they don't know how to flee or get out of the way. 
 Your teammates can still get stuck behind objects, thus forcing you to double-back to collect them 
 because they can't navigate around a simple door, for instance. There are some improvements, though. 
 For instance, the enemy AI now throws grenades at you (and there's a strange sense of karmic payback 
 being on the receiving end of a flashbang for a change) , but it still doesn't know how to coordinate 
 attacks. Furthermore, the AI will alternate between being the best and worst shot in the world, 
 which is frustrating when you're trying to get through the game without losing anyone and your 
 head suddenly gets taken off a split second after you turn a corner.  

  The obvious appeal of Athena Sword is its multiplayer. The expansion adds about 16 new levels -- eight 
 from the single-player campaign, five multiplayer-only maps, and three classic levels from earlier 
 Rainbow Six games. That almost doubles the complement of maps from the original game. The single-player 
 maps translate well in the multiplayer arena, and the huge size of the levels offer much more room 
 to maneuver, especially to some of the relatively confined levels on Raven Shield. And the large 
 amount of tactical variation on each map means that there's a mix of close-quarters and long-range 
 combat that can take place, thus forcing teams to be a bit more balanced in terms of weaponry. 

  There are nine new weapons in Athena Sword, bringing the total number of weapons to more than 50, 
 all of which are customizable with silencers, expanded magazines, and more. The best of the new 
 weapons is probably the Beretta M93R, which can fire a three-round burst and has an expanded 21-round 
 magazine. It's remarkably useful in close quarters. Like in Raven Shield, all the new weapons sound 
 exceptional, and the sound effects in the expansion are what we've come to expect of the franchise. 
 (Indeed, Ubisoft touts that they enlisted the sound effects wizards from  The Matrix  movies to 
 handle the game's weapons.) Positional audio, as always, plays a critical role, since knowing which 
 direction footsteps are coming from can mean the difference between success and failure. About 
 the only complaint we have with the sound is that the European neofascists have the same habit 
 of speaking in broken English as their South American counterparts in Raven Shield.  

          Stop! Or my commando will shoot!     

  Athena Sword also includes five new multiplayer 
 modes, most of which are variations on the existing team-versus-team modes, but there are a couple 
 of notable additions. The first is capture the enemy, which plays exactly like it sounds. Instead 
 of killing one another, you have to capture one another. When you shoot someone, they won't die. 
 Instead they'll put their hands up in the air to surrender. You then have a few seconds to run 
 up and cuff them, or else they'll lower their hands and will get to move and shoot again. Once 
 they're cuffed, they'll kneel on the ground. However, they can escape if a fellow teammate can 
 free them. The round isn't over until an entire team is captured and subdued, so there can be wild 
 battles as survivors try to rally to rescue captive teammates. The other interesting new multiplayer 
 match is kamikaze, which is a variation on the pilot mode from Raven Shield. One player gets to 
 play the bomb carrier, who's got a bomb strapped to his person. His team has to protect him from 
 harm, but it also has to prevent the other team from reaching a detonation computer and triggering 
 the bomb. If the bomb carrier can get to a detonation computer first, he can disarm the bomb. This 
 forces the team on defense to aggressively spread out instead of camping around the bomb carrier. 

  If you're a fan of Raven Shield multiplayer, Athena Sword is pretty much a must-have if you're 
 going to want to keep up with the rest of the player community -- the vast majority of which has 
 been starved for new content. However, as much as we like the single-player maps, we can't help 
 but feel disappointed with the plot. Yes, the story in Raven Shield was a thin pretense to hang 
 the missions on, but couldn't the developers have at least tried to come up with something original 
 and interesting? Yet for all the flaws, Athena Sword makes a worthy addition to Raven Shield, and 
 that's what you'd expect from an expansion pack.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nakazoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is a very well done expansion and gets the job done very well. There are a few added 
 features and some slight visual upgrades but as the tension and action gets rolling its still the 
 same fantastic formula we all know and love.
  
  The graphics have increased a slight bit like bloom on lights and glare from the sun making it 
 difficult to identify enemies when advancing into the sun. It certainly adds a new tactical aspect 
 to how you approach some points in the game. There are also some added weapons such as the G3KA4 
 (but the new guns arent covered by the Realism Mod found at rvsgaming. com so they dont have Iron 
 Sights) . The game gives more missions and a continuation of the story of Raven Shield. The only 
 major downside I could come up with was a brutally difficult final mission, but it was very rewarding 
 when accomplished. All in all a very well done Expansion Pack and a must have for anyone who has 
 Raven Shield. I am looking forward to playing Iron Wrath (which I have just started after beating 
 this expansion pack) . If only Gamespot recognized Iron Wrath on their list of games I could write 
 a review for it as well. Haha, oh well! Definitely pick this one up though!
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The graphics, gameplay, sound, and online play are all superb along with raven shields if you read 
 my review on raven shield then you would knoiw why i am utterly disgusted with myself for not being 
 faithful to Sir Tom Clancy and his incredible, just incredible! games, I am truly in love with 
 rainbow six ATHENA SWORD !!!!!! it is a great add-on to raven shield, and when i say ADD-ON i mean 
 ADD-ON! it is an EXPANSION TO RAVEN SHIELD YOU WILL NOT BE ABLE TO EVEN INSTALL IT WITHOUT RAVEN 
 SHIELD ALL READY HAVE BEEN HEED THIS WARNING IT WILL SAVE YOU PLENTY OF GRIEF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:34 am PT
Review:  This review is for both Raven Shield and Athena Sword.
  
  Gameplay: Very challenging. Killing is very rewarding in this game, because one little mistake 
 and you're dead. Once you have beaten all the missions on lone-wolf mode on the elite setting with 
 auto-aim off and 35 terrorists you feel as if you have really accomplished something! (9)
  
  Graphics: Not cutting-edge. Nevertheless, there is a lot of detail and they do not disappoint. 
 (8)
  
  Sound: The weapons sound great, although they are considerably quieter than the real ones. Not 
 very many other sounds in the game though. (7)
  
  Value: Cheap with lots of missions and mods, an 8.
  
  Tilt: It doesn't get much better than 
 this. (9)
  
  The Good: Varied and interesting level design. Tons of real weapons, each with a different feel.
 
  
  The Bad: Brain-dead AI. Rambo enemies that know no fear and can out-shoot Annie Oakley. Silly death 
 animations. Not nearly enough destructible objects.
  
  Bottom Line: This is what we need, more creative, inventive and cerebral games. Not the run-of-the-mill 
 dreck most developers churn out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P228
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2004 12:04 am PT
Review:  well... what can i say...
  the graphics are absolutely gorgeous
  i just love the new Athena Sword exclusive maps
  especially the ones that are placed outdoors
 
  something about the color scheme on some maps 
  when the sun is either high in the sky or rather low
  just beautiful
  the new maps are freaking 
 huge (a little of an overstatement)
  but the maps are rather big and some are pretty complex but not to the extent where it gets tedious 
 and annoying like 'Prison'
  i also love the fact that they remade classic maps but especially one that is a favorite of mine, 
 Siberian Base, operation sargasso fade.
  
  sounds are amazing. no surprise.
  sad to say that the tangos' AI still have their little "epiphanies" (walls do not exist for they're 
 all just contrived of bits!) and start running into walls or are sensuously handicapped and do 
 not react to muzzle cracks from my maniacal, full-auto, empty that damn magazine firings, and from 
 an unsuppressed weapon too. seems to go for your fellow comrades too. guess too much time at the 
 range without ear protection and also staring into the sun for too long when in awe at the beautiful 
 sun drenched maps.
  
  the new multiplayer modes sound interesting. especially adversarial terrorist hunt. some intense 
 gameplay there!
  worth the money? i would say so. if you love raven shield im sure you'll love this. it truly is 
 a worthy addition. plus yall be needing it to play online!
  hope to see ya online! friend or foe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2004 5:53 am PT
Review:  I understand the frustration that most people have with the Tom Clancy games. The comment that 
 this game is a whoever sees you first game is pretty true, but isnt that how it would be in 
 real life? The game puts you in the position of being a member of an elite force, if you are a 
 sniper youll be selective and make sure you have a clean shot. While an assault team would clear 
 a room of terrorists as quickly and efficiently as possible, whether it involved shooting or the 
 surrender of the terrorists, which in my opinion is cool because you were able to defuse the situation 
 without blood shed.
  
  Yep, if you get shot one or more times you done. Much depends on where you are shot, one shot may 
 just slow you down a second will put you down. I believe it is fair to say that mimics the real 
 world pretty close. I dont know anyone who would be getting up with a lot of vigor after a nasty 
 body or lower torso shot and I doubt too much any of us would be getting up after a head shot. 
 The game basically makes you first plan what you are going to do, second execute that plan near 
 flawlessly and third pay the price for stupid actions. All of that is just like the real world. 
 Unlike other FPS games (Unreal, MOHAA, Call of Duty, Battlefield, etc.) you wont find health packs 
 lying around or extra weapons or shields, you had better be good and you better make sure your 
 controlling your squad.
  
  The games graphics are superb it is amazing that other games that are newer dont have better 
 graphics. Halo has terrible graphics, in my opinion, and plays choppy even at 1024x768. I can play 
 Raven Shield/Athena Sword at 1280x960 and it is smooth as silk.
  
  The sounds are awesome. The update really makes a different and the environmental sounds give the 
 game great depth.
  
  Game play is as all other Clancy games terrific. If you are fan of the genre youll love this, 
 if you just like to run blindly around searching for health packs and weapon supplies conveniently 
 placed in the middle of the desert then I wouldnt suggest this 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2004 9:31 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of this series since the original Rainbow series. There are elements in 
 Athena Sword that add new flavor to my favorite FPS. Like Raven Shield, the sound elements are 
 awesome, thanks to the sound developers that brought you the Matrix. The graphics will surely not 
 disappoint you. Textures and lighting effects are first rate with great environmental details. 
 The new multiplayer modes are quite interesting like adversarial terrorist hunt and a kamikaze 
 mode. I really look forward to trying them out. I love the fact that Ubi brought back some of my 
 favorite levels from the original. Siberian being one of my favorites, with added flare. I would 
 have given this game a higher rating if only damage from gunfire was more realistic. Players shouldn't 
 be able to kill other players or npcs by shooting them once in the foot. There should be maybe 
 a 5-damage status icon with exception to critical hit areas like head or chest. Body armor should 
 have more of a noticeable effect when tangos have them on, making accurate shots imperative to 
 the mission. The AI should have also been more sensitive to action in their surroundings. An RPG 
 would have been awesome. Overall, this expansion is definitely a worthwhile addition to RS. At 
 US$30, it's a definite bargain.
  Cheers and happy gaming!!
  Drakos
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ender
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2004 7:24 am PT
Review:  in reply to BabymouseNZ. This game is hardly close to being the #1 online fps. This game has great 
 graphics and alot of guns. i call this the whoever sees you first game, because if the enemy sees 
 you first he kills you, if you see him first you kill him. it is like one-shot-one-kill. you have 
 about 6some weapons at your disposal, but they all do the same thing (kill in one shot) . there 
 is hardly any difference in the guns, because they are all evened out. yes this game is supposed 
 to be more realistic, but i find it more fun to just run and jump around like an idiot! counter-strike 
 is the #1 online fps game, because of its action, the fact that you can buy guns, and there is 
 actually some skill. some people may call raven shield a skillful game, but in reality 1 shot one 
 kill isn't any fun when you never have a chance to turn around and stick the other guy before he 
 kills you! o and the online for this game is two different sets of counter-terrorists killing each 
 other not terrorists verses counter-terrorists! i would of liked being a terrorist instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2004 10:05 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Raven Shield (which means if you have played Raven Shield) then this, while not an 
 essential purchase, is great if you desire more singleplayer action.
  
  Raven Shield was probably the best game of it's kind, but points were taken off because people 
 didn't appreciate the story. Frankly, this game doesn't need a story, especially in multiplayer, 
 and really this should be the No.1 online game for those that want Terrorist VS Counterterrorist 
 action. However the game does need a powerful PC to play, which is no surprise due to it's use 
 of the Unreal engine, and perhaps this is a contributing factor to why this game is not No.1. It 
 certainly has all the weapons you could possibly want, and unlike an arcade game like Counterstrike 
 the bullets generally hit where you are aiming, which combinded with the more realistic damage 
 makes this a different experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
