-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tomclancysrainbowsix/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  9, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 957 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Red Storm Entertainment
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jul 31, 1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While generally better than Spec Ops, Rainbow Six carries its own baggage, especially where the 
 conflict of realism versus gameplay rears its ugly head. 

 The race to topple Electronic Arts' SEAL Team from the top of the special forces genre has heated 
 up tremendously. First was Zombie Interactive's Spec Ops, released earlier this year. Both Novalogic 
 and Interactive Magic have their own games coming out later this year. Now, Red Storm Entertainment 
 weighs in with its own game, buoyed by the marketable name of Tom Clancy and his story-telling 
 capability. Players take control of the international Rainbow team of super-secret operatives, 
 doing the dirty work other modern nations wouldn't publicly touch. While generally better than 
 Spec Ops, Rainbow Six carries its own baggage, especially where the conflict of realism versus 
 gameplay rears its ugly head.  

 Rainbow Six offers several modes of play, including a large variety of training missions (different 
 shooting ranges, obstacle courses, single-team hostage rescue, multiteam hostage rescue, and so 
 on) , the main campaign, and various multiplayer scenarios (like cooperative mission, deathmatch, 
 and team deathmatch) . The campaign can be played in one of three difficulty levels, with more objectives 
 and less team casualty tolerance as the difficulty level increases. The campaigns resemble a tree 
 trunk rather than a branching tree, so to get to the next mission, you must successfully complete 
 the previous one.  

 Rainbow Six contains two main parts: mission planning and mission execution. For the first four 
 missions in the campaign, Red Storm has provided a prescripted mission plan, but the next 12, you 
 must do all the work. First comes the mission storyline and notes from various characters, of which 
 most is not required reading to finish the mission. After picking which agents to use on the mission, 
 what team they'll be on, and what equipment they'll use, it's time to hit the mission planning 
 interface. The player is supplied with a complete floor plan of the area in question, possible 
 and known locations of terrorists, where the mission objectives are, and so on. The player lays 
 out where the teams will go, which "go" codes to use, the rules of engagement, and speed options. 
 While a 3D rendering of the map is available, the only downside is that you can no longer see the 
 movement paths of your teams; they're covered up.  

 After making sure you've got the mission planned (and make sure it's been saved) , it's time to play 
 out the mission. The interface is fairly similar to any number of modern first-person games like 
 Quake II and Unreal, and graphically, the game is on par or slightly better than Spec Ops. The 
 game models human motions and movement extremely well, including many different unique actions. 
 Rainbow Six's audio cues, background sounds, and other various noises are also represented very 
 well; the immersive feeling of Rainbow Six is perhaps one of the best seen in a game. The only 
 downside is that, for some, the mouse interface can be a bit sensitive for those that are not used 
 to it and can only be tuned from Windows.  

 A mission plays out as you take control of one of the teams, the others follow scripted layouts 
 already devised in the mission planner. You can switch between the teams easily, but not team members. 
 Teams follow waypoints, engaging enemies that come within range with ruthless efficiency (or mindless 
 stupidity, as you'll learn) or waiting for a go code to move on to the next waypoint. With some 
 decent planning and a bit (or lots) of human guidance, you can complete the missions and the game. 

 Well, it seems a bit simple, but in reality, Rainbow Six is pretty hard. The game skirts the magical 
 barrier between realism and gameplay, hedging a bit on realism on some features and going straight 
 overboard on the gameplay front. While combat is fast and furious, with one or two bullets almost 
 guaranteeing a kill, the AI is schizophrenic at best and can kill your members at a moment's notice 
 without them having the slightest clue as to how they can react to an adverse situation.  

 For example, suppose you had a team of four members moving down a corridor with rooms on either 
 side. Let's say the team is moving to the other end of the corridor, and a terrorist is in one 
 of the side rooms. As each member goes by the room, the terrorist guns him down. He doesn't react 
 to the fire except by rushing toward the next waypoint like an eager lemming. Terrorists seem to 
 react the same way; one particular encounter saw a terrorist calmly smoking a cigarette standing 
 around the bodies of two dead buddies. Grenades seem to have an explosion range of about two feet. 

 Obviously, lots can go wrong in a mission. You will spend lots of time refining your mission layout, 
 which really gives the impression that the missions are puzzle-oriented, which, in a way, they 
 are. Typically, you'll be doing lots of the work (killing) personally, since the AI handles tight 
 room environments very badly. Expect to replay missions 20, 30, or 40 times to complete them without 
 high casualty counts. At times, it can get very annoying and frustrating. Then again, if you treat 
 the entire game as things would happen in real life, Rainbow Six would be insanely difficult - 
 with all its faults, it's fairly hard enough already.  

 Multiplayer saves the game though and allows basically unlimited replay of the missions with multiple 
 teams (making coordination and reaction times much better, despite the typical lag) , and deathmatches 
 are sweaty do-or-die affairs where one good bullet to the head puts you out for the rest of the 
 game. Replayability is also helped by the fact that there are a lot of different ways to complete 
 a mission, and they get much harder as the difficulty level goes up.  

 So, just what is Rainbow Six? It's actually a pretty good game, albeit very hard and extremely frustrating. 
 Some of the gameplay mechanics simply go straight against common sense, but some concessions had 
 to be made to accommodate computer gameplay. Other elements are very realistic, and some of the 
 gameplay elements are right on the money. Players who thought Spec Ops had lots of potential but 
 didn't execute well should check out Rainbow Six because, despite the faults, the game does work 
 better and does have that immersive, realistic feel. Players can even experiment with the game 
 mechanics by looking at some of the definition files in the Rainbow Six directory. Rainbow Six 
 is a pretty good game that over time - and perhaps with official and unofficial support - may become 
 a great game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bobeatyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Sure it may have been made at the turn of the new millennium and it may have had abysmal graphics 
 compared to the latest releases of the saga but this game brought the great book to a PC or console 
 which even kept some characters from the story such as Ding Chavez and Alistair Stanley along with 
 introducing some more Rainbow operatives. 
  For the first game of its series it had a great storyline like many of Clancy's books and video 
 games and many of us who have read such books and played such games by him have come to expect 
 that from his games, we wouldn't be playing Splinter Cell if it had a weak storyline and stayed 
 off the genre of the game. The game lived up to the said requirement because you couldn't jump 
 into the first level with a shotgun, climb up the ladder, run down the hallway with no strategy 
 whatsoever, throw a frag grenade into the room where the hostage was being held and call the game 
 a tactical shooter. Now the way the game was designed which some of us were sadly shown, you had 
 to formulate a proper infiltration strategy, study the map, equip your team with proper gear which 
 included what armor your team wore along with what weapons and items they carried. Many missions 
 if not all required a near-silent infiltration, a swift and precise completion of the objective, 
 and a stealthy exfiltration.
  I will also say this game did have some weaknesses. This was geared towards a crowd that preferred 
 strategy in their game and was not what you would call a game for the die-hard Duke Nukem fan. 
 The amount of weapons and items fell short where you couldn't have a weapon like a silenced M16 
 with 5.56 rounds which could take a 'tango' down faster but you could have a MP5SD6 with 9mm rounds 
 that took a couple hits to incapacitate an enemy. This game was also not designed to be a FPS and 
 sometimes you had to switch to the third-person view to get a good shot off because you couldn't 
 see the gun in your hands and even in the third person view it was somewhat hard to aim in areas 
 like the Embassy's hallways and along with that it could have had a better aiming system. The whole 
 incapacitated/dead system also annoyed me, really why bother what it going do for you. It would 
 be easier for them to just kill the operative and then pull out one of their runner up candidates 
 for operative except for those absolutely needed in the Tom Clancy books like Ding Chavez for Executive 
 Orders. These things I don't care for are probably small things and yes I understand that the year 
 was 1998 and the game may pale in comparison to Rainbow Six Vegas and Vegas 2 but those are just 
 my problems from a review ten years later and I'm will probably say the same thing about Vegas 
 2 essentially I'm trying to say is that game developers are simplifying games gradually and we 
 are letting it get by with all these easy levels just slumping down into a gradual free fall unless 
 we are talking about games that keep to the genre like Metal Gear and other great games like Madden 
 which has definitely increased it difficulty with 09. This is just my opinion however and I'm in 
 no way forcing you to agree with my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the first entry in the awsome shooter franschise. Pros: This game is great. The graphics 
 are very good for its time. The sound is also very good. I noticed that each of the soldiers had 
 a diferent tone to their voice. This was the first realy great game that mixed strategy with FPS 
 action. The fact that you could plan out your own mission is just awsome. I really think that this 
 is one of the best games of all time. Cons: I'd have to say the only bad thing about his game is 
 half way thorugh, there arent any already saved mission plans, which could frustrate newbies. Final 
 Thought: THis is one of the best games ever made hands down. It did a great job mixing two types 
 of gameplay and it does a great job at it. This is the first game that put Tom Clancy on the map 
 as a videogame maker, and I also like how true it stays to the actual book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman650
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  The good: This game, unlike most FPS games of its time, requires strategy, planning and teamwork, 
 adding a whole new aspect to gameplay
  The bad: Retarded hostage A. I., tactical system is hard to use at times.
  
  When I got Rainbow 
 Six, I had expected something that was mind- bogglingly great. At first look, I thought it really 
 was. It was more deep than other games I could play and it had a lot more options. Instead of simply 
 having to take weapons from dead enemies, you could choose from a wide variety of 
  weapons and ammunition as well as many different accessories. After that, though, things start 
 to become less fun. The planning system, which basically allows you to write out the instructions 
 for your team, can be clumsy and inconvinient. What you do is you put a bunch of points that go 
 out in a specific direction for one team and then you decide what to use go codes for. While being 
 able to tell them where to move is a good idea, the go code assignment is definitely not. Most 
 of the time, you will never even see the rest of your team, making go codes next to useless, since 
 most of the go codes have to do with fighting an enemy and you need to know what the exact situation 
 is in order to understand which go code to use, but going to visit every team to tell them what 
 to do whenever they are in trouble can be a real pain and be dangerous. Also, the hostage A. I. 
 is retarded. Sometimes, I will be doing everything right with no cheats on and then the hostages 
 will simply sit there as if I didn't exist. Another thing is the fact that the hostages, when you 
 do manage to get them to follow you, don't understand the concept of moving backwards and going 
 around something when they're stuck does not seem to ever have entered their minds. Another thing 
 is that the weapon sounds are terrible. Most of them do not sound like they belong to the weapons 
 that use them and they sound too elctronic. Finally, the weapon animations are trrible. All that 
 happens when you fire is a flash of light comes out the barrel along with sound and a hole appears 
 wherever you pointd the gun. There are no other animations, such as the blowback feature on most 
 pistols or the slide on a shotgun. The reload animations are even worse. All your character does 
 is wave his hand near the magazine, which is followed by a click of some sort.
  This game might be fun for tactical sim addicts, but noone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 27, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Here are a few reasons why Rainbow Six is a classic. See the list below.
  
  1. Gameplay = 8/10. The game is a strategy / shoot 'em up type. You have to carefully plan out 
 your mission and tell where everyone has to go, command your teams, and one of the most important 
 things, is when to strike at your oppenents.
  
  2. Graphics = 6/10. yeah I know, that back when it was released it probably had really great graphics. 
 But 8 years later, it's now out-dated. I mean, these days the graphics (especially the Xbox 360, 
 PS3, or the wii) are so incredible looking. 
  
  3. Sound = 8/10. There really isn't nothing bad about the sound, comparing it to all the new games 
 that are out on the market. But the sound in todays games are so more realistic sounding, than 
 any other older games. 
  
  4. Value = 10/10. Just think about it. This game within 30 years from now, you can say to your 
 children "I remember that game when I was a kid!" The game will always remain an instant classic 
 in the future. After all it is the very first Rainbow Six game.
  
  5. Reviewers Tilt = 7/10. Right now there is barely any reviews written about this game. And all 
 the reviews that are out there, they say that this game is great. 
  
  The final score that I gave this game is a 7.7/10. Which is not bad. But you can imagine that if 
 they do re-make this game in the future, it'll probably be ten times better. So would I recommend 
 this game for anyone, Yes I would! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: porridgehater
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  I just wrote a huge review text about how the game stinks loke moldy dog crap, but it got all erased 
 because I couln't choose a classification and I had to hit the back button. So I'll say that I 
 only played the first two missions because I couldn't even rescue that hostage and also the game 
 was so horrible that I couldn't stand it to be on the screen any longer. In the first mission there 
 was a stupid glitch that made me keep running forward and no matter what I tried, I couldn't stop 
 so I couldn't even open the door. This game is so gay! Everyone says it's "a classic," well if 
 classic means utter trash, then they're right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  This game is a really good shooting game with tons of stuff to do!!!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You are a soldier in the rainbow six squad and you are trying to save the hostages of 
 the terrorists. You get a lot of missions and tons of weapons to choose from. How cool is that????
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great for a this kind of games. The weapons are cool and the areas are 
 full with cool stuff like doors or so.
  
  Sound: My promblam with this game was the sound. The weapon's sound is very cool but that is it 
 there is no sound besides that.
  
  Value: You can play hours trying to finish the game on the hardest difficulty but the game it self 
 is too short.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this is a sweet shooter game and you should buy and try finish it in the 
 hardest difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu_ponk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  The original game was terribly poor in many aspects which were resolved in the later editions, 
 Rogue Spear etc. However the idea behind the game is brilliant hence its huge success.
  
  My review ignores the fact you can use multiplayer and online, as the pitfalls and benefits still 
 apply.
  
  The game is good becuase...
  It is realistic and is not a shoot-em-up game. When you are shot it can be fatal with just one 
 bullet. Careful planning is required. This game allows you to strategically plan a mission. Yes, 
 you can view the map and tell each team member where to go, step by step. At first, the commands 
 can get confusing, wondering which keyboard button to press, but you figure it out in the end. 
 You can use this part of the game soley, and sit back to watch how your plan is executed ; but 
 forget that, because we want to play.
  
  You can be given different objectives, one is bound to suit you. Be it kill the enemy or sneak 
 in and bug the place. Trickier still is save the hostage.
  
  Planning is very important, and you also need to decide who you want on your team (each has different 
 skills) . Then decide what they need to carry. Its cool that you can not only choose thier gun, 
 but also thier pistol and also things like extra ammo or even a lock-pick set (yes, doors can be 
 locked) .
  
  There is a huge array of weapons, the facts and realism behind this game are done well. Someone 
 did thier homework. The weapons fire with a hint of realism, the firing pattern gets worse the 
 longer you hold the trigger, as if your man is struggling to hold on to the gun, with its immense 
 kickback.
  
  The men are real; you can swap between each member, which is handy. You can see them breathing, 
 backpack moving and breath on cold air. Foregive me if I am confusing this with the sequal, Rogue 
 Spear. If your man is injured with a shot to the leg, he will limp and walk slowly, hence causing 
 your problems, holding you up. You are able to switch between 3rd person view and 1st person, which 
 ever you fancy.
  
  The maps or locations are brilliant. Exploring buildings and working out hows best to meet your 
 objective. The additional game packs, Rogue Spear / Urban Ops, have much better levels still, often 
 outdoors.
  
  The enemies (AI) are limited. Better than some games, not entirely predictable, yet stupid when 
 they think they're hiding. Most of them seem to be a dead-eye with a gun, so watch out.
  
  Onto the bad points... (made better in Rogue Spear)
  The gameplay is annoying. Control is tricky 
 and cumbersome, whilst clipping irritates me. The movements are jerky and slightly unreal. Climbing 
 a ladder is a joke and will get you killed if seen. The gameplay lacks fluidity of most shootem 
 ups on consoles (Timesplitters, Perfect Dark, Red Faction etc) .
  
  There are often glitches, be it clipping or worse - your men get clogged up and stuck; now you're 
 dead.
  
  Graphics are extremely shoddy for PC, compared to console games of its time. Maybe this prevents 
 slowdown.
  
  IN CONCLUSION
  This game makes you think and will keep you occupied for many hours, days, weeks; but do buy the 
 additional levels. Beware that this first installment has poor gameplay but gets better in the 
 new levels. Remember this is game is not your typical blast everything in sight shooter.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2004 3:48 am PT
Review:  An ambitious project, Tom Clancys Rainbow Six tries to marry the components of a good action game 
 with a high level of realism. In doing so, it combines two primary aspects. The first is the planning 
 stage. In this stage the player chooses teams from one to four, and squad members for each team 
 also ranging from one to four but with a maximum total of eight characters selected. Each character 
 has skills categories and some are specialists in areas such as recon, demolitions, electronics 
 etc. In addition you must choose each characters weapons and armor. After the selection, you must 
 plan out the mission on a 2D map via waypoints. You can hold teams at certain points by go-codes 
 and indicate certain actions as well as change the rules of engagement among other things. The 
 go-codes are exceptionally useful as you can co-ordinate a team assault by having different teams 
 clear a room from different entry points.
  
  The second stage is the execution. Depending on how good the plan is, the execution can go very 
 quickly  Ive completed some in less than a minute  with minimal casualties. However, a perfect 
 execution can be very tricky. Firstly, the realism dictates a one shot one kill mentality, a shot 
 to the head denotes a kill for you and your enemies whilst a shot in a less lethal area will render 
 you wounded. Moreover, the friendly AI can be extremely irritating as they sometimes get stuck 
 following you around or worse yet, an entire team can get stuck in a small corridor  this can 
 get extremely frustrating. But when a mission goes well it is particularly rewarding. Especially 
 if you dont like losing men  but I must add, at higher difficulty settings, you will have casualties.
 
  
  There is good replay value as one can try various strategies and perfect them by moving up the 
 difficulty settings. Moreover, one can choose to play some missions in a lone-wolf style. Furthermore 
 the multiplayer was quite good but quite hard when you first went on. I remember playing it when 
 I was still on a 56k modem and it ran pretty smoothly but I also remember dying frequently and 
 quickly initially because of the realism and because players were already quite good.
  
  In summary, Rainbow Six was an impressive undertaking and a classic despite some irritating aspects 
 such as the realism and the unpredictable AI. It combines action and strategy quite well and provides 
 the framework for one of the  if not the  greatest tactical shooter franchises ever concieved. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
