-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/pandoratomorrow/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 3,264 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Shanghai
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 23, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player and multiplayer portions of Pandora Tomorrow are both highly impressive and add 
 up to an experience that will surely appeal to anyone remotely interested in a game of high-tech 
 stealth action. 

  Sam Fisher is back, and this time, he's brought some friends. Well, that's not exactly true -- Fisher, 
 an ultrasecret agent in league with the US government, always works alone. But the point is, the 
 sequel to Ubisoft's blockbuster hit, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, not only offers more of the same 
 spectacular single-player stealth action, starring Sam, that was featured in the original game, 
 but also boasts a genuinely innovative, new multiplayer mode for up to four players, in which small 
 groups of spies must match wits with heavily armed mercenaries. The multiplayer mode ties in with 
 the single-player storyline, though the two portions of the game are completely self-contained. 
 In fact, both the single-player and multiplayer portions of Pandora Tomorrow are highly impressive 
 in their own right and add up to an experience that will surely appeal to fans of the first Splinter 
 Cell, let alone anyone remotely interested in a game about high-tech stealth, subterfuge, and sabotage. 

          Pandora Tomorrow features more of the same cinematic stealth action as its predecessor, 
 plus a genuinely innovative, new multiplayer mode.     

  The title of Pandora Tomorrow refers to a code phrase used by the presumed villain of the game, 
 a guerrilla leader threatening the free world with a biological contagion. In the single-player 
 portion of the game, you'll reprise the role of Sam Fisher and track this culprit around the globe, 
 in locations ranging from a speeding passenger train hurtling across Paris, to a military camp 
 in Indonesia. The first Splinter Cell game took place predominantly in building interiors, which 
 were richly detailed but naturally mundane. One of Pandora Tomorrow's obvious improvements on its 
 predecessor is in how it takes place in more-exotic locales. In Indonesia, you'll creep through 
 the heavy brush, perhaps using the dense foliage to hide the bodies of your victims out of sight. 
 On the passenger train, you'll shimmy along the outside to avoid detection and will come dangerously 
 close to being flung to your death from the fast-moving car. This train level comes pretty early 
 on in the campaign and is the shortest and probably the most impressive of the game's missions. 
 There are only eight in total, but most of them are quite long, so veteran Splinter Cell players 
 should expect a good 10 hours' worth of action.  

  The core gameplay is basically the same, which, for the most part, is a very good thing. You'll 
 sneak your way through the game's linear scenarios, avoiding or incapacitating any unsuspecting 
 guards (or, sometimes, civilians) who might otherwise threaten your mission of secrecy. It's not 
 difficult to alert passersby to your presence, either by moving too quickly (or otherwise making 
 too much noise) or by blundering into a well-lit area. There are other nasty surprises in store 
 for you. Hidden antipersonnel mines (visible only when you toggle your thermal vision) , infrared 
 trip wires (likewise) , booby traps, motion detectors, security cameras, and other such devices 
 make the going quite difficult.  

  You've got plenty of tricks up your sleeve, too. Fisher is typically armed with a silenced pistol 
 as well as his trusty SC20K multipurpose experimental assault rifle, which he can use for some 
 silent sniping when lethal force is permitted or which he can use to fire off a variety of different 
 gadgets. Those who played Splinter Cell will recognize all of these, which range from diversionary 
 cameras to smoke grenades to electrifying (but nonlethal) rounds. Fisher's other gadgets include 
 lock picks, an optical fiber wire used for seeing what's on the other side of a closed door, and 
 his combined night vision/thermal vision goggles. He's fully decked out to get the job done by 
 any means necessary.  

          The multiplayer portion is like a completely separate game, though it ties in with the 
 single-player storyline of Pandora Tomorrow.     

  Pandora Tomorrow's storyline is somewhat more cohesive than that of its predecessor, and some of 
 the gameplay elements are thankfully a bit more transparent this time around. For example, the 
 game inherits a somewhat contrived element from its predecessor: In Splinter Cell you needed to 
 hide the bodies of your victims out of sight to avoid setting off an alarm, which would possibly 
 result in the failure of your mission. You needed to hide all bodies even when there was no one 
 left conscious to pay them much heed. Pandora Tomorrow at least makes it clear that this is always 
 necessary, and a helpful blip on your stealth meter (which indicates how camouflaged you are in 
 the darkness) lets you know where it's safe to dump a body so no one will notice. Also, in most 
 missions, you don't automatically fail if an alarm is sounded; you'll be afforded up to three such 
 mistakes, though at scripted points in each mission, the alarm stage will reset back to zero, and 
 you'll be able to proceed somewhat less anxiously.     

  Yet, much like the original Splinter Cell, it must be said about Pandora Tomorrow that it occasionally 
 devolves into pure trial-and-error gameplay. The missions are completely linear and tightly scripted, 
 so if you're jumped by bad guys or you stumble over a trap of some sort and thus fail your mission, 
 you'll just reload from the last check point (or quick save, if you're playing the PC version) , 
 and then try again from a previous point, this time knowing exactly what's coming up. That doesn't 
 mean you'll always get through the tight spots on the second attempt, as in fact, Pandora Tomorrow 
 is quite a difficult game. Some sequences demand you to silently make your way through environments 
 while using both your night vision and your thermal vision to see all the dangers in your surroundings. 
 Then you might need to silently take out a small squad of guards.  

          The action occasionally devolves into frustrating trial and error, but the missions are 
 so dense with intrigue and detail that you'll always want to press on.     

  Enemy artificial intelligence is about the same as in the previous Splinter Cell, which means guards 
 will basically patrol around in a set pattern, giving you the opportunity to sneak up on them or 
 shoot them. If you make too much noise or otherwise reveal your position, though, they'll either 
 come investigate if you weren't too blatant about it (usually setting themselves up for an easy 
 kill or knockout) , or they'll open fire and/or sound an alarm. Fisher can't sustain much damage, 
 but it's still quite easy to outshoot your enemies as long as you don't alert too many of them 
 at a time. The fact that the gameplay sequences in which you aren't permitted to use lethal force 
 are so much harder than the ones in which you can shoot to kill says a lot about the AI.  

  While Pandora Tomorrow's missions, like those of Splinter Cell, could have benefited from feeling 
 less rigid and scripted, on the plus side, they're incredibly slick. Each one features some very 
 cool, memorable moments, and you'll find considerable variety and multiple objectives within each 
 mission. And the missions do present you with some tactical options. For instance, there are many 
 more breakable lights in Pandora Tomorrow than in its predecessor, so you can often create a shroud 
 of darkness for yourself with some well-placed shots. You can snipe your foes, sneak up behind 
 them and knock them out, or distract them by whistling (one of Fisher's few new tricks) and then 
 sneak right by. The game unfortunately has no point system of any kind, so there's no built-in 
 impetus to try to accomplish your missions as stealthily as possible, but it's worth noting that 
 the gameplay here is ultimately skill-based, requiring a delicate touch and careful timing. But 
 Splinter Cell fans knew that already.  

  The control is as responsive as ever. Using the Xbox controller, you'll need to gently apply the 
 analog stick in order to move quietly, lest you make too much noise and alert anyone in the vicinity 
 to your position, while the right analog stick lets you freely rotate the camera to get an ideal 
 vantage point. On the PC, standard shooter-style mouse-and-keyboard controls let you easily maneuver 
 around, and the mousewheel controls how quickly you move. This more-precise control scheme works 
 well -- arguably, better -- but the analog control and the context-sensitive force feedback provided 
 by the Xbox controller make that version of Pandora Tomorrow a much more tactile experience. The 
 PC version of the game also features sharper, more colorful visuals (assuming you have a good-enough 
 system for them) and gives you the ability to quick-save your progress at any time, whereas the 
 Xbox version is limited to a checkpoint save system, which makes the game more challenging but 
 potentially more frustrating. For what it's worth, the PC version of the game also retails for 
 less than the Xbox version.  

  Multiplayer Pandora Tomorrow is based on a key plot point in the game, which is alluded to peripherally. 
 Basically, a group called Shadownet -- consisting of stealthy guys very much like Sam Fisher, only 
 their faces are completely covered -- is charged with sneaking into key areas to dispose of biological 
 weapons in the vicinity. An opposing mercenary force, ARGUS Corp., is commissioned to prevent Shadownet 
 from succeeding. The big twist is that mercenary players view the action from a first-person perspective -- and 
 control the action just like in a conventional first-person shooter.  

          The first Splinter Cell was renowned for its incredible graphics, and Pandora Tomorrow 
 is just as easy on the eyes.     

  The ARGUS mercs aren't just thugs. Their multipurpose assault rifles are equipped with optional 
 laser sights and torch lights for target identification, and their helmets feature two special 
 vision modes, which allow them to detect spies lurking in the darkness, or traces of their special 
 gadgets. Mercs also have access to anti-spy mines, various grenades, and spy traps, which can cause 
 unsuspecting spies to give away their position. The spies, meanwhile, aren't just Sam Fisher clones, 
 and you'll notice that they control quite differently in some ways. Plus, they have a bunch of 
 unique gadgets of their own. Their electromagnetic rifles are nonlethal but can be used to disable 
 security cameras, motion sensors, and laser trip wires or to temporarily stun enemy mercenaries. 
 Spies also pack flashbang grenades for blinding those pesky mercs and chaff grenades for temporarily 
 disrupting static defenses. They've even got spy bullets, which can mark enemy mercs, revealing 
 their positions on the spies' radars, and allowing the spies to eavesdrop on that merc's voice 
 communications. They can also creep up behind and put unsuspecting mercenaries in a vice grip, 
 in true Sam Fisher style, and then knock them out or kill them.  

  As you might expect, multiplayer Pandora Tomorrow is a team-oriented affair, and it encourages 
 verbal communication between teammates via communicator headsets -- but in a cool touch, if a spy 
 grabs hold of a mercenary, the spy can offer some parting words to the opponent before breaking 
 his neck. It's not game over for the spies if they're caught on camera, but their positions will 
 be revealed on the mercs' minimaps, and sometimes, the area they're in will be temporarily sealed 
 off. Death isn't necessarily the end, either, as both sides have a limited number of lives with 
 which to try to complete their objectives.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (96 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Let's get straight down to business.
  According to the story: An ambitious Indonesian, Suhadi Sadono, has a personal grudge against the 
 Americans. So he plans to kill them all with a dangerous biological agent, namely a virus. So he attacks 
 a U. S government house, takes people for hostage. That's when you come in. Sam Fisher has grown older 
 and more mature. He hasn't lost his touch, though. He can still do all sorts of things, namely everything 
 from the previous game. Stealth is by far the best decision to take than shoot everyone up with 
 the SC-20K !When you finish each mission a new clue is revealed and that is what makes the game 
 so interesting. You chase a guy nicknamed "Mortified Penguin'' in a train, hack his laptop and from 
 the information visit Jerusalem to find what exactly is the 'biological agent'and recover it. From 
 then, it's pretty simple: Neutralise the virus. You play missions in Indonesia, Jakarta, Nice, Lyon and 
 even New York !
  The graphics are crisp with great sound effects. (Lambert's voice is as alerting as ever before) . The 
 moves are executed with perfection.
  This is a great game, but the drawbacks are: They could have made it more interesting by adding more 
 features. The features haven't changed or developed. Apart from this you can't think of many negatives 
 but there are a few. Overall it's a great game to play and even more great to see someone else playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  What can we say, another Tom Clancy's Game... I love almost every game that is related somehow 
 to this guy. Let's start with the Review...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Basically we can say it is the same as the previous game, but we can also say, it is the same as 
 the next game ( Double Agent ) , but well, it is a good thing, Sneak around, stay in the shadows 
 and do stealth kills, the best way to play this game. While moving slowly at the shadows we can 
 sneak around the Enemies, and or civilians, so we can Knock'em out so they won't f*ck up your mission. 
 You have a Silenced Pistols and an rifle that can use some gadgets, like a camera. You can also 
 use melee, once happened to me, that I accidentally fell of a crate, and the enemy was almost pushing 
 the alarm, and i was : Damn can't use lethal force, what to do , and in this panic I accidentally 
 pressed right clicked and I smacked his face, and he was KO... Some tricks Fisher has lol. We also 
 have a thermal vision which is really handy to find mines and sometimes see the enemies, altho 
 night vision goggles, in my opinion are useless. We also have to hide the bodies, even if you knock 
 out everyone you can have to start again because of the bodies you left behind, which is a bit 
 frustrating, but most of the game you don't need to KO anyone, just go by them, hidden in the shadows.
 
  Gameplay Score: 9/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in this game, in my opinion is excellent. The characters voices are very well chosen, 
 and fit somehow the game. The footsteps and the ambient sounds are very well made, there is no 
 flaws in it. The only problem are the enemies, well, everyone speaks english very good... I know 
 it is an universal language, but c'mon, not every speaks so good. My friends at school some of 
 them suck so bad that the teacher gives them good grades so they just shut up, and stop saying 
 crap.
  Sound Score: 8/10
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Much cannot be said about this issue, the graphics are very good , and still if you buy the game 
 today (08) 4 years since its release, you'll think that the game is recent ( of course if you don't 
 know what SC is and had never contact with the series ) The scenarios are nicely made, but can 
 be a bit of linear... today, but i remember when the game got out it was a masterpiece, so the 
 rating should be according to that time, and not today.
  The characters, Enemies and the interface , is actually pretty good.
  Graphics Score: 9/10
 
  
  Overall Splinter Cell is one of my favorite series, and Pandora Tomorrow, is one of my Favorite 
 games, so i highly recommend it to Stealth-Games Fans, Ninja Fans, and everybody else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back to whack another terrorist threat. This review is for the single player missions.
 
  
  I picked up the Espionage Pack (splinter Cell 1 and 2) for $10, it's easy to scoop up this title 
 somewhere. There's not much wrong with this game for stealth action fans. The same slick gameplay 
 and presentation of the first with subtle improvements make Pandora Tomorrow a surprisingly great 
 sequel.
  
  ========= GOOD ==========
  
  GREAT EQUIPMENT: As before, players will have access to a wide arsenal of weapons, including the 
 SC pistol, the SC-20K sniper rifle with the other enhancements, including stunning foil rounds, 
 incapacitating sticky shockers, diversion/gas cameras, sticky cameras and smoke grenades. He can 
 carry frag grenades, flashbangs, flares and electromagnetic grenades. Sam also has his optical 
 cable to look under doors/grates.
  
  SLICK ABILITIES: Sam has his usual acrobatic abilities, this time he can whistle to distract enemies 
 and hang upside down from a pipe to shoot with his pistol. When his back is against a wall and 
 he approaches an opening like a door, Sam can do a spin maneuver to silently get to the other side.
 
  
  BETTER PACING: The objectives in Pandora Tomorrow are clear and straightforward and each section 
 of a mission doesn't drag on. Players will not find themselves lost, or wondering what to do next.
 
  
  VARIED ENVIRONMENTS: This time, Sam will sneak through more than just buildings. There various 
 location types in Indonesia, France, Jerusalem and the US. These include jungles, city streets, 
 a speeding passenger train, a television station, a submarine, various mercenary infested villages 
 and even LAX airport. This keeps things fresh.
  
  IMPROVED GRAPHICS: The graphics get an upgrade, Sam looks better than ever in his stealth suit.
 
  
  ========= BAD =========
  
  TRIAL AND ERROR: Once again, this plagues the gameplay. Some mission sections are sensitive to 
 the slightest play error and players will reload many many times to get a certain part done correctly.
 
  
  POINTLESS WEAPONS: I found that some weapons like frag grenades, flashbangs, the electromagnetic 
 grenade were too risky to use and not really useful, at least on the normal difficulty setting.
 
  
  STORY: Too difficult to follow for non-Tom Clancy fans. Fortunately it doesn't get in the way of 
 the gameplay, the objectives are clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pzco
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Pandora Tomorrow is indeed a fairly good game. It continues the Splinter Cell tradition of excellence 
 in the stealth genre. As usual the PC version asserts itself as the dominant one with superior 
 graphics and FPS-style controls. I'm not saying the console versions aren't good as well, but they 
 simply don't match up. The PC version should be able to run and look good on relatively low-end 
 machines, and I recommend it over the others.
  
  Gameplay: That same Splinter Cell goodness you know and love. There's a lot of stealth action, 
 and while it can be frustrating on occasion, it's mostly fun times.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Pretty realistic and immersive, makes you feel like you're there.
  
  Value: 6/10
  
  Good 
 for a play-through (maybe two) , but beyond that, feh... you're not gonna keep coming back for more 
 unless you're a hardcore fan. Seriously, go do something else, Splinter Cell doesn't exactly have 
 infinite replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Having just played the game for the first time, I have to say that it was a pleasant... no, make 
 that excellent... surprise. Being primarily a FPS action fan, I find the stealth sub-genre to be 
 a great diversion when I need a break from shoot-em-ups, and Pandora Tomorrow certainly delivers. 
 Although I had fun with it's predecessor, I felt Splinter Cell was less than stellar, being overshadowed 
 by the Thief series. But a few minor improvements in certain aspects of the game raises the bar 
 for the Splinter Cell franchise. Over all, game play is smooth and easy, with the exception that 
 weapon selection and deployment is still a little clunky. Sam has a difficult time quickly swapping 
 out a grenade for his rifle; but ideally, he probably shouldn't have to, if he's approached the 
 situation in a properly stealthy manner.
  
  Graphics hold up extremely well, even after four years. Some of the characters are recycled a bit 
 much, but even so, visually, the game looks great, and there is a wide diversity of environments 
 to explore. Actually, "explore" might be an overly generous description, as the missions usually 
 give Sam little opportunity to deviate from his pre-determined path. Occasionally, Sam will be 
 able to choose from a couple of different routes to his objective (ie. over the roof or thru the 
 alleys) , but the missions are, for the most part, pretty linear. Sound is over-all fairly decent; 
 musical score is awesome, but finding the right levels for ambiance, voices and music can require 
 several exits to the Options screen for adjustments. In addition, voice acting (with the obvious 
 exception of the main characters) is a little weak. Everybody in the game world speaks perfect 
 English, and although I realize this is done because Sam is assumed to be fluent in any language 
 he encounters, throwing in some believable accents would help to make the game more immersive.
 
  
  My only other complaint might be that some of the mission objectives are a little hazy, requiring 
 a trial and error approach in order to accomplish them. Still, this is a minor gripe, given that 
 part of the fun in the world of Splinter Cell is the quiet and careful exploration of an environment 
 to determine Sam's next step. Only a couple of missions involve a clock, so Sam usually has ample 
 time to observe from the shadows and plan his next move. After all, when you've had your fill of 
 blasting hundreds of Combine, Strogg, and Nazi soldiers, a little quiet time in the dark is just 
 what the doctor ordered. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  "This is madness!!!!!!!!!!"
  
  Why you say?!??!!???
  
  Well, it's quite simple. I have a personal standard when it comes to voice acting (and also equally 
 important, the storyline) in games. I believe that the quality of voice-overs play a very important 
 part in a game. Half-Life 2 wouldn't be Half-Life 2 without the top notch voice acting. The same 
 goes for any game that that has people talking in it. Unless of course the voice-overs are intended 
 to sound cheesy.
  
  What I'm trying to say is, while I can forgive the occasional graphical glitch, sound stuttering, 
 minor plot holes, or long loading times, one of the things I cannot ignore is the voice acting.
 
  
  In the other departments, this game delivers. Solid game play, magnificent sound effects, and stunning 
 visuals make this game a joy to play, if only you could ignore the horrendous voice-overs. If you 
 don't believe me, just listen to the gasping Lambert (he sounds like he's running out of breath 
 all the time) throughout the game.
  
  In my opinion this is a madly overrated game. But I have to clarify; SC: PT is a great game, but 
 because of the voice-over failure I would have to be 'real' and warn potential gamers with similar 
 taste as mine the puke inducing voice acting within this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Story: play as sam fisher to stop some indian terroists.
  
  Missions: Stealthy. mostly to retrive information.
  
  Controls: Keyboard And Mouse 
  
  Features: Stealth 
 action, and a good story
  
  A. I.: Pretty smart. they go out on patrols and investigate sounds.
  
  Loading Times: 15 seconds 
 to load into missions.
  
  Graphics: pretty good graphics for the time this game was made. Pretty detailed enviroements and 
 really good lighting effects.
  
  Audio: good voice acting and ambient sounds. Voice acting is great and is acted out nicley. The 
 guns sound amazing and the rest of the sound is fenominal
  
  Multiplayer: co op.
  
  Requirements: Internet Connection, pretty good PC to run it. Mouse and Keyboard
  
  The Good: 
 a ok splinter cell game. ok graphics and good sound.
  
  The Bad: short game. not the best in the series.
  
  The Ugly: The crashses.
  
  Replay Ability: 
 None
  
  The Bottom Line: A splinter cell game that does not add anything new to gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Value:8
  Tilt:10
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow is the one of the greatest stealth games ever made. 
 I hated stealth games, but I gave it another try, and I am glad I did. Sam Fisher is on a mission 
 to stop the spread of the smallpox virus. As a ultra stealth agent, Fisher goes through many obstacles 
 to complete his mission. He and some helpful team members travel through Timor, France, Israel, Indonesia, 
 and the USA to complete the mission. Using a pistol, a SC20K assault rifle (that is upgraded within 
 the game) and other small gadgets such as grenades, shockers, and etc. Furthermore, Pandora Tomorrow 
 has amazing graphics, a amazing storyline, and a very realistic gameplay. From climbing the elevator 
 shaft to crossing the moving train from underneath. Also, if your done with the single player campaign, 
 your definitely not done with the game because Pandora Tomorrow features the newly created multiplayer 
 mode. Overall, if you want a truly amazing stealth game then get Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow. 
 Even if you don't like stealth, still play it, it will probably change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Having just played the game for the first time, I have to say that it was a pleasant... no, make 
 that excellent... surprise. Being primarily a FPS action fan, I find the stealth sub-genre to be 
 a great diversion when I need a break from shoot-em-ups, and Pandora Tomorrow certainly delivers. 
 Although I had fun with it's predecessor, I felt Splinter Cell was less than stellar, being overshadowed 
 by the Thief series. But a few minor improvements in certain aspects of the game raises the bar 
 for the Splinter Cell franchise. Over all, game play is smooth and easy, with the exception that 
 weapon selection and deployment is still a little clunky. Sam has a difficult time quickly swapping 
 out a grenade for his rifle; but ideally, he probably shouldn't have to, if he's approached the 
 situation in a properly stealthy manner.
  
  Graphics hold up extremely well, even after four years. Some of the characters are recycled a bit 
 much, but even so, visually, the game looks great, and there is a wide diversity of environments 
 to explore. Actually, "explore" might be an overly generous description, as the missions usually 
 give Sam little opportunity to deviate from his pre-determined path. Occasionally, Sam will be 
 able to choose from a couple of different routes to his objective (ie. over the roof or thru the 
 alleys) , but the missions are, for the most part, pretty linear. Sound is over-all fairly decent; 
 musical score is awesome, but finding the right levels for ambiance, voices and music can require 
 several exits to the Options screen for adjustments. In addition, voice acting (with the obvious 
 exception of the main characters) is a little weak. Everybody in the game world speaks perfect 
 English, and although I realize this is done because Sam is assumed to be fluent in any language 
 he encounters, throwing in some believable accents would help to make the game more immersive.
 
  
  My only other complaint might be that some of the mission objectives are a little hazy, requiring 
 a trial and error approach in order to accomplish them. Still, this is a minor gripe, given that 
 part of the fun in the world of Splinter Cell is the quiet and careful exploration of an environment 
 to determine Sam's next step. Only a couple of missions involve a clock, so Sam usually has ample 
 time to observe from the shadows and plan his next move. After all, when you've had your fill of 
 blasting hundreds of Combine, Strogg, and Nazi soldiers, a little quiet time in the dark is just 
 what the doctor ordered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  to start out with this game is worth my time and money! the visuals are MINDBLOWING! the gadgets 
 are awesome! the moves are SWEET! the multiplayer is REVOLOUTIONARY the gameplay is amazing, but 
 sadly the sound lacks... queit a bit i was a little disaponted at this but yet it makes up for it 
 with just about everything else... sadly in my reveiw here this game would be rated a 10 but because 
 of the sound its rated what it is but yet the sound isn't SO bad that you dont want to buy this 
 game. but yet its not as good as i thought it would be although it could be the setting i have 
 it at... any way there are two cons for this game... Sound.... And length... no matter how many levels 
 they give you... you always keep wanting MORE! MORE!! MORE!!!
  
  any way.. check out this game... its reallly god
  
  Thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  This is better than chaos theory cuz of the levels being really interesting, such as on my favourite 
 mission when you infiltrate the TV station in Jakarta via the sewage system and you come up caged 
 in with razor wire underneath a tower with a snpier in it and surrounded by land mines with only 
 one exit. What a scenario! Ubisof Shanghai have cretive minds more so than Ubisoft Montreal who 
 created Chaos Theory wich was boring compared to this. Unfortunately, the story is once again confusing 
 and it makes little sense but it's Tom Clancy's fault rather than the designers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell-Pandora Tomorrow is the next installment in Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Series. it 
 has be said that this episode posses more addition to the earlier version n is much more thrilling. The 
 stealth is just getting better and better..!!, The Game-play is pretty Good but its shorter than 
 the earlier version. i personally feel that it is the shortest of the rest of the Splinter Cell 
 Series. but the story line is good, No Rip-offs. The graphics are just too good, the reality is maintained 
 with every move. The environment is something to look out for, the gear the character uses is brilliant. the 
 weapons are as usual, the best. the music n sound is pretty cool. the sound of the footsteps was something 
 that amazed me..!! the learning curves are easy n a few new moves are added into the episode... n 
 some of them are unique in this episode ONLY (not even present in Double Agent) . this game is the 
 Second Best in the Series, Next Only to Splinter Cell-Chaos Theory .Every Splinter Cell Fan will 
 Have this.... Trust ME..!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAZMISTAR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  OK, my third review. By the way, if you can, go check out my reviews for Guitar Hero and The Legend 
 of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time. If you like 'em leave your recommendations. On with the review. 
 You are Sam Fisher, legendary Spy and stealth expert. You play through a series of levels, sneaking 
 around and using the environment to your advantage. Turn of lights. If your desparate, take your 
 silenced weapon and take 'em out. You can knock things over to distract guards while you sneak 
 behind them and grab them, knocking 'em out and carrying them into a broom cupboard. Shimmy along 
 pipes and ledges to sneak right past your enemies. On this game, the less kills the better. Thats 
 all really. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I thought the first one was more original, with fresh ideas and more detail to characters 
 and plot. This one, however, more or less re-hashed the same germ warfare plot that has been replayed 
 in the media for the last four years. I liked the idea of the nuke -- as portrayed in the first one -- better. 
 This game was also easier than the first. While some of the ideas and environments were new and 
 original, the enemies were fairly stupid and easy to circumvent. I also felt there were too few 
 bad guys... it seemed there were fewer than there were in the first game, which made the job even 
 easier. Additionally, if you play through the levels without night vision, you'll notice how unusually 
 dark *everything* is. The environments were all so bloody dark; much darker than one would think 
 an environment would be -- if it were being guarded by dozens of soldiers and a paranoid terrorist 
 leader. This especially applies to the indoor levels. More light would make the game more difficult 
 and risky. It seemed almost as if the tremendous darkness and shadows were there simply to give 
 the player a place to hide, and did not exist for the sake of providing realism for the game.
 
  
  Good sound, though not by any means excellent. I thought the bad-guys character voices sounded 
 absurd, and couldn't help but laugh whenever one of them thought they heard something. They would 
 often exclaim their worry in a classic American accent. Rugged, rough-beat Indonesian terroirsts 
 with flawless American accents. It was as if the game creators had run out of money to pay real 
 foriegners to voice act for them, and instead used the dorky-voiced programmers of the game to 
 save the green. At least they kept the voice of Sam Fisher....
  
  The gameplay matched that of the first one. Sam Fisher, the flawless, aged and experienced agent 
 of the dark, a man who moves with both character and silent determination. I thought his motions, 
 tricks, and movements were elegant and well carried out. The bad guys-when they do find you-terminate 
 you quickly. Sneaking up to clock someone from behind is a lot of fun, as well as stealth in the 
 shadows and the rest of it. More or less the same things that made the last one fun made this one 
 just as memorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsbeasts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely revolutionary! I believe it put a whole new twist to the video gameing 
 world, with it's stunning graphics and realistic gameplay. It definately passes as my most realistic 
 game! You will certainly be pleased with the realistic shadowing and graphics it presents. Nothing 
 in the game will make you say thats unrealistic . Especially how theres so many ways to do one 
 thing. You can sneek up behind a guy and knock him out, put a gun to his head, or just shoot him, 
 or shoot stick shockers, or air foils, or grenades, etc. etc. theres never just one way to do things! 
 Throught the game you will be presented with shadowy enviroments where you have to sneak around 
 without being seen and complete you missions, sometimes without sounding off an alarm. Yes, this 
 is one of the games where you are cringing, as a guard walks within a foot of you and doesn't notice 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niftymatt490
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The original game of the series was a great start to the series. Most sequels are generally not 
 as good as the original (especially movies,) this one is one (maybe two) step (s) up from the original. 
 The singleplayer was just as good as the last one. Everything from the storyline to the music. 
 After beating singleplayer I ventured over to multiplayer and instantly I was hooked. I was playing 
 all day during the weekends because it was just that fun. The multi player doesn't get enough credit 
 for this game. Here is the breakdown of the review:
  
  Gameplay (9) - This is the worst part of the game. The gameplay is really good, especially in single 
 player. The only thing that mars it was some of the things in multiplayer. Occasionally, it was 
 difficult to grab a mercenary from behind and break his neck. There were a few small other things 
 that made multiplayer a bit more difficult, but otherwise the gameplay was exceptional.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, but they aren't top notch for when this game was developed. Although 
 there are many details, it wasn't much of an improvement over the original Splinter Cell. Multiplayer's 
 graphics are also slightly worse. Sound: The sound in this game is great. From turning on your 
 night vision to just the ambiance music it was a pleasure from the moment the game started. This 
 is probably my favorite music from a Splinter Cell game. The sound makes the game just that much 
 more enjoyable. Superb!
  
  Value: The value would be good for singleplayer, but absolutely immaculate since the game has superb 
 multiplayer. The singleplayer is good enough to replay, but it is the multiplayer that will make 
 you keep coming back to this masterpiece of a game. Reviewer's Tilt: Self-explanatory. This game 
 is just that good. If you don't own it, buy it now. You will enjoy it. Bottom line is that this 
 is the best game of the series in terms of overall. Multiplayer just cannot be beat. Chaos Theory 
 had very similar multiplayer, but it had no where near the quality of maps that Pandora did. Double 
 Agent's multiplayer is a disgrace. Unfortunately, UBI has taken down all the servers, so the only 
 way you will be able to enjoy multiplayer is over a client like Hamachi or playing LAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schtiel
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  When the first Splinter Cell came out, it received nothing but praise, and now Tom Clancy has released 
 their latest installment in the Splinter Cell series: Pandora Tomorrow. This time however their 
 is a brand new multi-player campaign which contrasts, but relates to the single player campaign. 
 This game was also developed by the Ubisoft studio in Shanghai, not Montreal.
  
  The single player portion basically plays the same as before, but now the main differences are 
 your interfaces and the level designs. In contrast to the first Splinter Cell where mission where 
 held in Offices, and buildings, etc. Now they are in more exotic locations which gives a different 
 Feel to the game. Splinter Cell is a stealth game. You are encouraged to sneak around your enemies 
 rather then kill them. So you will have to shoot some lights and make a dark path for you sneak 
 around. Sam Fisher will always have a special suit that blends in with the darkness so essentially 
 darkness is your friend.
  
  Some other differences are that now you have an alarm limit in your interface, each time you trigger 
 an alarm the enemies are more armed, like with Flak Jackets and Helmets. But you also have a whistling 
 function that really simplifies the game. Now you can just hide in the shadows and whistle to lure 
 the guards towards you. And there more ways to complete the levels in the game, rather then a linear 
 route in the first game.
  
  Of course you will still have your handy gadgets and tools, like your multipurpose assault rifle, 
 which can fire non-lethal projectiles to knock-out enemies. This is really helpful on missions 
 where casualties are a No-No . You still got your old moves like the Split Jump where Sam does 
 the splits between two walls, the classic Grab where you grab the enemy from behind, just to mention 
 a few. Oh, and you still your signature item: Night vision Goggles.
  
  Some new moves are the Half Split Jump which is the same as the split jump, but used in small corridors. 
 The Swat Turn which lets you go between 2 walls undetected.
  
  The game elements are pretty much the same as last time. You got turrets that will only shoot at 
 you, land mines only visible on thermal vision, security cameras, wall mines, motion sensors, and 
 trip wires.
  
  The story of the single player portion stars Sam Fisher an operative that works for the NSA going 
 around the world doing top-secret missions. Now the story is based on a guerrilla group threatening 
 the free-world indirectly. While story-telling was never a strong point, the player will nonetheless 
 enjoy the story. There are 8 missions this time around-one less then the first Splinter Cell but 
 they are all pretty long so you will have spent around 10-15 hours of play.
  
  The technical parts of Splinter Cell are always good, like last time the graphics are superb with 
 intense shadow effects and lighting, the sound is not so good. The secondary character's voices 
 are somewhat Feeble compared to the first, but now in every location there are soundtracks that 
 play when an enemy suspects you, or when you engage enemies.
  
  The multi-player portion is a new portion that pits 2 teams against each other. It is player using 
 Ubisoft's servers. The 2 teams are: Shadownet and Argus. Corp. Shadownet are basically spies likes 
 Sam Fisher but have different moves compared to him, while Argus. Corp are the big bullies armed 
 with guns. The main difference between these 2 teams is that: Shadownet plays it in third person, 
 while the Argus. Corp play it in first person.
  
  The multi-player relates to the single player portion. The Spies (Shadownet) have diffuse some 
 special bombs while Argus. Corp (Mercenaries) try to defend them. Each team have their own gadgets 
 like the spies having all non-lethal items, while the mercenaries have lethal items. One of the 
 item enables players to hear the other teams Comm which is important as it is an team oriented 
 game. Being team oriented you can talk to player via a mic or an online chat.
  
  Overall if you enjoyed the first Splinter Cell you will enjoy this one, and if you are new to the 
 series, this is a great starter for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty much like its predecessor. The good thing is that this time you get even better 
 graphics, a few new moves, and smarter enemies which make this game so much fun to play. You still 
 play as Sam Fisher who looks better now as the character detail has improved compared to the previous 
 version. Though the game is monotonous (stealth, darkness, knocking out enemies) but still there 
 something about the game which makes one keep on playing and the more you play, more you enjoy. 
 The environments and maps are really cool and if you have played Splinter Cell, youll instantly 
 notice the jump in visual quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3nz0re
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 27, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm really just writing this to say congratulations to the developers for making such a great game. 
 I only just dug this out a few weeks ago from a motherboard I bought. We're going back a few years 
 now and still, its a great game - the graphics aint too bad even for now, and the gameplay is absolutely 
 fantastic.
  
  Every level shows off each spectacular feature of graphics engine in a different way. The game 
 is short, but so well polished. It's amazingly interactive, and the puzzle solving is challenging, 
 but not tedious (95% of the time) . I felt the AI was very pioneering, and the engine was very closely 
 tied with the gameplay (e. g. light sensing) which added a nice feel - e. g. hiding bodies in the 
 dark, and avoiding detection by staying in the shadows and moving slowly.
  
  Well done Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  It took me too long to finish Splinter Cell Pandora tomorrow,
  I was so overjoyed with this game that I just didn't want my pleasure to end!
  Actually, I am 
 glad that I played SC3 (Chaos Theory) before SC2 (Pandora Tomorrow) otherwise it would have been 
 a big disappointment because Pandora is a better game, a much better game than SC CT.
  Sam Fisher whisks smoothly from one dark corner to another one In 8 exciting multifaceted missions, 
 and the player follows him, always
  with enthusiasm, curious to see what will be waiting for him at the other end.
  There is always 
 something stirring going on, there is not a minute of boredom in this game. You can finish the 
 game completely non-lethal, without actually killing anyone at all. Of course you are not allowed 
 to kill anyway in certain levels, or be detected, otherwise the game will be over. All mission 
 take place in completely different enviroment, all nicely done, with a detailed background and 
 level designs. The atmosphere is so realistic, it give you the feeling of being there. The graphic 
 is really good and the light effect are impressive. I also like the faces, can't understand why 
 they turned them into some zombie-looking creatures in SC3! The story, although not really very 
 original, is acceptable, takes place in quite different locales, this change of the scene prevents 
 you of getting bored even for a few minute.
  Sam being the charming humorous macho he is, amuses us every now and then with a witty comment 
 spoken in excellent voice acting of Mike Ironside.
  Other characters are also good and believable, though Sadono with his Cigar and good looks, is 
 more of a Ch&eacute; than an Indonesian Rebel leader. I can't really think of a flaw in this game, 
 some levels are more exciting than the others, but there is rarely a boring minute anywhere.
  Pandora Tomorrow is not a hard game, but it is challenging enough to keep experienced gamer happy, 
 newcomers can also play the game without much difficulty.
  Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow is one of those game which reminds me how fulfilling a real action 
 adventure could be. It gives you all. I just wished they made more games like Pandora Tomorrow. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting almost half an year to get this game and in April i finally got it.
  
  The story has been greatly improved and it isn't undefined as it was in ther original game although 
 it's still not 'Great'. Here it goes:
  
  The year is 2006 and the U. S. has established a military presence in the newly independent nation 
 of East Timor to train that country's military forces in their fight against anti-separatist Indonesian 
 guerilla militias. Foremost among these Indonesian militias is the Darah Dan Doa (Blood and Prayer) , 
 led by Suhadi Sadono.
  
  Charismatic militia leader Sadono, once trained by the CIA to help fight Communist influences in 
 the region, has grown resentful of the U. S. support of East Timor and its interference with his 
 country's sovereignty. Sadono initiates a suicide bombing and follow up attack on the US Embassy 
 to Dili, capturing a number of US military and diplomatic personnel including Douglas Shetland, 
 an old friend and comrade of Splinter Cell Sam Fisher And from here... you better check for yourselves!!!
 
  
  This is a good time to say that this game isn't developed by the same Ubisoft Montrwal that developed 
 the first game but it developed by Ubisoft Shanghai which mean they had different opinion of where 
 the series should go.
  
  The game has multithreaded version of the same graphic engine used in the first game (but it looks 
 better - especially the cut-scenes) and pretty much same sound although in addition to Michael 
 Ironside dubbing Sam we'll have Dennis Haysbert (David Palmer from seasons 1-5 of '24') dubbing 
 Lambert instead of Don Jordan and the rest of the voices are same. Instead of Vernon Wilkes who 
 died in the last game we'll have a new
  field runner named Dermot Brunton and he's also the Operations Coordinator of 'SHADOWNET' organization 
 (The spys in MP mode) .
  
  You don't have new gadgets this time so you have the same ones you've played in the first game
 
  
  (Check here for the list: http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/splintercell/player_review. html? id=387663)
 
  
  You have 2 new moves: 'SWAT turn' letting you pass doors unnoticed and 'half split jump' same as 
 the normal split jump which you jump and then you can jump another time to higher place. The game 
 brings you to exciting places like Yerushalaym (Jerusalem - i loved the part of the 2 guys talking 
 hebrew which is my language and i live in Israel!!!) and a Train in France, LAX etc. All giving 
 you some of the most exciting moment as spy!!!
  
  The MultiPlayer 'Versus' Mode is ,first of all, revolutionary but also FUN AS HELL and what that 
 means? One of the best MP modes of all times!!!
  
  Here are the rules: The game pits heavily armed Argus mercenaries against stealthy Shadownet spies. 
 The spies are played from a third-person viewpoint and control similarly to the main game's singleplayer 
 mode, although they have their own unique moves and equipment. The mercenaries are played from 
 a first-person viewpoint, and control more similarly to traditional first-person shooter characters. 
 Although mercenaries have superior firepower, spies have the ability to hide in darkness and ambush 
 or sneak past mercenaries in a number of ways. The total number of players in each multiplayer 
 game is limited to 4.
  
  Pandora Tomorrow features 3 multiplayer gametypes:
  
  Neutralization  In Neutralization, spies attempt to deactivate the virus devices, or ND133's. 
 The mercenaries attempt to protect the devices by killing the spies. Extraction  The goal in extraction 
 for the spies, is to locate the ND133s, remove the tubes, then bring them to the extraction point. 
 The mercenaries are to protect the ND133s by killing the spies. Sabotage  In sabotage, the goal 
 is to place a modem on a wall near an ND133. When the timer on the modem stops the ND133 will be 
 neutralized. The mercenaries will attempt to stop the spies by killing them and removing the modems. 
 In the end SC: PT is an awesome game and is a MUST-HAVE for anyone even if you didn't play the first 
 game. Only the MP mode isa a good reason why to buy this game. So what are you waiting for? BUY 
 IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exigo89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, well the second installement of Splinter Cell is awesome. It reveals our childish desire 
 to be secret agents and spies. The gameplay is very good and the story is amazing. They could have 
 done a better work with graphics but it is still a good game. The sound effects are outrageous 
 and the game has different difficulty settings which make the game more interesting. The gadgets 
 make you crazy, all those cool gadgets that we even didn't dream of. They are just amazing. This 
 game has emotions involved and that is the key ingridient to making a good game. I played even 
 the Splinter Cell Chaos Theory but this one is way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello465
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Better than the first but not as good as the 3rd and a great play and an awsome stealth game and 
 it was ther first of its kind and Ubisoft have the credit for that the way the game is portrayed 
 is amaziung and the character has a bad ass attitude and sam fisher still lives on throught games 
 and keep sgetting cooler and cooler I can hardly wait until the new one after double agent and 
 double agent was awsome but this one is still good and worth buying and playing even if you dont 
 have it now.
  
  The whole concept and warfare in the game and the conversations are funny and reaistic the voice 
 acting is superb and very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platearmor_6
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Good Points: Great level design, Multiplayer is a great change from the norm, Amazing 1st time 
 experience.
  
  Bad Points: It loses a little charm after you've played it once, Some unforseen things make the 
 game a bit of trial and error, Not enough people on multiplayer.
  
  In Splinter Cell: Pandora Tommorow you play Sam Fisher and this time around your mission is to 
 wage a one man war against an Indonesian terrorist network, or atleats thats what it says on the 
 box. Michael Ironside does the voice of Sam Fisher and if you don't know who that is he's the commander 
 with only one arm from Starship Troopers. Now this guy has a very seasoned veteran touch to his 
 voice and it really reflects in his character and your assets sometimes make comments about your 
 characters age. I found he was also one of those characters you would really love to be. He's a 
 bit of a bad a**e while still trying to hold up high morals about protecting the inocent and stopping 
 those bad guya at all costs.
  
  I'll start off by saying that I've played the game twice and the second time around it loses its 
 charm so you should really play this game in an uninterupted enviroment, so you can make the most 
 out of this game the first time around. I'll also say this game is for the Splinter Cell or stealth 
 game fans out there, I wouldn't recommend this to a big FPS fan with no idea of how stealth games 
 play out.
  
  But all that aside I found this ever so slightly easier than the first one but not enough to actually 
 make it easy. It stays happily in the realms of the difficulty falling down to your planing.
  
  I found the level designs in this great fun to work your way through and there all based in 
 some very original settings. For example (spoiler here) one of the levels within the games first 
 half is based in Jerusalem where a cerfue (please excuse my spelling) and with this they mix a 
 nice amount of street level sneaking around various policemen and others breaking the cerfue, and 
 later a mix of street and rooftop. In areas it even gives you the choice of street level or rooftop 
 which is a welcome choice from Splinter Cell's usual heavy scripting and linear level. Saying that 
 I've found this is one of the few games with such heavy scripting that is highly enjoyable. Of 
 course this is only for the first time around and after that you might have to spend months on 
 a few other games before you can come back to this. I've put 0-30 minutes for the learning curve 
 because it will take about the first 30 minutes to learn the basics but you might still be learning 
 the more advanced things even when your homing in towards the end of the game. Fans of the first 
 game should pick alot of the controls up straight away since there are only a couple of new moves. 
 Also fans of the first Splinter Cell should pick up on the fact that this game isn't alot diffrent 
 from the first its just giveing us more of what we loved with some new graphics and a few new moves, 
 and whats wrong with that.
  
  Lastly the controls, when I first installed some of the controls seemed a little diffrent to what 
 I'm used to but they can all be changed in the options. I did change a few of them but the one 
 I thought I would keep was the use of the mouse wheel to adjust the speed of Sam Fisher. I've now 
 also implicated this idea into some of my other games for stance as well as movement speed.
  
  Over all I found it to be a superb game and well worth the buy.
  If your still not sure you 
 could try downloading the demo which is on this site in the downloads section. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  if you realy want to be a goverment spy then buy this game so you can sneak up on people and kill 
 them from the backside or lure them in the shadows and knock them out or kill them. the themoral 
 vision in this game is the best i ever seen, the night vision needs to be worked on thow but overall 
 pretty good. the weapons r easy to control and there ar many command fuctions. the plot line is 
 very interedting example its about sams fisher friend some south american terrorists and some gorillas 
 and total anillation pretty much sounds it up. and like everother splinter cell game he save the 
 day. i recommend this game for the people that stay in the shadows or people that have twisted 
 minds written by van isle man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  Ubi Soft never seems to disappoint gamers with the splinter cell series. Splinter Cell Pandora 
 Tomorrow is the latest addition and is such a wonderful game. Besides the story line the game has 
 so much great qualities.
  
  Graphics, sound, gameplay, controls, they all seem to be so well tuned and excellently done. As 
 usual you play as Sam Fisher and have to stop some terrorist or something like that. But who really 
 cares about the story line when you have so much cool gadgets. Am I right?
  
  Gameplay
  
  This game features so much more additions compared to the previous splinter cell. They seem 
 to have done some major turning up in the controls and now Sam Fisher seems easier to move around 
 and easier to perform actions. 
  
  They just never cease to amaze me with the gadgets in this game. All the weapons would look familiar 
 however, if you have played the previous game. Even so, with mostly all the same equipment in your 
 arsenal it still never gets old or boring.
  
  A great thing they did was made it much longer than the previous installment. The last Splinter 
 Cell was so dead short I got really mad that it was over so soon. But this game is exactly the 
 length it should be, not to long and not to short. 
  
  Enemy AI is also really dangerous even worst than the last previous one so you cant just run through 
 levels. You actually have to think in this action game and you actually have to watch your enemy 
 movements. This gives the game variety and because of that it never gets repetitive at all.
  
  One problem however was that developers didn't fix the problem with the collision physics. 
 Enemies would still be going through walls. This is very upsetting to see a game so advanced in 
 visuals and they couldn't have fixed this problem. But they did however improve the irritating 
 shaking movements of the floor. 
  
  Visuals
  
  This game is stunning. In one of the levels I was simply blown away at how the fire looked. I had 
 to stop moving Sam and just stop and watch. It was amazing! 
  
  Besides the fact that the lighting is always so well done they gave Sam more detail on his face 
 and his clothing. So he looks more like how old he really is. Also the cut scenes are great, they 
 look so well done. This game surely takes the cake for visuals.
  
  Sound
  
  Tight sound effects make this game more worth your wild. Killing bad guys never sounded this great 
 and real. Different surfaces sound different just as the previous Splinter Cell; this really gives 
 you the feel of being in Fisher's shoes.
  
  Overall
  
  What a wonderful addition to the Splinter Cell series. If you loved the old one or if you love 
 stealth action games and don't know which one to buy, make sure to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The campaign of Pandora Tomorrow is a lot similar to that of the first Splinter Cell game. Although 
 you don't get to be in indoors missions. It's more like outdoors missions this time. The graphics 
 have been improved a lot more than the original game. You can see darker shadows and a lot of light 
 if there's a light source. As i said the gameplay is pretty much the same. You get all the gadgets 
 that you got in the first game, and some new ones. The levels are quiet long, but others are extremely 
 short that you might not even realize it was a level (The Train) . The AI of the game was also improved. 
 This improvements are somewhat bad for the player, though. If an enemy spots you he's going to 
 call for help immediately over his radio. Which will triggered one of three alarms. If you triggered 
 3 alarms, it means Mission Failure. If you kill someone you shouldn't have to, Mission Failure. 
 It's kind of frustrating sometimes when you're in the middle of a mission, and a guy walks by a 
 sees you. He's going to triggered an alarm. This game should be played by Splinter Cell fans, not 
 for newbies. if you want to be quick in the campaign you have to finish the first game, so you'll 
 know what you're doing. This game is not a game for newbies, the multiplayer is, the single-player 
 isn't.
  
  Overall the game looks quiet amazing. The only downside it has is the gameplay itself of the campaign. 
 It's pretty much the same, but still it can be fun if you like espionage games, or you if you already 
 finish the first game. The great part about this game is that it brought with it a revolutionary 
 multiplayer that's really fun playing. Both sides of the conflict are pretty good separated. The 
 spies, played in a third-person perspective, are the ones that are there to steal information. 
 While the ARGUS mercenaries, played in a first-person shooter perspective, have to stop them at 
 all cost. It's a very fun cat-and mouse, hide and seek game. That's the best part of it, right? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  This game is clearly one of the best games of 2004. It's just briliantly made (just like it's predecesor) .
 
  Pandora tomorrow is better than it's predecesor because the level design is just incredible and 
 the locations are gorgeus. In rest it's about the same, tou do classical SC stuff like hide in the 
 shadows, grab you enemies from behind, use all the coolest gatgets the goverment has to offer, 
 interogate and of cource save the world all that without getting detected the whole time.
  All fun stuff that I enjoyed. If you liked the first SC plaiyng PT is a must.
  The graphichs 
 in this game are just great and the sound extraodinar.
  From any point this game is just brilliant and if you like spyes, stealth and cool gadgets you 
 must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGoofy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The best new thing about SCPT I thougt were the very much better graphics, I just had the problem 
 that my pc couldn't handle it so had to play it low resolution, while I have a new pc and a really 
 good one, only really good computers are able to play the game top resolution and fluently.
  
  There is offcourse a new story and some new feats like whistling to distract guards.
  A bad 
 thing I thought of the game was that there are a lot of missions in the woods and grass wide lands, 
 those are things I personally don't really like in SCPT, my preference is invading a building and 
 crawling trought pipes and lurking in unrealistic shadows.
  The story however is really cool, you gotta research a guerrilla leader and stop is actions of 
 rebellion, the first time you get the chance to kill him you don't take it because you first need 
 to know more, trough the missions you achieve this objective, and then at last you may kill the 
 cool looking evil dude with his baret (H) .
  There are some missions that lead you to Jerusalem when you need to follow a helper to missions 
 in the middle of nowhere where you need to disable the flight of the rebel leader. You need to 
 track his conversations an bug his phones.
  
  There are some new feats like the whistling option but there is also a new laser option on your 
 silenced 9 mm, I didn't really used it because it's harder to aim, but it's more realistic.
  Also a new cool feat is the sitting between walls and then jumping on the a higher one, and offcourse 
 a really new cool something is the online gameplay, but I can't tell you anything about that because 
 I wasn't able to play it.
  
  A thing I think is really bad about the game is that they gave Lambert a new voice, maybe the old 
 Lambert is dead or something but the new one is not cool.
  
  All together the game is quite cool but much like the previous one, the real changes of the serie 
 of Splinter Cell come in Splinter Cell Chaos Theory, read my review about that game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wej_accept_it
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  When first released Splinter Cell caused quite a stir since it was a new type of stealth action 
 game. With a heavy focus on tense, realistic situations where stealth was the only option the game 
 quickly became a best-seller.
  Now the sequal has arrived and its surprisingly even better in everyway with lots of cool new features.
 
  
  The single-player aspect of the game agains focuses on grumpy stealth operative Sam Fisher. This 
 time he goes up against a terrorist who has hidden several caches of a virus in the US. Everyday 
 he makes a phone call to each location, preventing the release of the virus one more day. The phone 
 calls are routed through several locations making them near impossible to trace. Nera impossible, 
 that is where Sam Fisher comes in, he must infiltrate a series of locations across the world and 
 gradually stop the terorist leader. Like in the first game the story is presented through cut-scenes 
 and has some twists but don't expect a massive conspiracy spy thriller. Tom Clancy simply influenced 
 this game, he didn't actually write it.
  Al up though the single-player should provide several hours of excellent stealth game play with 
 some well designed levels and scenarios.
  
  The mulitplayer is new to the series and quite possibly one of the smartest gaming innovations 
 of recent years. It pits two teams of two against each other. One is a team of spies with normal 
 Splinter Cell abilities. The others play a FPS shooter style similar to Counter Strike's terrorists. 
 Anyone who felt that the single-player game was not realsitic enough with love this new addition 
 as it pits a persons stealth skills against a real human opponent.
  
  The graphics and sound are both excellent.
  Lighting and shadows and sharper then in the original 
 and environments are more detailed. Overall the game's visuals are actually quite similar to the 
 original's but since the original had great graphics this is hardly a concern.
  Sound again plays an important as the music will change mid level depending on the situation. Its 
 a good feature that makes the game exciting in tougher situations.
  
  Overall this is a great game, it takes the good points of its predeseccor and builds on them while 
 adding a fantastic mulitplayer mode.
  Fans of stealth sims or anyone looking for a new and exciting game should look into this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  i realy liked that game even that i didn't played the first splinter cell
  and this game is just amazing!!! all the style of sneaking up to place
  and do all the stuff when 
 no one can hear you its very fun and giving high adrenalin!! its diffrent like the other games 
 like GTA that you shoot some one and then every one shooting you!! you are taking you time here
 
  so this game is very good and if you didn't play this game PLAY IT
  it worth every thing plat it and enjoy it even if its a little bit hard . . .
  thats what makes 
 the game more fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Splinter-Cell: PT:-
  
  By,
  $corpio_g@mer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  The game is starred by the famous Sam Fisher, from the previous parts of Splinter-Cell. A terrorists 
 group is trying to attack the world with a biological weapon and you gotta stop it, no matter wat 
 you gotta do!! So you go through some amazing levels sneaking through security cameras and security 
 guards..... read on!! 
  
  Game-play:-
  In this Game, You'll have to sneak your way to streets kiliing your enemies silently and hiding 
 there dead bodies and making no sound to avoid to stay undetected and you have to maintain distance 
 from the local people. Theres a meter which tell you how well you are camouflaged. You'll have 
 to shoot down lights to keep your self in the dark so that you are safe, however in few missions 
 your are allowed to use guns, the sniper (SC20K, though not exactly a sniper, its kinda multi purpose) 
 is pretty good, when you zoom in, your hand shakes coz you take breath .... so you'll have to hold 
 your breath to take a perfect shot ...! Then you got so many kewl weapons and gadgets.
  
  Graphics:-
  Amazing visuals especially the PC version is a lot better!! The water & the light 
 visuals are awesome! i loved this game but there are no CUT-SCENES, this makes the game a bit disappointing!! 
 anyways this game is to be enjoyed with the amazing graphics !!! 
  
  Sound:-
  The sound is no let down! its as good as the graphics department is.! Its pretty cool!! 
  
 
  Conclusion:-
  The missions are really nice especially the Train level, its pretty good! a lovely stealth game 
 i ever played! STEALTH fans will love it !!
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Gameplay-8/10
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popescu_lucian1
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell games are the best i have ever played !!! I currently play Pandora Tomorrow and i 
 just look forward for Chaos Theory and Double Agent !!! I also hope they will not end the game 
 serie and i strongly reccomand to all sthealt-game fans to buy the original game as a respect for 
 the producers and theor work !!! I like to play splintercell because it makes me think like no 
 other game does and it developes, especially on multyplayer mode, my team spirit!! Words are not 
 enough to express what i feel when i play this game! Congratulations to Ubisoft for producing it 
 and i hope Double agent will not be the final game in the serie!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CounterShock
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, 8/10: The game play is the best part if the game. I'm not used to stealth games. So, 
 if your not used to them eather, you'll be getting allot of "Mission Failed". The game is not easy, 
 and it can take, at times, 20min to get by a sertain part. There are 8 mission in the game, and 
 eatch one can take up to 1 to 2 hours to complete.
  
  Graphics, 7/10: The graphics aren't the best . But its not horrible. 
  
  Sound, 9/10: Almost 
 flawless sound. The gunshots are sound pretty real, and the voice acting is almost perfect.
  
  Overall: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow is what ideal gamers wanted and still do today. The gameplay was 
 fun and the storyline and stealthy missions just kept getting better and better. the graphics were 
 also going to be better than the original Splinter Cell as well. Sound is used for many reasons 
 like when u shoot something u must hear the guards alerting speeches. the value is cheap now but 
 was worth a $50 price tag then and now at its cheap price tag what are u waiting for? its great 
 and its getting better and better. and i must give it the 10 like WoW got. and now i must find 
 more words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aj_102
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Splinter cell started off with the first game which i belive released out on ps2 first !! i played 
 alot of that game on rental and very much enjoyed it !! very good game !! then came the better 
 !! i got hooked !! addicted !! i belive that this could rival with mgs 2 sons of liberty any day 
 !! i belive that even splinter cell 1 could compete with mgs !! but lets not compete !! i have 
 to say once i played on this game i was absoltly amazed !! having to admit i want all happy about 
 sc 1 !! but once i played the first level i was charmed !! it was such a good game !! i played 
 it for 3 hours straight the first time round !! after that i completed a mission hen relaxed and 
 explored in the game !! the gameplay s simple and enjoyable !! very relaxing and easy to masteron 
 the chiulds play level !! the graphics are very good for this standard game !! okay they are two 
 glitches i could note !! but they wernt anything major !! nice and eye easing graphics !! the only 
 one thing that got on my nerves abit was the annoying sounds that it would make when a serious 
 incedent was about to happen !! it would ruin the fun !! but the game just over rules the sound 
 disabilty to complain !! the story line is good too !! the levels according to the tory line are 
 good and the link off too other levels isnt as good as said but still impressive !! i clocked this 
 game very quikly but i replayed it on all modes to vary and the diffrences change but the game 
 stays absoltly immence !! i would reccomend this game to stealth lovers and bit of G. R. A. W !! but 
 i would not tell mgs fans to go out and purchase this product !! mgs is totally diffrent stealth 
 so i hate comparing the two famous acts of sam fisher and snake together !! snake would win in 
 jungle and figher would win every where else !! but yeh !! back to the point !! very good game 
 !! very good story line !! its all gooooood !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  According to me Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow is the best stealth action game ever made! It's 
 story, gameplay, graphics, music, sound; everything is perfect! 
  
  Splinter Cell PT is a stealth game in which you are Sam Fisher, a secret agent sent to find out 
 what the terrorists are upto and finish them off, but, silently, 'cause you're a spy! There are 
 two people (I can't remember their names) who guide you through your missions. They report to you 
 if you've been seen or heard, and, yes there are missions in which you have to remain hidden from 
 everyone and carry out your complete mission in silence. A bit hard.
  
  SCPT's graphics are as good as they come. Rather, I'd say that they're very good, no, excellent, 
 no, great, no, BEST! SCPT's graphics are simply the best looking graphics among all games. Every 
 character has a original movement style AND completely natural, not like some stiff statue! The 
 lip syncing in the game is obviously perfect. All the models of the weapons and surroundings are 
 too obviously perfect.
  
  Now coming to the game's sound the game again excels! The voice-acting that has been done in the 
 game is very original and is fantastic. The sounds of hostile terrorists or the panicked voices 
 over the radio actually sends a spine of chill in your body. The game's sound of weapons and other 
 instruments are also excellent. But what I liked the most in sound was the music. The game plays 
 a fantastic music track at the menu, in-gameplay, etc Exactly like Prince Of Persia Warrior Within 
 (check out my review of this game) , also made by Ubisoft, when the foes fight with you the game 
 plays a rocking music track. It keeps our morale up!
  
  If these reasons are'nt satisfying you to buy this game then I don't know what to say. Thank you 
 for reading my review and I hope you approve of it. 
  
  Firozecool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The single player mode must be the worst from all three series of Splinter Cell legacy. There isn't 
 much change in the gameplay which is pretty dissapointing for a sequel. The graphic I can say is 
 the worst from all, especially when you are in the night vision mode. You can see some of the pixel 
 blocks and it is not pretty. The voice acting of some people like Lambert is horrible and it doesn't 
 have any depth and sounded flat somehow. The good news is that Sam Fisher's voice is still played 
 by Michael Ironside. 
  
  Multiplayer Mode in other hand is pretty satisfying even though the Chaos theory cooperative mode 
 in my opinion is so much more satisfying. The concept of the shadow net and the argus mercenaries 
 is pretty cool and the gameplay is really fun. 
  
  I would say that if you want to buy this game, play the multiplayer mode. The single player is 
 pretty dissapointing and left a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onikage123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game blew me away. One of the best stealth em ups ive ever had the fortune to get my hands 
 around i strongly reccomend it to anyone who likes mgs etc. Absolutely incredible.
  The gameplay is incredible with u on ur toes constantly! You have to be extremely cautious as a 
 spy probably should be desposing of the bodies distracting the guards having perfect timing etc. 
 But it feels so good and cool as u do it it takes away any frustration that u may have! Plus one 
 of the best game levels ive ever played comes in the form of the train level.
  Trust me if u play this level u will be blown away! i wont spoil anything for u.
  Also the script 
 and characters are good being it based on a Tom clancy book.
  The graphics are not spectacular but they are pretty damn good with exellent changes between the 
 levels. But the thing that got me most was the weather effects! i'll probably be killed for saying 
 this but they are as good if not better than Metal gear solid. *gulp*
  The sound is good with not much music or anything but the voice acting and FX are fine.
  Overall 
 this is a near- masterpiece of a game with exllent stages and awesome graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  this is a great stealth game espeically for the first splinter cell fans
  this was the first splinter cell game i got and i think it is the best in the series. there are 
 good controls great graphics and good sound
  it is fun sniping enemies even though most of this isn't first person shooting its more like knocking 
 people out and crawling around in vents
  this is one of the most sneaky games and you have to be careful not to get caught by people cameras 
 special computers and motion detectors.
  and it also has great online multiplayer.
  so if you like stealth and gadgets and stuff this is a great game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Pandora Tomorrow is the second chapter of the best stealth / action series  Splinter Cell. Even 
 though this game isnt the best from the three, there are some cool things about it.
  
  Your name is Sam Fisher. Youre a Splinter Cell  a super spy. If youre looking for a game with 
 tons of bullets, blood and brains on the ground, you wont like this game. Its a stealth game 
  your main objective is to be unnoticed. Its pretty hard sometimes, especially when youre getting 
 out of ammo, and there are many guards around.
  
  There are eight levels in the game. I liked the jungle levels the most. They showed off the graphics 
 pretty good. However, the missions in this game are linear, and you have to use one route in most 
 missions. Levels arent so linear in Chaos Theory, the third Splinter Cell game, though.
  
  There are two weapons in Pandora Tomorrow  a pistol and a rifle  SC20K. You also get some cool 
 gadgets, like the Sticky Shocker  knocks out people by electro-shocking them ; when fired into 
 a puddle, it can knock out multiple guards!  the Ring Airfoils  they knock out people, too. If 
 the ring hits the enemys head, hes knocked out instantly, but if it hits the body, the NPC is 
 stunned for a couple of seconds ; you have time to grab him from behind then  and the Sticky Camera 
  useful for, i. e., checking whats in the other room without going in ; it can also release gas, 
 and knock enemies out unconscious. You can also snipe with the SC20K, which is useful for taking 
 out enemies or shooting out lights from from far away.
  
  All the gadgets described above are fired from the SC20K rifle. You equip the rifle, then select 
 the gadget. Clicking the primary fire button fires a bullet from the rifle ; clicking the secondary 
 fire button fires a non-lethal gadget. Thats not all. You also get fragmentation grenades, proximity 
 mines, flash bangs, and more!
  
  Goggles are the "trademark" of Sam - they have two visions - night and thermal vision. Night vision 
 helps you see in dark places / creates a green glow ; thermal vision shows the heat of objects 
 (very useful for detecting mines) .
  
  Sam can perform many moves in this game. They are very useful  mainly because its harder to get 
 spotted. Putting your back to a wall lowers your visibility, and lets you get past some very narrow 
 passages. When you reach the corner, youre in the peek mode. From this stage, you can perform 
 the SWAT move. Its new to the series (too bad this is the only Splinter Cell game that has this 
 move) . Lets say youve reached the corner of the wall, and youre near a doorway. Theres a civilian 
 inside the building. This is where the SWAT moves handy. Sam quickly gets to the other side of 
 the doorway, without being spotted!
  
  The Split Jump is back. Also, theres a new move called the Half Split Jump. Its similar to the 
 Split Jump, but you can perform it in places that are even more narrow. While youre in the Half 
 Split Jump mode, and theres a ledge above, you can push yourself up and grab it.
  
  There are many ways to eliminate / knock out an enemy  you can get from behind and grab him ; 
 then press the left mouse button and Sam will knock him out. Also, when behind, press the LMB and 
 Sam will kick him with his fist in the back. If you kick him from the front, the enemy gets stunned 
  then its easy to grab him from behind. If there are mines nearby, you can use them to eliminate 
 the enemy. Jumping on enemies works too  you can jump from a higher ledge, or while in the Split 
 Jump mode. If theres an enemy near a turret, get near the PC thats controlling it, and switch 
 IFF off. Now, the turret will shoot at everyone, not just you.
  
  There are many other passive defenses in the game, not only turrets. There are cameras  they see 
 you when youre in the light  if you shoot out the lights around, you can easily pass the camera 
 undetected ; however, some cameras cant be shot, so you have to use a Camera Jammer to get through. 
 Also, there are motion sensors. They appear as red circles in the game. When you see one on a wall, 
 slow down. If you get past at fast speed, you trigger an alarm.
  
  Enough about the singleplayer. Lets talk about the multiplayer. Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow 
 is the first game in the series with multiplayer. Its called SvM, or Spies Versus Mercenaries. 
 There are two teams  Shadownet Spies, and Argus Mercenaries. Each team has two players. The main 
 spy goal is to neutralize all objectives without being detected. The mercenaries must protect the 
 objectives, and hunt down the intruders.
  
  There are three multiplayer modes  Neutralization, Extraction, and Sabotage. In neutralization, 
 the spies have to neutralize a number of ND133's to stop a virus from spreading. In extraction, 
 they have to bring a couple of ND133 tubes to the extraction point. And in Sabotage, they have 
 to place modems near objectives and wait until the countdown reaches zero.
  
  The spies have many gadgets - Sticky Cameras (they work the same like in the singleplayer - make 
 mercs sleep for a couple of seconds) ; Spy Bullets (when fired, all the mercs nearby are shown 
 as orange dots on the radar) ; Alarm Snares (used to fool the mercs' sound detector ; when fired 
 at lasers or cameras, they give an "Intruder Detected" message to the mercs) , and many types of 
 grenades - Flash Grenades blind the mercs for a short period of time (useless if they're using 
 visions, though) , Smoke Grenades (if the merc stands in the cloud of smoke for too long, he gets 
 knocked out and sleeps for some time) , Chaff Grenades (takes out passive defenses when fired nearby 
 ; if fired at merc, he can't snipe, reload his weapon or use any special visions) .
  
  None of the gadgets the spies have are lethal. However, the spies can kill the mercs by breaking 
 their necks, shooting mines nearby, or jumping on them while they have less than 1/2 health.
  
  The mercs have many gadgets, too. They're equipped with a rifle, which can fire fragmentation 
 grenades and flares. They also have two types of mines (proxy and laser) . Proxy mines blow up when 
 spies are moving nearby at fast speed. Laser mines look similar to proxy mines, but they have an 
 invisible laser, which can be seen by spies in thermal vision) . They can move around as fast as 
 they want, because the mine explodes when they hit the laser. That's not it... Mercs have Spy Traps 
 - they are used to detect spies. If a spy cuts the laser, he pops up as an orange dot in the mercs' 
 radar) .
  
  Both teams have special visions. Spies use the same visions like Sam in the singleplayer campaign 
 - night and thermal. Night vision creates a green glow and lets you see better in the dark. Thermal 
 vision shows warm objects in red - mercs, mines, spy traps, cameras, etc.
  
  The mercs have motion tracking (MT) and electromagnetic field (EMF) visions. MT detects spies (and 
 mercs) that are moving fast, and creates a reticle around them. The EMF vision detects spies that 
 are using special visions, are equipped with the SS gun, or are watching a camera.
  
  Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow... it's fun... for some time, but later it gets boring. Well, at 
 least the singleplayer part. The multiplayer is always fun, because you play against real players. 
 I don't really recommend this game to anyone, unless you're a hardcore Splinter Cell fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Pandora Tomorrow is not as good as the original. The graphics and sound are the same and after 
 playing the original, the gameplay is easier. Now I enjoyed playing Pandora Tomorrow, but the jungle 
 theme was what made it different. Half the game is in the jungle and I don't really know why but 
 the jungle missions seemed to me not very good. The train mission and the last mission are what 
 had grabbed my attention the most because they were very fun. If you played the original Splinter 
 Cell then I recommend you at least rent Pandora Tomorrow if you want more Splinter Cell action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdgreen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  eory and also this game is off the hook! ok so this is 100 words yadda yadda yadda... so this game 
 is awsome and u can do what u do in chaos theory its just de-graded so its under than chaos theory 
 just has cool graphics and i bet it took them alots of time to make those mines and stuff so dont 
 piss the people  not even the guards in this game or they will kill 
 u!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ok so lets git down to buisness this game is hard hitting and dont 
 die unless u saved and if u didnt save then tough luck retards so play this or chaos theory today 
 and 
  
  
  -IN STORES NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quirinus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  After becoming an immediate fan on of the first Splinter Cell, I was eagerly waiting for Pandora 
 Tomorrow. But let me put this straight. I was disappointed. I loved the original for it's thrilling 
 and tense storyline, but that tension has gone.
  
  The game is now too Hollywood with a weak storyline and too many big guns and explosions. Don't 
 get me wrong, their are some worthwhile new moves and gadgets that will hopefully be included in 
 future SC's, but the game lacks something that I can't put my finger on.
  
  The graphics and sounds still remain good and the AI and use of environment is still as good as 
 ever. But don't bother being excited and hyped up as much as I was, buy the original before you 
 buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbye77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Pandora Tomorrow. People who've heard the phrase the first time might wonder what the heck do those 
 two words mean? Or maybe it'll just ring a bell and you'll come up with something like Pandora's 
 box. Pandora, pandora, pandora ahhhhhh whooo caresss!! All i care is that this game is one the 
 best tps games ever produced, directed, created, made, thought of, programmed, visioned, whatever!!!!!!! 
 
  Its got good_smooth graphics and amazing in-game sound effects and tracks. Gameplay at first might 
 be a little tricky and challenging but i'm sure after an hour anyone would be used to it. If you're 
 a third-person shooter lova, suspense-thriller fan, and a espionage/conspiracy freak, then there's 
 no question that this game you definitely got to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dankypoo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Well sam's back with a new mission and a few addition to the game.. now he's persiung a terorist 
 name Sadono.. better yet his mission is in Indonesia..
  Graphicaly this game have a little improvement but the first series are good so this one are a 
 lots better...
  Gamplay still the same old stealt and killing mission.. with a lot more gadget and great level of 
 gameplay.. there's more that 1 way to kill enemies and still it have a great story..
  but its not a game that you can play it all over again.. once you through this game.. it will just 
 stay for a verryy long time in your CD case... might as well rent it if you play in PS2 or XBOX.. but 
 still a great game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game had many improvements from the last game and focuses more on Sam Fisher and not on a 
 big story. Though like the original it still has its doubts like how short it is. If you call this 
 an expansion pack then thats fine but a full squeal, well lets say it only has eight levels. 
 But if you think about how difficult it is you wont really notice but it only took me one night 
 (and Im not counting a full day) to beat it. The other thing that are bad about it are it came 
 out too soon, it hasnt even been a year. And they didnt to well on the ending, you beat the bad 
 guy a little cut scene and then thats it, how abysmal.
  
  The just about everything else about the game is good and I mean the stealth, action and the sound. 
 They didnt *really* make a difference in the graphics it looks about the same as the first one. 
 The best thing about it was the new verses mode it was awesome! Hours and hours I spent with this 
 its really cool and its spies vs. mercenaries and may favorite side well you know MERCINARIES! 
 And that is just about it.
  
  My recommendation is you should rent it first then you decide its still a solid title
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Well after the the big "Splinter cell:1" at last 2 comes with much better graphic much better story 
 and much more tricks 
  
  STORY:
  well lets start with the story I wont spoil it so kepp on reading its nice story well a good one 
 really it starts with SAM trying to know a secret sow he goes in levels to know the secret and 
 when he know what it is up to him to stop that secret moving from agenceys to woods to buildings 
 to a submarine to an air port and much more 
  CHARECTERS: 
  will you would fight enemys and they are in every location from the first level wich i easy to 
 the last level wich is a little bit hard the only thing i didnt like is that the last level is 
 much more easy then the ones in the middle you will see dogs tracking your trail and i mean it 
 you will sea police you will see army units Nice very nice
  Difficulty:
  well its a little bit hard i mean there are places that when they only set the alarm once you lose 
 and there are levels that when you get desscoverd three times and like the first "Splinter cell" 
 it you will lose some alert if you dont get disscoverd for a while and the cool part is 
  Fisrt Alert: the enemy get FLAT JACKETS
  Second alert" enemy gets a helmet
  Third one : Game 
 over
  but there is two levels that you can jest get that gun and start shooting 
  Enviroment" you can like the first "splinter cell" get in pipes and all that but this time they 
 give more thing to do with the envirument 
  
  Multiplayr: well i didnt like it allot its not what i like in a multiplayer game but you might 
 like it 
  
  well after all this i would say is you like splinter cell 1 you will like splinter cell 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow is a third-person stealth-based video game developed 
 and published by Ubisoft. Pandora Tomorrow is the second game in the Splinter Cell series by writer 
 Tom Clancy. The game follows the covert activities of Sam Fisher, an agent working for a black-ops 
 branch of the NSA called "Third Echelon". The character, Sam Fisher, is voiced by Michael Ironside. 
 Dennis Haysbert best known for his role as David Palmer on the television show 24 is the voice 
 for the character Irving Lambert, Fisher's boss. The game has been translated to several languages 
 for international distribution
  
  Gameplay
  Released less than a year after the debute of the original Splinter Cell, the gameplay of Pandora 
 Tomorrow is largely unchanged from the original game. Pandora Tomorrow features some moderate graphical 
 improvements, as well as minor gameplay changes such as the fact that collectable health kits are 
 no longer an inventory item, and the addition of a laser-sight to Sam's pistol that gives him perfect 
 accuracy even when moving around.
  
  Multiplayer
  The most significant gameplay change in Pandora Tomorrow is the addition of a multiplayer component 
 to the series in an attempt to take advantage of the features and popularity of Xbox Live. Both 
 the PlayStation 2 and PC versions of the game also come with multiplayer; however, the GameCube 
 version does not. The game pits heavily armed ARGUS mercenaries against stealthy SHADOWNET spies. 
 The spies are played from a third-person viewpoint and control similarly to the main game's singleplayer 
 mode, although they have their own unique moves and equipment. The mercenaries are played from 
 a first-person viewpoint, and control more similarly to traditional first-person shooter characters. 
 Although mercenaries have superior firepower, spies have the ability to hide in darkness and ambush 
 or sneak past mercenaries in a number of ways. The total number of players in each multiplayer 
 game is limited to 4.
  
  Pandora Tomorrow features 3 multiplayer gametypes:
  
  Neutralization  In Neutralization spies attempt to deactivate the virus devices, or ND133's. The 
 mercenaries attempt to protect the devices. 
  Extraction  The extraction gametypes goal is to locate the ND133K, remove the tubes, then bring 
 it to the extraction point. 
  Sabotage  In sabotage, the goal is to place a modem on a wall near an ND133K. When the timer on 
 the modem stops the ND133K will be neutralized
  
  Story
  Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.
  
  European cover for Tom Clancy's Splinter 
 Cell: Pandora TomorrowThe main flashpoint in Pandora Tomorrow is Indonesia, in the year 2006, where 
 the U. S. has established a military presence in the newly independent nation of East Timor to train 
 that country's military forces in their fight against anti-separatist Indonesian guerilla militias. 
 Foremost among these Indonesian militias is the Darah Dan Doa (Blood and Prayers) , led by Suhadi 
 Sadono.
  
  Charismatic militia leader Sadono, once trained by the CIA to help fight Communist influences in 
 the region, has grown resentful of the U. S. support of East Timor and its interference with his 
 country's sovereignty. Sadono initiates an attack on the US Embassy to Dili, capturing a number 
 of US military and diplomatic personnel including Douglas Shetland, an old friend and comrade of 
 Splinter Cell Sam Fisher.
  
  Fisher is sent to infilitrate the Embassy, rescue Shetland, and gather intelligence on the Darah 
 Dan Doa. Fisher succeeds in his mission, and the U. S. Embassy is retaken by Delta Force. Sadono 
 escapes, and the U. S. launches a military campaign on Indonesian soil in an attempt to hunt him 
 down, much to the protests of the Indonesian government.
  
  Fisher ultimately learns that Sadono has masterminded a scheme known as "Pandora Tomorrow", by 
 placing a series of biological bombs equipped with the smallpox virus on American soil. Every 24 
 hours, Sadono makes encrypted phone calls to each of the bomb carriers to delay the release of 
 the virus. If he is killed or detained, the virus is released and millions of Americans will die. 
 Because Sadono is fighting on the front lines in the conflict, the U. S. cannot risk killing him, 
 and is forced to withdraw its forces.
  
  Fisher is sent to infiltrate Darah Dan Doa strongholds in order to learn the location of the smallpox 
 bombs. He is assisted in this endeavor by Shetland and Shetland's PMC, Displace International. 
 Fisher ultimately learns the location of the bombs, and SHADOWNET spies are sent in to neutralize 
 them, bringing an end to Sadono's threat against the U. S.
  
  Third Echelon decides to capture Sadono alive instead of merely assassinating him, due to the problems 
 created when Fisher assassinated President Nikoladze.
  
  Although Fisher manages to capture Sadono, Third Echelon learns that CIA Agent Norman Soth has 
 acquired the last of the smallpox-armed ND133's, and intends to detonate it in Los Angeles' LAX 
 airport. Soth cares nothing for Indonesia, but intends to get revenge on America for betraying 
 him years earlier. Fisher infiltrates LAX, kills Soth, and prevents the detonation of the last 
 smallpox bomb.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaz_awakening
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. But i think it is a bit too over-rated coz it does not have all the elements 
 to make it fun. The only cool part is doing split-jumps, using cool gadgets and using the goggles. 
 But over-all you are playing in the dark and you have to be silent at all times. Hiding the bodies 
 can be tiring also and sometimes finding a way to eliminate enemy threat can result in total catastrophe. 
 I love the graphics and the music but playing in the dark and moving so slow makes me feel like 
 a snail in the dark. The effects of light int the game such as shadows and real places like the 
 LAX airport and Jerusalem are great. I LOVE playing with the gadget especially the Diversion Cameras, 
 Electric Shocker etc. Sometimes it gets frustrating coz you just everything is text book. I mean 
 there is always a definite pattern of doing things. I wish it was more like do it my way or the 
 high way just like MGS. Now, MGS that's a game i LOVE and would give it a 10 blindly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 
  
  The games graphics do look better then the first and are noticeable. Although some of the textures 
 are blend, they still look better then the original. They did a good job though making the game 
 better looking then the orignal, but it's nothing amazing. Just a solid job.
  
  Sound: 
  
  Sound in the game is pretty good, it has awareness for surround sound systems, the music in 
 the game is done well. My only complaint is the voice over's for all the characters except Sam 
 sound horrible. Most are just plain bad, and it's hard to take serious sometimes without laughing. 
 Other then that, it's pretty good.
  
  Value: 
  
  The SP will keep you busy, as on high diff lvls it's pretty tough and that in itself is worth the 
 purchase. There is a mulitiplayer componant to this game that is very new, and because of the rareness 
 of this multiplayer, the value of this game increases.
  
  Multiplayer: 
  
  What Ubisoft has done with the multiplayer is something that most people havent even tryed or thought 
 of yet. Stealth, in multiplayer. And they did a very good job of being one of the first if not 
 "the" first to implement a stealth gameplay with a 2 vs. 2 format. This alone is worth the purchase 
 as it's very very fun to run around hiding or run around hunting. Theres a variety of modes to 
 play, which should keep you busy.
  
  Overall: 
  
  SP is pretty good, MP is better. A very good sequel in general! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Set much like the original Splinter Cell, especially the gameplay. There are a few minor improvements, 
 such as the sniper scope using the binocular button now and the more varied arsenal of Fisher. 
 Other than this, SP: Pandora tomorrow is VERY similar to SP, so if you liked SP, then you'll love 
 SP: PT. It also helps if you like more realistically based shooters instead of the more arcade style 
 Counter strike for example. However, the multiplayer is something else; it's quite confusing, especially 
 to players new to first person shooting games, since being a mercenary is just like playing a FPS. 
 Being a spy is slightly more along the lines of stealth, but it's still too heavily based on fighting, 
 since it will become inevitable... Nonetheless, a very nice complement to the Splinter Cell series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow is what ideal gamers wanted and still do today. The gameplay was 
 fun and the storyline and stealthy missions just kept getting better and better. the graphics were 
 also going to be better than the original Splinter Cell as well. Sound is used for many reasons 
 like when u shoot something u must hear the guards alerting speeches. the value is cheap now but 
 was worth a $50 price tag then and now at its cheap price tag what are u waiting for? its great 
 and its getting better and better. and i must give it the 10 like WoW got. and now i must find 
 more words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is one of the best looking games there is with it's mind-blowing braphics, incredible 
 sound, smooth game-play and a very good story-line.
  
  But Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorow is a worthy sequel.
  Fans of this game know who Sam Fisher 
 is (an ultrasecret agent in league with the US government) . Fisher is typically armed with a silenced 
 pistol as well as his trusty SC20K multipurpose experimental assault rifle, which he can use for 
 some silent sniping when lethal force is permitted or which he can use to fire off a variety of 
 different gadgets. Those who played Splinter Cell will recognize all of these, which range from 
 diversionary cameras to smoke grenades to electrifying (but nonlethal) rounds. Fisher's other gadgets 
 include lock picks, an optical fiber wire used for seeing what's on the other side of a closed 
 door, and his combined night vision/thermal vision goggles. He's fully decked out to get the job 
 done by any means necessary.
  
  The core gameplay is basically the same. You'll sneak your way through the game's scenarios, avoiding 
 or incapacitating any unsuspecting guards who might otherwise threaten your mission of secrecy. 
 It's not difficult to alert passersby to your presence, either by moving too quickly (or otherwise 
 making too much noise) or by blundering into a well-lit area. Pandora Tomorrow has some nasty surprises 
 in store for us fans of Splinter Cell. Hidden antipersonnel mines (visible only when you toggle 
 your thermal vision) , infrared trip wires (likewise) , booby traps, motion detectors, security cameras, 
 and other such devices make the going quite difficult.
  
  Pandora Tomorrow also has a great multi-player mode that includes up to 4 players and a total of 
 8 maps but i haven't played that.............. yet so i cant say anything about it. 
  In the end Pandora Tomorrow gave me a worth wile experience and i will replay it several times 
 before moving to the next Splinter Cell.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebonham
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  I played this through on Normal mode, which seemed a bit easy. There seem to be very few occasions 
 where hiding bodies makes any difference. Most of the stealth action can be bypassed, simply by 
 good sniper skills with the rifle. Comparing this with thief: deadly shadows, I think Pandora Tomorrow 
 falls short. Not only is the game short, but it lacks the same suspense and depth found in the 
 last Thief game. The story is pretty simple, and there are no major plot twists. While the graphics 
 and sound are very good in this game, I am not impressed by the gameplay or story. There is some 
 replay value, however, as objectives can be completed in several different ways. This flexibility 
 can often degrade into completing missions with very little sneaking, and a lot of shooting. It 
 looks and sounds nice but lacks the substance of a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  Supremely hard, but the funniest parts include zapping people with sticky shockers. Not the most 
 creative due to the fact that it is almost completely the same as the old one plus a few minor 
 things. The most fun aspect has to be the swat flip meneuver (which comes in handy) . Overall great 
 gam. If you are a fan of the splinter cell series i would recommend it. As for AI, it is great. 
 Fun overall and is so far the best sc game i have ever played. Fun till the very end. It also has 
 great replay value so that you can try many ways to beat different missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem11363
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The game might have some really really likable things like the whole "stealth" and "sneaking atound 
 thing were u can very, very quietly sneak up on ur enemy's, and the "WAM!", cause I love being 
 stealthy in real life. And the graphics are very good, the sound... Im bad at rating games for sound. 
 But it was just had these parts were u make a plan, but just win in a desperate way, in other words 
 it has too many parts that are to challenging. Yet ,another one of the good things is the outfits 
 you were in it are just so... satisfying and nice to think about. But although the grapics, the 
 outfits, the parts were your able to sneak up, it just dosnt add up to it being a really REALLY 
 great game to me because the parts were ur outnumbered, outammoed, or outhealthed just ruin it 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  Have you ever dream that you are a real spy working on some super secret organisation and trying 
 to save the world? If yes then this game suggest you to taste the real action of everyday work 
 of the spy from Third echelon!
  This time Sam Fisher is saving the world from war organisation calling themselfs Tara dan Doa. 
 With their leader Suhadi Sadono they are trying to rise a war against USA. And ofcourse there is 
 only one person that can stop them - Sam Fisher. 
  Now about the gameplay. It stayed the same as in first game but several new moves and tricks also 
 avalieble! Besides you can now use you pistol but upgraded with the lazer aim so it becomes easier 
 to kill you enemies with one shot! 
  So the game is the respectable continue of the series! If you are the fan of Splinter Cell then 
 you will enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinaesthete
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The problems of Pandora Tomorrow (PT) are precisely the same problems endemic of the rest of the 
 Splinter Cell (SC) franchise. It is profoundly disappointing  as always  not to see the personage 
 of Sam Fisher, as central and interesting as he is, developed and characterized in more detail. 
 Aside from the occasional jab at those stupid French, or being coy while interrogating a guard, 
 Sam remains devoid of humanity, and even of inhumanity (at least that inhumanity which makes villains 
 so intoxicating) . He is simply a soulless action hero, and anyone familiar with the formidable 
 body of spy fiction must know that his need not be the case. It is almost as disappointing that 
 this second incarnation of Sam, for all his purported athleticism, has failed to add very much 
 at all to his repertoire of spy moves. Sure, we are introduced to the slightly fancier split kick 
 and the SWAT Turn (which seems all the more useless for its very impressive name) , but those who 
 played the original will feel quite at ease with this very loyal successor. In point of fact, it 
 is perhaps too loyal to its antecedent, because the developers of the game have saturated the gameplay 
 with more traps, puzzles, and brain-dead sentries but have utterly neglected to address the trial-and-error 
 style of gameplay, so that the experimentation continues but is made more (and more, and more) 
 painful by repetition. There is no flow in the gameplay; playing PT is precisely like listening 
 to an audio CD which skips; the player is compelled to quicksave and quickload constantly. The 
 only choice the player ever really makes is whether or not to preserve the life of the next hapless 
 sentry or civilian. And because there is no score assessed at the end of a concluded mission, there 
 is really no incentive to the player to preserve the lives of anyone; only the threat of a mission 
 failure stays the players hand. And that is really the most disappointing part of this sequel: 
 for all the possibilities inherent in the concept of an agile superspy in a realistic world, the 
 execution is so stiff that it loses its interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KroutZaGerman
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  I was dissapointed with this game. After playing for a few hours I got online to see what others 
 were saying about the game. I was shocked to see that so many users gave it a possitive rating. 
 I completly dissagree with the status quo on this one. 
  
  My biggest complaint is that the game is largely played for you. What I mean is that there is one 
 way to complete the missions. If you don't do it that way then you can't move on. These cookie 
 cutter missions really get old. They also get frustrating as you constantly have to reload after 
 failing to perform every small detail that the mission demands. No civilians can see you, no one 
 can hear you, alot of times you can't kill anyone. The result is in order to complete a mission 
 you have to reload the mission about 30 times before you complete it.
  
  I was also dissapointed in the gameplay. The buttons are overly complicated as are the gadgets. 
 The A. I. isn't anything to brag about either.
  
  I will say that I haven't played the multiplayer which other users are raving about. It could be 
 great.
  
  If you like stealth games keep rehashing the HITMAN games until Blood money comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  Pandora Tomorrow is unbelievably awesome. I can't describe in words how good this game is. It is 
 even better than the first one, and thats hard to believe, but its true. This game has excellent 
 graphics, great gameplay, awesome new gadgets, and great new characters just like the first game 
 had. Even though I never finished the game a second time around, the first time was awesome. It 
 was a thrill ride like no other. And this game will always be one of the most important games I 
 ever owned. If your computer is powerful enough, or you have a console like the XBOX, Then you 
 should get this game. You definitly won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netty500
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow is the sequal to Splinter Cell. Does it fair up to 
 the first game? Needless to say, it does. A very fun, but rather short Single Player mode. A new, 
 highly innovative and revolutionary multiplayer is good enough to make this series last a long 
 time.
  
  In the single player mode, you, once again, take control of Sam Fisher, a Splinter Cell operative 
 in the NSA newest initiative, "Third Echelon." In Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, a new virus 
 has been spread around code named "Small Pox" and it's up to Sam Fisher to eliminate this threat 
 and any others who stand in the way.
  
  In Pandora Tomorrow, Sam Fishers character is really flushed out, focusing more on Sam Fisher than 
 Third Echelon itself. Once again, Sam Fisher has a slew of new moves and gadgets just waiting to 
 be used. And what is great about this is with all of these gadgets, you can find out and scan different 
 ways to get around the enemy, wheather you take them out, or get past them.
  
  The single player is all fun and good, but what's new is the very addicting "Multiplayer" mode. 
 In multiplayer, you can either play as the Team Shadow Net. They play a lot like Sam Fisher in 
 the single player mode. Or you can play as the Argus Mercenaries. The mercs have a First-person 
 type of view whose job is to eliminate all spies in their track.
  
  What's great about this is that it's a lot like a game of hide-and-seek. The spies hide and complete 
 thier objectives fast, but silently. While the Argus seek out these spies and eliminate them as 
 fast as possible. With the Argus, you have a gun, which gives you a great advantage toe-to-toe, 
 so this forces the spies to stay in the shadows or run away. What isn't great is with a number 
 of glitches the spies can just as easily kill the Argus. With these glitches aside, the multiplayer 
 is still very fun.
  
  Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow is a very fun and immersive game, don't miss it. Be apart of the 
 revolution of Stealth/action gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slboss926
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:30 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is one of the best series of games available... period!! You can become so immersed 
 in this game you can totally lose yourself in the gameplay. Stealth action is awesome and the music 
 changes the feel of the game so much at different points of the game. Sam Fisher is the ultimate 
 weapon. The levels are challenging. You have to be careful with some of your ammo/devices, dont 
 want to use them up you may need them later. Fun to be innovative in the game, when required to 
 knock out a guard but dont have any more shock shots, I use the camera and just shoot the guard 
 in the head. Go pick up any of these games, they are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepithroth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the single player
  
  gameplay: well gameplay is the same thing, you got your cool moves and couple new ones such as an 
 swat turn where sam start like spinning from one wall to another. Also when you knock somebody out 
 Sam grab then and drops them quitly unlike the first one where you here the body falling on the 
 ground. You have some new stuff like binoclars. Also when hiding a body your invisiblity meter will 
 flash if you got a good spot. The controls could be a bit better such as if you jump on a pipe you 
 have to press jump again to raise your legs and crouch to drop witch could be a propblem if you 
 have played the first game (believe me) .
  
  graphics: one thing that splinter cell is famous for is the graphics that swhen your video cards 
 come into effect. The lighting is really good nightvision look a bit blurry even on high but in 
 general the graphics are really good
  also the shadows are not as good as the first one's Sam's opsat look a bit trashy and dark as it 
 is dark green. As you known splinter cells have a suit to be invisible with witch is obvisly black
 
  however sam's suit is green witch does not look good ubisoft also did something with his hair 
 it is messed up. the graphics are however still worth those video card upgrades.
  
  sound: your pistols got a sound problem lambert sounds wierd. The sound is still however real and 
 feels nice. Then only bad thing is that the sound is rather the 007 type not stealth-like but still 
 rather nice to listen. Enemy's also don't talk alot witch means no laughter. the last one had some 
 funny lines.
  
  now the multiplayer
  
  ther are to teams spy and mercanerie lets start with spy
  
  spy: spys are invisible and have 
 the same moves as sam they are a bit slow even at a running speed. They are fully masked with a 
 green dot in the middle the have a electrical gun and other stuff like grenade that blind you, make 
 you cough etc. they have to blow-up decontaminate or take a tube form an nd1333 there are lots of 
 defences light cameras motion dectecters etc. so spys have to be carful.
  
  mercenarie: they have a gun mines grenade and other stuff the also have emf and motion vision with 
 are cool they have to elmiate the spys witch could be easy or hard spy can knock then out for a 
 few seconds crack then and stuff like that the map are also good not to big and not to small 
 
  
  overall this is a fun game with a good single palayer and multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estani
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  If you liked spilnter cell 1 youll love this game, it has all that was in the first one plus some 
 more movements and weapons.
  The only thing i think its bad about this game is that its difficulty is not that challenging. 
 Its kind of easy to beat it.
  Sam Fischer is the man!!! if his missions wouldnt be top secret, he would be up for the nobel 
 prize... lol.
  Ok my friends, i think i have nothing else to say about this game... just see it yourselves, believe 
 me, you wont regret.
  
  Ps: Sorry for my english, im from argentina 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  SC: PT comes from the original Splinter Cell which was a game that went leeps and bonds over its 
 competition. SC: PT gives that same gaming experience with crisper graphics and game play. The game 
 simply looks amazing with its lighting and effects. Voice dialogue is believable. Controlls are 
 natural and smooth. 
  One of the lacking area's is the AI. The characters aren't the brightest things out there. Their 
 smart but not bright. You can throw a bottle or even they can see you and after x amount of time 
 it is wiped from their memory as if it never happened. Most of the time they will set an alarm 
 which is realistic. But some of them aren't that smart. Also the story line is kinda hard to follow. 
 If you are a fan of Metal Gear Solid (MGS) and expecting the same great story line you will be 
 disappointed. The game play makes up for more than enough of these lacking area's though. The game 
 is simply amazing to play and see. Your character, Sam Fisher, can do alot more moves than Solid 
 Snake in MGS. If you like stealth action games this is one to buy to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2_mike
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell : Pandora Tomorrow is an action stealth game from Ubisoft. This critically acclaimed 
 game follows the path as you playing a splinter cell named Sam Fisher; an elite military spy and 
 assassin. The game is rather slow paste and is not something someone wanting a hardcore action 
 would like. The game is rather boring if you played Chaos Theory before this one because it's a 
 total down grade compared to it sequel Chaos Theory. Why? 
  
  The graphics are poor ESPECIALLY in night vision, horridle sound audios and effects; and lame AI. 
 The soldiers in this game all seem to be the same person and are sometimes to alert for you to 
 sneak up on them.
  
  I strongly suggest you purchase that latest in the Splinter Cell series since it will have better 
 graphics and AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow (SCPD) overall is a fun experience that exhibits some disappointment 
 that somewhat limits how great of a game this could be. I'll briefly run through the basic categories 
 of graphics, sound, and gameplay to explain why it had some issue's that prevented SCPD from being 
 truly a great game.
  
  First off, the graphics are very, very good. Although they aren't up to the standards of Riddick 
 or Doom 3, they still allow you to be immersed in the environments that you play through, and they 
 perform very well with little performance hit on your PC. Shadows, light, and water all look great 
 as do the character models. Some textures aren't top notch, but who cares because overall the graphics 
 are well suited and the frame rate runs superb on all the highest settings with max resolution 
 (sys specs: AMD 2700XP, 1gig 2700DDR, 6800GT) .
  
  Sound, like the graphics are fine and serve the game well. Voice acting is good as are the ambient 
 sounds. I do not listen to sound tracks in most games I play, so I have no comment on how that 
 adds/detracts from the game experience.
  
  Gameplay is where the game reveals its shortcommings. This is a stealth game, and you are required 
 to be stealthy and perform under cover all the time, which is a good thing. Unfortunately, sometimes 
 if your actions aren't done in a linear, scripted fashion, the game will end your mission for some 
 ridiculous excuse. 
  
  For example, one of the earlier missions has you set on a train. I found an alternate route partway 
 through the mission and was able to achieve all the objectives except the last one. The game would 
 not allow me to finish this mission because I didn't complete objectives in a manner the script 
 recognized. In other words, in between objectives, I didn't go from point A to point B the way 
 the script wanted me too even though the end result was the same. It seems because you don't follow 
 exactly the tightrope that the developer wants you to follow, the overall mission can't be completed? 
 Bad, bad, bad. Especially in a stealth game. 
  
  Also, lets say you are popping bullets into one of the bad guys chest with your assault rifle. 
 As the guy is taking bullets to his chest, he manages to grab a walkie-talkie and radio off your 
 presence. Yeah, right! There are others, but overall these examples reveal fairly substantial gameplay 
 faults for a stealth game. Sometimes you can perform actions and techniques that work, and even 
 though you perform an action exactly the same, sometimes you fail.
  
  In closing, the game is fun even with its faults. It is just a little disappoining because this 
 game could be so great if the linearity was curtailed and detection methods were fair and uniform. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeMook
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  I was playing the first level and the next thing i know its already been 3 hours and i was at the 
 10th level! It really drew me in. Althought the stealth missions started getting on my last nerve. 
 A lot of creativity and in some ways you want to be Sam Fisher. It also has a couple of cool effects 
 like dogs that bark at you when they see you, things like that. This game brought me the old feeling 
 for playing Splinter Cell 1 again, that is ow good it kept its original feeling. One of the real 
 cool tools were the laser mic. I liked that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 23, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Finishing Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow, I of course have to compare it to the original. Some 
 improvements were made and some problems have remained. Again there is some good story/plot development 
 in the game and the audio is again decent enough. The graphics have actually been improved because 
 now also using light enhancement goggles or IR goggles the quality of the graphics is ok. 
  
  The sound was basic but not good. The other thing that is a little disappointing is that it's 
 not a particular hard game. Playing through on hard level there were only a few hot spots that 
 cost me some effort, which were mostly out-of-the normal parts were you couldn't sneak.
  
  Again the same issue I had with the original is that mostly there was only ever one path to reach 
 your goal. 
  
  Anyway: If you like sneaking, slow play, waiting to move on, this is still your game. It was fun 
 to play, despite of the mentioned deficiencies. Don't buy this full price though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 27, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Hitting shelves of local retailers a little over a year after its predecessor, Pandora Tomorrow 
 adds much more to the already terrific stealth game developed by Ubisoft. Coming out on March 23 
 of 2004, Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow not only has the amazing single player game gamers have 
 come to expect from Ubisoft, but it also comes with an intense multiplayer mode that pits Spies 
 against Mercenaries in a string of objectives that must be completed or stopped, depending which 
 team youre on. Again playing as Sam Fisher, a special agent of Third Echelon, a division of the 
 United States Government, you must once again come to the aid of the country by disposing of a 
 lethal distribution of the smallpox virus. Traveling across five different continents, Fisher must 
 stop the terrorists from releasing the virus worldwide. Being considered a one-man army after the 
 first Splinter Cell, Sam must traverse from small office space areas to the dense forests of Indonesia 
 while trying to find the terrorist leader who plans to blanket the world with a virus once thought 
 dead. 
  
  You cover a lot of area throughout the games eight missions. Now that may not sound like a long 
 game, but having to use stealth throughout the different missions will definitely make this game 
 last for awhile. Now, with that said, the individual missions will last depending on your type 
 of playing style. Whether you want to be a shoot first, ask questions later agent, or a stealthy 
 ghostlike agent where youre never seen throughout the game, will affect the amount of time you 
 spend on the game. But remember, always hide the bodies or it will come back to bite you later 
 on in the mission. Some missions are different from others because of their objectives and goals, 
 such as not being able to use any lethal force, or given the green light to take out anyone to 
 reach your goal point. Every missions objectives are different and this keeps the player on his 
 toes for stuff he can and cant do.
  
  The graphics have been stepped up a notch from the first Splinter Cell and is easily noticeable 
 by the gamer in the first few missions. Again, youre given the light meter which represents 
 how easily youre seen by your enemies. This little tool is quite helpful because of not always 
 noticing the actual light youre in when wearing night vision goggles. But although youll be using 
 your goggles for most of the game because of dealing with so many shadows, dont forget to just 
 try traversing through some of the game without them to appreciate the great graphics that have 
 been provided by the developer. A game like Splinter Cell can have a gamer never noticing the great 
 graphics because of all the darkness, so if you get a chance use your normal vision throughout 
 some missions to get the full effect. Along with the night vision, Fisher is given thermal vision 
 to pick up land mines and trip wires and will also need it for different objectives of some for 
 the missions. 
  
  But those arent the only gadgets Sam Fisher gets throughout the game. Like the first Splinter 
 Cell, Fisher receives an overabundant supply of spy gadgets and top of the line weapons to help 
 him along his way of saving the world once again. While proceeding through the game, youll be 
 able to use different techniques of your own choosing to complete the different objectives which 
 give the game some replay value, even though it has linear gameplay. Ubisoft brought back a lot 
 of the weapons from its predecessor, but also added a few trinkets to make the game that much more 
 fun to play through each time. Some of these new gadgets are used more within the multiplayer mode 
 of the game, but are still fun to try and use in the single player in different ways and techniques.
 
  
  Ubisoft again made small cinematic movies between each mission to tell the story a little more 
 from different perspectives and this helps the player by building a little more atmosphere in the 
 game, and giving an overall sense of knowledge of whats going on throughout the world while youre 
 taking out the bad guys one terrorist at a time.
  
  The sound in Pandora Tomorrow was done well with the voice actors from the first game coming back 
 for the second game. The atmosphere noise throughout the missions was also done exceptionally well 
 putting the player into the actual place they were in, whether it was the rugged streets of Jerusalem, 
 or crawling through the grass reeds of Komodo while you try to locate the submarine underneath 
 the ground. Wherever you are in the world, Ubisoft brings that atmosphere to you in your headphones 
 or speakers, whatever you may be using at the time and as you crouch through the shallow water 
 under bridges and buildings of small villages, youll appreciate the sounds of different things 
 in the backgrounds such as birds chirping or water splashing giving your movements some cover from 
 the enemies.
  
  A multiplayer component was added to the Splinter Cell series and Ubisoft did quite well for the 
 series first time. In a unique style of multiplayer, you have two spies on the same team and two 
 mercenaries on the same team and depending on the map, the spies will have to complete different 
 objectives while the mercenaries try to stop them. While this may not seem like a good multiplayer 
 being so small and only available to four players at a time, the intensity that is experienced 
 by each side during the time allowed is entertaining enough whether youre a spy or a mercenary. 
 With the ability of speaking to your teammate over a headset, and planning you strategy during 
 the game, youll find that time flies by as you experience both the side of the spy and mercenary. 
 There are numerous differences between each sides playing style and what they can do though and 
 these aspects makes each teams strategies different each time around. 
  
  Overall, Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow brings all the great features its predecessor had and 
 adds so much more including better graphics and an intense multiplayer mode. If you were a fan 
 of the first installment in this series, youll definitely want to pick up this title. If youre 
 a new comer to the Splinter Cell series, you may want to try this game, not only for its great 
 single player game, but also for its great multiplayer components. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS3-SS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  
  Gameplay is just like the original Splinter Cell's, but some tweaks make it a great and addictive 
 gameplay. Multiplayer mode is just plain fun and perfect. You will spend countless hours playing 
 this game online before you get bored of it.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Simply impressive graphics and light effects make this game one of the best looking out there. 
 Some eye candy for the players.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  The sound effects in-game are great, making this game a perfect mix to use all your senses. The 
 game's music is not great, but no one hears it so it doesn't matter.
  
  Value: 9
  
  The price is right! Multiplayer is the strong aspect of this game, and its worht its bucks.
  
 
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9
  
  Great game.
  
  Total: 9.2 Superb
  
  Great game, superior to the first one in every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 27, 2005 4:44 am PT
Review:  Now your talking , this is a big ( although most might just consider it a sutle ) Change to the 
 onginal Splinter Cell. I think differently however, just consider now you can open a door while 
 holding on to a dead or knocked out bad guy. You can also pick a lock without going into your inventory 
 like in splinter cell , you can also change the optic camera from infrared, to night vision, to 
 normal view. Okay , maybe that is just sutle , well this Sam Fisher adventure isn't a sutle sequel 
 however. Thank god for that, ur well I mean those French Guys ( I can't believe I said that) . anyway 
 this new adventure has Sam chasing after some lunatics who are threating to release a small pox 
 virus on an unsuspecting American public. Oh yes Sam is going to kick their F***ing bu**s, gosh 
 I wish I didn't have to sensor that, but rules are rules. What's so cool about the new adventure 
 is instead of city dwelling like in the original you get to go to some tropical locatins, you know 
 lots of trees and grass cool ! However I do hope in Sam's next adventure the developers give him 
 some new moves like a spinning back kick or Judo throws that would rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitshine1144
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  For the most part the controls are the same as the first Splinter Cell. They are very easy to get 
 used to. Sam's comming into Pandora Tomorrow though with some new moves such as the swat turn and 
 backflip wall jump. I think that you will be satisfied with what action each button has.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics have improved so much from the first Splinter Cell. The frame rate 
 is smoother as well as the graphics. The lighting and textures look great and there's not much 
 that could have been improved on in this department.
  
  Sound
  
  The way they implicate sound in this sequel is outstanding. As you walk over glass, carpet, wood, 
 and metal you can hear the individual sound effect instead of just a footstep. The character's 
 over voices are also done well. The voice of Sam Fischer also returns and you can expect that deep, 
 yet humorous voice. 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The new inovative multiplayer that PT introduced is one of the key elements of this game. It is 
 a spy v. s. mercenary online multiplayer game. The spys have to complete their objective before 
 time runs out and the mercenaries have to stop the spys. For all the kids who play for fun and 
 disregaurd rank there are ranked and unranked matches. The multiplayer definatley sells the game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, to me, still ranks as one of the Top 5 PC games in terms of graphics. 
 It's a beautiful game that is loaded with detail in every area. Other than that, it is a disappointment. 
 Every fault that was present in Splinter Cell was carried over into Pandora Tomorrow, and the game 
 added a lot of new faults as well. The voice acting sucks, parts of the story don't make sense, 
 the level design is still blatantly linear, and the game is short. Very short. 8-10 hours short, 
 and for a stealth game, that's inexcusable. 
  
  I loved the first Splinter Cell game. The polished gameplay and excellent presentation made for 
 a great game, even though the level design was very linear. Pandora Tomorrow still has the linear 
 levels, but they stand out more because the concept isn't new anymore, and because the rest of 
 the game isn't as great. For starters, the voice acting and script writing took a huge step backwards. 
 Lambert sounded great in the first game, but in Pandora Tomorrow, he sounds like he has a bad cold 
 and he's doped up on codeine. All of the guards in the game have the exact same barks, and they 
 all sound like they were recorded in a cave with cotton covering the microphone. Nothing breaks 
 the immersion like hearing a guard speak in a Spanish-sounding accent one minute, and then hearing 
 that same guard bark out a generic "Who was that!" in the exact same voice that you heard on the 
 other side of the world. This game has the worst AI barks I have ever heard in a stealth game.
 
  
  The script writing is bad in some places. It's like the story was written one evening while eating 
 dinner at Denny's.
  
  "We have a problem in East Timor"...
  Pause...
  "What kind of a problem?"
  Another pause...
  "A big one".
  
  oooooo, how dramatic. The 
 worst part about the script though, is that Sam Fisher now utters an occasional Michael Moore-inspired 
 America-bashing comment throughout the game. This wouldn't be so bad if it didn't look so stupid 
 for being out of place. Criticizing America's role in world affairs may have its place in games, 
 but not here.
  
  There are a few additions in the gameplay since the previous installment, but basically none of 
 them are good. One of them is the three-stage alarm system. Theoretically, this sounds good, but 
 it's implemented in such a silly manner that you can't help but laugh. The first alarm leads to 
 the enemy radio bark of "Alarm stage 1. Flak jacket on!", which, by the way, always comes out in 
 perfect English regardless of what part of the world you are in. However, nobody ever puts on a 
 flak jacket or a helmet (stage 2) , so this new addition is basically cosmetic. It just looks and 
 sounds stupid to repeatedly hear "Flak jacket on" and never see anybody actually put on a flak 
 jacket. This new gameplay mechanic appears to have been a half-hearted attempt to incrementally 
 penalize the player for blowing his cover, instead of automatically failing the mission. What really 
 happens is that it falls flat. 
  
  The best part about the game is the graphics, and experiencing the game's variety of environments. 
 There are some outdoor jungle areas that are truly breathtaking, as well as some weather/lightning 
 effects that will leave you in awe. I can't say that this game doesn't look amazing, because it 
 does. It's too bad that that is the only outstanding quality in the game.
  
  I didn't play the multiplayer here, but the single player portion of this game comes across as 
 half-arsed shovelware thrown in the box so that the game would have a single player component to 
 round it out. The first game was better, and so were Manhunt and Thief: Deadly Shadows. It's hard 
 to recommend this game for the single player alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jet2892
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2004 8:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is great. the storyline, the graphics. oh yeah this game's graphics blows you out of 
 the water. i like the stealthy gameplay. sneak up on people and kill them. this is now one of those 
 games where you storm right in and kill everyone. nope. this is tactical you have to find your 
 way. i do have one problem with this game tough. it has bugs. it didn't have bugs until the very 
 end of the game. i hated that. iwas on the last mission and i couldn't open a door because i didn't 
 kill someone that i already did. so with that said i don't really like pc games. that's why im 
 getting an xbox. im getting an xbox for splinter cell chaos theory. oh yeah that rocks hard. you 
 know why? because sam gets a knife. and oh yeah it has the best graphics. it's not only for the 
 ps2 (like metal gear) . it doesn't have stupid camera views (like metal gear) . and also there is more 
 killing than in pandora. rock on fisher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2004 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the best third person shooter game ever which needs stealth and tactics. It is an easy 
 game and a bit short but for the time it lasts it is amazing. It is much better than the first 
 Splinter Cell and it has a lot of improvements. This game never gets boring and you could play 
 it over and over again doing missions differently and going different ways around. It is really 
 fun and if you like third person games defintly get this. The multiplayer is not as good but the 
 singleplayer is exellent. The only bad thing is that there are only a few weapons to choose from 
 but i suppose a highly trained assassin doesnt need lots of different weapons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdrewsr388
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2004 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Read the review for Splinter Cell to see about Pandora's SP. This game is about MP and it is MP 
 at its best. Choosing as a spy or mercenary, its 2 on 2 action involving stealth and cunining. 
 As spy, you are charges with taking out canisters of Small Pox in upwords of 7 maps. As a merc, 
 you are charges with protecting those canisters and taking out the spies. Many people will choose 
 merc first, with there array of weapons including Macine gun, mines, grenades, flares, phosphorus 
 flares, laser traps, and visors keen on trapping spies. This is the easiet class to master because 
 it invloves the least skill to kill your opponent. Spy is the real challenge. With no lethal weapons, 
 only gadgets, including, knockout gas, alarm snares, smoke, flash, and chaff grenades. The only 
 main weapon of the spy is its shock gun, used to disable the merc, leaving him stunned for few 
 seconds. This leaves the spy ample time to go in for a kill either by double jumping the merc or 
 the very hard neck break. Breaking necks is one of the most redeeming parts of the game. All in 
 all the game is good in Single Player and revoulutionary in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2004 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: PT takes the forumla from the first game adds better graphics more varied levels 
 a couple new moves and stays true to what made the original Splinter Cell such a great game. There 
 are always arguements on what is the better stealth series Splinter Cell or the Metal Gear Solid 
 games. Well the best stealth games are the Thief Series because Splinter Cell is more of an action 
 game with some stealth thrown in. It does it very well and keeps the action going the whole way 
 through
  
  Graphics: PC version has the best graphics with higher resolution textures and DX9 lighting and 
 shader effects. It's amazing how good the game looks and that it runs so well even on mid range 
 systems. They did a great job with the engine. The character models are top notch as is the environment 
 and weapons. As it is a console port it doesnt have the best graphics in the world as it is limited 
 the restraints of the Xbox. But it still looks very good just not up there with the top graphical 
 games of today.
  
  Sounds: Voice over is professional and done very well. Guns sounds are great and sound realistic. 
 ANd the music sets the mood depending on what you are doing in the game. Overall, the sound is 
 fairly above average with great voice over work.
  
  Gameplay: Just like the first game you are sent on mission to foil a terrorist plot that can cause 
 the world some major headaches, its up to you to basically save the world. The story is kind of 
 cliched but still it is done well and it is just plain fun. You will have to use a lot of stealth 
 in the game so you have to hide in shadows, watch out for cameras and patrolling gaurds, sneak 
 up on guards and take them out and then hide them in the shadows so other guards won't be alerted. 
 You can play most of the game just by staying stealthy and not getting noticed. IT is fairly challenging 
 to try and accomplish that. The story unfolds after every level with some nicely done cutcenes 
 and the game gets harder the farther you go, but it doesnt get frustratingly hard.
  
  The new element added to SC: PT is multi-player. It is different and done VERY WELL. It is 2 vs 
 2 team action and the stealth play is translated very well to the MP. Something like this has never 
 been done except for a mod in Unreal Tournament. You should have voice chat set up when you are 
 playing as team work is very important. The multi-player adds a ton of replay value to the short 
 single player game. Single player can be beaten in around 10 - 12 hours time so the MP is very 
 welcomed.
  
  The controls on the PC version work great. The precision with the mouse is much better than a controller 
 and the way you sneak is done well with the mouse wheel. It is actually easier with the mouse wheel 
 and more precise than using an analog controller. You can use a controller if you want with the 
 PC version but it is recommended that you use the mouse and keyboard as it is the superior way 
 to play the game so if you dont have a gamepad don't worry because you don't need one at all!
 
  
  If you like the first Splinter Cell you will love Pandora Tomorrow, it does what the first one 
 did but better and with better visuals plus the added multi-player. If you are deciding what version 
 to get, get the PC version. It looks the best and the controls are better as well. Excellent release 
 by Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 21, 2004 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I tried to like this game, but it just plain sucks. I don't know where it gets these high ratings 
 from. This has got to be one of the most linear storylines I have played since the Gameboy 2D days 
 of Pitfall. Wait for the vine to swing, jump and catch it. Ugh, argh, ech... I really dislike this 
 game's anal linear gameplay. It's almost like you're being pushed down corridors. Yech. Add to 
 that these crazy obstacles and rules. Man if you like getting bored hiding in the shadows and shooting 
 out lights, this game is for you. The gameplay is sooo slow and the lack of checkpoints or autosaves 
 except at the beginning and end of a level is very frustrating. Thankfully you can save manually, 
 but you can get really screwed if you forget.
  I found the learning curve to be steep. It was hard to know what to do and just what the heck was 
 going on half the time. It's mind-numbing insanity, being so linear. Jump three steps with your 
 right foot, pat your tummy three times counter-clockwise then turn at three oblique angles and 
 if you screw any one of those up, you get to start over. Dah! So back to hiding in shadows, shooting 
 out lights, and occassionally getting some shooting in. Heaven forbid you shoot a civilan, game 
 over. Kill the wrong guy, game over. Knock a technician out because you've dragged him all over 
 tarnation trying to find his 'interaction point', game over. 
  Maybe the multiplayer is where all the fun is. It's sure not in single player. As far as graphics, 
 maybe good, but certainly nothing great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 18, 2004 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  PT is a very good sequel, it does a good job of keeping the SP Cell series alive, although it seems 
 to do so by just squeaking by. The gameplay in PT is pretty good. The frame rate is good, but there 
 is some problems with glitches, including lights, walls and even performance of the game. The game 
 can run very smooth for two lvls, and then just one area will be a chop fest. Although if you spend 
 every dime on staying with the number 1 parts, then theres no real worry. The game's performance 
 just seems unbalanced. The sotry line is very well done as is normal for Tom's games.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The games graphics do look better then the first and are noticeable. Although 
 some of the textures are blend, they still look better then the original. They did a good job though 
 making the game better looking then the orignal, but it's nothing amazing. Just a solid job.
  
  Sound: 
  
  Sound in the game is pretty good, it has awareness for surround sound systems, 
 the music in the game is done well. My only complaint is the voice over's for all the characters 
 except Sam sound horrible. Most are just plain bad, and it's hard to take serious sometimes without 
 laughing. Other then that, it's pretty good.
  
  Value: 
  
  The SP will keep you busy, as on high diff lvls it's pretty tough and that in itself is worth the 
 purchase. There is a mulitiplayer componant to this game that is very new, and because of the rareness 
 of this multiplayer, the value of this game increases.
  
  Multiplayer: 
  
  What Ubisoft has done with the multiplayer is something that most people havent even tryed or thought 
 of yet. Stealth, in multiplayer. And they did a very good job of being one of the first if not 
 "the" first to implement a stealth gameplay with a 2 vs. 2 format. This alone is worth the purchase 
 as it's very very fun to run around hiding or run around hunting. Theres a variety of modes to 
 play, which should keep you busy.
  
  Overall: 
  
  SP is pretty good, MP is better. A very good sequel in general! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 14, 2004 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I played the XBox version of the original title before selling it, which I reviewed too, and I 
 I've decided to play this sequel on the PC - I tested the SP only once, but enjoyed it in its entirety 
 and I'm still impressed what they've done in order to upgrade the espionage genre. Still the reference.
 
  
  The missions are varied, and the amount of gadgets and objectives to do is fantastic. But as for 
 the first game, I'm really exhausted after finishing it - it demands a constant level of attention 
 from the player, and it is hard overall - you must be patient, and Splinter Cell always requires 
 to be not easily frustrated. That's why I MUST take a break on the espionage genre, I'm afraid 
 I won't be there for Chaos Theory - the hardcore should though.
  
  Again I'll keep in mind the wonderful lighting & shadow effects, only surpassed in 2004 by Far 
 Cry and Doom III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xan1234
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 12:07 am PT
Review:  the first splintercell rocked the gaming world with its intricate use of lighting and graphics 
 to form levels which where fun exciting intricate. and each level had its own unique flavor. Pandora 
 Tomorrow continues this tradition and takes it to a new level, the lighting effects of this game 
 are, extraordinary, to say the least. The missions still flavorful, although there is a distinct 
 feeling of 'been there done that'. There are much more obstacles in sam's way this time such as 
 motion detectors, lasers, and some guards actually have night vision headsets or a flashlight. 
 the music lacks a certain variety. even moments in which sam is in a gunfight, the music just is 
 bland and boring. The graphics are superb, and the changes in how the game looks between normal, 
 night vision, and thermal goggles is wonderful. I wish they could have incorporated some sort of 
 device that would be able to see sam if he turns on his goggles, because with the goggles on u 
 cant take in just how pretty the game really is. The black and white of the night vision goggles, 
 which helps like no other, also renders all the fabulous colors and lighting changes obscure. Thermal 
 goggles are probably the most under-used goggles in the single-player mode, whilst multi-player, 
 thermals are a necessity. If u keep dying when u walk in a certain place or an alarm goes off when 
 u havent done anything turn on your thermals and u might see whats going on. Anyway onto the multiplayer. 
 the multiplayer is still laced with bugs and glitches, but the settings and the maps, and the way 
 in which each class is different, makes this mode INCREDIBLE. the spies are in a 3rd person view, 
 whilst the MERCS are in a 1st persn view. each class has its own advantages and disadvantages, 
 such as, the merc has a motion detector vision mode which makes everything red and makes an anooying 
 sound, but if a spy is moving fast he lights up on ur goggles, even if the spy is behind an object. 
 the mercs also have an EMF vision mode which basically detects the spies whenever they have a goggle 
 turned on a la night vision, thermal.
  Even if you still havent bought this game, i urge you to buy this game ASAP. you will truly be amazed 
 at how fun and exciting (sometimes scary) the multiplayer aspect really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miffyelmo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 6:39 am PT
Review:  I played and enjoyed the original Splinter Cell up until about half way through. My computer then 
 decided it had had enough and destroyed itself, taking my saved games with it. I never got the 
 energy to start from the beginning and replay it. I often never have the energy to replay a game, 
 even on a different difficulty setting; I just get bored very quickly. Since then, the second instalment 
 of the series came out and I didnt take much notice of it at all. I had forgotten about 
 my time spent with the first, and so the second didnt seem very appealing.
  
  I was then browsing a games store online and saw Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow for 
 around the 20 mark, and couldnt pass the bargain up. Remembering how I had enjoyed the 
 first game despite my progress being cut short, I pressed the buy button and it landed on my doorstep 
 a few days later.
  
  I wasnt excited about the prospect of playing it to the extent of some games I have played. 
 I knew what to expect after scanning over a few reviews and looking at some screenshots. I wasnt 
 proven wrong either. If you have played the first game, you wont really find much new in 
 Pandora Tomorrow. There are a few new gadgets on offer and a couple of cool new moves, but nothing 
 revolutionary, and it felt to a certain extent, like playing an expansion pack.
  
  In fact, I think if this game had indeed been released as an expansion pack, no one would have 
 questioned the decision. However, the similar game play has been mixed with a much more varied 
 set of locations, both indoors and outdoors, sneaking through air vents in industrial buildings 
 and making your way through terrorist camps making it a highly entertaining experience.
  
  There is a full and, involving story line which makes you want to play on in an effort to find 
 out what happens, being fed little snippets of information at various intervals throughout the 
 game.
  
  What I really enjoyed about this game was the sense of power you have over your enemies. Instead 
 of you being frightened of the in game foes, and worrying about what will be around the next corner, 
 you are the one doing the sneaking and controlling the people around you. You stay hidden in the 
 shadows and can see exactly what is going on, while your oppositions havent got a clue you 
 are there, which is, for me, a nice and welcome feeling.
  
  The graphics seem to have been slightly revised, but to be honest, there wasnt anything 
 that I had not seen in the first game, the game still looking very good and playing flawlessly 
 on my mid-range system.
  
  The game play is excellent, controls responsive and I didnt once get bored while playing 
 through the missions. The game only saves your progress at intervals which I thought were at places 
 too far apart, therefore I opted to use the standard quick save option. I must admit however, I 
 am more of a fan of games which automatically save your progress at intervals closer together, 
 FarCry being a brilliant example of this, placing the auto save points in exactly the right places. 
 Quick saving can, for me, become an obsessive compulsive disorder in many games.
  
  Length wise, I think that the developers could have extended the length of the game. The missions 
 themselves were just the right length but I think the addition of a few more would have left me 
 with more a value for money satisfaction. Of course, the time it takes you to complete the game 
 will depend on the individual way you choose to play it, and there is always the multiplayer to 
 extend the longevity of the game, something I have yet to try out.
  
  Overall, Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow is a fantastic game which is well worth your money as 
 long as you dont expect to be blown away with any new additions since the first game. If 
 youve not played the original yet, you cant go wrong with this game  it will 
 bring you an absorbing and highly entertaining experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:27 am PT
Review:  I have always loved Splinter Cell, and anticipated this game since the first one ended. Well the 
 wait was over, and let me tell you, it was worth it!
  
  The graphics were very impressive, and the lighting effects were the best i've ever seen. This 
 game looks great on a good PC, and the music is always keeping you on your toes.
  
  This game is fun, right down to gadgets and multiplayer modes, this game will be copied in the 
 future. The single player fun until it was over, but the online play made the game stand out of 
 the crowd. The multiplayer is a lot of fun and requires a lot of strategy like you have never seen 
 in an action game before! You choose as either a spy or a mercenary and the spies try to do different 
 tasks in 8 different maps. The spy is quiet while the merc is powerful, which adds a lot to the 
 game's strategy. You will get many hours out of the multiplayer, I guarantee it. 
  
  The games weak points are mainly flaws in the online play and single player. The single player 
 missions did not live up to the original's and had less missions too. The online play has flaws 
 like people who only want to play as a spy or the big learning curve that it has.
  
  Overall, this game was very solid and kept the Splinter Cell series' name in pride. Anyone into 
 stealth action will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2004 5:40 am PT
Review:  As good as the original Splinter Cell is, Pandora Tomorrow is just that much better. Along with 
 the great graphics and the plethora of moves given to NSA operative Sam Fisher, we now have an 
 environment that feels much more open and less manipulative than the first game. And some of Fisher's 
 available moves have been changed, such as a much more useful split-jump that allows players to 
 gain mantling access to higher perches. Sure, the storyline is the typical espionage pablum from 
 Clancy, but joining with this are some terrific level designs that even outdo the original. Thrown 
 in is an interesting multiplayer mode, where players are either mercenaries with heavy firepower 
 looking at the world in first-person, or spies who rely on gadgets and steath using the game's 
 standard 3rd person mode. A great continuation of a great sneaker-shooter series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2004 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This was definitely an enjoyable and entertaining game. The graphics were excellent, sound was 
 good (voice acting was good across the board, rare for any game these days) .
  
  There were some definite improvements with movement and controls over the previous Splinter Cell 
 game which made the game easier to manage.
  
  Some caveats - this game seemed much shorter than the previous one. There were some challenging 
 levels, but I think, overall, Pandora Tomorrow was a great deal easier than the previous game. 
 Some levels, like the train level, were tense but not terribly challenging.
  
  Another thing I found odd was that I had a great deal of equipment that I never used. In most cases 
 there was no need for the camera jammer, for instance. The same was true of a number of the other 
 weapons. That was slightly disappointing.
  
  All told, however, this was a fun and exciting game, excellently presented and worth playing through 
 a few times. Definitely recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2004 7:14 am PT
Review:  Pandora Tomorrow has been a great change of pace from Far Cry. The whole idea of sneaking around 
 and keeping the shadows had me playing the game for hours on end. The gameplay is great, the graphics 
 are perfect (not over-the-top like Far Cry) and overall, I really enjoyed this game. The second 
 chapter where you infiltrate a moving train had me glued to the screen; it was one of the most 
 enjoyable missions ever! It is a bit annoying to reload/retry several times to complete a section, 
 but in general it wasnt too much of a pain. I cant wait for the next title in the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehurey
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2004 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Its a solid follow-up that put just enough new things in the single-player campaign to make you 
 think that its not the same repetitative gameplay. The single player for Pandora Tomorrow is somewhat 
 better than the last game that had nine levels. The enviroments are quite bigger, especially the 
 Jerusalem mission, and the variety of mission objectives are satifying and challenging.
  
  You don't really have any new moves, the most notable move is the split-wall jump where there are 
 spots in the game in which you have to do a split on a wall and then shift your body to a side 
 and then jump up onto another ledge, you'll do it about four times throughout the whole game and 
 there is no challenge to doing it. Other notable changes from the first Splinter Cell are the additions 
 of Night-Vision and Thermo-Vision when using the optical cord under doors. As well as the three-tier 
 alarm system; which, if you stay hidden well enough throughout the game, shouldn't be much to even 
 think about.
  
  What changes from the first Splinter Cell to this new version is that the variety and locations 
 of some of the missions are good enough to be considered improvements over the first game. What 
 is not an improvement, however, is the story. The first Splinter Cell had a really confusing story 
 that gave enough reason to send you to some off-beat location (take the oil rig mission for example) . 
 In Pandora Tomorrow, you should be able to understand the story well, but rarely would you even 
 care enough about the story as it ends up being weak. 
  
  To begin with, one of Fisher's comrades from his past is revealed to be in danger from an East 
 Timor rebellion army that is being led by Suhadi Sadono, and you get the idea that we may learn 
 more about Fisher and his life's story. But, boy does that storyline go off the wayside, Fisher's 
 friend all but becomes a complete non-factor by the end of the second mission, he makes a completely 
 unnecessary cameo in the beginning of the sixth mission. There is no story there when there could 
 have been. Sadono, on the other hand, remains the focal point for most of the game, but rarely 
 does the story make you believe of some immediate threat. Which brings us to another part of the 
 game.
  
  The Splinter Cell series has also failed on having a definite, unmistakable bad guy in which they 
 are the mastermind behind some supposedly "world crises" that might lead to war and destruction 
 for the whole world, none of this ever comes to fruitition. Instead the stories always whither 
 down at the end. And believe me, once you played through the game, which would take a solid 10 
 to 12 hours of good gameplay, the ending will have you thinking of one word: Lame.
  
  Even though the story may come up lame, the game itself doesn't have to. In fact the PC version 
 of Splinter Cell has always been the best version. If you have a decent system with at least 1GHz 
 processor, 256MB of RAM, 3 Gigs of hard drive space, and a GeForce 4 Ti, then the game will look 
 and play better than the Xbox version, simple as that. Additionally, the keyboard and mouse control 
 work exceptionally better compared to a controller and you can quick save at any moment in the 
 game, which almost completely relieves the tediousness of trial-and-error gameplay.
  
  Most importantly, Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow comes with a multi-player that operates as a separate 
 program from the Single-Player.
  
  It all boils down to this, if you have the time, the skill, and the ability to play in a different 
 way, then the multi-player will become the main source of enjoyment. The gameplay is slow, which 
 for some it makes it quite awkward. The enviroments are quite huge, but the amount of people per 
 match are small. Therefore it almost creates the same type of slow moving gameplay that you would 
 originally play in the single player of Splinter Cell, but your enemy is not going to be walking 
 down that same path and they obviosuly know that there is a spy that is crawling around in the 
 dark and in the vents. So its obvious that the Mercenaries are looking for you and they know where 
 you want to go in order to win the multiplayer match. Therefore, you have to know the map well 
 ahead of time and you have to be skilled at using your gadgets immediately to disable your foes. 
 If you can't learn either, then you're simply not going to have a good time. The same goes for 
 the Mercenaries, but it might be a little easier playing "defense" than the Spies who have to go 
 on a "stealthy offensive."
  
  If you are in a match with three other players who are all just as skiiled and knowledgeable in 
 the map layout as you are, then multiplayer for Splinter Cell will give you a refreshing new form 
 of gameplay that you might have never exprienced before. but it definitely is a demanding multiplayer, 
 you can't just jump in and go like other run and gun multiplayers, it really does take time to 
 enjoy it.
  
  IF you add it up, Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow for the PC is one very good game for a very good 
 price. It costs $39, which is ten dollars cheaper than the Xbox version, and you don't have to 
 pay for Xbox Live to play it online, all you need is a broadband connection, which is also required 
 for Xbox Live as well. It will remain the best version compared to all the console versions, unfortunately 
 it may not have the extra level that the PS2 and Gamecube versions will have, but those are minor 
 sacrifices. If you want a solid game with an even better multiplayer, and have the time and enthusiasm 
 to enjoy it, then Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomrrow is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2004 11:28 pm PT
Review:  The first Splinter Cell was a very good reason to put UbiSoft on the list of my favorite game developers, 
 now that I played Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow let me say that its a great game, the character 
 movement is unique in details and animation, the way you have to complete your task by using every 
 stealth technique you can master is great. Nevertheless, I still have something on Splinter Cell 
 game, its too dark, what I mean is, you have no chance to enjoy and admire the graphics and colors 
 in the game, because all the time you have to be in the dark and night using your night or thermal 
 vision goggles, I wish that the next Splinter Cell games contains some levels in the day light, 
 of course we still have to use the shadows and hiding techniques but at we will be able to take 
 our time and enjoy the color and graphics of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2004 6:27 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow expands on what made the original Splinter Cell so great. Lots more 
 stealth action with sticky cameras, wall splits pouncing on an unknowing bad guy, and intense action 
 overall. If you want to go out and kill with your guns blazing, try Quake, this game is all about 
 stealth. It requires guile, poise, and an understanding of the main character's, Sam Fisher, abilities. 
 It is fun to be able to use several methods to eliminate the enemies or sneak into buildings to 
 complete the set missions. Several missions even require that you do not kill anyone to avoid being 
 noticed which adds to the challenge. Of course there is always the option of knocking someone out 
 and dragging them to a dark area to avoid them being seen. Night vision and thermal vision also 
 are a cool feature to help make Sam's way through the game. Overall this game is great and is better 
 than the original, which was a tough feat in itself. On the down side, some enemies can vary between 
 completely iditiotic to intelligent trigger fingers with incredible aim. Some say the game is too 
 short, but it is intense enough that you get satisfaction once you've completed it. And this time, 
 there's always multiplayer. Multiplayer is truly new and unique, however since I have not had much 
 opportunity to play, I will refrain from saying more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2004 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game more than I did the original game. It seemed to have a more complete and realistic 
 feel to it. By far, the best element of this game are the graphics, especially the shadows. Wow! 
 The shadows are all completely dynamic and are based on the actual light sources placed throughout 
 the game. If you shoot out a light or turn a light on, then the shadows respond accordingly. There 
 are also plenty of places where you can literally see the light rays streaming throughs windows 
 or between cracks. The few outdoor scenes where you have to wade through tall grass and brush are 
 also very cool. This is the first game that has made a good attempt at actually having good plant 
 life that you literally move out of your way as you progress through the area. The only downside 
 to the graphics is that the game is so dark it's often difficult or impossible to actually see 
 the wonderful effects. I had to force myself to not wear the night-vision goggles just so I could 
 see better.
  
  That said, I stick to some comments I made about the previous game (and which are low points for 
 me... a traditional RPG player) which are that that game is totally linear and very much leads you 
 from one room to the next throughout the game. It is very scripted and there is no character developement.
 
  
  There was at least one moment in the game that made my heart skip as it was so surprising and frightening, 
 but I'll leave you in suspense.
  
  I gave the game a low score for sound. The sound wasn't even something I noticed although I times 
 it felt lacking. I can't even remember if there was really any music in the game. Whatever is there, 
 isn't very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streifen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2004 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I could almost call it revolutionary. This game delivers on all fronts. The single player campaign 
 keeps you on your toes. It game forces you to do things that you wouldn't want to do in other games. 
 Like killing an ally just because your boss says so. 
  Add a multiplayer option that lets you do everything Sam can do in the game, and you've got hours 
 of espionage fun with friends. And I can honestly say, nothing in my gaming life has been as appealing 
 as seeing the words "Streifen has broken SomePoorGuy's neck" over and over again. It's just one 
 of those things you can't get sick of.
  There are a few bugs in the game's multiplayer. But they can be fixed by a small patch.
  
  
 I wrote this review based on my experience with the Xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSx0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2004 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Here's the deal. I guess I'm the only one that think UBI still can't make a multiplayer game worth 
 #@$%. Here's the bad stuff first. The online play is hindered with technical difficulties and thrown 
 together menus. It seems like they had one person take about 15 minutes and finish the menus. I 
 still can't find out where to turn on Punkbuster even though almost all the servers require it 
 enabled to play. The idea for the online play is amazing. I've been waiting for a new idea like 
 this forever. All games turn into jumping shooters. Not this one. It is very streamline and tense. 
 (If you can actually get into an online game.) The "quick game" option is good, if it were to actually 
 work. It pulls up games that are full... even when the "full" filter is on. The single player is 
 a great extension of the first game. It's Sam doing what Sam does in a story that only Sam could 
 be in. The lush jungles part to make way for your character and the buzz of the halogen lights 
 makes you feel right at home. All in all it's a good game and a good buy. I still will say... UBI 
 can not make a multiplayer game worth anything. They should have contracted that part out because, 
 like Raven Shield, it's loaded with problems. (I haven't played Raven Shield in awhile, but I heard 
 the ladder bug and gernade bug are still plaguing battlefields. If you've played the game you know 
 both bugs have been out since the demo version. ) Happy hunting. Get a LAN buddy and you'll be 
 all set. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchick1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2004 9:29 am PT
Review:  I wanted more and I got it! After the first Splinter Cell, I just wanted the series to continue 
 so I am not disappointed. If you liked the first, you'll like the second. One thing that must be 
 difficult for developers is figuring out how much to change and how much not to. Too much and people 
 scream; too little and they scream. Here, in SC: PT, I think you get the right mix with just enough 
 'new' that doesn't skew the gameplay, not to mention a new multiplayer that is excitingly unique. 
 I especially like the expanded locales and outdoor environment. The developers made the right call 
 here and expanded the game's horizons.
  The minuses? (1) I would have liked it longer. Ten hours or so is not long enough... Fifteen would 
 have been good. (2) Too'linear'... like the first SP, it gets too predictable and, while not too 
 obvious, you have to proceed along the route the developers lay out for you. This detracts from 
 the 'value'.
  (3) Voices. Geezzz! Come on Ubisoft!! Dah! For game immersion, you need voice accents appropriate 
 to the locale. Work with us here!
  Yes, it is the same ole' Sam.. but"nobody does it better"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7james
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 28, 2004 7:56 am PT
Review:  I expected too much. One quirk is Sam's reflection in the window on the Nice train, while using 
 the binoc's pointed at the window his reflection has his hands at his sides. Magically HANDS FREE 
 BINOC'S.
  Also in Jerusalem running away from police wasn't hard and taking out six or eight "terrorists" 
 (whatever) in a hallway of a "church" at the same time was EASY. They stood still for my sniper 
 shots. Ho Hum....
  Another thing DON'T always move bodies after a kill ,sometimes a bad guy would kill me while I 
 was standing there with this dead body on Sam's shoulders. I only got one alarm for not moving 
 a body. 
  Just 10 hours of moderate tension for 40 bucks . Same ol' Sam with usual play but great graphics 
 and locations. yeah I'LL play it over and over.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
