-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/splintercell4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tried-and-true stealth action gameplay still offers complexity and variety.
 The campaign's trust system presents a few interesting moral dilemmas.
 Features an overhauled version of Splinter Cell's innovative multiplayer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign recycles a lot of the same graphics, sound, and gameplay from before.
 Some issues with stability and graphical performance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 2,118 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Shanghai
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 7, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Agent Sam Fisher's latest assignment is a fairly routine stealth action operation, but changes to 
 Splinter Cell's innovative multiplayer mode help make up for this. 

  It was back in 2002 when we first met Sam Fisher, a jaded but extremely talented secret agent who 
 was sent all around the world to take care of the most sensitive, covert operations conducted by 
 the United States. Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell became one of the defining franchises of the original 
 Xbox, thanks to its incredibly lifelike graphics and sophisticated stealth action gameplay, and 
 the PC translations of this series have been comparably as good if not better. Earlier this fall, 
 Splinter Cell hit the Xbox 360 for the first time, and the transition to a more powerful new platform 
 naturally created even higher expectations. Yet despite a compelling new premise that forces Fisher 
 to make some tough moral choices to infiltrate a terrorist group, Splinter Cell Double Agent's 
 campaign could best be described as Splinter Cell with a fresh coat of paint. Now this experience 
 is available on the PC in a version that's nearly identical to what can be found on the Xbox 360, 
 notwithstanding some technical issues you might run into. The single-player portion of the game 
 possesses all of the strengths and weaknesses that fans of the series have come to expect. On the 
 other hand, the multiplayer component, which is like a whole separate game, has seen a variety 
 of interesting changes since the last game, making it probably the better half package.  

          Sam Fisher's got an unusual assignment in Splinter Cell Double Agent, and there's an impressive 
 multiplayer mode waiting for you as well.     

  Those familiar with the Xbox 360 version of Double Agent will find roughly the same experience 
 in this version, which feels like it was ported from the console. Of course, the default controls 
 are different, though Splinter Cell has always played about as well using a mouse and keyboard 
 as with a gamepad, and this year's game is no different. Visually, the PC version looks nearly 
 as good as the graphically impressive Xbox 360 version, if you have a powerful PC. However, even 
 on the highest settings, it appears that the PC version is missing some of the bells and whistles 
 of the 360 version, and you might still see some odd fluctuations in the game's frame rate, as 
 well as noticeably long loading times. On the plus side, the PC game retails for less, though it 
 naturally lacks the Xbox 360 version's unlockable achievements, which help add replay value to 
 both the solo campaign and the online modes. Players posting on the game's message boards also 
 complain about compatibility issues with particular hardware and various crash bugs; though, after 
 automatically downloading a required patch, the main issue we encountered on our test system was 
 an occasional inability to connect to multiplayer matches. There's also a bug that seems to prevent 
 you from using the extra gadgets you unlock by completing optional missions. So if you have the 
 choice, the Xbox 360 version is the safer bet. At any rate, if you've seen the Xbox 360 version 
 of the game already, then you know what to expect.  

  Even though the Splinter Cell games bear the name of a famous author, they have never been particularly 
 good at telling stories, despite the fact that Sam Fisher has always stood out as a great character. 
 Double Agent gives the impression that it might buck this trend. Early on in the game, Fisher loses 
 his cool and winds up in prison after he's given some very bad news. Unfortunately there's no real 
 follow-through on this plot point because Fisher's incarceration turns out to be a setup for him 
 to get in good with an upstart terrorist group oddly called John Brown's Army (JBA) . The JBA tentatively 
 accepts Fisher as one of its own... but he's still working for the National Security Agency (NSA) , 
 which orders him to play nice and learn what makes these terrorists tick. The terrorist leaders 
 have some personality, but they've got a pretty conventional blow-stuff-up plan. The game's whole 
 premise wears thin as Fisher keeps getting crucial assignments from the bad guys, who inexplicably 
 supply him with the experimental government-issue assault rifle he's always used. Eventually you'll 
 wonder why Sam can't just kill them all and be done with it. But your patience will be rewarded, 
 as there's an action-packed finale and multiple endings to look forward to based on the choices 
 you make along the way.  

  From a gameplay standpoint, ultimately there's not much new or different about the single-player 
 campaign of Double Agent versus that of the previous game, Chaos Theory. If you've played that 
 game, then expect to use all the same moves and abilities to get through Double Agent's dangerous 
 levels, all crawling with enemy patrols. Most of all, you'll be quietly sneaking through these 
 levels while keeping a low profile, sometimes creeping up from behind foes either to put them in 
 a vice grip for an interrogation session, or just put them out of their misery with a quick, lethal 
 knife attack. The controls are complicated to learn if you don't already know them, as even the 
 simple act of opening a door presents you with multiple options: slam it open, use an optical cable 
 to see what's on the other side, and more. But a couple of slick training missions make the learning 
 curve more tolerable. Once on a real mission, enemy forces will respond to you by using the same 
 tactics and behavior you'll probably recognize from the previous games, which still can't be considered 
 a remarkable display of artificial intelligence. If you move too quickly, nearby guards will wander 
 around searching for you. And if they spot you, they'll run behind cover and open fire. That's 
 really about it. While the game's environments are all new, and some are very impressive, seeing 
 all of the recycled moves, animations, and sound effects makes Double Agent's campaign feel like 
 an update rather than a full-on sequel.  

  However, there's a new trust system that gives the missions a different, often more free-form tone 
 than missions from previous Splinter Cell games. There are also moments during the campaign when 
 Fisher must make some sort of tough moral choice to stay in the JBA's good graces, though you could 
 count these moments on one hand. The trust system mostly forces you to be more careful. Getting 
 spotted by enemies will cause you to lose some of either the NSA's or the JBA's trust, and if either 
 of your two trust meters runs out, it's game over. The trust meters carry over from mission to 
 mission, but by completing optional mission objectives for both the JBA and the NSA, you can remain 
 in the good graces of both organizations. In practice, on the default difficulty setting, it isn't 
 difficult to maintain your trust with both sides. Even so, the game takes a step back from Chaos 
 Theory by including a number of potentially frustrating instant-fail situations, such as if JBA 
 terrorists catch you trying to pick a lock inside their base. The penalty isn't always this severe, 
 as if a JBA agent catches you skulking about in a restricted area, he'll chase you out as your 
 trust meter dwindles. Still, this is usually a good enough reason to load a saved game. The trust 
 system makes for an interesting twist, but Double Agent still mostly boils down to a linear series 
 of stealth missions, each with some major objectives and some optional secondary tasks.  

          You'll have to spend some time buddying up with the lieutenants of the John Brown's Army 
 terrorist group.     

  The JBA base missions are a new concept for Splinter Cell, and they're hit or miss. You get about 
 30 minutes to snoop around and try to accomplish as many different objectives as possible. Sam 
 can't attack his foes during these sequences, and if he's caught sneaking by his JBA brothers, 
 their reactions just aren't believable. On the other hand, the way Sam switches from a casual walk 
 into his low stealthy crouch when he enters into a restricted area is a great, immediate indication 
 that you're about to conduct some risky business. Getting through undetected is tense and feels 
 rewarding, though these open-ended, pure-stealth missions will have you frequently reloading saved 
 games until you can find the right way to slip through the JBA's security. The first couple of 
 visits to the JBA base are entertaining, but because you'll return here between almost every major 
 mission, it's less exciting after a while. And during one such mission, you're forced to decrypt 
 an e-mail by completing a 3D sudoku puzzle, which seems oddly out of place.  

  Fisher's main assignments in Double Agent take him everywhere from a massive tanker caught in a 
 freezing-cold Russian winter to a sweltering-hot African town that's wracked by war. Interestingly, 
 most of these missions take place in broad daylight, so Fisher will need to hide behind cover much 
 more often than he'll need to slink through the shadows. In fact, you could go through most of 
 the campaign without ever using his signature night vision goggles, and he won't even have them 
 half the time anyway. The game's main missions are quite lengthy and challenging, and it's generally 
 up to you to decide whether to try to sneak past your foes or fight them.     

  The shooting in Double Agent feels exactly the same as before, so it's not particularly satisfying 
 and is mostly a means to an end. You must aim while standing perfectly still in order to shoot 
 with any accuracy, and Fisher moves slowly when his gun is equipped anyway, which prevents you 
 from playing this or any Splinter Cell game in a run-and-gun fashion. And besides, the silenced 
 pistol and rifle Fisher uses just don't pack much of a visceral punch. Fisher also has the same 
 quick lethal and nonlethal close-combat attacks he had in Chaos Theory and remains powerful enough 
 to take down one or two guards head on.  

          The multiplayer portion of Double Agent provides more in the way of differences and improvements 
 when compared with the single-player portion.     

  One noteworthy change to the gameplay is that, in a nod to games like Call of Duty 2, there are 
 no health packs anymore. Fisher's life recovers automatically if he avoids damage for a few seconds. 
 This doesn't add to the game's realism any more than health packs do, but it gives you one less 
 thing to worry about and probably makes the game a little easier overall. Of course, you can still 
 be killed very quickly if unexpectedly caught by a rifle-toting opponent. Although a violent approach 
 is often the easiest way out, it's not always an option at the hard difficulty setting, which starts 
 you off without any ammo and makes you lose a lot more of the NSA's or JBA's trust whenever you 
 slip up. Fortunately, Fisher now has access to an onscreen map that points out enemies in the vicinity. 
 The only catch is that the map will only refresh when he stops moving, so you need to tread carefully. 
 You can also access a more-detailed 3D map, which can be confusing to read in some of the bigger 
 levels, but it still is essential for locating some of your objectives.  

  Double Agent's single-player campaign is roughly the same length as that of the previous games, 
 so you should be able to get through it the first time in 10 hours or less. There's some replay 
 value there, from the higher difficulty setting and multiple endings, but most of this game's lasting 
 value comes from its multiplayer mode. It's still based on the innovative concept from Splinter 
 Cell Pandora Tomorrow, which pitted small teams of quick and nimble spies against heavily armed 
 mercenaries; but the pace is quicker, you can have six players in a match (up from four) , and the 
 whole experience is more streamlined and somewhat less complicated than previous versions. You'll 
 also notice that the game prohibits you from playing on all of the available maps until you've 
 earned some experience, which is a good thing because each of the approximately 10 maps is intricately 
 designed and you need to learn their ins and outs before you can play on them effectively.  

  The last two Splinter Cell games offered multiple game variants for each map, but they were all 
 pretty similar. In Double Agent, the point of each map is quite clear: The spies must download 
 files from one of several different terminals and return those files to their insertion point, 
 while the mercenaries must stop them. Even though it's been true of the last two Splinter Cell 
 games, the fact that the spies and the mercenaries play so differently still makes this multiplayer 
 mode feel unique. The spies are controlled from a third-person perspective, like Sam Fisher, while 
 mercenaries are controlled strictly from a first-person viewpoint. The mercenaries make up for 
 having less maneuverability and situational awareness by packing a big gun with unlimited ammo, 
 among other things.  

  The spies are even less like Sam Fisher than they used to be, which is great. They move about twice 
 as fast as Fisher and have a number of their own unique moves and animations. What they don't have 
 anymore is any kind of conventional weapon, though they can still use smoke grenades and other 
 gadgets, as well as their high-tech wristband for neutralizing mercenaries' weapon systems. This 
 same device is used for taking out lights, breaking glass, and downloading those precious files -- a 
 process that takes dangerous number of seconds. As soon as a spy starts downloading files from 
 a terminal, the mercenaries are alerted to it and may follow an onscreen minimap to quickly get 
 to the action. However, tracking down those pesky spies can still be difficult because most multiplayer 
 maps in Double Agent are very, very dark, unlike the single-player missions.  

  Spies can't withstand much damage from mercenary machine guns, but they can still take out mercenaries 
 by dropping on their heads or sneaking up behind them and snapping their necks. Mercenaries, in 
 turn, can slam spies to the ground with a swing of their rifles and finish them off with a powerful 
 head butt. It's great fun to pull off these types of moves in a multiplayer match, though there's 
 a lot more sneaking and stalking in a typical match than full-on combat. Even so, the pace is quicker 
 and better overall than in previous versions of this multiplayer mode. Spies don't have to worry 
 about getting caught by laser trip wires and other defenses, but they have more to fear from mercenaries 
 who may quickly discover them as soon as the spies begin downloading from a terminal. And it's 
 worth noting that having six players in these matches also greatly affects both the pace and the 
 strategy. Spies seemingly have to work a little harder than mercenaries to accomplish their objectives, 
 but by spreading out and attacking different terminals at the same time, they can divide and conquer. 
 Mercenaries can meanwhile use a special vision mode to detect spies who are trying to download 
 files, which lets them get pretty sneaky themselves.  

  As you play and win successive matches, you can unlock some bonuses, like a few alternate outfits 
 for the spies and mercenaries, to help reward your continued effort. Because coordination is the 
 key to success in this game, you may also form a squad with some of your friends and compete against 
 other squads. Interestingly, Double Agent optionally lets you play with or against computer-controlled 
 bots on the mercenary side, but not the spy side, presumably because the spies have too complicated 
 of a job for the artificial intelligence to handle. The mercenary artificial intelligence is available 
 in three difficulties and provides a respectable challenge. Double Agent also features a series 
 of cooperative missions, which cast you and up to two other players as the spies and put you up 
 against computer-controlled mercenaries. Some of these missions even have a competitive twist to 
 them. They're essentially similar to the core multiplayer game, but they don't have human players 
 controlling the mercenaries. So these aren't the stand-alone, story-driven co-op missions as seen 
 in Chaos Theory, but there are a lot more of them than in the last game, and the underlying gameplay 
 is faster and more exciting.  

          Although Double Agent looks very impressive in spots, it still looks a lot like what you've 
 seen in the past from Splinter Cell.     

  What immediately stood out about the original Splinter Cell game was its presentation, but the 
 series' presentation has come to feel like a given. In terms of the visuals, Double Agent lives 
 up to the series' high standards but makes no clear effort to exceed them. Apart from a lot of 
 added detail to Fisher's character model and some other new visual effects, the presentation's 
 improvements aren't significant. Some unsightly frame rate issues even crop up from time to time, 
 and the sound effects, while still fitting, seem to have been recycled from the very first Splinter 
 Cell. Some fairly long loading times and the need to quit out and load different executables to 
 switch from single-player to multiplayer also mar the overall experience a bit. Thankfully, gravelly-voiced 
 Michael Ironside still puts in a good performance as Fisher, but there's less banter and dry humor 
 in the script compared with Chaos Theory. The rest of the voice acting is solid, and there are 
 only good things to be said about the game's new soundtrack, which is perfectly fitting superspy-sounding 
 stuff that gets louder and tenser when Fisher gets up close to an enemy. Music also picks up at 
 key moments during multiplayer -- when it's time for a spy to get those files back to extraction 
 or to die trying.  

  Double Agent for the PC is a fine choice if the marginally better Xbox 360 version isn't an option 
 for you. Sam Fisher is the star of the Splinter Cell series, so it's odd that the multiplayer portions 
 of these games, which he's in no way a part of, seem to be evolving more rapidly than the solo 
 campaigns. Double Agent's few keen twists on Splinter Cell's single-player gameplay don't result 
 in a remarkably different experience from the previous games, though that doesn't mean it still 
 isn't some of the best stealth action out there. The multiplayer portion, meanwhile, introduces 
 some inventive changes that seem to be for the better because they help make this unique mode easier 
 to get into and often more exciting to play than before. And these two parts add up to an excellent 
 game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (175 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, specially for stealth fans. The story is good enough to keep you interested 
 in it, and since you work for two agencies at once, it makes you want to know what will happen 
 next. Gameplay elements are just like other splinter cell games, but with a little more variety 
 and complexity added onto them.
  
  AI is pretty good, and you will always think for a couple of minutes before making your move, since 
 this game doesn't want you to go around shooting people, but wants you to take them out without 
 no one noticing, or even not taking anyone out and going through invisible.
  
  Graphics and sound are great, and voice acting is average. Though it gets better, in the beginning 
 some of the characters just don't sound right.
  
  There are a couple of bugs in the retail version of the game, but nothing bad enough to bog down 
 the experience (searched in google for 5 seconds and found the solution for my problems) . Just 
 patch the game and you will be good to go.
  
  Multiplayer is also fun and innovative. Great to run away from the standard Call of Duty shooter.
 
  
  Now just BUY THIS GAME WILL YA, I am going to have some dinner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR_2012
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 1:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 8/10
  
  Double Agent's gameplay is quite intriguing, letting you do old Splinter Cell stuff like grabbing 
 a person and using him as a human shield, knocking someone out etc etc..... but it also features 
 some new stuff, for example coming down from a room ceiling, freely suspended (like you see in 
 the first mission impossible movie) . Plus, this game gives you choices, you can follow your conscience 
 rather than following your orders blindly. However, every choice you make is going to affect the 
 trust of both the JBA and the NSA. Excessive loss of trust will result in defeat, so choose carefully. 
 Watch out for bugs.....
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  The graphics of the game is quite decent, but I've give it 8 because of a few bugs. For instance, 
 when two bodies are piled on each other, the two seem to blend with each other. Also, sometimes 
 you will experience difficulty in entering shafts. A few bugs here and there makes things feel 
 a bit out of place.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  
  The game sounds are quite good, there is nothing bad about it, but it just isn't up to the mark. 
 In comparison to other Splinter Cell games, sound may seem a bit substandard.
  
  Value - 8/10
  
  Although the game has a few problems, its strong story driven gameplay and 
 decent graphics and sound make it worth your while. The game also has good replay value because 
 of the multiple objectives.
  
  Overall :-
  
  I would say that the game is quite good, but not exceptional. Its fun to play, and is quite enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 7:06 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I just recently purchased this game on steam for $10 and I regret every penny of 
 my purchase.
  
  I remember playing Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow, which was simply amazing. This game just can't 
 compare.
  
  I'll start off with graphics and performance.
  Graphics/Performance: This is easily the worst part of the game. The graphics are ok, but the issue 
 is that the it's VERY difficult to tell what's 'Green' shadow and what's not. ****ty lighting for 
 a stealth game just doesn't work. I've had about 3 crashes since I started playing and I've only 
 made it past the first level. 
  
  Gameplay: Degraded version of Pandora Tomorrow. Enemies are so far apart, it's not even a challenge. 
 You're almost invincible as well. You can also shoot enemies at will (no mission restraints) . Aside 
 from the COMPLETELY broken stealth play, you'll notice a lot missing. You can't lean around corners 
 or knock on walls (if you can, I don't know how because the tutorial is the absolute worst) . 
 
  
  Overall: Terrible gaming experience. If you want a splinter cell game. Get Pandora Tomorrow. This 
 one should be avoided by any avid fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlur
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of Sam Fisher. I have all the previous PC-versions and fan-made maps. I love sulking 
 in the dark. I love completing all my games using the greenish night vision. And I waited for this 
 game quite a long time. They don't ship games to my country right away, so it took time to get 
 hands on this "pearl". After install, the not-working configuration manager said I did not have 
 proper drivers for GFX-card. Nice one guys. The game run on full FX perfectly and the first moments 
 in the game were - I'd say cool. So I got into the game and played and played and started to see 
 a pattern. This game crashes, a lot. If you have the radar on during quicksave, crash during quickload. 
 And the game-save management - you cannot name the save-file, you cannot load some of the quicksaves, 
 the save-files are ordered in the load-list randomly. Like WTF. Also I hate the yuppie-made paradigm 
 shift: Let's bring Sam out from the shadows to sunlight. This is BS. Even terrorist groups would 
 understand reasoning, why they'd have to board ships or attack objects during nighttime. Last level 
 in West-Africa was a disaster. Continuous lockups, crashes. I hated this level.
  
  But I'm a big fan of Sam; so bring it on. Maybe the next iteration is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Above average demands for somewhat average graphics. It's not really eye-candy, but it get's the 
 job done. Unfortunately there are a number of bugs and glitches here and there.
  
  Sounds:
  Motionpicture quality soundtrack, as for the voice acting I need only say: Michael Ironside.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  It's the first game in the series to actually introduce some new content. Of course Sam has some 
 new moves but the highlight here is the "double agent" aspect of the game, I especially liked the 
 "undercover" missions which can be approached in various ways and has a 40 minute countdown. Also, 
 Sam dares to move about in broad daylight now.
  
  Story:
  The best in the series and definately the darkest. The main characters, from Lambert to your terror-mates 
 all feel very much alive and you're sure to have second thoughts when the time comes to make choices 
 which will eventually effect the ending.
  The worst that can be said is that the game leaves a "to be continued..." cliffhanger ending.
 
  
  Verdict:
  If you can look past the graphics and occasional bugs Splinter Cell: Double Agent is possibly the 
 best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent is the best splinter cell game I've played yet in the series. 
 The only thing that sucks about it is that Sam winds up being made a buy guy in each ending you 
 might go through at the end. The best thing that may happen at the end of the game, if you don't 
 let JBA plans go through, is you are given a short mini mission to stop the other bomb being controlled 
 by that moose fellow on a small coast guard boat. The only thing I hate about this game is that 
 they spend too much time in the JBA headquarters for missions and you don't even get to use your 
 night vision, thermal vision and get any chances in the beginning to knock someone out. Like every 
 splinter cell game before it the multiplayer is bad to play. I rather just have free for all death 
 matches instead of going around trying to hack stuff. Why can't they have the graphics at peak 
 with the single player, which would have got me to play the multiplayer for days, instead of seconds. 
 Like every splinter cell before double agent you have the strategy of wasting your ammo and shooting 
 out lights for more darkness surroundings and to lure your enemies toward you. The new thing in 
 double agent is that you can hack safes the old way, by turning number locks around and around 
 which sometimes drives me insane by doing it in the game because you have to have a delicate touch 
 on your keyboard. Overall splinter cell double agent is the best in the series so far right now, 
 but I'll have to just until (2009-2010) till next one comes out (splinter cell conviction which 
 holds promise.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PreKDropout215
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent has a lot of satisfying moments such as pulling a bad guy through the 
 ice and stabbing him in the chest before his buddy hears a thing. However, the game has so SO many 
 bugs and glitches that between every satisfying moment is seemingly endless frustration. Occasionally, 
 you will approach a safe and enter the safe-cracking mode only to find out that it's not responding 
 to the arrow keys and you have to reload the last save you made and try again. Eventually, you 
 get used to saving before every safe, but it should never be this way in the first place. Even 
 the shadows in many parts seem to be made of a bunch of squares, which on it's own isn't a very 
 noteworthy glitch but mixed together with everything else it's just annoying. Even the map is AWFUL. 
 You may end up spending up to half an hour just trying to figure where your next objective is. 
 Completing an objective is usually very satisfying, but between each objective, expect to explode 
 in a long string of foul language due to pure frustration with the abundant glitches and bugs that 
 will constantly be a part of your gameplay experience. Double Agent had some cool ideas and solid 
 gameplay, but in the end it just feels unfinished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  If you are familiar with Splinter Cell series you won't be very surprised by this game but the 
 storyline makes it different from the others. In Double Agent, the player plays a double agent 
 role between NSA and a terrorist group called JBA. The goal of the game is to keep satisfied both 
 sides in an intelligent manner.
  
  Each of the sides gives you a special order which should be carried out. These order affects your 
 relationship with each side. For example if you don't carry out your objective with NSA will decrease 
 their trust on you. Some of the orders have conflicts. If you carry the order you will gain trust 
 with one side but lose with other side so a care should be taken before doing anything. 
  
  The final goal is to help NSA neutrilize the terrorist group by doing their tasks while also helping 
 terrorists performing their job. This will sometimes get nasty while they find you stealing documents 
 from them. The game is more stealth that other Splinter Cells 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardhuddy
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher returns in the 4th instalment of the Tom Clancy stealth operation series, Splinter Cell. 
 Sam is required to help the government agency (NBA ) to go deep under cover so uncover the doings 
 of an active terrorists organisation known as the John Brown Army (JBA) but is soon caught with 
 conflicting objectives making him a Double Agent.. DA DA DAA!.
  
  
  I love stealth games. There're annoying, frustrating, and sometime a damn right headache. Yet at 
 the same time they are enriched with those satisfying moments of triumph when you've managed to 
 slip past a seven foot bald meat head without raising any suspicion. Your heart pounds with raising 
 stress levels and you feel elated when you finally achieve your goal. A bit like when you sneaked 
 a porn magazine past your mum whilst she had her hands in the sink Splinter Cell Double Agent 
 doesn't do this and fails miserably at trying to do so. 
  
  This game didn't quite live up to its expectations of earlier releases and you never felt quite 
 like you had control. Opportunities to encourage stealth appeared to be limited to limited. I'm 
 not saying you couldn't use stealth at every opportunity, but it was easier in places just to grab 
 and kill. Maybe I'm just getting to impatient in my age. 
  
  The first game, if I recall, you had all stealth gadgets from the word go. In DA, tools were unlocked 
 with progress and by the time you got them, they were little too late to have some fun and I'm 
 disappointed.
  
  Although the game takes a linear path through its missions, you are required to make decisions 
 that has an outcome on the eventual ending of the game. Trust can be earned or taken away according 
 to the choices you make. However, there's occasionally a cop out option that keeps everyone happy. 
 
  
  Each mission is separated with a homecoming to the JBA headquarters which is quite interesting. 
 One half of the premises is open for you to sneak around, try your hand at cracking a safe or two 
 or a bit of fire arms practise. The other half is restricted and some areas are locked. Bit of 
 a bugger that as most your objectives are in these areas which must be breached without being spotted. 
 But then, even if you are, you loss a bit of trust and sent back to your room with no tea. 
  
  The game is also in the top three for the "buggiest" games ever. In fact, since I'm feeling 
 really critical today, I'm placing it number one. The loss of settings, progress and even Sam's 
 head at one stage, doesn't give me any confidence in Ubi's testing. The bugs were so bad; I decided 
 to leave it for a while for future patches. A year later and a few patches, things appeared to 
 be better but not brilliant and finally I finished it.
  
  It sounds like I've not a good thing to say about this game, and that's because I haven't. There 
 were some moments I enjoyed and the story held pretty well too. In fact, I'll go as far to say 
 the story is the best thing about the whole game. 
  
  I will admit that I didn't get top play Pandora's box, not did I enjoy the ever popular Chaos theory 
 but looking at this game, I'm glad that I was maybe spared the money and time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmandi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  Story in singleplayer is decent, gameplay usual - you sneak a bit, than you shoot if necessary, 
 avoid detection if possible and all that "been there done that" stuff from previous splinter cell 
 games. It still works and it's still fun.
  
  But what really makes this game worthwhile is multiplayer. Unlike Chaos Theory or Pandora Tomorrow 
 here you have much less gadgets, less shadows to hide in and overall it's less complicated to play. 
 It's easier and funnier than any Splinter Cell before. Maps are big. As a Spy you will usually 
 be high above your enemy or in ventilation duct. As UPSILON Force you will be forced to take long 
 road around everything but unlike spy you will be armed with weapon and unlimited amount of bullets.
 
  
  So while singleplayer is average, multiplayer is what makes this game great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I can't rate this game or the previous games in 'splinter cell' series less than perfect!
  It's true that the game didn't evolve very much and the changes were minor but the feeling that 
 it gives you when you play it the tension, the focus required it's just completely different from 
 any other game. Double Agent seems to be a little bit harder than the other "3" because you have 
 to do some brainstorming (like there is a time in the game when you have to decrypt a code that 
 has the shape of a cube and it is a little bit tricky to complete that task) but even if you burn 
 a couple of neurons in the end it is a very well designed game. Anyway the beauty of the game is 
 that you can make choices like who lives and who dies or /can you save somebody's life that might 
 be useful to you but at the same time leaving behind the so called "acceptable casualties"?
  Well it's great actually it dazzles me!!! :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I am a huge fan of Tom Clancy and have played all the Tom Clancy games 
 from the original Rainbox Six to Rainbow Six Vegas, and have mostly enjoyed all of them. Now this 
 leads me to wonder, what the heck happened to Double Agent? It seems that the game was glued together 
 by different teams from different corners of the world. The premise is there, the story is there, 
 but the technical issues produce insurmountable obstacles to otherwise enjoy what seems to be an 
 excellent game. Was it tested by anyone?
  
  Issues list of fun:
  
  -My machine went through a half dozen blue screens of death and several crashes to desktop. 
 
  
  -The funniest technical issue I found was when you receive a "call" in Sam's headset, the voice 
 talking actually resonates if you're in a resonating environment, how sloppy is that? 
  
  -There are no subtitles and listening to speech is difficult as there are so many environmental 
 noises drowning everything out. 
  
  -There is no widescreen support
  
  i could not continue playing as my operating system was becoming corrupt after the constant reboots 
 to fix the BSOD's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosE_D
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I can't rate this game or the previous games in 'splinter cell' series less than perfect!
  It's true that the game didn't evolve very much and the changes were minor but the feeling that 
 it gives you when you play it the tension, the focus required it's just completely different from 
 any other game. Double Agent seems to be a little bit harder than the other "3" because you have 
 to do some brainstorming (like there is a time in the game when you have to decrypt a code that 
 has the shape of a cube and it is a little bit tricky to complete that task) but even if you burn 
 a couple of neurons in the end it is a very well designed game. Anyway the beauty of the game is 
 that you can make choices like who lives and who dies or /can you save somebody's life that might 
 be useful to you but at the same time leaving behind the so called "acceptable casualties"?
  Well it's great actually it dazzles me!!! :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legice
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  So you are in jail for 6 months just to get closer to some bad guyz, but you have your gear (thing 
 on back) . Not needed. You will notice you will get that on your machine gun, back, chest, and h. u. d. 
 Too much unnecessary details. Now the way to go,... you know exactly where to go and there are many 
 rooms, holes, pipes,... you just know. Killing... you can do it and no minus respect or thrust from 
 the agency. You can climb or jump on stuff you need to get somewhere, but nothing more. The enemys 
 are just stupid. What is that,... and go do some other stuff. They don't see you from 2m, but shoot 
 you from 10. wtf moment. Slow animations, when you really don't want them like running and then stopping 
 to jump in the water, or knocking somebody out and putting him down,... gently I mean, you have the 
 time. Right? Enemis standing on some thin ice, like just knowing something cool will happen."I will 
 guard here and you guard the not so suspecious looking hole covered with ice". When you grabbed 
 an enemy, you can se a beginners graphic mistake, knife through the clothes. Grabs the same a neked 
 guy or a guy in clothes. Cutting the fabric to make an entrance to the tent shows you some bad mistakes 
 when cutting. If you saved, later cutting the fabric, then loaded for any reason, you yould se the 
 fabric looked cutted, animated and all, but you could not go through, because you cutted after you 
 saved. Don't get me? Never mind, you will see.
  
  
  
  It's really sad because this game had great potential, but too many stuff going on, or not enough. 
 Had more fun playing Pandora tomorrow and Chaos Theory, but in chaos theory, you could see some bad 
 actions being made, like grabbing the enemy. All that dancing around just to grab him (the beginning 
 of the bad stuff) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  I have been a long-time fan of the Splinter Cell games (and pretty much all the other Tom Clancy 
 games) . They are good games, in general. This one was quite a disappointment for me, however. Technically 
 speaking, it was a very good game, and I'm sure there are plenty of people out there who will really 
 enjoy it. I even enjoyed most of it. The part that really killed it for me was that in between 
 every mission, you were sent back to the bad guy's base and assigned a bunch of busy work... you 
 got to assemble mines and do target practice... legitimate plot points, but boring. Between every 
 real mission there was 25 minutes of this stuff, and it really broke up the flow of the game.
 
  
  Other than that, I liked it. It was more of the gameplay that I have come to expect from a Splinter 
 Cell game, with the addition of the complications of trying to keep both sides happy with you... 
 there were timed decisions where you had to decide which team to play for (whether to kill somebody, 
 etc.) . This was a nice new twist on what has become familiar, something to spice things up a little 
 bit in the series.
  
  Anyways, the game is worth playing through at least once, but honestly, I would recommend using 
 some sort of game guide, at least for the "intermission" stuff, so you can get through it a little 
 faster and get back to the real game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  First off, I would advise against buying Splinter Cell: Double Agent (SCDA) even if it falls into 
 your bargain bin (which it probaly would at this time of writing) .
  
  If you have played the first 3 Splinter Cell games, which were quite good by the way, you'll definitely 
 want to find out what happens in Sam Fisher's fourth adventure. Here's what I'll tell anyone with 
 the slightest interest: Don't buy it. I too, am a Sam Fisher fan and thus fell into Ubisoft's little 
 trap. Allow me to list out several major reasons why you should just read the story, and not bother 
 playing it.
  
  At the top of the list, we have stability issues. Expect your game to crash during load screens 
 and even in the middle of a tense gaming moment, for no apparent reason. Quite a few big games 
 have this fatal flaw, but those games are quickly patched up and the problem is solved. I tried 
 patching my SCDA, but all I got was a confused patcher that couldn't tell my game version. Amazing.
 
  
  Next, let's take a look at the graphics. This is one of the only parts of the game that are passable. 
 That's right, passable and not the usual goodness that you expect from a Splinter Cell title. The 
 graphics are not at all better than the previous title: Chaos Theory (which I consider the best 
 Splinter Cell effort so far) , but actually appear ugly and uninspired, especially in the poorly-made 
 cutscenes. There's one in particular when Fisher meets Lambert who steps out of his car to have 
 some chit-chat. The only thing I managed to see in that cutscene was the prominent "NOKIA" sign 
 on the phone, and Fisher's ugly face. Plus, the level designs are nowhere as creative or polished 
 as the previous titles. I blame this on sheer laziness on the designers part.
  
  And then there's the audio. You know, Splinter Cell games used to sound great during those intense 
 moments. Assassinating President Nikoladze, defusing the bomb in LAX, and the showdown in Chaos 
 Theory that I will not spoil for you. When we compare that to SCDA, it just feels... inadequate. 
 There are no rich soundtracks (remember that Crystal Method signature in the first SC? Ah, nostalgia) 
 or even cool background music to speak of. It's just alot of ambient noise, and boring background 
 covers. Which brings me to the worst part of the audio segment: no subtitles. I understand that 
 talented voice actors are hard to find, and not every character may turn out consistent and perfect. 
 But not having subtitles in SC is inexcusable. The dialogue is always dark and low key, thus subtitles 
 are important for us to understand what those characters are trying to convey. This really dents 
 the enjoyment factor of the game because you have to turn your speakers up to understand what those 
 people are saying, just in case you want to follow the story or listen to a couple of lame jokes.
 
  
  Yes, lame jokes. Sam Fisher is still voiced by the same man since the first game. (I think his 
 name is Micheal Ironside, but I can't be sure) Remember in Chaos Theory when the interrogations 
 were worth listening to because of Fishers' dark sense of humor? I'm sorry to tell you that it's 
 gone now. The writing of the dialogue barely gets the job done, and doesn't strike me as even remotely 
 interesting, at all. As for the storyline, it has its own merits, but fails to deliver completely 
 due to many other factors.
  
  So the stability is bad, the graphics are bad, the audio is bad, and the writing is passable. The 
 final nail in SCDA's coffin is the gameplay.
  
  Let's start positive this time: the trust system works. Other users may have a different perspective 
 here, but at least it works in a logical way, so that's a plus. Also, you'll want to play this 
 game on Easy (I'll explain why soon) or Normal (if you're blessed with infinite patience) . All 
 Splinter Cell games adopt the trial-and-error type of gameplay, which means that there's rarely 
 two correct ways to do something. There's nothing wrong with this except that you have to perfect 
 your timing, and minimize (often reloading to avoid) any mistakes. In the past 3 games, this was 
 often rewarding and even to a certain degree, fun. Not so in SCDA, obviously. Where Chaos Theory 
 treats you to a beautiful, and sometimes exciting cutscene, SCDA screws you with an ugly scripted 
 sequence, or even ends abruptly and shows you your mission score. What's new in SCDA is the ability 
 to sneak around the JBA base and poke your nose into everyone's personal files etc. and not getting 
 caught. I would say this doesn't qualify as a mission, but more of a chore. A mindless, repititive 
 chore with no substansial reward to speak of. Oh, before I forget, there's a minigame involving 
 a 2x2 cube that needs to be solved, but I had no idea how. Please do yourself a favor and read 
 the Gamespot Guide to get through all that pointless objectives.
  
  OK, so we've been through nearly every aspect of the game, so let me SUMMARIZE everything and offer 
 a little afterthought. SCDA is a step backwards in every single way compared to Chaos Theory. I 
 realise that this direct comparison might not be fair, but don't you think that the next game in 
 a series should always improve on the previous one? Gamespot claims that it recycles the same graphics 
 and audio, but please read between the lines and realise what Gamespot is trying to tell us: it 
 looks and sounds the same (worse) as Chaos Theory. Another tell-tale sign that Gamespot gives is 
 the Double Agent game guide was only complete on March 6, 2008! Even Gamespot had such a hard time 
 finishing the broken SCDA that was released on Nov 7, 2006! (for the PC version) This speaks volumes 
 as Gamespot had to *endure* SCDA for such a long time before completing their game guide.
  
  If you're still not convinced that SCDA is a waste of your time and money, then you're welcome 
 to make the same mistake I did. But this review is not all about bashing SCDA. The next in the 
 Splinter Cell series is Conviction, which is due in Q1, 2009 (at the time of writing) . I want it 
 to be good. Not just for our enjoyment, or for Ubisoft's reputation. I want Splinter Cell: Conviction 
 to be good for Sam Fisher's sake. He has become an icon in the PC Gaming world, and this fifth 
 installment will either make or break that image.
  
  In conclusion, I hope Ubisoft are aware of all of these major flaws, and do not repeat ANY of them 
 (all of these are rookie mistakes that should not happen in the first place) . Hence, I hereby pronounce 
 SCDA a failure. Let's all pray for a brighter future for our dear Sam Fisher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Just finished the game and wow do i have mixed reactions about it.
  
  First off, if you're new to the Splinter Cell series I really wouldn't recommend this straight 
 up since its way too confusing for a newbie. A tutorial is provided but it really is kinda of pointless 
 since it has nothing to do with the story or even help with the basics of stealth, it really just 
 lets you figure it out by yourself even though its a tutorial level. The first splinter cell is 
 much more basic and a defenite must if you're new to this stealth action series.
  Also, the stealth system really got fiddled around with from the older games and reduced to a mere 
 red, yellow and green light system. I'm not sure what happened to the old stealth meter, i think 
 ubisoft thought it was too complicated since you really werent sure when the AI could see you or 
 not but i honestly never had problems with it before. I mean, the lower the meter was the better 
 off you were and if it got higher you were just pushing your luck. Here instead, if youre in the 
 yellow then the enemy can see you, if you're in the green then he cant, period. It sounds simple 
 and easy but the problem is that the lighting in this is way messed up, its hard to tell what areas 
 will give you a green light and which ones are yellow. You'll have to save and reload tons of times 
 just for trial and error. The old splinter cell games really gave you shadows to move in and you 
 knew by just looking at them that you could hide there. This is not the case for double agent.
 
  
  Bugs are also a REALLY annoying aspect in the game. Graphical, technical 
  and even gameplay bugs are present in the hundreds in this. I'll spare you the graphical bugs since 
 they arent as annoying but there's also a bug that prevents you from cracking a safe, and another 
 that makes the game crash after loading a save game. I downloaded the latest patch and still all 
 these were present and incredibily annoying.
  
  On the bright side, they really came up with some great locations and situations in this. I dont 
 want to spoil anything but amazing and unique is to say the least. They really pushed their ideas 
 forward and came up with some truly great stuff in my opinion, stuff never done before.
  I think that Ubisoft assembled the same team from the previous installments but really counted 
 on the marketing aspect to sell the game since there are a ton of trailers and clips out there 
 that show aspects that you really dont encounter while playing.
  So the game simply lacks polish, and really loses points for this. It could have been the best 
 in series but all the bugs and things associated with those really make the game less enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lendrahcir
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  This is a very nice change of pace to the whole Splinter Cell series. While there is still the 
 old style of gameplay that we all come to expect from a SC game, there is a nice mixture of the 
 new style and the old. 
  
  Being the double agent really does feel more realistic, when you get to go behind cover in the 
 enemies base it finally feels like a real spy game. Having to decide whether to take some risks 
 of not has a great fell to it. The trust system is also nice, but on normal difficulty its seems 
 quite easy to keep your trust at maximum, and if you do make a mistake and fail so objective, there 
 is plenty more to regain trust immediately. 
  
  There are probably some questions that you feel should be answered like: "How does Sam still have 
 all of his high-tech gear working for a terrorist group?" and "Why are they not suspicious of his 
 amazing talents and checking all his history out", but if you can ignore your urges to figure these 
 out, then it doesn't really matter, it sure as hell doesn't take away from the game play. 
  
  The graphics improve yet again in the series which is always nice. The only thing that doesn't 
 seemed to have improved is the AI, it's the same as usual and it doesn't suit on certain maps (slightly 
 annoying) .
  
  There is only one, but major set back to this game: the crashes! Having system that far surpasses 
 the recommended specs and still at times the game dies over and over at certain points. I'd hate 
 to have played this game before the patches! At one point the game died 8 times in 11 minutes! 
 
  
  All the crashes started to make the game feel unfinished, if it wasn't for those the game would 
 have been given 9+, but it was lucky to get the 8. 
  
  I would recommend this game to all the fans of the series, it's by far one of the best out of it, 
 just be prepared for crashy crashy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehrdad1987
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Splinter cell Double agent was a new episode of SC, and it has some changes about playing, gameplay 
 , sam's face , kills of sam, and manythink.
  about the game:
  Sam fisher after losing his daughter , has begun a new life with his hands, third echlon's missions 
 has been changed , and Sam in now of crysis.
  There is a secret brand of terrorist ,in new york. they want to made new york a dead city .Sam's 
 new objective is to go inside JBA (terrorists) , and reveal them to NSA (National Security Agency) 
 , a third echlon.
  Sam needs to do dangerous things to get his pay from NSA.
  Nice game, Nice storyline , Nice Graphics , Nice characters , and Nice Episode.
  the release 
 date was 7 nov 2006, but i havent seen any game that has the graphic of this game.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent .
  Mehrdad Gh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: DA seems like a sexy game when you look at the trailers and the screen shots but 
 unfortunately this isn't the case. To be frank, this game is superb if only it wasn't plagued by 
 bugs and performance issues.
  
  Shame on Ubisoft for releasing this Alpha version of a game! Graphical issues and bugs appear in 
 in the game randomly, even with the patches. The graphics are not THAT cutting edge yet it has 
 a ridiculously high system requirement!
  
  The storytelling here is a bit lackluster compared to the previous Splinter Cell games. Note the 
 part where Sam's daughter gets killed. It's not in the game! There is this void in the story where 
 you have to find the full story outside of the game! Minus points there.
  
  The stealth system is downgraded to a simple flashing of green, yellow, and red to indicate the 
 levels of danger. It's a good idea but because of the crappy AI's detection system it just fails 
 to deliver the same level of control in the previous SC games.
  
  We'll have to wait and see what Conviction has to offer. It better be good! Ubisoft owes it to 
 us and also to the Splinter Cell series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rodglodger
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm a great fan of the Splinter Cell series. It's probably the best, for me, since the great "Thief" 
 series. HOWEVER - this latest , Double Agent, has been driving me nuts. First, I had to buy a whole 
 new computer system because of it's high 1 GB MEM, and Invidia 8200 + driver requiremnts. I had 
 to find & download some fixes. THEN- comes the game playing. I don't get to shoot many people, 
 darn it! But - Worst of all - The "puzzles" that have to be solved in order to unlock doors, open 
 safes, progress thru the game via special puzzles, are RIDICULOUSLY difficult, requiring REDICULOUSLY 
 fast reflexes. I have fast eye-hand coordination & reflexes, but i have had to spend HOURS saving 
 & replaying them time & time again in order to progress. Because of this, I would only rate this 
 game as 5 out of ten.
  Rodlodger 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wengistein
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I'll be frank with you: waste. Of. Time. I'm not sure what Ubisoft were thinking when they decided 
 that this game was ready, because it is obviously not. It looks and plays as if it's still in beta 
 mode!
  
  I bought it because it was on special at my local games store. I had heard of the many bugs that 
 plagued this game, but I thought I could bear with them and complete the game. Also, the patch 
 had come out for a while now, so I thought it would all good. I installed the game, and started 
 playing it, when I noticed there was something wrong with the graphics. It would be very laggy 
 when I would play. For example, it would be in slow motion for two seconds and then play at normal 
 speeds for the next second, and so it would continue on and on. I played up to the level where 
 I was in the JSA base, and couldn't take it anymore; I just quit because I was so frustrated at 
 what was being offered.
  
  Then you have the issues with the game saves being deleted near the end of the game. I didn't reach 
 that level, but I noticed that my save games were in this strange order. For example, my latest 
 save would be in the middle of the list of saves, which I thought was weird. While I was playing, 
 I would load up a save game, but it wouldn't load at all. It would take me to the, "You are about 
 to load a game..." window and keep asking me the same question.
  
  Don't get me wrong; I love the Splinter Cell series and have been a fan of it from day one. This 
 game really had nothing new to offer, apart from the stealth factor, but that's what I love about 
 this game: the stealth factor. Unfortunately, it's potential has been ripped away thanks to the 
 many bugs in this game. I have heard that Ubisoft have given up support on this game because it's 
 THAT buggy. Ubisoft is going to release another Splinter Cell chapter called "Conviction". If that 
 is another failure, like Double Agent, I'm afraid I'm going to have to give up the Splinter Cell 
 series for good.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  this game rocks. the story really is good. sam fisher working for the government to infiltrate 
 a terrorist group. make decisions about saving or losing lives. earn trust in each faction, lost 
 trust by doing the wrong thing. its a great concept, and its done really well. previously, in other 
 splinter cell games, you play a mission and move on to the next, without anything brought over. 
 in double agent, you feel like you are really continuing missions. enough about storyline. the 
 gameplay rocks as well. its much better than chaos theory and pandora tomorrow. in the past two, 
 by walking too fast, you will alert the guards, and there is a sound meter. in double agent, sam 
 fisher seems much more skilled, as long as he is crouched, he can sneak past anyone. with a new 
 feature where you can interrogate people, you can get valuable information to help you complete 
 your mission, though some npcs cant be interrogated while some give you useless information. there 
 are many new moves you can do in double agent, making it much better than any splinter cell game. 
 one flaw is that there is always only one best way to complete a level, but that way is often the 
 most satisfying.
  if you like splinter cell, double agent is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celerity18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series has been as excellent and succesfull as they come. The installment of 
 Splinter Cell Double Agent in my opinion just makes the series even better. Having played all the 
 games in the series this is definately my favourite. A few problems on the PC version however the 
 gameplay and graphics make this all worth while, I loved how in this game they put the environment 
 to more use with Sam fishers Unique gaming style, there was a lot more climbing, grappling and 
 sneaking etc in my opinion and thats just what we needed. Although the single player campaign was 
 too short, there is the opportunity to out do yourself by getting better stealth scores and on 
 a harder difficulty level giving the game that bit more replayability. Add another 10 missions 
 to the solo campaign and this would have been a 10/10 easy.
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robathy
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I started this review a year ago but got sidetracked, thought it a shame to let it get dusty so 
 I finished it off quickly and here it is, a little late!
  
  Let's go into detail. This game was so poorly programmed it was hardly playable. This has somewhat 
 to do with the fact it was made by the same office that was responsible for Pandora Tomorrow, and 
 although I personally liked Pandora Tomorrow, it seems generally accepted as the worst of the series, 
 till now in my opinion. One of the major issues with the way the game was programmed is the conversion 
 to PC. It wasn't designed for PC at all, it was designed for xbox 360 and simply ripped to PC. 
 
  
  Bugs include; The inability to actually use anything you unlock for starters, one of the more minor 
 flaws it has, however, the only one to be fixed by the 1.02 patch; 
  
  The first bug I actually noticed was the graphics, having upped them in the options to the near 
 max and noticing that the levels looked absolute crap, I assumed the graphics were in fact crap. 
 When, in an attempt to lower them and test them to see the difference, of which there was none, 
 trying to put them back up to high I noticed that all of a sudden the graphics were sweet! This 
 of course drew my attention to the bug that doesn't allow you to change any options, my house mate 
 had the same problem, except he couldn't lower them (which thereafter neither could I) and his 
 computer couldn't handle it so it played like crap. I've heard stories of others not being able 
 to change key assignments as well; 
  
  This leads me into graphics. Now, I've just mentioned the graphics were sweet but previously claimed 
 that the graphics weren't that great, so what do I mean? Well, after finally upping the graphics 
 the HDR looked amazing, the water effects were the best I'd seen, better than HL2 even (perhaps) . 
 A pity therefore that some of the close up textures were a bit below par, especially on snowy levels. 
 In addition, since having HDR now switched on the lighting, although amazing looking was completely 
 wrong! Blatant darkness would envelop you and you would still be spotted as your light indicator 
 would remain yellow meaning visible. In contrast, clear visibility (sun shining on my face) and 
 the guards could stare at you none the wiser. "What's that? Oh nothing must be my shadow with a 
 gun about to shoot me in the head" Still on the light topic, shadows, especially on sprites, can 
 be pretty much anywhere. Broken and falling over all sorts of areas of the body, granted this could 
 be a localised problem just for me but given my PC specs, GeForce 7900GT 512MB as an example, I 
 shouldn't get problems like that, and taking into account all the other problems, well, you see 
 my reasoning. Last topic for graphics was one occasion of utter ridiculousness. An NPC (non playable 
 character) walks through one of 2 doors in a double door, walks through, no prob's, next NPC walks 
 through the other door, and as it opens another identical but rubbishly rendered door replaces 
 it. A kind've 2 door revolving door system. This wouldn't have been a problem if the door didn't 
 actually exist but it had all the physical properties of a real door, not allowing the bloke to 
 walk through, also making it very difficult for me to walk through the other door to get behind 
 him to knock him out. I can't think of anything else on the graphics front now. (As if that wasn't 
 enough) ; 
  
  Onto another type of bug, the stand out worst programmed level of any computer game ever made. 
 Kinshasa. This level wasn't a stealth level in the true sense, you're in a war. No darkness, just 
 narrow streets, burning sunshine, and lot's of soldiers with lots of artillery. Now this isn't 
 a problem, in fact the concept is quite good, makes things a bit different and a bit more fun. 
 The first half of the level involves you having to bug a meeting between your terrorist boss and 
 some other terrorists, this is stealthy and has some cool moments. But Kinshasa part 2, well, new 
 cup of tea. Begin war zone, begin rubbish loading screen, rubbish quick load/quick save, rubbish 
 experience. When you load Double agent from your desktop and resume a game the first thing you 
 have to do is load the level, which involves one loading screen followed by a second, to what end 
 I don't know but that's what happens. Anyway, after that you can quick load quickly and conveniently. 
 Not in Kinshasa part 2. Not only do you have to go through the second of the 2 major loading sequences 
 every time you quick load but you're lucky if after that point you don't spawn already dead! You 
 sneak up to some soldiers, you dispatch them, you hide in a house, you're safe, and you quick save. 
 You leave the house, you go up the road, you meet a tank, you die, you quick load, you go through 
 2 loading screens, level loads, the map is somehow above you in the sky, you're dead in the ground 
 somewhere for no reason. The only way to actually complete this level is run around with the frigging 
 SC20K blowing the crap outta everything, losing ratings left, right and center and try to get as 
 far as you can without dying. And maybe if you're lucky, when you do die you'll slowly quick load 
 and you won't be dead! Up and till the nigh end of the level did QL and QS work well. It wouldn't 
 be so bad if it was an ordinary level where you can take time to think, plan and move on doing 
 things right, but you're in a bloody war zone! Soldiers are spawning all over the place and if 
 you clear an area but don't move on quick enough more will appear. The single least enjoyable level. 
 It did look good though. One of the coolest touches in the game was the replacement of his night 
 vision with a pair of sunglasses that you could put on and remove in the same fashion but reduced 
 the suns' glare when outside, practically a necessity.
  
  System demands!; Given how good the game didn't play or look on occasion the game is too blooming 
 hungry on resources! If you're interested in this game you musta seen the system requirements, 
 although minimal requirements don't look too bad, playing it on minimal settings does, so don't 
 bother, but, to play on best, you need a beast of a PC, what are they trying to do, kill the PC 
 genre? My PC covers the specs, but it was supposed to be built to last, I carefully selected every 
 component, weighed against cost and quality. Now what? If this is the shape of things to come, 
 lazy programming that eats resources, I've got what? A month left!
  
  Right, finally, on the problems with the game, unlike this review the game was, in fact, far too 
 short. The number of levels it has sounds fine, but they're so easy to complete and the majority 
 were actually the same level in a different guise. The terrorist's base. Now, although this gave 
 the game an interesting feel, walking as friend amongst the terrorists but actually breaking into 
 unauthorised areas, where being caught was not cause for too much alarm, but a loss of trust, creating 
 a rather exciting experience. Every other level like this though? A bit boring.
  
  Shall I move on to the pros? Yes, finally, I do actually have something positive to say about this 
 game. Gadgetry, very cool, some of the things you use to infiltrate the terrorist base include, 
 fingerprint scanners, where you find the prints is up to you! Voice recorder for voice recognition 
 locks, who you catch and where depends what you can access. You can pick safes! Very nice. 
  
  Other than gadgets there are a few new moves worth mentioning. It's common with Splinter cell 
 games that you can put your back to a wall and shimmy along until you can poke your head around 
 corners. A useful skill to be sure. well they improved this simple maneuver. When an enemy approaches 
 you get the interact key flash up, hit that and Sam will flick out his arm, stunning the victim 
 and allowing Sam to grab him as a human shield. Alternatively Sam will wrestle them to the ground 
 instead. I haven't noticed if there is a trigger as to which move he performs but it doesn't matter. 
 Wrestling them to the ground and interrogating them looks cool but is often less useful as you 
 can't take them with you so easily. This moves biggest strength is also it's weakness. It's easy 
 to perform, too easy. At one point I turned the lights out at the switch which was on the corner 
 of this wall, following this every one of the 5 or 6 enemies in the room came to investigate one 
 by one. I performed the same move every time! Due to the fact that the lights were out they couldn't 
 see the ever increasing pile of bodies so I could just stay there are take them all down. Oh well, 
 it was fun. Some moves are very location specific. On the icy levels if you're swimming under the 
 ice and spot an enemy walking over a weak point you can smash the ice and drag them under for an 
 icy demise. Likewise if someone walks near the waters edge you can jump up and drag them in, drowning 
 them forcefully. Nice. Old favourites remain of course. The inverted neck break for instance and 
 dragging people over railings is always popular.
  
  As this game is supposed to be a "Double Agent" concept I'd best talk a bit about how this works. 
 You've got your two sides, the NSA and JBA. Each organisation has it's own trust bar. As you complete 
 objectives your trust increases and decreases accordingly, some have greater consequences than 
 others. Both outfits have different objectives and some are contradictory to the other so you have 
 to pick your allegiances wisely. Get too low trust for either side and it's game over. Sometimes 
 simply not being in the right place at the right time can affect your trust level. This is especially 
 relevant to the JBA when you sneak around the restricted areas. I actually really like this system 
 and think it flows really well. There are also different endings depending on what you choose and 
 doing things right gives you the opportunity to play a bonus level. Woohoo!
  
  I really can't think of anything else to say so I'm giving up. It's taken me a year to finish writing 
 this review so everyone better be happy! Now shoo!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  I found the game very frustrating to play: it rewarded audacity rather than patience. Towards the 
 end I was getting frustrated attempting to get past enemies so I just started shooting everyone.
 
  
  The engine is excellent, the AI pretty decent and the graphics are fantastic. My main bugbear other 
 than the one I mentioned is that the enemy seem to have a variable ability to see you - most obvious 
 in the cruise ship's pool area: hide behind one of the BBQ carts and they can see you; hide behind 
 a deck chair and they can't see you. Grrr.
  
  So I'm torn on the rating for the game: I really was frustrated a lot more than any of the other 
 Splinter Cell games but loved the ability to fit through anything without a special command: narrow 
 gaps, vents, holes in the wall, under pipes etc.
  
  So I'll compromise on a score of 7: great engine, story, graphics, game play etc but frustrating 
 implementation of enemy vision detection and the reward for audacity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yochoo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Lets start... Ive bought this game... installed it ... and blam... ive didnt have pixel shader 
 3.0 ... damn... tried it on my laptop... worked...
  -First of all the game has a cool storyline , but still ... it's not so good that ive expected...
 
  -The graphics rock ... some bugs and glitches but the patches solve em all
  -The sound is great... so the actors...
  THE GAME IS TOTTALY UNDERAPPRECIATED BUT THAT IS BECAUSE 
 THE GAME IS TOOOOOO SHORT!!!
  
  THE GAME IS TOTTALY UNDERAPPRECIATED BUT THAT IS BECAUSE THE GAME IS TOOOOOO SHORT!!!
  
  THE 
 GAME IS TOTTALY UNDERAPPRECIATED BUT THAT IS BECAUSE THE GAME IS TOOOOOO SHORT!!!
  
  THE GAME IS TOTTALY UNDERAPPRECIATED BUT THAT IS BECAUSE THE GAME IS TOOOOOO SHORT!!!
  
  THE 
 GAME IS TOTTALY UNDERAPPRECIATED BUT THAT IS BECAUSE THE GAME IS TOOOOOO SHORT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Stealth games are often criticized for being frustrating, tedious, and riddled with trial and error. 
 I have found that this description only applies to poorly designed stealth games. The best in the 
 genre avoid this problem by giving you all sorts of ways to explore areas while avoiding detection. 
 Previous Splinter Cell games and the Thief series provide the ability to hide in darkness, so that 
 you dont instantly get detected when you are in somebodys line of sight. The Hitman series lets 
 you hide in plain sight by disguising yourself. These features are critical to enjoying these games. 
 If you do not believe me, then try playing Splinter Cell: Double Agent, and you will see what I 
 mean. This game is a textbook example of a stealth game gone wrong. Double Agent is drastically 
 different from the previous games in the series, and the results are disastrous.
  
  The biggest departure its predecessors is that most of the missions now take place in broad daylight, 
 so that now guards can see you from 100 feet away if they have a line of sight to you. It makes 
 for a nice game graphically, but gameplay-wise, it is awful. The missions quickly degenerate into 
 tedious quick-save fests, since most of the levels have few safe hiding places and no way of moving 
 around the level unseen. The light detection meter from the previous games is gone, and it has 
 been replaced by a dumbed down green, yellow, and red light system that tells you whether you are 
 at risk of being detected. Say goodbye to hugging walls and hanging from pipes while you wait for 
 enemies to pass by you before popping them over the head or snapping their necks. Double Agent 
 is a stealth game without stealth. Perhaps the series was getting stale and needed a change, but 
 this was definitely not it. This game is a huge step backwards from Chaos Theory and the worst 
 of the series.
  
  Another change for the game, not for the better, is in the interface. The inventory uses a radial 
 menu system that was clearly designed for the D-Pad on a console controller. For the PC version, 
 the mouse substitutes for the D-Pad, and it doesnt work as well. The inventory controls for the 
 previous games were better. The context sensitive menus that pop up for opening doors, turning 
 on lights, and picking locks used to be better too. Instead of text, the game now uses icons. Why? 
 Because people who play the game are considered too dumb to read? Sometimes, it is not obvious 
 what the icon implies. For example, what does a simple up arrow mean? Why not just say Hide in 
 locker instead of an arrow?
  
  Its nearly impossible to comment on anything else that this game does with any meaning, because 
 the core gameplay is so broken that nothing else matters. Early in the game, you infiltrate a gigantic 
 tanker during a heavy snow. The combination of details on Sam Fishers outfit, his gadgets, and 
 the blowing snow look amazing, but its so annoying that you cant enjoy it. There are guards all 
 over that you have to take out, and there is almost no place to hide so that you can patiently 
 wait and ambush them one by one when their backs are turned. This level provides a realistic look 
 at how hard it would be to sneak around a well-guarded ship and take it over single-handedly, which 
 is to say that it would be incredibly hard and not fun.
  
  This game certainly wont get negative points for its presentation. This series has always been 
 on the cutting edge visually, and Double Agent is no exception. It is a beautiful game, with a 
 wide variety of crisp looking environments and gorgeous lighting everywhere. Some of the levels 
 take place during inclement weather (like snow) , and the weather effects are excellent. Michael 
 Ironside is back as Sam Fisher, and he gives his usual great performance as the games gruff protagonist. 
 The rest of the voice work is pretty good too, and so are the games sound effects. The great work, 
 however, is wasted on an otherwise bad game.
  
  I have been a fan of the stealth/action genre on the PC since the original Thief, and this one 
 is a real stinker. The genre may need a fresh look, but this game does not provide it. I recommend 
 that you avoid it, along with anything else that comes out of Ubisofts Third World Shanghai studio 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burbidge87
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  I have always loved the Splinter Cell Series, Since the first game came out. Ive played them all, 
 even the ones on the cell phone, but this is the one i have not beaten, nor played more than the 
 first level. And its not because the game is bad, but because UBIsoft did a horrible job on these 
 discs for pc, save files are corrupt, a lot, after i would beat the first level, my save file would 
 be gone, not to mention the glitches and when i would start the game up i would struggle to get 
 my mouse to move just to press, play. Im sure the game is great, but consider this a warning for 
 the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SudenDeath1989
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  Big fan of the single player aspect of this game - hide and seek. After being burnt out on Battlefield2 
 where it's straight out shoot'em up bangbang, this game takes a huge curve in the direction of 
 stealth and go!! With the new twist of the game makes it even more apealing. You have to keep both 
 factions happy by completing tasks. And thanks to this, I have found myself goin back to re-do 
 the levels to try for a better ranking.
  
  This game isnt all bout steathing behind a person and knockin them out (which is done most of the 
 time however) , there have been a couple missions that allowed me to kill the enemy for rating!! 
 And believe you, me, the world is better place without them.
  
  Thanks to UBI and Tom Clancy for another kick ass game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This short review is to warn other would be Splinter Cell fans to steer clear of the PC version 
 of Double Agent.
  
  The game was rushed to (then) holiday release in 2006. Even at $19.99 and below, and 10 months 
 later the game is not worth it because it is an officially broken and unfinished game:
  
  *Corrupted Save Games prevent you from continuing the campaign. I could not play past the first 
 three missions like others have reported.
  
  *Graphics and collision glitches (bugs) on many levels. Sam can and will literally fall through 
 walls and floors in some maps
  
  *Unoptimized code for PC platform = Slide show on top-end systems that well exceed the required 
 specifications.
  
  *Some mission objectives cannot be completed due to bugs. These include safe cracking bugs and 
 event triggers on two separate levels. These are game stopping bugs that won't allow you to continue 
 further.
  
  Because the game is almost a year old, all official support for Double Agent from UBISoft has ceased. 
 BOTTOM LINE:
  
  If you have an original Xbox, PS2 or Game Cube, I highly recommend those versions of Double Agent 
 over the unfinished and buggy PC version of Double Agent.
  
  The versions on the last-gen platforms are very similar to Chaos Theory game play (light &amp; 
 shadow + sound awareness) and are completely bug free. Also, the core story is expanded and there 
 are no plot holes like in the PC and 360 versions.
  
  P. S. - Like others, the Very Hard difficulty rating is purely for technical reasons because Double 
 Agent for the PC is impossible to run properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Since the X05 MP trailer of SCDA i couldn't stop getting excited about this game. As a huge fan 
 of the series i had to get it and so happened in Nov. 23th 2006. Already when i started the training 
 i noticed a couple of system crash this game has a lot of bugs which some, sometimes, cause you 
 to stuck and you can't finish the game... SCDA delivers the best SC plot to date: Sam's daughter 
 is killed and Sam agreed to be a Double Agent in N. O. C and find out what the JBA plans are as both 
 NSA and JBA gives you objectives to complete when the interesting ones are the ones that you really 
 have to choose NSA or JBA - Dilemmas.
  
  If you complete several objectives when unseen you getting new gadgets or upgrades such as Stun 
 Wall mine, Gas grenade and faster hacking. Whatever decision you will make it will affect the main 
 story. However, unfortunately, you have only 3 decisions like this (the first one don't affect 
 nothing) and they aren't that severe anyhow but it's really nice to see it. These 3 decisions will 
 lead you to one of the 3 endings the game has!
  
  The gameplay itself is very good all the moves from SCCT + few classic grab character moves in 
 the ice and more cool moves. Also say goodbye to the HUD you had in the previous series because 
 you have no HUD here you need to think on your own if you are seen/noisy or not (however you do 
 have a light sensor in your body with Green for hidden, Yellow for seen and Red for in troubles!) . 
 In most of the mission you won't have your lovely NVG!!!. AI is better than SCCT but not that significant...
 
  
  The best missions are the JBA HQ (you have 4 of them) in these mission it's where you really act 
 like a double agent where you can't even grab people and you must complete missions in less than 
 25 minutes unnoticed. Making these objectives are exciting so much as you really afraid they see 
 you and they are full of adrenaline!
  
  Graphic is better than SCCT but just a better version of the same engine but it's still beautiful. 
 So the sound however you have few annoying bugs about them...
  
  The MP mode is no doubtly a failure with so many lags &amp; bugs not a lot of people come there 
 make you see empty servers often... all the credit goes to the SP mode...
  
  This game, even after 2 patches, doesn't solve the tons of the bugs &amp; lags this game has. Slow 
 loading times and crashes are often occurred make this game pretty much broken - A clumsy work 
 of Ubi Shanghai in the technical side...
  
  Other that SCDA is an amazing game features amazing gameplay for Single player, not in the MP mode 
 but still very enjoyable game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkiller145
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  In Double Agent we take control the control of Sam Fisher but is not the Fisher we knew. Now Sam 
 is a member of a terrorist company (JBA) . Sam become member of this company to arrest the leader 
 of JBA (Emile) for NASA (Lambert) , because he is dangerous to be free but Sam decided to take this 
 mission not because Emile was dangerous for the world but because someone from JBA murdered his 
 daughter and now he wants revenge.
  
  To complete the game you have to control the trust meter. Also trust meter affects your equipment 
 to each stage so you better be careful.
  
  To gain respect for each side you have to complete some tasks for each side. To complete a stage 
 you have to complete the main tasks and then you go to the extraction point to complete the mission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefreqfreak
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  The Splinter cell series has always boasted a more serious approach compared to the other games 
 in the genre, giving the games more tension and edge of the seat action. You really do feel like 
 you have control of a well experienced secret agent.
  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent take the series to next generation in more ways then a 
 simple graphics upgrade but also looses a few things too... so lets talk.
  
 
  
  Splinter cell, as great as it is has always lacked a little direction in terms of story or basic 
 plot and following such plot lines in the previous games has been more 'optional' than essential. 
 These games have ended up feeling a little shallow and many levels felt recycled and similar.
 
  Double agent blows these two things out of the water, introducing a more cinematic adventure and 
 a handful of character development, which is exactly what Sam needed. Not since James Bond has 
 there been a greater Spy. Sam fisher takes on the role of a double agent as the game hands you 
 choices to make, in which may affect your status with either the good guys at the NSA or the JBA, 
 the terrorist organisation you are 'working' for.
  
  This along with the Game's story creates an engrossing atmosphere when you are sneaking around 
 the JBA Headquarters where you are currently being trusted by the JBA trying to find important 
 documents for the NSA Etc. The fight to keep both sides happy makes for an intense experience and 
 the story unravels in front of you rather then through a long series of cut scenes keeping the 
 fine line between not enough plot and plot line OVERLOAD. The game creates the idea that his decisions 
 will effect the whole game but in reality only one or two do, personally I dont believe any game 
 with ever fully introduce multiple choices and outcomes and this game still feels worthwhile regardless.
 
  
  
 
  The other splinter cell titles have almost just been one gloomy dark place to another where as 
 in double agent you are introduced into multiple locations, settings and even..... Daytime. Almost 
 every level has you in a change of clothes (awesome) and you really do feel like Sam fisher is 
 more than what he was before, like I said hes the James bond of this generation and youre playing 
 as him... yays! The problem with this is that its almost got too big for its own boots, and sticking 
 to shadows has almost completely disappeared from this game, along with his navy seal suit. Taking 
 out the very thing that makes the splinter cell games was not a great idea and you will find old 
 tactics useless in pure daylight. The upcoming game 'Conviction' is taking Sam even further away 
 from what he was, his hair no longer greying and again lacking in shadows, they need to be careful 
 they dont get ahead of themselves. However if they are looking for new ways to play such action 
 roles then moving on from what has been the main game play trait is congratulated. But if you take 
 one thing away your going to have to replace it with something else.
  
  
 
  Fans of the previous games beware, along with the disappearance of the shadow tactics from the 
 other games so is that of the game play in the multiplayer. The NEW multiplayer game feels more 
 Arcadey then before and will be more appealable to new players. The new multiplayer is fun though, 
 even if you are in a gimp suit, it just lacks the depth of the previous games. It wasnt broke, 
 so why they fixed it I dont understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imurtaza
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  At last my computer is now able to run Splinter Cell Double Agent. Alas its not running perfectly 
 but if you are a big fan of Splinter Cell series than nothing is impossible. First of all Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent is a lot better than Splinter Cell Previous Versions. It has a big huge graphics, 
 great animations, brilliant gameplay, superb story and the main thing is that it allows you to 
 join either NSA or JBA. But you have to keep both happy so that you can continue playing the game 
 if you lose ones trust then it will be all over. Unlike previous versions this version allows the 
 player to play as he want he can use stealth or he can do face to face combat. The choice is up 
 to you. But there are 3 big choices in the game that are up to you.
  1- You have choice that you can either kill Dr. Aswat (who is a Pakistani and he is selling bomb 
 to the terrorists, so bad thing for Pakistan that he is shown as a terrorist helper which is definitely 
 wrong) or you can just let him go.
  2- You can let the bomb blast on the ship or you can defuse it but you have 2 choices that how 
 to defuse you can defuse it by using the Enricas code so she would be blamed or you can defuse 
 it by using the frequency of the bomb which can lose you some JBAs respect
  3- At the last stage you have to either kill Lambert who was there to ask you to defuse the bomb 
 in the JBA headquarters but unfortunately he was caught and was held prisoner (NSA) or kill Jaime 
 Washington (JBA) .
  The game has superior graphics and anyone who likes shooting games should buy this game but one 
 also requires a powerful vga (I would recommend 8800gtx sli, Intel G965 chipset built-in Intel 
 82g965ry Minimum) , powerful Processor (Core 2 Extreme recommended, minimum Core 2 Duo E6300) , Big 
 amount of ram (3GB recommended if built in vga otherwise 2.5 gb will be perfect, 1.5gb minimum 
 for built in vga and 1gb for external) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vladx12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  First of all i know that many gamers complain about this game filled with bugs and **** if you 
 just put that aside and concentrate on the game itself it would be better.
  
  Now to my review:
  
  Graphics: Unreal Engine 2.5 - Awesome!
  the game looks amazing and truely 
 shows how sam fisher should look on next gen consols
  
  Sound: All of the voice-overs are profesinoly done (sorry for bad spelling)
  and michel ironside 
 still does a great job as the voice of sam fisher.
  
  Gameplay: If you are a fan of stealth games, or a hardcore expert in stealth games,
  you got to 
 try this game out, casuel gamers may find it too hard.
  And the bugs are the only problam with this game, sometimes it would crash to the desktop or freeze... and 
 thats something that pisses me off!
  Fans of the series would know how everything works here with no problam.
  but for the newbies 
 the game would be too hard... i think the game was desigend for the hardcore fans of the series 
 and not casuel gamers.
  but the game should be alot of fun (without the bugs) for the hardcore fans (such as myself) of 
 the splinter cell series.
  
  Final words: try the game before you buy it...
  8.0/10 - VladX12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negator59
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  This game is a complete piece of junk. My 64 x2 2.4GHz, 2GB Ram and 7900GS kills F. E. A. R. This 
 game on the other hand can barely launch without crashing, and if you finally get to start playing 
 - game play can be in slow motion, riddled with bugs or just crash to the desktop. I have never 
 been more disappointed with a game. I loved SC 1- 3 on my PS2. I can't even get into my saved game 
 on the 3rd mission now with this POS. I'm selling it and buying the PS2 version and will be extremely 
 skeptical of any other Ubisoft PC games in the future. Thanks for nothing Ubisoft :P
  
  I gave it a difficulty rating of Very Hard because it is very hard to even try and play this POS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell-Double Agent , i gotta say ,was the most anticipated game to ever hit the stores... I 
 will get straight to the point..... This is a Disaster. i never expected that Ubisoft is gonna come 
 up with something as lame as this..! the game play is good with 9 levels and a bonus level. The 
 storyline is, something of a Rip-Off straight from a Hollywood movie. Sam plays the role of a Double 
 Agent, working both for NSA and the JBA. And the saddest of all is Sam's history... Jesus, what have 
 the creators done to him..! he has lost his daughter n is a total looser in life ,of all the missions 
 he has carried out to the nation.
  The Graphics ,My God... my PC was down to Dust even though i have a 2GB RAM n a series 7 NVIDIA 
 GForce graphics card, with an AMD 64bit dual core processor. The music and Audio effects is nothin 
 much to talk about. And the Most Hyped-Day Light missions...... what missions...? all u have is one 
 level where Sam is exposed to the Sun Light. The learning curves are pretty easy... the hacking of 
 a key pad is something that a 4 year old kid can do. The Game is filed with Bugs.... for christ sake, 
 you cant pick a decent electronic lock without a Bug bugging you...! and the Stealth-The Heart 
 of the Excitement, is BAD.... man....! And over all.... the Game is not as expected... it turned out 
 to be the worst in the series. Just hope that the next installment- Convicted is not as lame as 
 this...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is very very good game and i enjoy it a lot. The graphics look great, the gameplay is excellent, 
 and throughout the game you are presented with many different paths and options to choose from 
 ensuring that at least some of the levels are as non-linear as possible. It's definitely an enjoyable 
 game to say the least. Sadly though, having had it since it came out which is quite a long time, 
 i haven't yet completed it. In fact i gave up playing it about, what, 4 or months ago i think. 
 This was because i couldn't complete it - i couldn't get past a certain point. Sounds like im crap 
 at playing the game right? Wrong. It's because of the bugs. There are so many bugs in the game 
 that it could be easily mistaken for the amazon rainforest. The bugs range from minor graphical 
 issues to bugs which cause the game to crash at a certain point EVERY time no matter what drivers 
 you install, no matter how many times you uninstall and re-install the game. And believe me im 
 not the only one with this problem as i've been on many many forums and found a heck of a lot of 
 people having the same problems - these problems, i might add, can happen at any point in the game 
 so theyr not specific to any certain hardware/ software conflict, etc. Then there's also ubisoft's 
 lack of support for their recent games. It's non-existant... which isn't exactly what you want 
 with a game that has this many bugs.
  
  Because of all that, i just don't think the game is worth buying on pc, but its definitely worth 
 a go on console where you shouldn't encounter these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargantuesque
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Please don't buy this game it's the worst game i have ever played in my life a total let down from 
 other splinter cell game's i have played before, full of bug's, the graphic are pretty bad, i have 
 a 8800gts graphic card with an athlon 3,700 oc 2.8ghz and 2gb of kingston hyper x ram and could 
 not play the d... thing until i've download the latest driver from n'vidia, even then the graphic 
 are realy bad, that's without saying the saving are awfull, i could go on all night but i'll stop 
 right here, this is the first time that i wright a revew and i do so because i am extremely frustrated 
 that i have bought that piece of crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prototype-Jack
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I've played demos that worked better than this. was only able to run the 1st 3 lvls. what i saw 
 was pretty good. I was running this on a dell m1710, and yet I had nothing but problems with it. 
 I 1st reliesed there was major issues when i attempted the training missions and on the second 
 lvl sam fisher lost the use of his arms. lol. It is almost laughable how glitchy this game is. 
 It has to be the finest example of a bad port i've ever seen!! but when you cant even run the full 
 game its a disaster!! thank feck i didnt pay full price for this excriment.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton_Bilovus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Looking at he hole game - it's good, but there is a lot mistakes in game that make it worse. In 
 some levels game can crash or you can't load your quick-load save game. It need a very new PC. 
 Missions in ADB always for time and if you don't return to the place where you was left you begin 
 to lose theirs trust. In missions for ABD you always must kill a lot of people but you have always 
 chance to do without people lives. But on the other hand it's new hand of Splinter Cell. If you 
 fan of the game you must play this part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  I'd heard and read so many bad things about SCDA before I bought it but as I was so interested 
 in this serial game I decided to check it out and I can say it's amazing just like always.
  The idea of taking Sam under cover was just great and on time. He really needed that. Sometimes 
 you need to be on the bad side in order to know more about good side. But it's of course difficult 
 and you may have to pay an unaffordable price.
  SCDA introduces a realistic ENVRMNT and interesting equipment. As far as I understood the main 
 gameplay idea wasn't based on action or killing or defeating people, but to avoid it (As much as 
 you kill or knock out an enemy you'll lose score) and that's a great idea. (I think that Ubi's 
 people also wanted us to learn that weapon is only the last and the worst choice! - Well that's 
 My Opinion!!!)
  There're bad things about this game of course. Bugs! Yes, A Lot Of Bugs! And some of them are so 
 annoying, I mean SO annoying. It's a real bug box indeed. It demands a high graphic solution and 
 even if you exceed that requirement you'll sometimes become mad with some poor performance. There 
 some poor and silly features about the game. For example the light that you always carry on your 
 back even in prison and that doesn't make sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  When i first entered this game i had no bad thoghts about it especially for the way the story was 
 made &amp; how many way's the game offers you the go over the game ! It is truly inpressive de 
 depth of the story is just epic &amp; the voice acting &amp; dialogs are to ... SAM is looking better 
 that ever but the real bad thing of the graphics are the visual bugs who will sure appear thru 
 aout the first 3 levels of the game &amp; some in the rest iven if you apply the patch it won't 
 resolve many thing ... but in the end if you get past these bugs you will never regret that you 
 have played this ... game the base gameplay is quite the same but with miner upgrades &amp; more 
 fluent animations of SAM's movement &amp; a mucn unliniar control .... the ballance between the 
 2 oragnizations is very intuitive &amp; challenging &amp; the many games that appear when you have 
 to crack safe's &amp; email's can be trully challenging .... alltough the gameplay is improved &amp; 
 the story is well put its a very short game it took me 6 hours to complet it but yes it has a feeling 
 that for some of you will make you replay it because of the ballance between the 2 oranizations 
 ! In the end nothing elsem atters because its the same old SAM with a superb story &amp; a great 
 saga !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedemoness
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  It is already known Ubisoft screwed up big time with this one, which is also the reason they quit 
 support for it.
  The graphical bugs are even worse and more then in the gothic game series so they have set a new 
 record in delivering a bug infested game.
  There is no support from ubisoft for so bug fixes need to come from the mod community and so far 
 i haven't seen/found any.
  The story is nice as is the gameplay since sam takes a total different turn as in terms of no more 
 sneaking around but just core to the action, the sound could be better and what is with the annoying 
 wait until the menu pops up issue??
  
  ow whell another 20 euro's down the drain i say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunny_butt
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a piece of garbage because it shipped FULL OF BUGS. Even with patches, the game still 
 does not function properly on blisteringly fast systems. The Save/Load Game system is BROKEN. It 
 does not allow you to name your saved games, so there is no way to know exactly at what point in 
 the mission you saved the game. Worse still, the Load Game screen arranges your saved games in 
 such an arbitrary manner that it makes players load and reload saved games over and over again 
 in a trial-and-error fashion just to continue where they last left off. Unless you are an ardent 
 fan of the series and can suffer through those time-consuming frustrations, save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  As an avid fan of Splinter Cell, I picked up this latest installment of the series, Double Agent, 
 a few weeks after it came out. To my surprise, however, I found out that my gaming rig had just 
 enough power to keep the game running at minimum specifications. Two months later and several hundreds 
 of dollars later, I had what I needed to bring out the full fury of Splinter Cell: Double Agent.
 
  
  The Splinter Cell storyline takes a particularly dark turn in this installment; Sam Fishers daughter, 
 Sarah, is killed at the hands of a drunk driver while he is out on an assignment. He goes into 
 a fury of rage and depression, but shortly after, he decides to take on his most dangerous assignment: 
 going undercover into the heart of the terrorist cell called John Browns Army (JBA) .
  
  There are quite a few things that have been added to this game:
  First, because you are acting 
 as a Double Agent, you are given a trust meter, with the amount of trust that each of the organizations 
 (the JBA or the National Security Agency (NSA) ) has in you. If either of those meters runs out 
 during the course of the game, its game over. Second, each mission will have a number of starred 
 objectives. If these objectives are completed, you can unlock weapons and device upgrades, such 
 as a shotgun attachment for your SC-20K assault rifle or a software upgrade for your hacking device.
 
  Third, there have been additional combat movements that have been added to gameplay. For example, 
 you can now take down a person as he is walking through a doorframe; in the Arctic environments, 
 you can break through the ice that youre swimming beneath and pull a guy down to silently kill 
 him.
  
  The gameplay itself feels very authentic; none of the situations feel forced in any way. The missions 
 are linked together with a solid storyline, but every mission might bring about a different type 
 of situation. In the end, there are multiple ways that you can go about completing your mission; 
 you can be the run-and-gun type, engaging in an all-out firefight with the enemy, or you can 
 be the silent type, acting as a Splinter Cell should: swift, invisible, and deadly if necessary.
 
  
  I am simply amazed by how detailed the graphics were made for this game; everything was textured 
 down to the very last detail. You can see the light gleam off of Sams clothing, the markings on 
 the side of a gun, even the stubble of five oclock shadow on Sams chin. Muzzle flash and explosions 
 are also created very nicely; Im also amazed at how realistic the smoke effect is. Such high-detail 
 graphical elements are the key driving force in making this game as realistic as possible.
  
  The voices in the game are excellent. Each person portrayed their character excellently through 
 their voice acting, and the developers at Ubisoft managed to reflect the emotions of a person in 
 every individual characters body language. The one level that I was impressed where sound came 
 into play, however, was during a mission in Kinshasa. You are thrown into the country while two 
 military forces are vying for control. As you move out through the level, you see how the rebels 
 are out and about in the streets, firing wildly at the opposition. There are explosions everywhere, 
 with tanks bombarding the streets with fire. As you move along the second-story of a building, 
 you will occasionally hear the sharp ricochet of a bullet; it made me instinctively duck the first 
 time I heard it.
  
  My only annoyance with Double Agent is the rather large number of bugs that remain in the game, 
 even after two patches have come out. Many of these bugs are software-related; I had issues the 
 first time around attempting to load the Shanghai level and the game kept crashing due to some 
 module inside the Double Agent executable. After calling Ubisoft tech support, I still didnt have 
 a real solution to the problem. I just left it alone for a few days and luckily it magically started 
 to work again. I dont want to have to go through the trouble of finding a solution to a problem 
 that could have been avoided had the developers thoroughly looked through their game for bugs first. 
 I seriously think that this game, with its bug-ridden glory, caused many to turn away from future 
 Ubisoft games.
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent, as far as gameplay and content goes, can be considered as a wonderful 
 piece of work that will keep people wanting to play more. As for the experience in order to reach 
 the start of the game to the end of the game, with running into bugs and game crashes, that tends 
 to get rather frustrating. With that in mind, this game does have its pros and cons, but its really 
 up to you to decide if its worth picking up at your local video game shop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back and this time working undercover for a terrorist underground organisation called 
 John Brown Army
  which undergoes several terror operation all around the globe.
  Sam's mission is to stop these baddies, clean up the place,
  and rescue the world!
  The game 
 although a bit too short, looks fantastic in 10 varied
  wonderfully detailed levels with overwhelming graphic and
  realistic atmosphere, the best graphic 
 I have seen in a similar game so far.
  In contrary to SC3, which was extremely dark, a lot of the plot takes place
  in the day light 
 and in open air. Sam starts his mission in a prison,
  he pretends to be a con in order to get close to JBA members.
  He ends up in their headquarter 
 and goes around the globe, from
  Iceland to Africa to follow his undercover mission. The storyline is rather similar to the other 
 SCs, Sam is equipped with the same palette
  weoponery which he has almost no use for anyway, you can finish
  the game without practically 
 killing anyone, even the hostages. A lot of fans were disappointed because of lack of combat in 
 this game,
  it is more adventure oriented game although you could get involved
  in combats if you wanted to, it is not a key activity in the gameplay.
  The sound as well as 
 voice acting is great although there is not much talking in DA and I certainly missed the funny 
 comments and Sam black humor a lot. Altogether I find Splinter Cell Double Agent an entertaining 
 interesting
  game, although not really addictive, it is certainly playworthy. Sam's
  satisfies his loyal fans like he always do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Werner73
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  I was told about this game by a good friend a while back but was a bit sceptical; won't it be just 
 another amongst many others? I have to confess and pleasantly so that I was absolutely surprised 
 by the amazing gameplay and most of all the storyline (including all the humour) . What impressed 
 me was (and remember I only started playing last night - am still in the very beginning of the 
 game) is that not one prison guard looked the same, each one had his own characteristic features, 
 not the usual clone of soldiers and guards. Thus far I'm very impressed. Double Agent is certainly 
 gonna be keeping me busy this week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bling_Blang
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This one takes the game to a whole new level. At times it will feel a little like the old ones, 
 but it does enough to separate itself on its own. Solid gameplay with NO crashes after all the 
 patches. AMAZING graphics if you have everything on the highest and your pc can handle it. This 
 game is a ton of FUN and solid action and morale dilemmas on trying to decide what to do.. be good 
 or be bad.. lol! At times it can be pretty frustrating on some levels cuz it feels like you are 
 searching for a needle in a haystack... but still good fun and nice action... I like the stealth 
 in this one too... I am very surprised at some of these low marks that some people have gave this 
 excellent game. I feel it deserves at least a 9.0 from Gamespot instead of an 8.0. Yea it came 
 out like a year ago, but I never picked it up til a few days ago... and have been addicted to it 
 ever since. Have not got into the multiplayer; not big on that usually... but I am sure that is 
 solid and fun too. The game is NOT broken.. make sure your computer can handle it and your card 
 is one of the ones it says it supports. Well done Ubisoft! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butcher_ss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Well i did have to wait a bit for the game to come out and some delays didn't help. I read that 
 the game would be made by Ubisoft Shanghai and that didn't receive too many good words. And they 
 game true, the pc version was different from the XBOX and 360 versions and many recommended that 
 instead of the pc version. I played the game and although i loved it, it still was lacking some 
 things. It had serious stability issues and also many glitches (e. g shooting a guy and after quicksaving 
 the guy resurrects) . Many were fixed with the patches but the game shouldn't be out when it did. 
 I had the feeling it was rushed to be put to market to meet a deadline. Hopefully Conviction which 
 will be made by Ubisoft Montreal this time will improve greatly on gameplay and stability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shepstar1
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  The first thing I would like to say aobut Splinter Cell: Double Agent is that I have been waiting 
 for this game ever since it was announced. I own every previous Splinter Cell game and with my 
 new Nvidia Geforce 7300 GS SLI and Vista Ultimate, I couldn't wait to play this game.
  
  I booted up my computer and inserted the disc, it took a lengthy time to install (about an hour) 
 and after it installed I clicked on the shortcut and away I was. Even at the start up menu it was 
 loading unusually slow, it is definatly not my graphics cards as every other Splinter Cell seems 
 to run grand on them. As a precaution, I wacked the graphics quite low and placed the resolution 
 on 800 x 600. I started the training session immediatly as I was wondering what kind of wonderful 
 additions Ubisoft had made to Splinter Cell. DAMN. The whole game is extremely bright and the game 
 is running at the lowest frame rate i've ever experienced, so I put the graphics to the absolute 
 minimum. It did improve, but not greatly and was definatly not playable.
  
  After a period of time of tweaking the graphics and such, I grew tiresome and so I closed the game 
 and looked straight on the internet to see if other users faced the same problems I did. Suprise, 
 surprise, all other Vista users experienced very poor framerates and overall poor performance. 
 This game was released just before the new year and surely they should have knew Vista was coming 
 out and surely they should have adapted the game to operate on the new OS. Chaos Theory and Pandora 
 Tomorrow work brilliant on Vista, so I don't know what's gone wrong with Double Agent.
  
  So here iam now, writing this review, warning all Vista users and waiting for Ubisoft to release 
 some kind of update for the game to run on Vista more efficiently.
  
  Hope this helped,
  Shepstar1.
  
  
  *Note* For the record, here's my setup.
  
  Intel Pentium 4 3.1ghz.
 
  1gb RAM.
  Nvidia GeForce 7300 GS SLI.
  Soundblaster Audigy Platinum.
  200gb hard drives. (One 120gb and another an 80 gb.)
  Windows Vista Ultimate Operating System. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent for PC is basically a solid, fun game. I will not dispute this.
  
  But it's also a perversion of the premise of the Splinter Cell. This is a review from the perspective 
 of someone who played and loved the three previous Splinter Cell games. I would really, honestly 
 like to address all the game's failures that weren't mentioned in all the reviews I read that convinced 
 me to go get the game despite it requiring me to replace my graphics card. First, the graphics: 
 they're either disproportionately ugly, or they're memory-raping.
  
  As I mentioned, I upgraded my graphics card simply to run SC: DA, since my old card didn't support 
 it despite being barely over a year old. After wrestling with the game to make it do something 
 other than crash or display blank white textures (congratulations Ubisoft, really! It obviously 
 takes hard work to hate your customers this much) I finally get the game working and discover that 
 the technology upgrade leaves much to be desired. This is after forking out $300AU for an 8600 
 GTS.
  
  Basically, on Next Generation graphics (which chiefly means with HDR on) the game runs like crap. 
 And if you leave off HDR - even with other settings on a decent level - the game *looks* like crap 
 even if it runs fine. How you can make a game looks so utterly worse than its predecessor (Chaos 
 Theory) simply by turning off one graphics effect to make the game run smoothly, I have no idea. 
 The game has a lot of pretty graphics effects, but to actually appreciate them, you're going to 
 need to sacrifice a lot of performance.
  
  To contrast, a nice power hungry game like TES4: Oblivion is *nowhere near* as demanding as SC: DA 
 for graphics power.
  
  Now, on to the story and gameplay. These are not plagued by the obvious technical problems of the 
 game - basically, if you have a supported graphics card, you can probably get the game to run fine. 
 It just may be a little frustrating if you have either an older or a newer card.
  
  Splinter Cell, Pandora Tomorrow and Chaos Theory had very generic storylines: Something bad is 
 happening, you have to break into a bunch of places and evade guards to work out what it is, and 
 then save the world. Go look up the popularity of these games here on Gamespot, and you'll see 
 that there's nothing wrong with that. It's good fun, really.
  
  Double Agent dispenses with all of the mystery of sneaking around trying to piece together the 
 bad thing that's happening. Instead, you're going through an overconvoluted process of infiltrating 
 a terrorist organisation, and once you've infiltrated them, you have to inexplicably keep working 
 for them instead of snapping their necks in their sleep when it's clear that they're working on 
 Bad Things. This basically means three things:
  
  One, there is a very simple trust dynamic that shapes your relationship between the NSA and the 
 terrorists. This focused on heavily by reviews, but I didn't find it terribly relevant. Basically, 
 if you complete most of your objectives and reload your game if you get caught spying, you'll never 
 have to worry about trust levels. The only implication of the trust dynamic is basically that many 
 of the optional objectives are in fact necessary to continue with the game, and that if you want 
 the good ending, you need to focus on doing the objectives in the fashion the NSA would want (duh) .
 
  
  Secondly, there are Undercover levels, where you attempt to complete a variety of objectives inside 
 the terrorist stronghold. These are surprising amounts of fun and add interesting challenges since 
 they're timed, and you can't disable any of the terrorists without losing your cover.
  
  Thirdly, on the real levels, most of them occur in daylight and the sophisticated stealth premise 
 of the Splinter Cell games is gone. For example, the light meters that appeared in all the previous 
 games (and the sound meter from Chaos Theory) is gone: the only help you get now is a traffic light 
 strapped to your back. Green, there is no possible way you can be detected at your current location. 
 This is only displayed when you are really, really obviously hidden. Yellow, which is what it is 
 on 90% of the time, means that you *could* be detected. In practice, it is useless, since nearly 
 any time you are going to be hiding from an enemy, the meter will be on yellow as they are nearby. 
 Red means you're either screwed, or will be unless you silence a character within the next second. 
 As such, the stealth meter doesn't help you in the least - it doesn't tell you a single thing that 
 isn't obvious already. Contrast SC: DA for PC's lack of stealth with Chaos Theory for PC or Double 
 Agent on Xbox, where you can fine tune your movements so that the level of sound you generate is 
 not detected (the sound meter) and that you are never visible to patrolling guards and they can't 
 find the bodies of people you've knocked out (the light meter) .
  
  Apparently to compensate for making it harder to sneak up on people due to half the missions occurring 
 in daylight, the Ubisoft have made the AI completely retarded compared to Chaos Theory. The visual 
 range of enemies varies dramatically with no appreciable respect to light levels (and, once again, 
 it's impossible to tell anyway since you don't have a light meter) . Enemies don't appear to be 
 able to hear: you can run straight behind at full speed (and indeed charge at them and stab them 
 and they won't notice) ... and yet they can psychically sense *any* grenade falling, even if it's 
 20 meters away. The AI occasionally just seemed to completely fail enemies - more than once I was 
 helped by a guard who got stuck in a corner and couldn't return to his patrol route.
  
  Elsewhere, there is evidence that the game was just poorly thought out, or badly designed. For 
 example, the game would not recognise saves unless they made substantially into the level. If I 
 quicksaved (or even manually saved) after watching the opening cutscene of a level and tried to 
 continue later, the game would insist I had no valid savegame to continue from , forcing me load 
 the mission again from the progress menu and watch the entire introduction again.
  
  Alternately, there is the spectacular failure of the safe-cracking minigame. Ubisoft have addressed 
 this in the FAQ on their site, but never thought to give you a clue ingame or the manual: the speed 
 control (which controls how fast/loudly Sam moves) also determines the alleged speed of the safecracking 
 minigame (the theory being that if you spun the tumbler slowly, you could get it into position 
 with great precision) . This is a great theory, but in practice, if your speed setting is slow (such 
 as, let's say, if you were to sneak up to the safe - the whole point of the game) the tumblers 
 don't move. The tumblers only move if the speed setting is on high.
  
  The game's sound is subpar. Voice dialogue is limited - which is compounded by the bad AI, meaning 
 that you will hear enemies repeating the same lines over and over. The music is surprisingly excellent, 
 though, and I really liked the new development whereby the music would increase in volume and intensity 
 when enemies approached Sam - it really makes the game more immersive.
  
  Despite all my whinging, really, it is a good game. But I am incredibly disappointed with it, especially 
 since the reviews I have seen are consistently favourable and don't mention that completely lacks 
 the sophisticated gameplay of its predecessors and its all-pervasive technical problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: euroman1970
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Splinter Cell series for years now and have played previous three games. Not 
 just played, but very much enjoyed. Splinter Cell Double Agent offers similar gameplay with a new 
 twist. Working for boths sides is a bit tricky. Makes you think twice before shooting someone. 
 Graphics and sound are very realistic. Character movements and speech is very well executed. My 
 complaint is with the game interface. First of all, it takes on average 4 minutes to load up the 
 game to the point where I start playing. Similarly, trying to exit the game takes the same amount 
 of time. I have a relatively new computer with NVIDIA GS6800 SLI video card and AMD3800 processor. 
 Several different interface screens make it very confusing. This is especially true between the 
 in-game saves and quick saves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvtoC
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 19, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent was one of the most anticipated games of 2006. After SC Chaos Theory 
 we expected nothing but a perfect stealth game, sadly Ubisoft Shanghai managed to mess things up. 
 The storyline was never a SC selling point and DA is no different I mean it's O. K for a SC. It 
 is quite believable at first but later it gets strange I mean c'mon NSA knows who the terrorist 
 are and what they are planning but still you are ordered to assist them. I want fifth freedom with 
 this f****rs, I want to bash their heads and cut their throats (not really I'm the non violent 
 type) However this story manages to set a stage for the next game all in all a poor story with 
 a few occasional exceptions. Now for the main course the gameplay, here it's a typical SC you get 
 lots of sneaking around and you still have to keep your head down to survive. Sam got some new 
 moves this is nice but the new mission rating system which subtracts points for every enemy you 
 knock out makes this new moves pretty much useless if you want to get a perfect stealth score. 
 As for the new rating system, well it makes the game more believable no longer can you knock out 
 every single enemy out and pile them up in a corner (I loved to do this made enemy soldiers look 
 stupid) . Idea with bonus equipment is silly I really doubt sending out an operative with dated tech 
 and giving newer stuff to him/her later is a good idea. Highly anticipate daylight missions are 
 nothing special and feel right at home compared with the rest of Double Agents gameplay. One thing 
 that really sets DA apart is the new visibility meter which seems to be designed by the same people 
 who did the Xbox 360s infamous Ring of Death design. The old visibility meter was probably too 
 complicated for Xbox 360 owners and was replace by a tiny LED with three colors. Green= Sam is 
 invisible, enemies can't see him, Yellow= Sam is visible, enemies can see him but sometimes they 
 don't because of the distance between Sam and his enemy. The last color is red ( Ring of Death 
 ) and it indicates that Sam was detected and is under attack, this one troubles me the most, I 
 thought that with the coming of Next-Gen, games will get enough tech sophisticated that a player 
 can determine if he/her is being shot at, but geniuses at Ubi Shanghai think otherwise. Also this 
 system effectively eliminates a possibility for a color blind person to play this game. New trust 
 system is a nice idea but very poorly executed an average player, on normal difficulty setting, 
 will have no problem with keeping both NSA and JBA happy. The new multiplayer mod is a bit different 
 from what it used to be. It has almost nothing to do with single-player and being a spy got a lot 
 more difficult because spy don't carry guns, however now they move much faster this is a nice change 
 of pace. In order for a spy team to win they have to cooperation in order to confuse mercenaries. 
 As for cooperative missions I'd say they could skip this one at all they have nothing to do with 
 single-player what's up with that it's just a multiplayer mod played against bots, I'd rather see 
 them spend more time and resources (if they did any at all) on single-player and multiplayer campaigns. 
 The sound is O. K but leave a lot to desire. Music in this game rocks much, better than confusing 
 stuff from SCCT. I still think a proper stealth game should focus on sound and noise very much. 
 Sound can be used for delivering info to the player but nobody even tried to do this in DA. Graphics 
 look nice in all the right places but I can't shake the feeling that HDR is one thing this game 
 can't do without while this works good on Xenos not everyone has a 3D card that powerful. Two training 
 missions also feel extra on a PC and look like they were designed to demonstrate graphic capabilities 
 of Xbox 360 heck it they even remind me of Xbox 360 white + green. All in all this is a very nice 
 game. It's a must for all Splinter Cell fans but it doesn't lives up to high standards set by Splinter 
 Cell Chaos Theory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flusherli
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 15, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  This splinter cell game is good and bad at the same time .
  
  Good thing is since the latest dx 9.0 update people with vista and dx 10 can play it fairly normally 
 now. Without the update the game acts very weird propeller's flying lose in the sky sam fishers 
 body all weird.
  
  Apart from that the gameplay is great.
  when at the headquarters of JBA have a timer for a certain amount of missions you can do those 
 or not but you can lose trust because of that.
  at a few points you need to make a decision cause for example the JBA will ask you to kill someone 
 but NSA wants you not to kill him.
  there are lvls you will crash allot and some where you dont so alot of saving is recommended. personally 
 i think they should try to fix it but because the game is so cool i would keep playing it without 
 the fix aswel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyb47
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 10, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back on the PC in this fourth installment of the long-standing series, and his path 
 seems to take a darker turn this time around. And while this brings a rather needed change to parts 
 of the game, it's at times in the form of a half-heated, punctual attempt to add a once-in-the-game 
 mechanic.
  
  Staying in tune with the other Splinter Cell games, Double Agent doesn't depart all that much from 
 the tried-and-true formula of skulking in the shadows to kill or evade opposition. The most important 
 addition to the way Splinter Cell usually plays is the introduction of the undercover concept, 
 which will basically have you complete a number of objectives for and against your two contractors 
 (the NSA on one side and the terrorist cell on the other) , in a set amount of time that will usually 
 be too short for you to complete everything. Therefore, you are supposed to choose, implicitly 
 impacting the level of trust each one of the two organizations has in you. Moreover, quite a few 
 objectives, both in-mission and at the terrorist headquarters will conflict with one another, forcing 
 you to decide between double-crossing the terrorists, or double-double-crossing the NSA. This lends 
 a somewhat schizophrenic feel to the entire game, as you get tugged between your covert assignment 
 and genuinely helping the bad guys.
  
  Apart from the whole undercover operative game mechanic, the What's New department holds a couple 
 of new moves, a number of gadgets, Nokia cell phones and a Nivea banner. In a move towards the 
 Hitman series, Double Agent features a mission review, where, along with completed objectives and 
 unlockables screens, there's a detailed stealth score based on your actions, such as number of 
 kills, times identified as intruder, and so on. Unfortunately, this stealth score has no real in-game 
 impact, as in Hitman, but is there for informational purposes only, which makes it a more-or-less 
 pointless feature.
  
  Another misstep is the handling of the two-agent mode, which doesn't really allow you to coordinate 
 with your AI side-kick, instead has him lead the way pretty much independently of your actions. 
 There's no satisfaction involved, and it rather feels like having a mosquito buzzing around your 
 ears while you're trying to get the job done  definitely a long way away from the teamwork in 
 multiplayer. It's actually enough to make one thankful there are only about 10 minutes in the entire 
 single player portion of the game that keep you playing with an AI ally.
  
  The game story starts out in an uninspired manner, compressing a lot of information in the intro 
 scene, and providing an inopportune and fairly cliche premise. Past this introduction, the storytelling 
 element gets better, driving the action at a steady pace, and even if you are kept in the dark 
 regarding a lot of what's happening in the background, more than a few things transpire from overheard 
 dialogue, decrypted e-mails, orders, and the like. There's a lot of freedom to influence the path 
 of the story, leading to one of three possible endings, each one a reflection of the moral choices 
 you've taken in the game and the standing you have with your two employers.
  
  On the graphics side, Double Agent really shines, no pun intended, thanks to the integration of 
 Unreal Engine III. The bump-mapped models hold tons of detail, and the lighting is quite realistic, 
 if a bit too bright in the supposedly dark areas of the single player campaign. Dynamic shadows 
 have arguably the worst implementation to date, as they tend to get distorted around the edges 
 and shake a lot. There are some technical bugs as well, such as all-black objects and character 
 models, but that seems to depend on the PC configuration. Nevertheless, the game is really scalable, 
 and could even pull off a consistent framerate on a Geforce 6600 GT, at 800x600 with all the details 
 maxed out.
  
  In-game sound effects, while not being sub-par, don't impress, or even stand out for that matter. 
 The game is generally quiet, yet you can hear your footsteps loud and clear while you're running 
 around at the back of an oblivious enemy. Music, however, is really atmospheric, and features a 
 different theme for each mission, based on the locale it takes place in. The whole spectrum is 
 there, from low-key electronic music to tribal rhythms and African chants, each musical backdrop 
 adapting to your actions.
  
  You'll want to play Splinter Cell 4 single player at least twice, to experience the different outcomes 
 of your actions, while the multiplayer experience is one of the most intense ones I've had, even 
 though there's a maximum of 6 players in-game. The game's difficulty is quite high even in single 
 player, if you don't know what to do, and having human opponents increases that difficulty exponentially, 
 so this is the game of choice for LAN parties in your home. There are even some rewards for continuously 
 playing the game, such as new clothing for your characters, and new maps being unlocked.
  
  The bottom line is that Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a great addition to the series, and a recommended 
 pick for anybody enjoying the stealth shooter genre. There's a first-rate story to play through 
 on your own, and memorable moments to share with your friend in multiplayer which add up to a well-spent 
 30-or-so dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strang3l
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The story is actually the best of the series in my opinion. The game plays quite a bit like the 
 last one so no new surprises there. The visuals are good with every other chapter having a decent 
 amount of variety. The sounds are right on in 5.1 - happy there, too. The camera angle only sucks 
 a small percentage of the time but you can get used to that especially if you've played the previous 
 Splinter Cells. Then why did I rate it so poorly, you ask? Sheer frustration. I've spent about 
 20 hrs playing this game and should be close to done. However I think I'm gonna pop it out of my 
 drive and chuck it across Texas. My system has seen it crash more times than 2:30 in the morning 
 has seen drunk drivers crash. Speaking of drunk, you fellas at Ubisoft need to lay off the sauce, 
 it seems. After two patches you think it would be playable. Whoever called this game revolutionary 
 has either; Never played Splinter Cell before or hasn't finished the first level yet. Or is extremely 
 biased. If you plan on trying to switch compatibility modes you'll need to start over because your 
 game saves won't be recognised. It doesn't help anyway. If they release another patch and it fixes 
 the bugs (there's more gameplay bugs) then I'll rewrite this but until then don't waste your money 
 on this piece of junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MglPrn
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 5, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  With Chaos Theory's brilliance (other than the use of Starforce) I wondered if any Splinter Cell 
 game after it could be nearly as good. Double Agent fits the bill as a stealth-action game of great 
 quality, but it does not match Chaos Theory's high water mark.
  
  First off the game is too short. 9 levels, 4 of them in the same exact location. These 4 levels 
 are undercover missions that are honestly very well done and exciting, but that doesn't make up 
 for the fact the game basically has 5 levels. In these undercover levels you will move around the 
 terrorist HQ avoiding being seen in the wrong places and trying to plant bugs, recover intel, and 
 keep up appearences. The story and happenings in these levels is great, but still... they all look 
 and play the same, and it just doesn't equal the same amount of content 4 different missions would 
 have provided. It would have been better if the kept the undercover mechanic, but had it take place 
 in different places everytime... the terrorists do end up traveling the world anyway.
  
  The other 5 levels are very good though and classic Splinter Cell. The Shanghai and Africa missions 
 are especially great. Anyone who loved Chaos Theory should enjoy them quite a bit.
  
  Other aspects of the game are largely the same as previous games. The interface is a little different, 
 the light meter changed to a three-tone light, which works just fine. It seems like they wanted 
 the interface to be as small and unobtrusive as possible, which I like, but infortunately they 
 kind of ruined it with huge and ugly action icons for when you perform tasks like opening a door 
 and grabbing someone. Chaos Theory's were much less in the way of the scene.
  
  Graphics are pretty good, though not a huge jump from Chaos Theory either. I ran the game in 1680x1050 
 resolution with all effects cranked, moderate AA and AF. Some levels look a lot better than others 
 and in general textures on characters were better than in the game world. Still, a great looking 
 game, if not a huge next-gen step.
  
  Stability was fine for me. I am using an 8800GTS 640 in Windows Vista. I got no crashing problems 
 or real bugs as a lot of people have reported. I can't comment on those issues since I did not 
 experience them. Sometimes people don't update their drivers correctly, or use a pirated copy or 
 disc crack which causes issues. Not sure how many fall under this category... point being, the 
 game ran perfectly for me.
  
  All in all Double Agent is a worth purchase for any Splinter Cell fan. It's not as amazing as Chaos 
 Theory (which was done by a different team who are working on the next Splinter Cell) , but it's 
 still a great stealth game that I would put above the first two in the series as far as replaying 
 them all right now. If you have the specs, I highly suggest you check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbierugg
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Don't buy this game if you haven't already - those of us that HAVE, let's band together and sue 
 these sheisters!!! Horrible, unforgivable. I am going to attempt to return the game to EB Games, 
 we'll see if I succeed - if I do, I will report back with news. LESSON: do your homework before 
 buying any game - check the forums. BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNightshadEx
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin?
  
  I'm a huge fan of the Splinter Cell series, always have been since the first game was released 
 for XBOX, and I instantly fell in love with it. The style of gameplay it provided was original, 
 unique and tons of fun. However this, the fourth installation in the Splinter Cell series, was 
 definitely not only below my expectations, but disappointing, to put it nicely.
  
  First and foremost, there are a whole slew of technical issues infesting this game. I have a pretty 
 decent rig, in comparison to today's standards for high-end gaming. Granted, it's not the best 
 of the best, but I'd say it's at least above average. Upon installation, my PC met all the requisites 
 on the compatibility checklist, so I figured I was good to go.
  
  Technical Cons
  ----------------------
  Crashes: They are numerous, abundant and, from what I can tell, game-related. 
 I've experienced virtually every type of crash that Windows XP can experience while ATTEMPTING 
 to play this game, from crashes to desktop to instantaneous system reboots in the middle of gameplay. 
 My average gameplay session is probably between 10-15 minutes MAXIMUM because it crashes so often. 
 I figured there must be something wrong with my PC, be it spyware, drivers, or some kind of graphic 
 setting. So I turn down all my graphics, both in-game and through hardware settings, even kill 
 my overclocking. I make sure I have all my drivers and directx up to date, and try again... This 
 does nothing, I still crash constantly. In fact, I crash so much, even after the most recent of 
 patches, that the game is virtually unplayable at this point in time. I figure I must have something 
 fatally wrong with my system for it to be doing this... so I do some searching to see if anyone 
 has a workaround of some sort. Turns out, this problem I seem to be having with the game is in 
 fact an epidemic. Players all over the official website are having the same problems as I am, as 
 well as plenty of people from other game-related forums. This leads me to the conclusion there 
 is something internally wrong with the software of this game, meaning it's not a problem with my, 
 or the tons of others with the same problem, PC... it's a problem with the game itself, a problem 
 which has yet to be fixed.
  
  Sound: In a word, crap. If you enjoyed the dialog between Sam Fisher and his counterparts, such 
 as Lambert, you'll be disappointed, because this game lacks a good deal of dialog. If I had to 
 guess, I'd say there was more dialog in Splinter Cell (1) 's first mission alone than the first 
 SIX missions of this game, which IMO, is a big downer... I enjoyed the dialog from the first game, 
 and even the second... It added to the immersion of the gameplay, and helped me (the player) relate 
 to Sam Fisher's character. Another problem with the sound, is that a good amount of the sounds 
 in this game are recycled, and not only recycled but completely stolen from previous installations, 
 which is just sad. Additionally, there is no way to adjust the in-game music volume (which incidentally 
 can become so loud that it literally drowns out what little dialog there is in the game) , you can 
 only turn it off or on.
  
  POSSIBLE SPOILERS
  Story: I think the story concept for this game is great, and could have led to a lot of insight 
 into Sam Fisher's world... but again, I'm let down. First of all, there is little to no explanation 
 of the gap between Splinter Cell 3 and this game, it just catapults you right into a mission scenario 
 having no idea what you're doing or why. In the first mission, your rookie spy-partner dies in 
 front of your eyes and there's literally nothing you can do to stop it, even if you try... But 
 this blatant loss of life is shrugged off with a one-line exchange between fisher and lambert, 
 which I find a bit crude and unrealistic... I mean, you'd think you'd at least have to extract 
 the corpse, right? Nope, you leave him there, in fact, after he dies right in front of you... he 
 (or his death) plays no other role in the game that I know of, so all in all it is pretty pointless. 
 After the first mission, you finally get some, however little, detail into what's going on with 
 Sam in this story. With the briefest of cutscenes, you learn that Sam's daughter has died, Sam 
 then proceeds down a downward spiral of mourning, self-destruction and alcoholism - all of this 
 is shoveled into your face within a period of 2 minutes, if that... Lame. If you recall the past 
 Splinter Cell games, there is a time where his daughter was in danger before, and you witnessed 
 a realistic among of emotion unfold in the story from Sam in response to this event... But in this 
 game, there is no such connection. It's almost as if his daughter never died, or never even existed, 
 you barely get to connect on that level with Sam's character at all, and to me it's nothing more 
 than disappointing. I sat there and watched the brief cinematic, and just said WTF was that? Again, 
 LAME.
  
  Introduction into gameplay: I don't know about you, but until this was released, I hadn't played 
 a Splinter Cell game in a while, and figured it was no big deal because they always had those intro-re-education 
 missions to start things off... Not in this one, though there are 2 training simulations , it just 
 wasn't the same to me, these training ops aren't part of the story, as they were previously.
  
  Pros
  -------
  Graphics: The graphics are great, as is the level design... though the game 
 itself is extremely hardware intensive, don't expect to get eye-candy from minimum requirements 
 by any means.
  
  Gameplay: As always the gameplay is still very fun, IMO. I love the stealth-style.
  
  Other 
 than that there's not much else I can tell you regarding this title, simply because it crashes 
 too much to experience all of it, I haven't even been able to finish the single-player mode because 
 of the crashes. And I hear, while the multiplayer mode was enhanced, is full of all sorts of independent 
 bugs of its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  The good part: I was able to finally get it to work with my 8800GTS video card. The trick to do 
 this for those who don't know is in WinXP to create a NEW shortcut to the SplinterCell4. exe file 
 and add a -LL to the end of the command line. DO NOT do this to the default shortcut as this will 
 direct the player to the launcher, and the game will continue to crash. At least that spared me 
 from tossing the game outright. Once running, game does have pretty graphics and passable sound... 
 when it works that is. I have found that the game still has numerous bugs and still likes to frequently 
 crash to the desktop. Don't these people believe in at least some degree of QC before kicking these 
 games out the door? Geez!
  
  Maybe with another patch or six, Ubisoft will finally get it right. Until then, I don't recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  After beating Chaos Theory I was really excited to see what the next Splinter Cell game would be 
 like. With CT's sexy graphics and overall perfected feel I didn't think Ubisoft could go wrong. 
 They proved me wrong with SC: Double Agent.
  
  In this installment Sam Fisher is sent in deep cover after his daughter is killed. While this affected 
 him emotionally you see him become a more independent person thoughout the game. This then leads 
 to you being able to pry from Echelon's forceful grip and allows you to do things that would usually 
 have the words Mission Failed blare across your screen. An example of this when you can either 
 save Lambert, your best friend/buddy since the original Splinter Cell, or confirm his existence 
 as a mole thus getting him killed. That is just one of many times in the game where you will be 
 able to choose the future in the game.
  
  The options in the games trust system are a nice touch but the feel of the clean cut game from 
 CT is lost in Double Agent. I can't pinpoint it but Double Agent feels as though elements that 
 were built up in the past games are now stripped away. One of these elements being graphics. Chaos 
 Theory was an amazing looking game but now Double Agent is here with average graphics and that's 
 being nice.
  
  I also came into Double Agent expecting to blow away some of the stealth antics, like the way CT 
 delivered very nicely, and show my face to the bad guys before putting two rounds into their head. 
 Did I get this? Nope. I was working for the bad guys, yet I still had to sneak around like a ninja 
 and not be seen. If I did get seen, however, I would be taken to a special interrogation room where 
 I could lockpick my way out of handcuffs and escape. This is a very nice feature that was added 
 from the last game and I'm happy this was brought over.
  
  The weaponry is expanded in a minor way with a new attachment for the SC-20k launcher, the shotgun 
 attachment. The new shotgun is cool for blowing away bad guys at close range but when you get less 
 than 10 feet away or you need to be quiet, your pretty much out of luck.
  
  At the end of the 10-12 hour gameplay of Double Agent I realized what a good game Chaos Theory 
 was. Double Agent tried to break the formula and add new things to the Splinter Cell Series and 
 failed. Nice try Ubisoft but next time stick to what you have going. Make the things that make 
 us want to play your game and to continue to play what was once great.
  
  Pros+ Old SC features, weapons, new missions, new gear, trust system
  
  Cons- Difficult missions/A. I., 
 short, stripped, unexpected features 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker2142
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell : Double Agent  &amp;#1588;&amp;#1705; 
   
   
 SC   
  &amp;#1548;   
  &amp;#1608;  
  &amp;#1608; &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
  &amp;#1578;&amp;#1585;  
 &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;   
   
 NSA &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;   
    
 &amp;#1607;&amp;#1575; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
  .  
   &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; 
    
   &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705; 
   
    
   
   
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
   
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1740; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
  &amp;#1608;  
 6   
   
   
   &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
   
 &amp;#1548;  &amp;#1548; 
  &amp;#1548;  
 &amp;#1608; 3   
   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
   
 !    
   
  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; 
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
   &amp;#1567; 
  &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;  
    
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;   
   
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;  &amp;#1567; 
  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;  
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; &amp;#1705;&amp;#1605;   
   
 &amp;#1548;   
  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;  
   
  &amp;#1608;  
   
   
 &amp;#1548;   &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
 &amp;#1587;&amp;#1607;  &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1580;&amp;#1575; 
  !  
   
    
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
    
 . &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
   &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605; 
   
   ! Samuel Leo Fisher &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1740;  
   
  . &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
  &amp;#1608;  
    
 &amp;#1608; &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;   
    
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
   
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;   
   
  &amp;#1548;  
   
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;   
 &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;   
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;   
 &amp;#1608;  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; 
  &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;  
   
   
   
 &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1548;  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
   
   . &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; &amp;#1570;&amp;#1606; 
 &amp;#1662;&amp;#1587; &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;   
   
 &amp;#1608;  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; 
  &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;  
   
  &amp;#1548; &amp;#1575;&amp;#1608; &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; 
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
  &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;  
 &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;  &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705; 
   
   
  &amp;#1608; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
  &amp;#1548;  
   
 &amp;#1608; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1575;&amp;#1608;   
 &amp;#1578;&amp;#1575;   
 &amp;#1608;   
   
  
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;   
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; &amp;#1570;&amp;#1606;   
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1608;  
  &amp;#1578;&amp;#1575;  
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  JBA 
   
 &amp;#1548;   
    
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;   &amp;#1548; 
   
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; 
    
   
 &amp;#1608;   
    
 &amp;#1548;  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1740;  
 &amp;#1608;  
   &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; 
  . Emile   
 &amp;#1548; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575; &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;  
   
   
    
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;   
 . Ubi  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
   &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; 
   &amp;#1608; 
   
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
  
   .  
   
   &amp;#1608; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; 
   
   &amp;#1548;  
 &amp;#1608;  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; &amp;#1570;&amp;#1606; 
   
    
 &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;   
  &amp;#1578;&amp;#1575;  
   
 &amp;#1578;&amp;#1585;   
  &amp;#1608;  
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;  &amp;#1608;  
 &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; &amp;#1581;&amp;#1587;  
 &amp;#1608;  &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1608;  
  &amp;#1548; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
   
   &amp;#1608;  
  &amp;#1607;&amp;#1585;  
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;   
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;  &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;  
   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;   
 Unreal  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
  
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; 
   
  &amp;#1608;  
    
 &amp;#1548; &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
 &amp;#1608; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;   
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;  
  &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;  
   
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;   
    
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
  &amp;#1608;  
  &amp;#1548;  
  &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
   
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
  &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;  
  &amp;#1608;  
   
 &amp;#1548;   
 &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
   
   
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1585; &amp;#1570;&amp;#1606;  
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;   
   
    
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1583;  &amp;#1607;&amp;#1575; 
  &amp;#1548;  
 &amp;#1570;&amp;#1576; &amp;#1608;  &amp;#1608; 
 ... &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
   
 &amp;#1570;&amp;#1576; &amp;#1608;   
   
    
 .  &amp;#1570;&amp;#1576; &amp;#1548; &amp;#1740;&amp;#1582; 
 &amp;#1548;  &amp;#1608; ...  
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
    
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1740; &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
 RS.   
  .   
   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  &amp;#1608; 
   (  
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
   
 ) . &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; 
 &amp;#1570;&amp;#1576;   
   &amp;#1608; 
  &amp;#1570;&amp;#1576;  
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1608;  
    
  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; 
  &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
   
 &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605;   
 &amp;#1608;   
    
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
  &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
  &amp;#1548;   
   
    
   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1705;   
   
 &amp;#1608;  &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
   
   
 !  &amp;#1582;&amp;#1576;   
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
   
   
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
  .  
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
    
  &amp;#1608;   
   &amp;#1548;  
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
   
 . &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
    
   
  &amp;#1608;  
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1605;   
   
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1608;   &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705; 
    
   &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
  1.0  
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
  . &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;   
   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;   
   
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;    
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
    
   
   
   
 !  &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; 
 &amp;#1548;   
   
   ! &amp;#1608;  
   
  &amp;#1548;   
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
 &amp;#1608;   &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705; 
   
   
 .   
  &amp;#1548;  
    
 &amp;#1608; ... &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
   
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;   
    
  &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; 
   
 &amp;#1608;   &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; 
    
   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; &amp;#1607;&amp;#1585; &amp;#1588;&amp;#1740; &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
   
   
   
   
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
  &amp;#1607;&amp;#1585;  
  &amp;#1608;  
   &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;  
 &amp;#1608;   
   
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1608;  ( NSA &amp;#1608; JBA ) &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; 
   .  
   
   
    
  &amp;#1608;  
   &amp;#1578;&amp;#1575;  
    
   &amp;#1608;  
   
  .   
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
   
 &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605;  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
    
  .   
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1608;  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
   &amp;#1548; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; 
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
   
   &amp;#1662;&amp;#1587; 
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
  
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575; &amp;#1585;&amp;#1583;   
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  Trust Bar  
   
 &amp;#1608;   
   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1670;&amp;#1607;   
  &amp;#1548; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
 &amp;#1608;  
  &amp;#1608;  
  &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;  
   
 .  Health 
 Bar &amp;#1608; &amp;#1740;&amp;#1575;   
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
   
 &amp;#1608;   &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; 
    
 &amp;#1578;&amp;#1575;   
  &amp;#1608;  
   &amp;#1608;  
    
  .  
 Action &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
   
   
 &amp;#1608;    
   &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; 
    
 &amp;#1608;   &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605; 
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;   
   .  
 &amp;#1548;  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; 
   
   &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;  
    
 &amp;#1608;  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1585;  
    
   
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
    
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
 &amp;#1548;   
    
    
 .    
 &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
 &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
   &amp;#1608; 
    
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
 .  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
  &amp;#1548;  
 &amp;#1548;   
 &amp;#1608;  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
  &amp;#1608;  
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;    
   
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1606;&amp;#1607;  
  &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1583;   
   
  &amp;#1548;  
   &amp;#1608; 
   
  .  
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1548; &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;   
 Warrior Land &amp;#1608; Future Warrior   
    
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;   
 &amp;#1578;&amp;#1575;  2025 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
   
  
 &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605;   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
   
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1608; 
  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
   
   
  &amp;#1608;   
   
   
  !  
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
 Mokab   
  &amp;#1548;   
 &amp;#1578;&amp;#1575;   
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1548;  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;  
 &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
   
 &amp;#1548;   
 &amp;#1585;&amp;#1575;  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585; 
   
  &amp;#1548;  
  &amp;#1608;   
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  &amp;#1608;  
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
   &amp;#1570;&amp;#1576; 
   &amp;#1587;&amp;#1605; 
 &amp;#1608;   
   &amp;#1570;&amp;#1576; 
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1608;    
 &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
  
 &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
  &amp;#1548;  
  &amp;#1608;  
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
   &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605; 
 &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;   
  &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;  
  .  
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575; 
   &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586; 
    
   
    
 &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605;   
 !    
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1740;  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
   
   
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
 &amp;#1607;&amp;#1575;   
   
 &amp;#1578;&amp;#1575;   
 !   
   
   
 &amp;#1548;  &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;  
   
 &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; 
   &amp;#1608; 
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
  &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;  
 .   
 &amp;#1608;   &amp;#1548; 
 &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;   
 4-3  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1740;  
 &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;   
  &amp;#1608; &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607; &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705; 
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1740;  
   
  .   
  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;  
 &amp;#1608;   
    
  !  
  &amp;#1607;&amp;#1605;  
   
 &amp;#1608;  5 Track  
    
   &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607;  
 &amp;#1583;&amp;#1585;   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;   
   
  &amp;#1740;&amp;#1705;  
  &amp;#1576;&amp;#1607;  
   
 &amp;#1548;  
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
   
   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1575;   SC : 
 DA  &amp;#1705;&amp;#1607; 
   &amp;#1588;&amp;#1583; 
 &amp;#1548;   
  &amp;#1608;  
   
  &amp;#1608;  
   
  &amp;#1575;&amp;#1586;  
    
   
 &amp;#1576;&amp;#1585;  2 DVD  
   . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: importeater22
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  This Game was a huge disappointment, I tried it with a pair of BFG 7600gt OC and the frame rate 
 and stabliity was abysmal .
  So when I upgrade my Videocards to a pair of 8800gts i was thinking I'll be able to play this for 
 sure, not the case now it will not get past the ubisoft mainscreen and kicks me to the desktop.
 
  
  It is amazing that Ubisoft would put out this game before it is ready.
  Splinter Cell series are normally great games, so it does not make sense for ubisoft to tarnish 
 the good name of the series with broken down piece of Crap Game.
  
  one other thing I contacted Ubisoft after put my new videocards in and they said that SCDA did 
 not support Nivida Geforce 8800GTS and that why it would not run. Also that I would have to wait 
 for Nvidia to make a driver for SCDA.
  The funny thing is if you look in the profile of the videocard settings SCDA is in the profile.
 
  so my choices is either run with unplayable frame rate or not at all, i choice not at all.
  
  and just so you guy get the idea how dumb that sounds All my other Tom Clancy work and are 
 totally playable...
  
  GRAW 1, Rainbow Six Vegas, Far Cry, do not fall into the temptation of buying this game you will 
 be disappointed
  
  my system specs
  CPU: AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200+ 2.2GHZ OC to 2.6GHZ SOCKET 939
  MotherBoard: Asus SLI Premium Memory: 
 Corsair XMS PRO PC3200 400MHZ 3-3-3-8
  Video Card: 2-EVGA Geforce 8800GTS (SLI Enabled)
  Audio: RealTek AC 97'
  PSU: OCZ 520Watt Monitor: HP F-2105 21 WideScreen 1680X1050 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_vivek
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back and now he takes a different role as being an Double Agent .The next generation 
 graphics and new HDR engine is at it's best. Sound tracks are also good which are composed by Michael 
 McCann. There are actually two separate versions of Double Agent . One version (Version 1) was made 
 by Ubisoft Shanghai, who developed Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow and was released 
 on the Xbox 360, PC, and PlayStation 3. The other version (Version 2) was made by Ubisoft Montreal 
 (Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell and Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory) and was released for 
 the Xbox, PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube and Nintendo Wii. As part of the JBA, Sam must complete 
 objectives set by them to gain their trust as well as complete objectives from the NSA. The decisions 
 he has to make will become increasingly difficult as he progresses through the game. Earlier decisions, 
 such as deciding whether or not to free all of the prisoners during the prison breakout, will just 
 affect his score, but as the game progresses, Sam is faced with serious choices that could kill 
 thousands if made wrong, but may blow his cover if he doesn't do it.
  
  Despite this, Sam must make the JBA trust him, in order to gain access to the restricted areas 
 of their base and complete NSA objectives. If he is seen in restricted areas before he is allowed 
 to go there, it will dramatically effect his trust with the JBA. Similarly, if he is caught using 
 an NSA gadget or picking a lock in JBA HQ, he will be killed on sight.
  
  He is also watched by the JBA in most of his missions, if he is seen completing NSA objectives 
 or is thought to be doing something out of the ordinary, his trust will go down. Killing people 
 apart from those ordered to be taken out will affect his NSA trust in the same way.
  
  Soon next version of splinter cell is going is being expected ,named Convicted . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelly_mrt
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  without any doubt the buggiest game I've ever witnessed. The Sam Fisher series has been tremendous, 
 from the first to the previous incarnation. But the shanghai studios just dropped the ball massively. 
 Contact points fail, save games don't work properly. I could go on an on.
  
  But I won't. Nearly five months on they have released two pretty poor patches, which seem biased 
 towards multiplayer. I had persevered to this point expecting that patches would be produced to 
 ameliorate these problems. Seems like Ubisoft have different priorities. Its a real shame, this 
 had been a great series - so much goodwill expended in one fell swoop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: octop8
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I have an 8800GTX and a X6800 C2E and I cannot play this game. There is graphical corruption all 
 over. I bought this game in November and waited until now for patches to sort this out but still 
 nothing to date. I guess they just don't care any more. There is a work-around by Nvidia to get 
 this game to run but why should we need work-arounds, Ubisoft can't even be bothered to sort this 
 one out. And I just cannot understand why Ubisoft of all people do not support widescreen resolutions 
 (also not supported in R6 Vegas) when it is so widespread nowadays - it's just so lazy to just 
 port everything from console (including the resolutions) when it is easy to add widescreen support. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RRTRACKS
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Since I did not bother to read the minimum system specifications for this game I am partially at 
 fault for buying a game that would not work on my computer. The system I have consists of a 3.2 
 GHz P4 OC to 3.5 GHz, 2 GB RAM with an ATI X850XT PE. This card is only two years old and has 256MB 
 of 1100MHz DDR3 memory. Even though this is an old system, it exceeds the performance of what a 
 great many people have. Compared to a contemporary decent gaming computer it would be kind to call 
 it a slug. This is not the game that is going to get me to upgrade (more like replace) my system. 
 I am waiting with the hope the next upgrade will use less power and run cooler. The system I now 
 have uses a ton of energy and puts out two tons of heat. Could the low score I submitted be a result 
 of sour grapes because of my dated system? Maybe. Since this game was given a much higher rating 
 by a great number of people I would be willing to admit the opinions stated here may be flawed. 
 The lack of updates for compatibility issues and bugs say more than I ever could about why you 
 should spend your money elsewhere. Rich 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sZZZlepy_101
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Pros
  1. innovative gameplay which puts you as a double agent 2. trust meter between the NSA (the good 
 guys) and the JBA (THe bad guys) builds up more tension and stress (in a good way) . 3. a faster 
 and better multiplayer than the past ones
  4. great vioce acting of sam fisher once again by Ironside Cons
  1. its a bug infested game!!!
 
  2. you need one hell of a computer if you wana get the most out of the graphical experiance. 3. 
 dosent even work on some of the fastest cards today 4. dont even try playing it on a low or med 
 end computer
  5. spies dont get guns like they used to in multiplayer
  6. better off playing the X360 version of the game 7. crashes alot
  8. so far anyone who buys 
 this game dont really care about gameplay but more about fixing the graphical problem Reviewers 
 note I only made it to the 4th level cause i was quite pissed from all the crashes and other crap 
 happening. In conclusion this game is very disappointing and I thnk UBISOFT was really on a last 
 minute situation which they do not have tme to fix any of the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234v2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: You play as Sam Fisher a NSA sub division called Splinter Cells. It is 2008 and your 
 daughter dies very sad you fall into a great depression. But your boss in the Splinter Cells gives 
 you a deep cover mission to get your mind off of things. In which you are in jail were you meet 
 Jamie Washington who hooks you up with the JBA or John Browns Army and the story continues their. 
 The unique thing about this Splinter Cell is the trust meter which has two sides the NSA adn the 
 JBA adn along missions you will earn or lose trust which is presented on a bar. You sneak around 
 a lot of the time and kill stealthily. Also the sound meter and light meter are gone but on Sam's 
 back and chest has a light that is green for fully covered, yellow for in the light and can be 
 discovered or red for you are screwed and suck at sneaking around adn need to hide quick or your 
 dead.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are very very nice looking but the shadows are very bad looking. Also for 
 the first time when you shoot someone blood comes out so it was a nice feature. It looks nice.
 
  
  Sound: Their is almost no music sense you want it quiet for you to here everything. Voice overs 
 are nicely done also. Eveything sounds very nice from the war zone of Africa to the fire works 
 of Shanghai. Value: You can unlock a lot of new gadgets and weapons threw out the game so you can 
 go back and get them if you wish. Also the multiplayer is FANTASTIC it is very very fun and you 
 can play it for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpuppy
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I can understand that making xbox games is easier and all that but for those of us who don't like 
 consoles it sometimes feels like we are the neglected step children of the game industry. I have 
 been playing games for long enough that a little fiddling to get the game to work is something 
 normal but to have a fairly up to date system (Duo Core 2 2.16 ghz, 2 gb ram, Nvidia geforce go 
 7950 GTX) that is well within the specs on the box and be told by the support team at Ubi soft 
 that they don't support that issue . While the graphics, what I have seen of them, do look great, 
 a lot of the features in the game seem to be downgrades from previous versions of the game. In 
 particular that the shadow and sound sensors have been replaced by this 3 color warning light system 
 that just screams this was easier to code . The sound in the game is impressive and does add a 
 element to gameplay but it seems that this is the only point that really does seem like an upgrade 
 at the end of the day. Technical glitches abound in the PC version... If you ask me they phoned 
 it in on this one. Ubisoft does not care about pc gamers anymore people, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this quick:
  
  Do not buy this game ever. The pc version is awful. The story is interesting, the levels are fun, 
 the game can be challenging at times. But its very very short. I am a slow gamer. I generally take 
 a month to beat a game on the hardest difficulty for FPS shooters. now I dont play splinter cell 
 type games often but this one was short. I beat it in 5 days, definately not worth it. BUGS: there 
 are awful many types of bugs. levels were no sound occurs. cutscenes that don't let you move on 
 and freeze up, minigames that dont function, and crashes that occur everytime you save and move 
 on. There are so many issues its awful to even discuss. I have an excellent system that can play 
 any game at highest settings. I played double agent at 50 frames with no hitching or slowdowns (except 
 when i was inside the smoke of a smoke grenade) but otherwise it was a high framerate game, but 
 because of its shortness, poor execution and bad programming it was an awful game. I returned it 
 and exchanged it at EB games seeing that they give a 7 day period to return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Some while ago I bought this game, only to find that it would not run on the graphics card that 
 ran every other graphically intensive game just fine, solely because the morons who specc'ed this 
 game thought that they would make it only compliant with shader 3+. So it sat on a shelf for a 
 while.
  
  I have since built a new games machine that includes a fast 8800gtx graphics card, big processor, 
 lots of RAM and installed the latest patch. And guess what? This time SCDA crashes completely when 
 I try to start a single player game. It turns out as well as designing a game that required a new 
 graphics card to play, the incompetant tossers who built this game also built it so that it won't 
 run on a new graphics card either. When I consulted the Ubisoft board, there was a statement to 
 the effecty that they knew the game wouldn't run on 8800 cards but they couldn't be expected to 
 have built the game to run on cards that hadn't been released when they released the game.
  
  So let me get this straight - the game wouldn't run on an old card and it now won't run on 
 a new one?
  
  I know that this isn't a proper game review BUT its all I can manage and reflects my experience 
 of this dreadful bit of coding which is simply unplayable for very large numbers of PC gamers - 
 either because your card is too old or too new. As I said in the title - its so close to being 
 unfit for the purpose for which it was sold that it might almost be worth contacting Trading Standards.
 
  
  I have to say that if this is the way that Ubisoft are going to design their games I won't be buying 
 any more.
  
  Scores are all at 1 because I simply cannot get the game to run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_gentleman30
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, considering that the DVD autorun slowed down my whole system and rendering it immobile, making 
 it tough to install the game in the first place and figuring out how to skip the slow-down menu 
 in the first place. I still appreciate the game's new additions... Such as the trust system and 
 the collecting profiles thing, Which had me obsessing to collect every piece of info about my colleagues 
 Even though I don't have the hardware to run the graphics high, I still think that it is a great 
 game graphically and the storyline is really good. But eventually, the 2nd Kinshasa level just 
 turned me off to continue playing the game because I couldn't load game saves and IMO playing Splinter 
 Cell without the gamesaves is just next to impossible to play the game the way it was meant to 
 be played (stealthily) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killdozer0000
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Out of the box: a buggy mess. Even though my computer met the awkwardly specific specs listed on 
 the box, the game wouldn't run at a speed faster than a Powerpoint slide show.
  
  Jason at Ubisoft Tech Support, unable to help, suggested I read the EULA when I enquired about 
 getting my money back. Basically, Thanks for your money and f*ck you . Do you want to purchase 
 a game from a company so clearly willing to take your money and provide nothing in return? From 
 now on, my answer will be no .
  
  In between bouts of choppy gameplay, I was able to assess a few of the changes that Ubisoft Shanghai 
 made to the series:
  
  - The sound/light meters of games past have been replaced by a dumbed down stoplight. Green = good 
 (presumable you're quiet and in the dark) , Red = bad (you're too loud... or are you in the light... or 
 both?) , Yellow = kinda bad (you're quietly in the light or maybe loudly crouched in the dark or...?) 
 - Save games aren't listed chronologically. This may seem like a small thing until you're faced 
 with the many game stopping bugs that force you ro restart and reload over and over. And don't 
 even think about quick saving since those save games suffer the same problem. Who knows where your 
 next quick load will start you?
  
  - The controls can't be reconfigured. You have to applaud a developer willing to go against the 
 grain and remove a feature that is pretty much taken for granted by every gamer everywhere. Anyway, 
 hope you like the default controls cause that's all you get.
  
  Anyway, avoid this game. In fact, after the lack of support Ubisoft has shown for this game and 
 PC users everywhere (just check their forums: forums. ubi. com) I'd say avoid any of their games 
 in the near future.
  
  KD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pongley
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Although Double Agent has improved graphics and physics and also improves various features from 
 Chaos theory, there are way too many problems with it for us to be jumping for joy.
  Almost every player has had the No input error when the game loses the Graphical device and fails 
 to restart it. Even with every setting turned to almost nothing so that sam looks like a big shadow 
 you will still get lag because of the shading techniques that Ubisoft used.
  The missions however are just right on difficulty although I personally think the storyline sucks, 
 I liked the idea of Sam being a hero.
  My suggestion to Ubisoft, don't let your Chinese branch make the next splinter cell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fvrl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is very nice. one of the cool new features is the trust meter. definetly makes the game 
 more challanging and interesting since sometimes the objectives for the nsa are opposite of what 
 the jba wants you to do. the headquerters missions are also lots of fun. it will take some time 
 to figure out how to complete all the objectives in the alloted time. the rest of the game is pretty 
 much like the other splinter cell titles. sneaking around stealthily and completing objectives. 
 graphics are very good in this game and several new moves and tricks wrap up the single player 
 mode.
  
  I havent played the muliplayer mode but i heard it wasnt as good as the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja95
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game based on the demo on the 360. I will never do that again. Once installed on 
 my very high-end PC Sam Fisher looks like a bunch of black lines with a head floating over them. 
 It sucks and all the forums are lit up about how this is a great game and UBSoft is pulling the 
 plug on updating it for Vista as they are now only after the console market. I think they suck 
 for do that and that goes for this game as well. Don't waste your time or money on this game if 
 your running Vista, the complatiblity setting will not make it work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahba2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Forth apperance of sam fisher is good but i thin SC: DA must be better.
  Story:
  NSA want to find a secret information about the terrorist grop that name is JBA because of that 
 lampert call sam and tell him you must go to prison by spurious robbey to can met on of the JBA 
 member to help him to escape from prison and penetration the JBA. sam must give jalap trust of 
 JBA . but after the important mission in island lambert call to sam that his daughter sara die 
 on accident. that's too painful for sam after he lost his wife. now sam is too solitary.
  Game Play
  SC series always have a excellent game play in their genre ( stealth game) . we desing 
 an intersting gameply for sc: ct and we learn many thing that's too good because of that we make 
 the gameplay of double agent proximate of chaos theory. said the developer of game in an interview.
 
  Graphic
  the game graphic is similar in the next-gen and now console edition. game use the unreal engine 
 2.5 because it's too hard to make the game with unreal engine 3. developer team said that we have 
 limit budget that don't let us to use unreal engine3. game use shader model 3 and HDR technologhy 
 because of that we see the excellent graphic in game. Sound:
  good enogh . the sound of weapon are good but it must be better. the voice of characters in the 
 converstation is good that you can hear their sound to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Finally UBI software has come forth witha fantastic new game. I have just begun to play this awsome 
 game. The only drawbacks so far are that one must have a PC of the highest caliber to play this 
 game. Any hard core gamers not giving Splinter Cell 4 a solid ten across the PC rateing board is 
 being sadly fooled. If any brothers or sisters are having a hard time unlocking the game with UBI's 
 digital key, e-mail me and I will gladly walk you through it. In fact the digital unlocking of this 
 game is the only dissapointing aspect of it so far. Although UBI trys to take credit for a new patch 
 which supposedly resolves this issue, simply is not true. The patch is a waste of time as far as 
 digitally unlocking the game. The solution to unlocking the digital download is very easy. However 
 GameSpots reviews is not the place to post the repair that I programmed into their vault ! I will 
 keep my sisters and brothers updated as I play the game further on. Playing what I thought was 
 a great effort by UBI for the PC has turned into the usal crashs, computer lockups etc. All from 
 what I thought was a great game. Tom Clancys: Splinter Cell Double Agent is just another badly, totaly 
 disgraceful effort by UBI software and gaming company to try and keep pace with the other great 
 games for the PC. There are so many problems within the game, its useless to try and list them all. Most 
 all of my brothers and sisters whom fall into the caregory of hard core gamers already know
  what I am typing here is the truth. The game is NOT to be played on a high end gaming machine, for 
 the game cannot keep up with a very fast paced PC. One with all the latest high end bells and whistles. After 
 this gal made it to stage 3 parts A and B the game very quickly fell into UBI's usal crashs, computer 
 lockups etc. UBI and its gaming affiliates will be happy to see me go for I will never put another 
 penny into one of their so called high tech games, which do not even have a new story line. All of 
 the so called Tom Clancys scenarios fall into the same old same old which is a fairy tale that 
 one never can find a ending to, mainly because the games are so badly programmed the games cannot 
 be finished ! YUCK YUCK UBI shame shame on you peoples for taking brother and sisters hard earned 
 game moneys with flashy false advertising to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pborrelli
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I am very disappointed in this game for several reasons. First, it is very buggy. From the configuration 
 options, game play and the save and load game screens. When choosing the video properties, not 
 all of the available video resolutions (in my case should be 1680x1050) and aspect ratios (4:3, 
 16:9, 16:10) appear in the drop downs. (Interestingly, when running the game in Vista x64 the proper 
 choices for aspect ratio do appear but since SCDA is not supported by UBI in Vista youre on your 
 own when it comes to getting support for the other issues) Game play can get choppy after playing 
 a while and performance degrades. (According to ubi this is a known issue on dual processor AMD 
 systems but hey, Ive only got a single core) There are places were clipping occurs. This leaves 
 Sam stuck in a wall with reloading is the only remedy. Also I have had apparently random crashes 
 occur. (One reporting a Microsoft C++ Error)
  
  Saved games cannot be named as they could be in previous versions (and almost every other PC game 
 Ive played) They are labeled either Save or Quicksave. This causes a problem when trying to 
 load a particular spot in a mission because the only way you can tell them apart is by the small 
 date and time stamp. (And no, this list is not in order) When selecting a particular save to load 
 it the selection does not stay highlighted when you go to click on the load button so you dont 
 always get the save you think you chose. Often times when you choose a level and click load it 
 only returns you to the load game screen again. Therefore not every save in the list can actually 
 be loaded.
  
  Many of the very convenient features found in former versions, like being able to select a particular 
 weapon by hitting control and clicking on your selection, are not found in this game. In this version 
 you must scroll through the entire list to choose what you want. And you dont click on it, you 
 just scroll through and hope the item you want shows up in the center box the first time you try. 
 Key items have been changed such as the interface used to hack computers and such. In Chaos Theory 
 you could click on a particular number to select it. In this version you must use the directional 
 keys to scroll through a list of running numbers to highlight the correct one and press enter 
 to select them (So whats a mouse for?) Also you have to direct Sam just right and manually enter 
 crawl spaces and such instead of just hitting the space bar as in previous versions.
  
  This episode does not look, feel or act like a traditional Splinter Cell game so for fans that 
 have played the previous episodes this one will take some getting used to. My advice is if you 
 have a PS2 go ahead and get that one and pass on the PC version. It plays much more like the previous 
 episodes and is not so awkward. But hey, If you have to have both there is an upside. The way the 
 story unfolds is very different on the two platforms. It really is like having two different games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzycmk
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I imagine that it's hard to develop sequels for a popular series, at least if you're going to give 
 it a fair shot, and not just crank them out for sake of a payday.
  
  From that perspective, I give the developers of Splinter Cell : Douvle Agent some credit for the 
 interesting twist in this fourth installment of the SC series. Following an introductory level 
 that is pretty standard SC fare, Sam Fisher goes deep undercover to infiltrate a domestic terrorist 
 cell called John Brown's Army (JBA) . While in the cell, Sam will have to make certain choices to 
 stay in the good graces of terrorist leaders and not blow his cover. At the same time, he needs 
 to complete enough tasks given to him by his superiors at the NSA to keep them convinced he can 
 continue.
  
  The above is the essence of the Trust Meters you have to maintain during the game. If you lose 
 too much trust with either the JBA or NSA, it's game over. Most levels have multiple objectives, 
 some for each party. Some of these objectives are mutually exclusive in that completing the objective 
 for one party means you can't complete the objective for the other. This leaves the players to 
 decide which objectives to pursue depending on their relative level of trust with each party. The 
 game has two main modes of play, one for those levels taking place at the Headquarters of the JBA, 
 and another for those missions taking place around the world.
  
  The JBA HQ levels have you assigned with a timed task from one of the terrorist leaders (completing 
 a training course, assembling mines, decrypting e-mails, etc.) . These assignments go a long way 
 towards establishing trust with the JBA. You are given ample amounts of time to complete the JBA 
 tasks, but finishing early gives you the opportunity to sneak around the JBA compound looking for 
 intelligence data to send back to the NSA. Players need to take care, however, because if Sam is 
 discovered poking around a sensitive area, it can be an instant loss of all trust, and it's Game 
 Over .
  
  These JBA HQ levels were fairly interesting in that they offered a lot of potential objectives 
 (too many to complete them all before the timing of your primary JBA objective ran out) . Player 
 will have to decide which objectives are the most beneficial and which will result in maintaining 
 the best level of trust with each group.
  
  Other levels in the game were more typical of Splinter Cell in sending you to exotic locations 
 like Iceland, Shanghai, a cruise ship in Mexico, and the Republic of Congo. These levels usually 
 have you accompanying the terrorist cell leaders, but, like the JBA HQ levels, you are often given 
 dual objectives to complete for both the JBA and NSA. One interesting level near the beginning 
 of the game has Sam breaking out of a prison in Kansas with a terrorist cell member who has taken 
 Sam into his confidence.
  
  The levels offer the player a great deal of freedom, as there are usually several different ways 
 to progress throughout the level. Your decisions during the game will also affect your options 
 later in the game. The JBA HQ levels can end in a lot of different ways depending on which objectives 
 your pursue.
  
  Fisher himself plays pretty much like he did in the previous SC offering, Chaos Theroy , although 
 he has been given a few new moves. One very useful move allows Sam to instantly move into grabbing 
 an enemy when Sam is concealed around a corner and the enemy approaches while unaware of Sam's 
 presence. Another cool move allows Sam to break through ice while underwater and drag enemies below. 
 He's given his usual assortment of weapons with his pistol, SC-20 rifle, and all the usual attachments 
 (sticky shockers, gas grenades, sticky cameras, etc.) . You won't have access to these for most 
 of the JBA HQ levels which have you sneaking around without the option of incapacitating the terrorists.
 
  
  The game interface is similar to other SC games in that interaction with characters / objects is 
 handled through a series of menus options allowing the player to make decisions (Open door / peek 
 under door with optic cable / bash open door / etc) . In a slight difference from other SC games, 
 these decision are handled through icons rather than strictly through text prompts. There are a 
 couple of odd decisions in the gameplay. In this game, Sam has no stealth meter indicating how 
 well concealed he is (in terms of light) or how much noise he is making. The shadowing and lighting 
 effects in the game are fairly good, so the player can usually judge where a dark corner is so 
 that he can remain concealed, but these meters have been such a staple of the SC series that their 
 absence here is surprising.
  
  Completing certain bonus objectives (marked with a star in your objectives screen) unlocks new 
 items for Sam to use (advanced weapons or tools) .
  
  At the end of each level, you're given a stealth score. I quickly started ignoring this as it subtracts 
 heavily for enemies that are knocked out or killed. I realize it's a stealth game, but what's the 
 point of all those cool gadgets Sam has if you're never going to use them?
  
  Unfortunately, while the game offers a good mix of traditional Splinter Cell play with the new 
 twist of Sam having to balance decisions while undercover with the terrorists, it's hard to overlook 
 a number of glitches in the game which render it close to unplayable at points.
  
  At several points in the game, Sam is presented with a safe to crack. This opens a mini-game which 
 has Sam aligning the locks to allow him to open the safe. For some of these safes, however, the 
 safe cracking controls often just refused to work. I finally had to give up on the safe in the 
 Shanghai level, and this resulted in a significant loss of trust with the NSA as I was unable to 
 complete an objectvie they had given me. It also became problematic in one of the JBA HQ levels 
 due to the timer that was counting down.
  
  Later, in the Congo level, the game inexplicably began crashing every time I had to reload a saved 
 game. As any experienced SC player knows, SC is all about trial and error and you will get caught 
 and killed many times. This crashing problem became very irritating, very quickly. There were a 
 handful of other random bugs and crashes that also occured. Not sure if all these problems are 
 the result of the game being a port from the XBOX, but they really detract from the game experience. 
 Ubisoft has released some patches for the game, but they didn't help the problems I listed above.
 
  
  The game is a huge resource hog, weighing in at 10.6 gigs on your hard drive. Despite having a 
 rig that was beyond advanced specs (with dual processors, and dual SLI-enabled video cards) , the 
 game had stretches where it really chugged, even after easing down my resolution to 1024 x 768. 
 When it was running smoothly, there were some cool sights, particularly some of the underwater 
 effects when Sam is swimming below the ice, but can see through it to identify enemies above.
 
  
  The music in the game is good, and the voiceover work is excellent. Actor Michale Ironside again 
 lends his voice to Fisher, and provides the perfect pitch with his world-weary, dark humored tones.
 
  
  Some of the in game tools could have been better. The 3-D map that is supposed to help Sam identify 
 his surroundings and identify where his objectives are was awkward to read and manipulate.
  
  Bottom line, this game had a lot of promise. The interesting premise was a good way to shake 
 up the series a bit, while keeping a lot of the great stealth action from previous SC titles. Also, 
 the game contains a lot of non-linear options and multiple paths and game endings to keep things 
 fresh and offer some degree of replay value. If the game had been relatively glitch free, I probably 
 would have given this game an 8.0 or higher. But with all the problems I encountered (and according 
 to Gamespot's forums, I'm apparently not the only one) , the game can only be rated as Fair . Feels 
 like the game wasn't quite ready for prime time when released and could have used some more time 
 in development for some polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GWESAM
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  didn't work in my system , i have 2.0 GHZ Pentium M and 1 GB Ram and ATI X700 Radeon Mobility With 
 256 MB Dedicated Video Memory the Problem Was Shader 2.0 and the game Needed Shader 3.0 , i am 
 Really disppointed , if it needs a new system then it should run on Vista which it doesn't so I 
 am confused Do u want a New system or Old system if u need New system then it should support Vista 
 if u need Old system then why u required shader 3.0 ,, tooooo bad, i can't upgrade the laptop and 
 it will cost me 3000 $ to get a gaming desktop .what shall i do ubisoft i really want to play this 
 game please help me i bought it paying 40 $ . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conor_220
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok I don't understand why Ubi Soft got the game to be developed by Ubi Soft Shanghai... they are 
 pathetic. They are the ones who developed Pandora Tomorrow's single player component which was 
 pathetic and weak compared to the original and compared to any game. They didn't develop the online 
 game that was done by another Ubi Soft Branch.
  
  Anyway they should have got Ubisoft Montreal to do it, they did the original and Chaos Theory, 
 superb games. (also prince of persia games)
  
  Back to the review, the game is horrible. The story is weak, poorly implemented, developed and 
 introduced... ohh and its just a weak story anyway. The new double agent gameplay of tossing up 
 between 2 sides is crap, and is not like something u get in a great RPG. Its just boring poorly 
 implemented frustrating and not logical nor fun. The level design is pathetic compared to SC1 and 
 Chaos Theory. Levels are very linear unlike Chaos Theory, the levels are very unimaginative designs 
 especially the first one which was the most pathetic SC level to date.
  
  The gameplay is crap, they have recycled the sounds that Ubisoft Montreal created for SC Chaos 
 Theory aswell as the NPC voices, which shows how bloody lazy they are. They make hardly any gameplay 
 improvements which is exactly wat they did with Pandora Tomorrow, just recycled the gameplay from 
 the last game and chucked in poor levels. However there is one thing I liked about the game and 
 that was being able to grab enemy from around the corner...... wow 90 aus bucks for that pfft.
 
  
  Bugs bugs and more bugs. Holy crap technical nightmare. The 360 version isn't the same in this 
 catagory, but the PC version has a ridiculous amount of glitched and bugs. These include, random 
 crashes, random loss of save game data, inability to load savegames during gameplay apart from 
 quicksaves, inability to change graphical settings ( this is **** annoying when u have crap PC and 
 it won't let u put it on low, effectivly ruining ur experience) , inability to open a door on one 
 mission which made it impossible to complete objective even after I reloaded, sound cutting out 
 only allowing ambient and no voices or special fx, graphical glitches, no anti-aliasing (ok they 
 made a patch to introduce that but still wtf kind of a game dousn't ship with that?) and finally 
 of the top of my head GRAPHICAL PERFORMENCE!! I have a Core 2 Duo E6600, 2gb G. Skill 4-4-4-12 RAM, 
 Nvidia 7900GS 512mb overclocked and the game lags like **** on default ****acular graphics settings. 
 Also another pathetic thing are the puzzles that encryption puzzle sucked arse, if I wanted to 
 play a rundown piece of **** version of sudoku I would have got my little brother to make square 
 with random numbers with **** all over it.
  
  Also the graphics suck, only thing that looks good is Sam other than that everything else looks 
 crap and are just recycled once a gain from previous Splinter Cell CREATED BY UBISOFT MONTREAL 
 THE ONLY DEVELOPER TO TO THEM WELL!!!!
  
  Thats enough from me, but don't play this game, rent it if u must but don't buy it. Me I bought 
 it from EB games so back to the shop it's going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scape45273
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  When I first installed SCDA the game was unplayable as all of the textures were so screwed up you 
 couldn't see the scenery or Sam. So installed the 1.02 patch which has done basically nothing. 
 After days (literally days) of playing around with my ATI CCC settings I got the game to work in 
 a way were it was possible to play it. Basically this game hates Crossfire so if you have it then 
 don't buy this game or wait until the patch which I hope will be released is released. Now I have 
 come to notice the new glitches which get worse and more frequent the more I play the game. At 
 the very begining of the game when you drop into the water swim down and then up to the surface 
 again and bubbles are coming out of the water into the air. then when it comes to climb out of 
 the ice the water turns invisible.
  
  I really should stop now as I will go on for ever about the amount of glitches and problems in 
 this game.
  
  the review
  Graphics: Fantastic when they look right.
  Sound: Fantastic possibly the only thing thats works.
  Length: I don't know as the problems have 
 forced me to give up.
  
  All I will say is Ubisoft please sort this game out as I bet it is great if it worked well!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generalkill8888
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Great game, worked with my 7900GT. But now I have a 8800GTX and it did not work at all, finally 
 after some research online I got it to work. It is still a very very very buggy game. Closes randomly 
 at times. Graphics look great, though Widescreen support only goes as high as 1280x960. I recommend 
 it to other people just to give it a shot. The graphics are good, some glitches every now and then. 
 HDR and AA look great. Well I got this game on ebay for 15 bucks. So I would be pretty mad if I 
 got it for 50 from bestbuy. It is not worth 50 bucks right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniterra
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The idea in act as a double agent was great, and this makes me wait so much for this game, as I'm 
 a huge fan of the series and of the stealth-action based games genre. But this game lost some of 
 the series original characteristics, like some acrobatics movements that the older games had, and 
 this seems to mean it lost some quality. Too short game thought.
  
  About the bugs, this makes me feel irritated sometimes in the game, such as when lock picking some 
 safe and the directional keys did not work, or when completing some mission that gives some extra 
 gadgets as reward, but I could never see this gadgets on the future missions.
  
  Also some graphic issues too, like the detail level varying along the missions, even if I had marked 
 the next-gen option for graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, very anticipated indeed. Like many of us Splinter Cell 
 fans, I visited UBI Softs site, checked out the official site; hell; I even downloaded a wallpaper 
 while waiting for the game...
  
  So, was it worth the wait? I have to say no, why?
  
  1. The bugs of the game...
  2. The constant crashing...
  3. The unability to update the game...
 
  4. The story of the game...
  5. The new innovative ideas of the game...
  6. Everything above, and everything beyond...
  
  Before I really enjoyed the game, I was annoyed 
 at all the fancy graphics in the beginning. I could not turn them of or cut to the chase. The first 
 level was ok, but as it was in the previous games; I never really liked the 3D map which was never 
 useful; going from one place to another was sometimes not that linear as they would have wanted...
 
  
  I got stuck in many places, quit the game, tried again, and it was the same, over and over again, 
 until I turned the game off and did something else for a couple weeks and then tried again.
  
  Somehow I got to new levels, the prison, and got stuck because the was a glitch in the controls, 
 or some bug; and the same thing over again. The more frustrating it got the more determined I was 
 to play it all the way through, but I it was not enjoyable, I just wanted to get my moneys worth, 
 but I never did...
  
  The story was incoherent, often the soundbug would prevent me from hearing one single thing, when 
 I sometimes made a mistake - woops, the level ended and I had done something to propell the story, 
 what? I don't know...
  
  The small puzzles in the game was the final thing that made me see red, especially the part where 
 they wanted the player to crack the e-mail; I just installed the game and looked at the three other 
 games I bought long time ago and remembered, the only game I finished properly was the first one; 
 where everything was as perfect as it could be, the graphics, the gameplay, Sams animation, no 
 glitches or anything...
  
  The new parts of this series lack good craftsmanship in many places, why even make a game that 
 works on all consoles when they could not even make it work on one. Ok, I should not write that, 
 perhaps the Xbox version was good, it wasn't good on PC, it was really bad, so bad that I want 
 to forget everything about Sam Fisher. May you rest in peace...
  
  Lambert out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickstock
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I spent about 2 weeks trying to fix this bug, no luck at all. I got stucked in Shanghai mission, 
 when it suddenly crasses with a d3ddrv. dll error. What a came down was that!
  
  I spent about 2 weeks trying to fix this bug, no luck at all. I got stucked in Shanghai mission, 
 when it suddenly crasses with a d3ddrv. dll error. What a came down was that!
  
  I spent about 2 weeks trying to fix this bug, no luck at all. I got stucked in Shanghai mission, 
 when it suddenly crasses with a d3ddrv. dll error. What a came down was that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  In Double Agent you return as Sam Fisher who plays a mole inside a terrorist cell called John Browns 
 Army (JBA) and the whole point of the game is to gain and maintain trust with them and finding 
 out what diabolical plans they have for the U. S. while of course maintaining trust with the National 
 Security Agency (NSA) . There are many paths you can take and most objectives are optional, but 
 not completing them will have dire effects with the trust with either the JBA or NSA and getting 
 your trust to zero with either organization is game over.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, not as good as the X-Box 360's version at max setting, but still 
 good when compared to other games today. The game is however pretty unoptimized and even the best 
 computers will have it run sluggishly at points, especially in the open outdoot environments. The 
 voice acting and music is the best part about the game as it all sounds realistic and movie-like 
 and really keeps you hooked into the story. The real downside to this game is that it has a lot 
 of bugs; I mean a lot. Some bugs are just minor and can be annoying, but others can be real frustrating 
 such as the safe cracking glitch which sometime will and won't let you crack the safe and getting 
 stuck in a wall, forcing you to reload. Even with the latest patch the game is buggy and can really 
 detract from the enjoyment of the game. I think the save glitch in the Congo mission was the worst 
 one of all where your saves wouldn't be saved properly as if you died and tried to reload, sometimes 
 you would reload the game and you would be already dead and would have to reload yet again. For 
 some they probably won't even complete the game because of how frustrating a few of these are.
 
  
  Overall though Double Agent has a pretty good story to it, which will last around 5-7 hours and 
 there are different endings depending which side you choose so there is some replay value, unfortunately 
 with the amount of bugs in this game you will probably only finish the game once and not bother 
 with it again at least until another patch comes out. It's still fun though and Splinter Cell fans 
 will have a great time playing as Sam Fisher again, just keep in mind the game is, even in post-patch, 
 still a pretty buggy game and very hardware intensive even for high-end computers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisfairc16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Wonderfull every level was a delight . Cant wait for the next game . what a way to end btw . heart 
 stopping action . edge of seat stuff .
  all these people windging about it being broke should wake up go get better pc's and sorft there 
 lives out . awesome game not quite next gen but the second one will be . wicked graphics life changing 
 physics everything that makes a splinter cell game . go get it now and enjoi . oh btw it has a 
 multiplayer which is ok i guess . Not much else to say about it . i think the multiplayer is the 
 broken bit . should have spent more time giving us a kick ass single player game i think . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben4816
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell games are engrossing. When I first loaded this game I was anticipating that same 
 experience that came with Chaos Theory which was just superb. Instead I waited for over 20 minutes 
 while the install crawled, then I loaded the patch from Ubi. Finally I was able to run the game. 
 The graphics around Sam are great but the game play is choppy and the graphics in the scenery are 
 very average. Furthermore the game crashed constantly. Eventually I got to the Shanghai hotel (not 
 that far into the game really) and the game crashed to a blue screen. I tried modifying the video 
 settings ( you get three levels of choices) but nothing helped. My video card is an Nvidia GeForce 
 7900 GS OC and my machine easily meets the minimum requirement to o run this game. I feel that 
 Ubi has delivered an unworkable product and they ought to offer a refund. Who knows how long it 
 will take for them to release a workable patch if ever.
  
  I have played buggy games in the past and they have greatly diminished the immersive quality of 
 that game (Splinter Cells strongest point) but I have been able to complete the game and mostly 
 enjoy the experience. This is the first game I have attempted to play that is just unplayable.
 
  
  Also I can't believe that this wasn't detected by the game reviewers at Gamespot. This problem 
 is so bad and it is now becoming very well known in the customer reviews that I am surprised that 
 the professional game reviewers missed this. Did they play the same game that we were sold at the 
 store? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slack_Vity
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Everyone's saying that this game is great and I'm sure it is ... on Xbox 360. Look, I have a HP 
 Pavillon , AMD Athlon Dual Core 6.9 ghz , 2 go ram, 256 mb nvidia geforce 7500 and the game's lagging 
 like hell. I try to put the graphics at minimum and they change it back like if they knew what 
 was better for me. HEY DUMBASS, I'M THE BOSS ON THIS COMPUTER GOT IT? If I want the graphics at 
 low then I put them at low. This game is unplayable. My fps is (at its best) 2 frames per second. 
 I'm so glad I downloaded it instead of buying this piece of crap port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  Shooter games never were my choice but by mistake i have discovered this release and the truth 
 is that i loved it so much that i think i will play all the Splinter Cell's releases.
  
  What can i say? It has great graphics and great textures, the character is very well made, it's 
 movings, expressions, etc are almost real. I love that you can not shoot enemies if you chose which 
 it's making it more interesting and draws more of your attention and concentration.
  
  The environments are extraordinary every last detail. The story is solid, you will have to balance 
 between the two agencies you are working for, always maintain the trust to the both of them, always 
 make decisions even you have to open fire. The point is that it has more then one ending, i haven't 
 played all the endings but i think i will soon.
  
  The sounds are great, great background music and great voice acting, it gives a feel of space and 
 danger and always holds your breath.
  
  In conclusion this game is a masterpiece in all the point of views : graphical, sounds and story. 
 Buy this game you will love it , it can satisfy every type gamer guaranteed.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theshadowhunter
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  OK to start out the game has some good points : 1) Fun Multi player with friends
  2) Good Graphics
  3) Nice sounds
  4) more people per game
  5) bots
  6) had a lot of potential
 
  
  But the bad points just killed the game:
  
  1) doesn't run on a 8800
  2) cant do AA + HDR
  3) no SM 2.0 ( Though not a issue for me, its pure lazyness)
  4) feels 
 like a cheap Xbox port ( and it is)
  5) the first of many xbox ported games for PC
  6) lack of support from UBI
  7) alot of crashes
  8) not alot of options for multiplayer, and 
 not alot of maps
  9) why did the older consoles get their own version of this game and all we got was a Xbox port?
 
  10) horribly optimized ( my 7950GX2 lagged on it)
  11) feels way too simplified
  12) No Widescreen support
  
  on top of all that UBIsoft seems to think the PC era has ended, 
 and is making their big games tailored for Xbox, and saying we are just lucky to get it, and they 
 seem to be focused more on consoles anymore, looks like this will be my last title from them until 
 they change this attitude. because they dont seem to think my money is worth anything, and i quote 
 them on this
  
  Medium to high-range PC owners are used to geting way better looking games vs. console versions. 
 Previously this was because PC games were boosted PS2/XBOX ports.
  
  That era is over and PC games are now ports of X360 versions and cant look as good as them because 
 the difference in hardware is huge.
  
  However PC users should not throw themselves out the window yet, as usual with every console cycle, 
 PC will gain back their technological advantage. Its just a question of time. 
  
  that was a official statement of why SM 2.0 cards aren't supported. IMHO I think UBI needs to shape 
 up or ship out, and never return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I never liked stealth action games. Back when I played the first SC game, it changed 
 my mind. Ever since then, I played every single one including this new one now. Since I havent 
 finished the game yet, I will just write about what my first impressions were, and what I liked 
 or dont like about it.
  
  For first impressions, I was amazed by the graphics and how they achieved near realism with the 
 lighting and shading. Obviously, this isnt Crysis but it looks quite good.... (if you got the PC 
 to run it..... mine sometimes had a few texture/lighting glitches but whatever) . The game shouldnt 
 have the minor bugs that downgrade the overall experience. I say this because after going on the 
 third mission... and after 4 SC titles, they still have the same problems. One example is the AI 
 is still not satisfying, sometimes I could be crouching in front of them by 10 feet, and they didnt 
 detect me until they walked up close. At times, they would act like they should, but too many a 
 times they act like robots. They only say the same couple of sentences, they always follow the 
 same routine.....
  
  I like the new change of the gameplay, getting to play as Sam is different now because there are 
 two sides, and the trust system is cool. They allow you to have more freedom, and also still let 
 you have some replayability in some missions because of the objectives, unlockables, and just to 
 see how you could play it better......... or worse.... hahaha...
  
  For me, even for these new features I sometimes feel like im playing the same old SC again.
  
 
  Controls are ok, some actions like picking a dial lockpad, hacking a panel, or knowing how to read 
 the 3dmap, and small things like that might need some getting used to. Once you do, its all reflex. 
 Although I wished they could implement them much better. The camera is good, it didnt get in my 
 way or go crazy so thats nice.
  
  Sound is good as usual, Sam Fisher's animations and movements are decent..... my only complain is 
 that it feels like im controlling a clunky character at times....... I prefer the fluid movement 
 found in Tomb Raider :)
  
  
  Anyways, the main thing is that this game is totally different from the last 3. And thats a good 
 thing, there are some annoying little bugs, the AI needs to be redone. There needs to be more environment 
 interactions...... more missions (only 15?) ..... im only on mission 3 and i feel like its going too 
 fast, and..... basically if theres a SC 5...... just make it better than our expectations and we'll 
 be very happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is a fine hi-tech stealth game. Its graphics are more awesome and spectacular 
 than previous splinter cell games but it does not have exciting gameplay as previous series. This 
 time our lovable agent Sam Fisher has to go undercover to unearth a dangerous terrorists groups 
 activity. Lambert is there to guide Sam from behind as usual. The soundquality , AI of the game looks 
 cool. This time Sam can swim underwater too , which is a added attraction. This time sam has to stay 
 under the trust of JBA (John Browns Army-the terrorist group) and NSA (his place - National Secret 
 Agency) . If sam loses trust of one completely ,its game over. Sam has to infiltrate different location's 
 (much improved from previous splinter cell games) to gain trust and to do the duty he has been 
 commanded. But as usual in stealth and style. The postures and stealth tactics of sam rock's in the 
 game. This game is a must buy for everyone for its single player campaigns , it has fine gameplay 
 value but gameplay short. But unless you don't have a high end P. C you won't be able to run the 
 game fine. The games is unoptimised for P. C and you face bugs in the game , but for me they got 
 fixed for me after using latest patch. Some of the puzzles in the game can be very frustating. Plus 
 there is multiplayer feature in the game which fails. You also don't get co op in the game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Splinter Cell game I've ever played (no, really, its true) and I was quite impressed. 
 The game manages to draw you into the experience and really make you feel like you are working 
 for a black ops agency of the NSA. The story is not original, but the trust system keeps you interested. 
 The graphics are superb, the best I've ever seen. Sam Fisher's suit looks very real, and the different 
 settings for your goggles deliver a great experience. Sound seems to be okay but kind of glitchy 
 and the game does not render shadows correctly from time to time. The steep requirements are also 
 a con, since not many people are going to meet all of them, and then there are the crash bugs. 
 I've only encountered 2 yet they were frustrating since I had to restart and loading times took 
 at least 2 minutes. Overall, a great steath game... and yet it feels incomplete. Ubisoft should 
 at least release 1 or 2 more patches to optimize the game for PC and fix any other bugs ancountered 
 by other players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent adds a few new factors into the gameplay formula of Splinter Cell, 
 which makes it harder, but you have a bigger sense of freedom and the choices that you can make 
 are actually what makes it such an awesome game. Although it has its bugs, those can be overlooked, 
 because there are select few that will keep you from progressing, and if you reload the game just 
 a little ways back chances are that the bug will disappear. The reviews have dwindled because of 
 the bugs and maybe because of a few other factors in there, but there is much more freedom, and 
 reviews aren't always right. This game allows for a lot of freedom. All objectives are optional. 
 The storyline is fantastic, and it has a lot of replay value to it because of all the chioces you 
 make. By the end of the game, you are wondering what would have happened if you had made another 
 decision, and before you know it, you're playing it again. Without giving too much away, the end 
 of the game does leave you hanging, and there is a To Be Continued screen at the end of the game. 
 It has everyone that I've talked to that have played this game excited for the next one, and you 
 wonder how they will handle certain loose ends that need to be tied up. It will be difficult to 
 surpass this game with the fifth one, but the expectations for it are sky-high, where this one 
 set the bar. There was a bit of disappointment with it not being as good as Chaos Theory. There 
 are a lot of mixed feelings there with me, because if the game ran a little smoother and there 
 weren't as many bugs, it might have beaten Chaos Theory. Nevertheless, this game should not be 
 missed by a Splinter Cell fan or a Tom Clancy fan. Yes, it has some disappointing things in it, 
 but overall, this game is awsome and for the most part, the reviews are low. But Splinter Cell: 
 Double Agent is an excellent gaming experience that should most definately not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  Story
  Sam Fisher after finishing a mission, finds out that his daughter has been killed in a car accident 
 .For 6 months he goes in a depression and he is sent undercover after he pulls himself together. 
 In prison he must help a member of the theorist organization to escape so he may infiltrate it. The 
 organization is named JBA ( John Browns army ) .
  Graphics
  Th graphics are revolutionary if you use the highest settings but even the lowest setting look 
 great.
  Gameplay
  Gameplay was not greatly improved but the look picks and other stuff like this are harder to do. Also 
 u can do optional missions in JBAs headquarters .But be warned they have a timer. The two organizations 
 that you are working for have a trust meter and there are missions that you will have to lose trust 
 from one of them (optional) . Also a great addition is the ability to swim .This also ads the ability 
 to break ice and drag an enemy in the freezing waters and kill them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dspent
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Luckily I did manage to work through some of the bugs in this game and finish it so I can say that 
 if it were bug free it would be a pretty good game. However, because of the vast (AND I DO MEAN 
 VAST) amount of bugs, glitches and down right shoddy programming of this game there is no way I 
 can recommend this game to anyone. Don't waste your money on this worthless release from an otherwise 
 excellent series. The graphics and gameplay are on par with the other releases from the series 
 and the sound is ok, however because of the bugs and workmanship you can not enjoy any of it. The 
 graphics options are one of the worst glitches. For example you can set your AA and AF settings 
 to a desired level and the game ignores your settings and ramps them up to the highest level possible 
 regardless of whether your video card can support the settings. The patch that ubisoft released 
 to fix the bugs caused more bugs and fixed none. It is a downright nightmare to play this game 
 and if you are smart you will stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series has been at the forefront of stealth-action innovation ever since the 
 first one was released several years ago. Wisely, Ubisoft has always released their Splinter Cell 
 games on the PC, and, while having several bugs, they were among the best versions released among 
 the gaming systems.
  
  So, when I got my copy of Splinter Cell: Double Agent this Christmas, I was ecstatic. I expected 
 to find an amazing stealth-action game, with at most a few glitches due to it being jointly developed 
 on the 360 and PC. Gameplay: This is the best single player Splinter Cell yet, gameplay-wise. With 
 the addition of daylight missions, you don't have to slog through similar levels, being smugly 
 safe in the shadows while the enemies constantly and fearfully look for you. You have to constantly 
 time your moves between guard patrols if you want to be successful in Double Agent, use of distraction 
 is also more useful. Double Agent says to introduce Trust gameplay, where you must balance the 
 objectives of the NSA and JBA, the terrorist organization, in order to keep trust with both sides. 
 This eventually leads to some emotionally crushing choices which I won't mention here.
  
  During the game, there are several missions where you don't have your goggles. I find this a nice 
 change of pace, but it definitely feels as if something essential to Splinter Cell is missing during 
 those parts.
  
  You can also unlock gadgets as you advance throughout the game, although I see this mostly as a 
 gimmick. There are so many of them, and they are mainly just variations on things you regularly 
 use, that you'll find almost never using all of the gadgets in a playthrough of the whole game.
 
  
  Moving onto Multiplayer, Ubisoft has done a devolution opposed to the improvements they did in 
 Singleplayer. The games can be 3v3, yes, but the game has been made so simplified to appeal to 
 the newcomers of the series that it lacks the depth demanded by Splinter Cell veterans.
  
  Graphics: They are supposed to be jaw-dropping gorgeous. A combination of HDR and other High End 
 shaders creates what must be one of the best, and most realistically lighted games yet. While performance 
 might get a bit too slow for comfort, the game is definitely one of the best-looking this year, 
 considering the Unreal 2 tech it uses. Unfortunately, I was never able to enjoy it due to some 
 rather aggravating bugs I will discuss at the end of the review.
  
  Sound: This aspect sure is the worst of the game. While Michael Ironside returns as the famous 
 Sam Fisher, not much else is notable about the sound of the game. The terrorists and the rest of 
 the supporting cast are voice-acted by some just-decent actors, and guard voices from Chaos Theory 
 are all reused in this one. Explosions and gunfire do sound realistic though, but they lack the 
 oomph that Chaos Theory had.
  
  Now, onto the ugly part of the game, the bugs:
  
  After a quick and easy search on the Ubi forums, I found out that there's massive graphical problems 
 with High Detail Shaders On on 8800 cards. Alright... Pissed off, I went to the Graphics options 
 and turned off High Detail Shaders and antialiasing. The game worked, but at a great cost to the 
 amazing graphics I've seen on the Xbox 360 and what I know PC is capable of. Needless to say, I 
 was quite disappointed at the image pumped out by the fastest and most advanced graphics solution 
 in the world at the moment. At times, there were random glitches where the game would just randomly 
 crash. At other times, save points that I made during my last game sessions would have mysteriously 
 disappeared. I often had to restart the game and entire levels to get past the glitches.
  
  On the multiplayer side, I hit the Quick Match button and looked as I started to join the match. 
 That was the last moment of my sanity.
  
  Can not join match. Hit LMB to abort.
  
  Multiplayer was completely useless, and half the game was flushed down the toilet, with the other 
 half not faring so well.
  
  I finished the single player on a 100% stealth, finally took out the DVD, hid it in the gamecase, 
 and put it up on my shelf. I won't be touching that buggy mess for a long time. As a game, Splinter 
 Cell: Double Agent is quite good. If it was released in a stable state, it would have been in the 
 top Splinter Cell games, only being topped by the extraordinary Chaos Theory. But, with the mess 
 of bugs that came from directly porting this game to PC, that 2nd place spot was long forgotten. 
 It is, quite simply, a nightmare.
  
  But, for now, I will put Double Agent away on a shelf and hope for there being a patch released 
 one day fixing the most critical, if not all, of these issues. The game has good potential, it's 
 just that the vast army of bugs prevent it from reaching it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the previous Splinter Cell games, but this is one awesome action adventure, 
 I have played. I love stealth games and since Hitman: Blood Money this is the best, the game also 
 has a bunch of great spy gadgets for you to play with.
  
  In the game your undercover for the NSA, with a group of terrorists (JBA) , the basic objective 
 thought the game would be to balance your trust between the two sides in completing goals given 
 by both sides while some goals may conflict with the opposing sides goals so trust meters would 
 be shifting as you progress through the game. where as loosing the trust of one side completely 
 would mean game over for Sam Fisher
  
  The GOOD: The best thing about the game is the game play, since this game in a non lethal and stealthy 
 way, it has some awesome moves. The graphics are awesome from character models to the various environments 
 that you get in to. The sounds are great from great music to back up the mood and put you in to 
 the mood. The game also comes down to the choices that you make, multi player feature helps with 
 the replay and I highly recommend that you play it on higher difficulties to get the real feeling 
 to the game
  
  The BAD: A few glitches here and there in the game, one place I found was there was a clipping 
 bug where you would fall of from under a elevator, fortunately there was another path to get there. 
 The game does require you to have a good graphic card and RAM, so before you buy the game make 
 sure your GPU supports shader model 3.0.
  
  Overall the game was a very addictive game and has a set of amazing game play features to it. Check 
 the following link out for a gameplay video of mine.
  http://www. gamespot. com/users/sudantha8527/video_player. php? id=IX1hljX75bkMvzDe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  So, I came home from the game store, and i placed the Splinter cell disk in my pc.
  I installed it ( the patches can sometimes be extreme slowly ) and i started the game...
  Graphics: 
 the first thing you see, if you start the game, are the graphics, they are pretty good.
  The system requirements asks a lot because of that.
  The learning curve is about 30 mins or less, 
 it isn't that hard to control it.
  Well... i'll go further with the gameplay, the difficulty is not to easy and not to hard so its 
 just right (my opinion, some good players may find it easy)
  The gameplay is quiet good, it's too bad of the many bugs in it, and that makes it less fun to 
 play. The sound is good, but can be better, nothing more to say about it.
  The time you spent in playing depends on the *gamer* you are.
  That means, some will do 10 hours 
 or less and some will need more time To complete the game. but thats only the story mode, after 
 that you can play multiplayer too.
  Conclusion: It's worth playing this game, although i hope ubisoft will spend more time in the gameplay 
 then the graphics, cause the bugs ingame makes it less fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  As I mentioned above, this game is so buggy it will have you pulling out your hair multiple times 
 per level. Whether it is freezing, crashing, corrupt save files, or game interactions that should 
 not be happening like frozen NPC movement. And all this is not due to hardware issues. I am currently 
 running:
  
  Nvidia 7900 GTX 512 MB video card
  AMD 2.4 GHz Athlon dual core processor
  2 GB of Corsairs RAM
  
  This setup far surpasses the system requirements yet the game still 
 functioned horribly. It is probably the worst port I have ever come across, which is really to 
 bad because the game is amazing.
  
  Graphics when working properly are incredible, gamplay is fun and fast paced, and the story is 
 the best to date for the splinter cell series. Also, most of the game takes place in day light, 
 a nice change to the dark and damp environments I am used to with this game. So play this game 
 at your own risk. It needs about 10 more patches to be properly played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hckiller
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The game looks awesome there are some bugs that can be ignored and some cant be ignored like the 
 game shutting down for no reason
  and the fact that it is an xbox 360 port u need shader model 3.0
  but if u can run the game u 
 will find out that is is awsome
  the single player is a little short but the multyplayer is addicting
  but there is no lobby to 
 see servers so u cant see how many player are online
  The trust system is a cool feature and the moral decisions make the game even better so go buy 
 it and play it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyLubu
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Just a great game in splinter cell series
  Despite there some bugs ,but it does not affect the game too much
  I really enjoy playing this 
 game
  This game has great graphic , great sound ,too
  Only the gameplay does not change much ,i would like some new action with tension high , some kind 
 of climbing and choking while hanging down, or some level with snipe objective, i love snipe but 
 it not the way this game meant to be played ,so ,i like some mission with that kind off stuff more 
 And i think the story this time is better than those previous game , previously ,is so old-school 
 , saving the world ,kill or capture some boss of a big mercenary gang ,saving the world from Judgement 
 day .... yeah yeah yeah .
  This time ,the deal with bad guys is not too bad ,u can play more freely . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C4FADEtoBLACK
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've always liked the splinter cell games. You get to be a ninja and to top it off you have Micheal 
 Ironsides saying awesome lines while your playing. Double Agent is still a great game when you 
 take away the PC glitches. I don't mind them recycling some of the audio and sounds from Chaos 
 Theory but I do mind it when sometimes I'll get a C++ error or it'll say I have no saved games 
 when I try to load 'Current save' but when I look in the load menu it's right there. The biggest 
 problem was the Chinese Hotel when your suppose to go down on the top of the elevators. Midway 
 through the process you have to get off one elevator and get on one right beside it. Well I did 
 the honest mistake of thinking that I was on the correct floor so I went into the hallways and 
 found out I could clip through the walls. How did I find this out? I saw a guard coming so I hit 
 the button to make Fisher hug the wall and it didn't work. Thinking I wasn't close enough I moved 
 so I'd bump against the wall and instead of me hitting a solid surface I went right through the 
 wall to the outside of the hotel and FELL TO MY DEATH. I later figured out I was on the wrong floor. 
 Later through the game Fishers body would glitch in certain scenes where there was suppose to be 
 HD lighting/shading involving the sun. I didn't particularly like the fact that they never fully 
 explain how to do certain things and you can only figure it out by just pressing a whole bunch 
 of buttons until you hit one that helps you out, like cracking a safe for example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  If you've never played a game in the Splinter Cell series, you owe it to yourself to give Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent a try. Nothing out there quite duplicates Splinter Cell's unique blend of stealth 
 action, high-tech gadgetry, and gorgeous third-person visual effects. For those already familiar 
 with the series  and I suspect that includes most of you  Double Agent is enjoyable, but its 
 single-player campaign offers little you haven't already seen before in Chaos Theory and earlier 
 iterations of the game.
  
  The general thrust of the Splinter Cell series goes something like this: You play the role of Sam 
 Fisher, government spy. You are assigned a series of missions, most of which require that you infiltrate 
 enemy territory and accomplish some goal (hack a computer, steal documents, or defuse a bomb) either 
 without being seen by anyone or with minimal casualties. The camera follows your player from a 
 third-person perspective, and much of the joy of playing derives from watching Sam Fisher's fluid 
 and realistic movements as he navigates about the map and executes a wide variety of special moves. 
 For example, Sam can climb pipes, peek around corners, crawl through vents, hang from ledges, slide 
 along ropes or zip lines, swim, and can perform numerous other nifty tricks, like the beloved inverted 
 neck snap. Performing these fancy moves does not require that the player memorize extended combinations 
 of keys. For better or worse, Sam does just about everything automatically. Generally speaking, 
 if Sam is capable of performing some trick and you move him to the approximate area, he will perform 
 the trick, whether you were trying to get him to or not. For example, Sam may start climbing a 
 pipe when all you were trying to do was walk in front of it, or he may jump out of a frozen lake, 
 grab an armed guard you didn't even know was there, pull him down through a hole in the ice, pull 
 out a blade, and stab the guard in the chest, all because you merely pressed the up key. Granted, 
 it's an awesome sight, but some players may wish they had more control over Sam's movements.
  
  The new twist in Double Agent is that Sam is called upon to go undercover and make friends 
 on the inside of a terrorist organization. To earn and maintain their trust, he is sometimes called 
 upon to perform various bad acts, blurring the line between right and wrong. I found that this 
 new scenario made little difference to gameplay. Yes, you have two bosses competing for your loyalty, 
 but pleasing them both isn't very difficult and doesn't really call for you to make many interesting 
 moral decisions. Let's face it: Even when you play the good guy, you still kill plenty of innocents. 
 You've just learned to drag their bodies into the shadows to avoid detection.
  
  To run this game, you'll need 8GB of hard-disk space and a beefy video card. Playing the game on 
 an ATI Radeon X1900 XTX, the highest supported ATI card listed on the box, the game chugged on 
 standard in-game video settings and at a modest resolution. Nothing has ever slowed my system down 
 to this level. Now don't get excited and rush out to buy a new video card because the graphics 
 are nothing special. In fact, the visual improvements over Chaos Theory are not significant. Sam 
 Fisher looks more muscular and has greater detail in his face and head, but that's about it. I'm 
 amazed that Double Agent is such a resource hog.
  
  Even if your rig is powerful enough to run the game at acceptable detail settings, you may still 
 experience frustration in the form of glitches, bugs, and crashes. For the first time in years, 
 I experienced the dreaded Blue Screen of Death. Fortunately, that only happened once, but there 
 were other problems, such as saved games not loading properly and in-game actions (like cracking 
 a safe) simply not working at all. The multiplayer component comes with an auto-patching feature, 
 which is nice, but then the game crashed after I installed the first patch. When the game works, 
 it's fun. The maps are linear and generally call for Sam to follow a set path, but the scenery 
 is varied. You will find yourself escaping from prison, sabotaging a luxury cruise ship, and rappelling 
 down a glass skyscraper in Shanghai while fireworks in the distance fill the sky with hues of yellow, 
 green and red.
  
  While the setup sounds like it was made for an action-filled 007 movie, there is little fighting 
 in the game. This is a true stealth title; more often than not, you complete a mission by sneaking 
 around in the shadows and remaining undetected. Despite the powerful rifle slung around your back, 
 if you are spotted, don't think you'll be able to shoot your way out. This game is no shooter. 
 You need to equip your gun before firing it, and once equipped, you can barely move, and aiming 
 is imprecise. Moreover, not only are you likely to die if you try to shoot your way out of trouble, 
 but you'll lose the trust of both organizations for which you're working. Most of the time, you'll 
 use your rifle for shooting out lights rather than enemies.
  
  Going undetected and completing secondary objectives result in unlocking various rewards, like 
 EMP grenades, wall mines, and computer-hacking upgrades. I found the unlock system somewhat gimmicky, 
 because I rarely used any of the unlocks as I tried to sneak around the maps without drawing undue 
 attention to myself. I did, however, find occasional good use for the fragmentation grenades.
 
  
  Another key aspect of gameplay is having the ability to hack computers, pick locks, and crack safes. 
 Judging from the fact that similar features appear in game after game in the Splinter Cell series, 
 they must be popular with fans, but I, for one, find them tedious. Although they may add a sense 
 of realism at first, that sense quickly vanishes once you realize how easy and monotonous it is 
 do perform these tasks. To pick a lock, simply tap the movement keys for a few seconds. To crack 
 a safe, alternate hitting the keys for left and right until you hear a click and the safe pops 
 open. A well-trained banana could perform these acts of espionage.
  
  Hacking into a computer gives you access to secure e-mails, which often contain useful information 
 like passwords and codes. There are also plenty of useless emails, like those containing standard 
 office chit-chat such as, Donuts are in the break room! Presumably, these exist to help develop 
 the plot or add some background story. Fortunately for those (like me) who are not interested in 
 reading this fluff, the useful e-mails are often identified with helpful subject titles, like RE: 
 the password. You can sometimes obtain the same information by grabbing an NPC and interrogating 
 him. Sam is equipped with a number of gadgets, but using them effectively can be difficult because 
 the weapon-selection interface is awkward and confusing to use. I had to take my right hand off 
 the mouse most of the time and fiddle with the arrow keys and enter button just to select a grenade.
 
  
  I was also less than enthralled with the mission system and interface. I often found myself unsure 
 of what I was supposed to be doing, and had to repeatedly press F1 (followed by clicking on objectives 
 ) to check my objectives in a cumbersome two-step process. Sometimes doing this would reveal that 
 I somehow failed an objective by neglecting to do something within a narrow window of opportunity.
 
  
  Double Agent's multiplayer component took me pleasantly by surprise. Unlike so many games that 
 add multiplayer capability simply by throwing in a deathmatch option, Double Agent includes a different 
 and exciting multiplayer experience that incorporates the game's stealth tactics. There are several 
 different maps, each with different objectives, which generally call for you to hack one or more 
 computers (which, unlike in the single-player game, is accomplished merely with the press of a 
 button) and download the most information without getting killed.
  
  Six people can play at once, but finding a full game isn't always easy because there is no traditional 
 server browser. Instead, you indicate your willingness to play a game and then wait around in a 
 virtual waiting area until enough people join to start a game. I was somewhat distressed to see 
 an in-game advertisement for NIVEA skin cream (Note to Self: Do not purchase NIVEA skin cream) , 
 but I suppose advertising in video games is something we're going to have to learn to live with.
 
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent offers more of the third-person stealth action we've come to expect 
 from the Splinter Cell franchise, and it adds a unique, fast-paced multiplayer format unlike any 
 online game I have played before. In terms of overall presentation, not much has changed from the 
 series's tried-and-true formula. Playing through the single-player campaign is an enjoyable, yet 
 familiar, feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3351925
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  I played all the older Splinter cell versions but this game is the best game in the series ever.
 
  The game has a lot of new stuff like trust level's and choices, choices affect ur relationship 
 with the JBA and NSA. The game has new gadgets , but the same Silenced gun , and the same Silenced 
 rifle where u can equip a launcher and other stuff on it. The new map is better than the older 
 version cause it pinpoint ur place and ur visible enemies. There is no sound sensor, which i found 
 a little bit unrealistic cause sometime in the dark i move with the fastest speed while crouching 
 and no 1 hears anything. I encountered a very few amount of bugs but in most of the cases all were 
 solved by restarting the game. The large no. of choices makes the game really nice and unguessable. 
 That's all i can say about the game , am sure there is much to say but u will love the game when 
 u play it. PS at the end of the game U will know that there is another Splinter cell game comin 
 soon (i guess) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Splinter Cell to date and is great fun. Unfortunately a lot of people seem to 
 be experiencing bugs. I have no real problems with crashes etc other than the game appearing to 
 run in slow mo but I hope this gets sorted out in a patch (I know others have this issue) .
  
  That said, the story is great, graphics and sound are awesome. If you are thinking of buying 
 this game, then its a must have, but you should wait until upcoming patches sort out the problems. 
 I have to give the game a low game play rating simply because of the bugs, otherwise it would have 
 been full marks.
  
  As usual with SC multi player leaves a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flakken
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Mechanics:
  Game was very buggy till i updated my chipset drivers to the latest version (Wouldnt save, crashed 
 on level load etc) . After i updated my chipset drivers to latest version, game ran great, good 
 graphics good movements. Gameplay:
  The controls were on target with the other splinter cell series, easy to use and remember. Story 
 Line did lack some Thrill, didnt truely feel stealthy as the others in this series. I do like the 
 multple endings idea. Graphics were great though ! All in all was a fair game I do hope the next 
 one puts a little more stealth and better story into it...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perspolisamir
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is very good game. Sam Fisher is lovely man .
  This game is good but pixel shader 3 is very very bad .This game has veru bug .I installed patch 
 v1.02 but game do not good .
  To support Windows Limited User Access, the profiles and saved games are stored outside of the 
 installation directory. If you want to copy them to another computer or back them up, you will 
 find them in the Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Ubisoft\Tom Clancy's Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent\profiles directory. The Application Data folder is a hidden folder by default. 
 To unhide it, open a windows explorer window, select Tools -&gt; Folder Options. Select the view 
 tab and in the advanced settings area, in the Hidden files and folders node, select the Show hidden 
 files and folders .
  
  PC hardware requirements
  
  PC hardware minimum requirements ========================
  
  Supported OS : Windows XP (only)
 
  Processor : 3000 MHz Pentium IV or AMD Athlon or better RAM : 1GB RAM Video Card : 128MB DirectX9-compliant 
 video card (see supported list*) Sound Card : DirectX 9.0-compliant sound card
  DirectX : DirectX 9.0c (included on DVD) DVD : 4x DVD or faster
  Hard Drive Space : 8.0 GB free
 
  
  PC hardware recommended requirements ========================
  
  Supported OS : Windows XP (only)
  Processor : 3500 MHz Pentium IV/AMD or better
  RAM : 1GB 
 RAM
  Video Card : 256MB DirectX9-compliant video card (see supported list*)
  Sound Card : DolbyDigital 5.1 and EAX 4.0 compatible
  DVD : 4x DVD or faster Hard Drive Space 
 : 10.0 GB free 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOBOBOB1022
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Short point: An unfinished game released with an extremely high number of bugs that takes to long 
 to get patched and isn't worth the money AT ALL.
  
  This game was released by ubisoft for the PC as as a port from the X360 version, and for anyone 
 new to the PC, THATS BAD. The game had so many glitches and bugs that it was unplayable for most 
 players and for the lucky ones who could get it to work, it would usually get stuck on Shanghai 
 and none of the unlockable gadgets would work (until near; y a month after the release)
  
  This game also runs secuROM, which will conflict with virtual drives and burning software possibly 
 making you unable to burn anything until; the game is deleted from your system and HIDDEN files 
 the SECUROM LEAVES BEHIND AFTER UNINSTALLATION (that are protected and they won't even tell you 
 how to remove them) are deleted too.
  
  Sum it up: don't buy this crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mani2fast
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  this is a best Splinter Cell that released yet...
  and every things are OK...
  and I`m sure you`ll enjoy from playing this game...
  
  
  When writing your review, remember 
 to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your 
 review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose 
 any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word 
 processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box 
 below 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidflame
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This is really sad to say but I can't believe the UBISOFT even put this game on the shelves. I 
 got the new 8800GTS video card and then I found out that this game is not even compatible with 
 this card. On top of that so many people have problems getting to start the game, including me. 
 UBISOFT should return all our money back. This is such a total waste. Don't believe me ? check 
 the forums at this site
  
  http://forums. ubi. com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/954105331/m/1351043205/p/1
  
  The worst problem of 
 all is this is the ***MUST CHECK*** error. This game really bought shame to UBISOFT. They havn't 
 even released any patch to fix the error. I could never even get the game running without even 
 passing the error.
  
  UBISOFT ! you owe us BIG TIME !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Why would i say that is the best in series? This summer was the beginning of the Splinter Cell 
 series for me. I haven't enjoyed Splinter Cell 1 and 2 too much, but when i played Chaos Theory 
 i saw some potential in Splinter Cell and Sam Fisher so i have waited for this game too see if 
 will amaze me, and it did. Splinter Cell Double Agent is one amaizing game that totally worth the 
 attention. If you are a Splinter Cell fan or just a plyer that wants some action and we all know 
 that nowadays it is kinda hard to see a good, a little long FPS you have to play this. It is one 
 big change for the Splinter Cell series. Sam will now have to choose the Light or the Dark side 
 ( just kidding) , now your actions will influence him and the peoples around him to new reactions. 
 The graphics are way better then the last Splinter Cell and also some improvements have been made 
 to the weapons, but you have to see the story who is awesome, can't wait for the next Splinter 
 Cell, so best of luck to you if you decide to play this cool game. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hasnk
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  What's up with these folks who rate this game so low? Hell, i found the graphix marvey and the 
 gameplay beetchin-it's tradional Splinter Cell with some cool new graphix that bring a smile to 
 my double-crossing face each time i crank up the pc. lemme tell ya, i've played a lot worse games 
 in my time than this one, and even those bummers wouldn't have rated below a 6, so some of these 
 pee and moaners are undoubtedly trying to run the pc version on something so old its got dinosaur 
 doodoo on it. Wise up, upgrade, and leave the real gameplay ratings to those with the machines 
 that can actually deliver what the game provides. Double Agent is a blast, looks killah and plays 
 pretty damned fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viatridis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  I have play all the previous Splinter Cell because they are great Videogames different than any 
 other. The new Double Agent it's different than all the other games of the series, and it's not 
 the gameplay that is changing but the thing than you are a NOC like the guy in The Fast and The 
 Furious and you try to get inside a terrorist team called the JBA and prevent the terrorists from 
 a counter attack in USA.
  The gameplay hasn't change a lot from the previous games expect some new things like the underwater 
 swimming and killing enemies through the ice.
  The graphics are great as they are in all the SC games, also Sam Fisher looks older than in Chaos 
 Theory but as extreme as in the previous games.
  I can say a lot of things about the sound because you must be quit during the game!!! LOL
  So 
 if you have played the previous games of the serie don't lose Double Agent and if you are an amateur 
 in Splinter Cell, RUN to the nearest shop and buy it NOW!!! And remember to hide in the SHADOWS!!!:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khermet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Veteran agent Sam Fisher is back. But he's never faced an enemy like this before. To stop a devastating 
 terrorist attack, he must infiltrate a vicious terrorist group and destroy it from within. For 
 the first time ever, experience the relentless tension and gut-wrenching dilemmas of life as a 
 double agent. As you infiltrate a terrorist organization in its American headquarters, you must 
 carefully weigh the consequences of your actions. Kill too many criminals and you'll blow your 
 cover. Hesitate too long and millions will die. Do whatever it takes to complete your mission, 
 but get out alive.
  
  The fourth game in the Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell series thrusts players into a new breed of gameplay 
 that promises to innovate and revolutionize the Splinter Cell franchise. Ubisoft takes the saga 
 of Sam Fisher into entirely new territory, expanding the story and depth of his character. -IGN
 
  
  It's true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exigo89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent brought a new style of gameplay that we couldn't find in other games. 
 You actualy get to be a Double Agent even though in the end you get to be a NSA hero. This game 
 is also known for it's great graphic design because it brought he next geneneration graphic to 
 the series. In this one like never before you get to make choices which will affects the way you 
 finish the game, it has different endings based on the chioces you make during the game. The graphical 
 side is awesome, sounds too. The gameplay leaks in some physic facts, i. e. they dont see you during 
 daylight if you are hiden in shadows, the rest is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidenburg
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  UBI have been going downhill for a long time now and I think no-one expected for even them to be 
 capable of bringing down such a hit title like double agent, but guess what? They did. You never 
 going to see Splinter cell again. Nor are you going to ever play its intense online multiplayer 
 which, in effect, has gone. UBi claim they have made this game more newbie friendly A. K. A killed 
 a game for the newbs to play and they did. Lets start with single-player. The first mission dives 
 you straight into an intense situation where you will help teach John or Jong (bad audio cant hear 
 name) the know how. You are dunked into water and enter through the sewers. This level is in fact 
 the last Splinter Cell level in the game, so enjoy it. The AI are much to smart. They can see you 
 from very far away and even if you stab them from behind a corner that split seconds between him 
 seeing you and you plunging that knife into his heart is apparently enough for him to alert the 
 rest of the gaurd, thus dropping your stealth percentage. It is also harder to tell how safe you 
 are because ubi removed the light meter meaning you get a light which goes red (seen) yellow (can 
 be seen) or green (cant be seen) these, needless to say, dont help and are often wrong at the worse 
 of times. there are also several frame-rate drops, especially in JBA. Now onto UBI's claims that 
 the game will have advanced co-op. Let me tell you. There IS NO COOP between you and AI like there 
 was going to be. Jamie leaves you in the prison and Jong just runs off and then gets killed. Finally 
 multiplayer. In short stealth isnt an element. The mercs have A PD or proximity detector so they 
 can tell when you are near (even if you aren't moving) so say goodbye to the sweet satisfaction 
 of knowing where the merc is but not vice-versa or hanging from an edge because 9/10 times they'll 
 know you are there. Ubi also claimed to have eliminated rushin and agro player in fact they've 
 made it easier. The spies are now like cracked up spider monkeys. Given they can only have one 
 type of gadget at a time but they can be used to great effect.
  
  I still like this game and thus have rated it well the gameplay is good but just not what it used 
 to be. In the day-time missions you easily just run around using guns and you can actually see 
 the similariities to a Shoot 'em up game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whakyZ86
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  i waited for this game to come ever since i heard that it was in the making. having played chaos 
 theory, of course i was very excited by the idea that there would be room for improvement on an 
 almost perfect video game. then the day came, my parents bought me the game the day it was released 
 in the states and brought it to me here in china. and i started to play... and i could hardly believe 
 my eyes. i know ppl have made the claim that this new version is much less linear than the previous 
 games. i dont agree. i went through all the levels in pretty much the same fashion, and only tried 
 different approaches because i thought i should. the different approaches, though there are different 
 approaches, only frustrated me when i realized that the different approaches didnt make sense when 
 i had the original approach... and that the new approach only put me in unnecessarily difficult 
 situations. (the former relates to when i was going from point A to point B on a map) . i will acknowledge 
 that there are many more ways of taking out targets and distracting targets than in chaos theory, 
 but that doesnt mean squat if you've only got one really good way of making it through a level. 
 oh and did i mention bugs? yes. there are bugs in the game. and did i mention that watch sam has 
 with the ridiculous loading time? or how there are closets to hide in all over the place when we 
 all know too well that u only use the closets maybe 3 or 4 times max throughout the game. anyways, 
 i dont have much more time to vent anymore of my frustrations, so ill end with just this. i waited 
 for the game. i got the game. i played the game. then i went and bought the previous game for the 
 second time and had a better time all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FulcrumBlurred
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  An unfortunate entry into one of the most successful franchises in gaming. Greatly disappointing. 
 Where much is promised, very little is delivered. New gadgets either don't work or can't be upgraded. 
 Installation is beyond finicky. After updating all my drivers, turning off the virus scanner, I 
 began the plodding installation process. After installing the box version I then installed the 
 patch.
  
  Initial play was mired in crashes during level loading and game play. The save menu requires the 
 player to compare time and dates which are not displayed in any particular order. There is no user 
 options to how save menu information is displayed, so if you made a mistake early in the game you 
 have to hunt for the correct time stamp to replay. After much frustration, I uninstalled and did 
 a selective start-up then reinstalled. Game play was better, but load times are still excessive.
 
  
  On a top-shelf homebuilt (AMD 64FX, 4GB Ram, dual BFG 7900GTX SLI, etc...) I toyed with customized 
 graphic settings. Even with the most benign changes, the game crashed on startup. The only saving 
 grace of SCDA is the storyline. It is by far Ubisoft's most inventive and engaging in the series, 
 but in a game so bug infested, it doesn't provide the necessary salve to heal its bleeding wounds. 
 It is a sorry addition to an otherwise brilliant series.
  
  SCDA is nothing more than a pay-to-test beta version of what could have been an absolutely stellar 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adrianix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  When I started, I thik Yeah, this is a really good SC : Awesome menus, multiplayer, good script... 
 But when I go to Graphic settings I was surprised: I can't change any setting Ouch!!! . Then I 
 start to play, the game was acceptable, but when I start Shangai level, all finished!!! I can't 
 finish this game, because I can't play 5 minutes at this level without suffer a crash to the desktop. 
 Incredible!!!
  P. D: Graphics aren't too best, it's SCCT graphics! Sound it's worse than SCCT and bugs are very 
 much an worse than SCCT.
  P. D2: I don't recommend this game to anyone, until a good patch!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spdbrake
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Saving: Can't name a save. Going back to see a save they are out of order, no cronological date 
 or level grouping. Have to consantly delete old save so you a least find the current days playing 
 saves.
  Crashes: Loading saves or levels, does not matter. About a 80% chance you can get it to load. Even 
 when it does and you need to go back to the current save point it will crash even though it loaded 
 from there 2 minutes earlier. Have to reboot the machine or it for sure won't load a save after 
 a crash. Buggiest game I've ever played, even when I Beta Tested games they didn't crash like this.
 
  Love the Spinter Cell Series, but this sucks.
  UBI forum is up to 102,000+ posts now as of Nov 23rd 06.
  The UBI forum says to email them repeatable 
 crashes so they can analyze. With that many posts do you think maybe...... Someone needs to loose 
 their job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minevich1
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  well, first of all i (was) big fan of the splinter cell SE, well, maybe until this days.
  in the first hand the game looks terific (excellent) , some sound are better now.
  but on the second 
 hand the shame- AI.
  unbaliveble system requirement, maybe some of us will say- this crazy Graphics ,maybe u true, but 
 if i see the last game of this SE (scct) some detail and even some shadow look better, and i not talking 
 about the Shader3.
  i so disappointed from the gameplay, the company promised to do this game UN-linear- (!!!)
  and 
 it's aBIG 1 LIE! this game still so linear, and you can't imagaine how i disappointed.
  
  ubisoft, i can't imagen that i gonna to say it after all amazings game (pop and privious SC) ---&gt; you 
 **** up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEMAN_55
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of Splinter Cell. I felt Chaos Theory was the best one even though it still had issues 
 with clipping, but Double Agent is a mess. I can't believe there's only one patch out! Ubi soft 
 really needs to get their act together. The games interface is awful. It was perfect in Chaos Theory. 
 Why did they have to screw around with it. I think I know why. It was probably designed for the 
 X-Box and the PC was an after thought.
  
  The graphics are outstanding and so is the sound, but other than that it stinks. Somethings work 
 in parts of the game and in others they don't work. That makes a very unplayable game.
  
  Also the game is very unbelievable. In Chaos Theory when Sam is in the shadows there's a reason 
 why the enemy can't see him. In this game there arn't any shadows. Just because he has a green 
 light on his back he's invisible? Come on, give me break. And what's with the light on Sam when 
 he's in prison? Lambert said he would be treated just like any other con. I guess he lied. That's 
 the main problem with the PC version of this game, its mostly a lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angeor
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I only wrote this review, because I think it is the only way we (consumers) can be protected by 
 the beta version game phenomenon. Owning all of the splinter cell games and quite a lot of Ubisoft's 
 games, I thought I didn't need any review reading to buy this game. I was wrong.
  
  I have to admit that the first impression was very good. The menu seemed to be amazing, the training 
 really cool. I was bothered by the low framerate performance, but my pc isn't any high end machine 
 (GPU 6800) . Videos, graphics, sound, special effects, all amazing, and then it just happened. By 
 double tapping the z key (to open a small 2D map, showing the enemies etc.) the game crashed. Having 
 finished the previous splinter cell bugless (as far as I know) games for more than once, I was 
 I little bit dissappointed because I didn't expect that. Unfortunately the dissapointment grew 
 stronger:
  
  1. You cannot give a name when you're saving your game (all of them are just saved as 'SAVE'
 
  2. When you try to load, your game-saves are not sorted, and when I say not sorted I mean it. 
 Not by date, not by mission, not at all, they are just randomly listed. I personally like to save 
 my game every now and then, so imagine the chaos.
  3. The quicksaves tend to be automatically deleted between game restarts.
  4. Saving your display 
 settings is not always successful: the game may crash, or ignore your new settings.
  
  Of course those problems may not seem important to someone. But imagine a difficult level, when 
 on top of all of the previous bugs 3 more are added:
  
  1. After killing a specific enemy he is instantly respawned in his position, as you had never killed 
 him 2. After quickloading (for a loooooong time) you instantly get killed
  3. After loading for the second time the game crashes.
  
  This nightmare becomes true in the 
 second part of the Kishasha level (or something like that) . Consider also the fact that you need 
 a lot of time to start the game and to load the level for the first time.
  
  Once I found out that those bugs were not random, I stopped playing. Not because I didn't like 
 the game....
  
  I stopped playing, because Splinter Cell is a game that makes you happy when you manage to accomplish 
 a mission following some rules you make on your own (e. g. stealth player, action player etc.) . 
 When the game has buggy save management and requires the player to restart the whole game every 
 now and then, when an enemy stucks at a door (every time no matter what) and prevents you to finish 
 the level without killing - knocking down anyone, when you double tap z, throwed to the desktop 
 and then losing your quicksaves, when you get killed by a respawned enemy and after quickloading 
 you instatly die (every time no matter what) , I assure you, you cannot enjoy the game the way you 
 want it.
  
  Review bottomline: I bought the game, (at least Im sure I bought something, dont know yet what 
 it may be) , I could have finished it, but I wouldn't enjoy it. So I m waiting for the patches, 
 while the game gets older, and at the time I will probably play it, his value will be lower. I 
 just prepayed a game, which I hope will be patched.
  
  PS1. I m sure it is not the developers fault. Only Ubisoft can take a decision to release such 
 an unfinished game.
  
  PS2. I understand that releasing a buggy game is a good strategy, to avoid piracy. But there is 
 buggy and there is BUGGY.
  
  PS3. There has to be some sort of quality assurance in game industry. What prevents the next Ubisoft 
 from releasing their next buggy sequel? Nothing. I know that this common (and poor) review, which 
 is going to be read by 5 to 10 other people tops and the fact that I will personally wait to read 
 the reviews before I buy the next game (everytime no matter what) its not going to make any difference, 
 because I'm just a common man
  
  But I know also this: Ubisoft WAS my favourite game software company, til now. Trust is a difficult 
 thing to build, and very easy to destroy, and this is true for me and for any other common man. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  I love splinter cell games, but after playing the game I wasn't too pleased with this game. There 
 have been bugs reported in the game and I myself have noticed that some NPC's do not walk, they 
 hover. They move along, slightly off the floor, their legs do not move. Little things like this 
 really annoy me, when I have parted with my money for a game from a 'reputable' company like Ubisoft. 
 Also, as the review says, the loading times are long for a PC game.
  It seems to me that game creators are now favouring the consoles over the PC. Considering that 
 a top of the range PC is superior to any console (including the PS3) theres no excuse for this. 
 I wonder what will happen when DX10 comes out next year, followed by a new generation of PC hardware 
 that will, once again, be way ahead of any console. I hope Ubisoft take notice of the reception 
 this game has had on the PC, its just not good enough and console ports are unacceptable, the PC 
 is the benchmark, not the xbox or playstation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onurta
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  I really can't believe Ubisoft for making this and putting the gamers in this situation. Now that 
 two weeks have passed since the release, I haven't been able to play the game, even see a screen. 
 If you really want to buy it, please first visit Ubi Sc: DA forums and see all these problems for 
 yourself. Tech support are total sleepers without any feedback. I dont think there will be a patch 
 for this, because its far beyond patching, they should release a seperate cd/dvd in terms of a 
 replacement. After waiting for this long, I can't say how sorry I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricSherman
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Another obvious and bad port to the PC. I am getting sick and tired of buying half-baked products 
 especially with PC games that feel rushed and incomplete. Admittedly, this game along Dark Messiah 
 has led me to believe that PC gaming is dying and that to continue to enjoy games I must buy a 
 360 or PS3. Overall, the gameplay is frustrating. I find the over the shoulder too close for comfort 
 and differently than previous Splinter Cell Games. Mid way through the game I lost interest and 
 started playing the orginal Splinter Cel. That gave me great pleasure and it felt like the game 
 was intended for the PC. Aside from mediocre gameplay, there are some glaring technical diffculties 
 that are unforgivable. Be sure to read the requirement or you'll be out $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  this game is great on pc and on xbox 360, but now we talkin pc. this game has some real awesome 
 next-gen graphics and it's insanly fun to play. this game has real awesome next-gen graphics as 
 i said and what i mean is that this game has awesome graphics from everything to the textures, 
 lightning, shadows, and everything else. and it's so fun to play because first off im a big, big 
 splinter cell fan and everything from go stealthy and climb and everything like sam fisher normal 
 does and also go straight out to an enemy and shoot with your rifle or your pistol, or from a long 
 range. it's all a damn insanly fun game to play and it got some real awesome next-gen graphics 
 (if u have a pretty nice high-end pc like me, of course) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurev
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back in Splinter Cell Double Agent! SC DA is an interesting twist on an already good 
 series. Throughout the game youll have to make moral decisions that effect who trusts you and your 
 constantly trying to balance the trust between the good guys you work for and the bad guys your 
 working with. Gameplay...10/10
  the gameplay here is very solid with an excellent combination of sneaking around and action. The 
 game unlike its previous installments is very generous in terms of setting off alarms or alerting 
 people. You wont fail a mission just because you were spotted and using light and dark to cover 
 yourself is not as important this time around. Theres more focus on the action here and it doesnt 
 let anything stop it. The controls are a little hard to get used to as theres so much you can do 
 here but you quickly pick them up. The balancing act of trust is very unique, adds to the story 
 and the gameplay as well. At the start of a mission your given objectives from both the terrorists 
 and the NSA and its up to you how you carry them out. Will you kill good guys or just knock them 
 out. Your also faced other moral desicions like this. l
  
  Graphics...10/10
  The graphics in this game are simply amazing. The game uses the unreal engine 3. Performance on 
 my 7900GS is very good although the game doesnt seem to scale down very good. You have very simple 
 graphics options: Standard and Next Generation... after that you do have an advanced option but there 
 arent very many options there... The games got all the graphical touches youd expect from a next 
 gen title such as HDR lighting, bump mapping, specular maps, high polygon models, and high resolution 
 textures.
  
  Sound....10/10
  The sounds in the game are very crisp and sound well done. All the weapons sound like they have 
 a bite to them and the voice acting is very well done. The ambient sounds are good as well, whether 
 your free falling from an airplane 3000 feet above the earth at 100mph or swimming in a frozen 
 lake the sounds are accurate as youd want them to be. Even if you dont have a fancy sound card 
 and are only using integrated audio.
  
  Value...8/10
  The has a good singleplayer campaign and a solid multiplayer game but there are some bugs in it 
 that could slow you down. I myself didnt have to much trouble playing the game but ive heard others 
 are having lots of troubles with it which may not make it worth the 50 dollars. if anything wait 
 till some patches come out before getting the game, unless of course you have 50 dollars burning 
 a hole in your pocket or if your feeling lucky! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aligokalppeker
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: DA presents gamers whole new gameplay , new ui , better graphics and sound.
  
  As a classic , Splinter Cell series has great impact on esponiage genre. And this one does this 
 also. Most impressive side is decision mechanism and being an undercover agent. Also other sides 
 affect beauty of game. Sounds are great and detailed. Graphics are good enough to compete with recent 
 games (but not so revolutionary) . Musics are very well suitable for game atmosphere (I think music 
 is really an important object that completes esponiage games with other cinematic objects)
  
  Gameplay , is more realistic with addition of new esponige elements. Also this game closes missing 
 logical points of series preceding games.
  
  But , game has minor bugs that shouldn't be. Sometimes it's painful to see such bugs in these classics. Despite 
 these bugs , game shines with its glorius leadership in genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TedBob
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what those other guys are complaining about as far as game save files being lost and 
 graphic problems. I haven't experienced any of them so far and I am using a laptop that is almost 
 2 years old with no upgrades from the day it was made. I play on a Dell XPS M-170 (yes I had it 
 built fully loaded at the time but being almost 2 years old now I would harly consider it to be 
 advanced anymore) I have not had any hang ups or crashes with the game at all so I am lead to believe 
 whomever is complaing about performance issues... its your computer, not the game. Unfortunately 
 there is a short list of supported video cards that are capable of playing the game. It states 
 this on the box. Why Ubisoft would choose to limit this to such a narrow band of supported cards 
 is a mystery but that would probably account for most of the complaints on the graphics issues. 
 For the lost game save files... no idea. No problems here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thigeic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is alot of fun with the coop and all. It plays out good, i had alot of fun as i always 
 do i the splinter cell games, the sneaking around is alot of fun. Always has been, always will 
 be. It looks good, not as great as I hoped but still, pretty good. sounds good, some good music 
 that fits the places your at, the story is pretty good to being a game like this. The mulitplayer 
 is basicly the best that was done about Double Agent, its always fun to kill one of those sneaking 
 bastards when you know its another player, and to sneak by a guy without him even knowing your 
 there is as always fun. The multiplayer part is the best one seen in the splinter cell games till 
 now.
  To bad the pc version got so many bugs this time around.
  But overall an great game with some replay value on the single player campaing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  Just bought the game 3 days ago, playing it till now and i must say i enjoyed the game alot and 
 i still am, the game is wonderful graphically as ubisoft did a great job in making it a new gameplay 
 feature, however i think ubi montreal would've cared MUCH MUCH more for doing it perfectly, not 
 as these SHanghai losers who didn't care much and just directly ported it. Anways the gameplay 
 is so amazing in many ways the new action moves, decisions, kills and everythin.... On the graphical 
 side however Shanghai did a really bad in optimisting it more thurolly, as the graphics and effects 
 are so amazing but not when ur playing like about 15-25 fps. All eles i also so KOOL espeacially 
 Multiplayer as im playing it with many firends on LAN using Hamachi coz i think online sucks BIG 
 TIME... so bascillay its a groundbreaking title underneath an unpolished version of bugs and glitches.... 
 But still to me its the best no matter what its flaws are.....! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djplato
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Although this game has Sam Fisher as its protagonist it is not a true splintercell game, Once you 
 get past all the graphical bugs which make the game virtually unplayable, (on my rig i had to turn 
 set the graphical settings to lowest, and the res to 640 by 480) and the fact that the game fails 
 to deliver on some of its promised content, includeing the unlockable gadgets (I've unlocked them 
 all, yet am yet to be able to select or use them in game,) the game totally fails to deliver on 
 the splintercell experience, setting most of its missions during the day and placing more emphasis 
 on shooting and killing that the others, This game is not splintercell, its sneak ghost recon, 
 or hide and seek halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, first of all, let me say I have been waiting for this game since the day it was announced. 
 I have patiently waited each time the game was delayed (there were four delays in total, or so) , 
 and I finally got to try out the multiplayer. Later, the demo. I am a huge fan of Splinter Cell. 
 The SP isnt as attracting to me as the multiplayer portion, but I gave it a try anyway. Unfortunately, 
 after playing the game for some time, I realized it isnt really worth the money. If youre still 
 undecided, read on.
  
  My rig isnt the best around, but definitely not the worst. Im glad I bought a graphics card that 
 supports Shader Model 3 some time ago  the 6800GS. If your card doesnt support SM3, you wont 
 be able to play the game. Meh, I thought I passed the minimum requirements (well, my processor 
 is slower than the one shown in the minimum specs) , and the game will run well, but it didnt. 
 As a matter of fact, people with top notch PCs have trouble playing the game, too. Its sad for 
 me that Ubisoft has screwed up yet another game everybody waited for so long. I mean, face it  
 the game is nothing but a crappy X360 port. The auto-saving, the spies ability to roll and crouch 
 using the same key, etc. Isnt this Xbox-ish enough to you?
  
  When you open up the singleplayer demo, you can adjust the video settings. There isnt all that 
 much to choose from, though. You can change the resolution, and tick one out of two checkboxes 
  Standart and Next-Gen. The Customize settings checkbox was grayed out for some reason. 
 I wanted to get a performance boost, so I ticked the former one, and set the resolution to 800x600. 
 However, the FPS was pretty much identical when playing Next Gen @ 1024x768. The game is really 
 poorly optimized. Hopefully us, PC gamers, will get a patch soon, but I have big doubts it will 
 even happen.
  
  Like I said, Im a huge fan of Splinter Cell. I have passed the first three games dozens of times, 
 and loved them to death. Ubisoft has added many new innovative features into Double Agent that 
 were supposed to give the game a more realistic / cinematic feel. Therefore they removed the sound 
 meter, and the visibility meter, leaving you with a minimalistic heads-up display, indicating your 
 ammo status, current gadget, and a map that can be toggled. Sams visibility is now displayed by 
 a little circle. Its color seems to determine the visibility, but I found it really inaccurate. 
 Sometimes you think youre in complete darkness, yet your enemies notice you.
  
  Im a huge fan of the multiplayer mode, as well. Chaos Theorys Spy vs Merc mode has sucked out 
 many hours of my life, and I still play it pretty often. It hasnt offered me the best online experience 
 because of some bugs, and lag problems, but the games gameplay was awesome. Double Agents multiplayer 
 is totally revamped. Okay, well, not totally, but there are lots of things that are changed  some 
 for the good, some for the bad. I gave the game a try, but didnt find it as fun as Chaos Theory. 
 The new cat and mouse gameplay didnt suit me too well. In Double Agent, stealth is different 
 than in Chaos Theory. In CT, it was 2vs2. The spies had sneaky gadgets, hi-tech stuff, they had 
 to approach and neutralize objectives. In Double Agent, its 3vs3. The spies can use only one gadget 
 at a time, and they hack from a distance. It would be fine, but Ubi has decided to give mercs a 
 proximity detector. If a spy gets in the mercs PD range, the PD starts beeping. The closer the 
 spy is, the faster it beeps. If the spies use teamwork, its easy to get rid of the merc 2v1 or 
 3v1. In CT, there is no PD, you can sneak right past the merc and he wont see you. I like this 
 kind of gameplay over DAs, to be honest. Its just a matter of taste, but anyway.
  
  There are many reasons I didnt get into the game  its buggy, it crashes a lot, I get low FPS, 
 save-games dont work properly, etc. Its kind of a lottery whether your PC will run DA well or 
 not, some people w/ specs worse than mine run the game without a problem, some with better ones 
 run it bad. Id suggest waiting for a patch to be released, or getting the X360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangoanuta
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Usually developers learn from their mistakes and on the next game, or sequel they get it right 
 but i don't think that happened with DA's developers.
  
  Its prequel, CT, was great. Innovative, bringing lots of new stuff into the franchise, but i think 
 in DA developers had more important stuff to do, and simply did not cared much about putting some 
 new interesting content.
  
  The graphics of this game are nothing compared with its 360 version. We can see during gameplay 
 some really blury textures, jagged shadows in some parts but nice shadows in other parts, technically 
 this game is a mess.
  
  What saves the gameplay are the JBA HQ missions, but after the first one they all look alike.
 
  
  I don't know about you, but if somebody who didn't know the Splinter Cell franchise would like 
 to get to know, i would say right away: Play Chaos Theory!
  
  And if you're a realy Splinter Cell fan it's a crime for you to play this game, keep on playing 
 CT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercleft
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  graphics: the game looks amazing (considering you have a high end machine) , by far the best looking 
 splinter cell yet. All the lightinh effects are amazing and the water reflections are absoulutly 
 beautiful. And the character models are amzing, you can actually see the sweat on sams neck when 
 he s running. the only downfall in the graphics is a few low res textures but there arn't enough 
 the affect the look of the game
  
  Gameplay: The game does feel slightly boken, the story is really good and depending on if ur good 
 sam, nuetral sam, or bad sam there are three different endings, and there are different plot twists 
 for each roll. The missions are really long and fun but right when you r ready for another mission 
 you have a sub mission at the terrorist (JBA) headquarters where you either have to destroy something, 
 send a tranmission to the NSA, find personal profiles o people, and a few others. And considering 
 that tehre are only about 5 REAL misssions it feels alittle broken (as i said earlier) but each 
 of the missions are really long, much longer then the previous splinter cell missions, it feels 
 like there are just enough missions. the AI also feels alittle stupid at times but for the majority 
 of the time they are mostly goood.
  
  Sound: The voice overs are amazing as are the ones from the previous splinter cells, micheal ironside 
 is still doing fisher so fisher still feels like the sam person. But honestly you've heard the 
 sounds before. So don't worry they are still really good.
  
  Value: amazing Multiplayer
  Amzing single player....... you get what you pay for, a good deal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sujane11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say that the Splinter Cell game series are getting better and better. This one tops 
 them all. Since the first game, Pandora Tomorrow and Chaos Theory, the Splinter Cell games gives 
 you the player a unique experience every time. Double Agent for the PC is the best Splinter Cell 
 game ever... the gameplay, the graphics, the sounds, the replay value and definitely the new story. 
 I love the part where Sam becomes a mercenary. He goes guns ablazing in the open! Now that's different. 
 Very different. I just love this game because it has the perfect mix of spying and totally kicking 
 the butt of the enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Generally, you have to finsh a game before you release it..... or do you? Ubisoft seems to think 
 it's April fools and the joke is on us because this title is just that.... a joke. Plagued with 
 bugs and technical problems that make it basically, unplayable.
  
  I'm sick of developers releasing crap like this, lining their pockets with our hard-earned dollars, 
 and then turning a blind eye to it all.
  
  In a recent interview Ubisoft CEO Blarney Backstabber stated, I'm sorry you purchased our crappy 
 product, but you'll have to wait for the patch *snicker*. We honestly didn't mean to release it 
 without actually testing it first *snicker*. Now take a hike while I drive home in my SL500 convertible 
 that you paid for.... bahahaha . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightShadower
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Until reading reviews here, I had no idea the mysterious light grafted to your flesh actually changes 
 from green to yellow. The only difference i saw was to red. Not color blind friendly. So this would 
 mean I'd lean on a wall in the game and hope that that guard can't see me. Guesswork. Enough about 
 my color blindness woes. On to gameplay.
  
  Whats awesome this time around is the music. The closer you get to someone the more suspenseful 
 it sounds. Awesome. Some sounds have been reused from past SC games including some from Coop Missions 
 in CT.
  
  Voice acting by Micheal Ironside is as awesome as ever, fits Sam Fisher perfectly.
  
  Interface, 
 the action buttons are frickin huge and smack dab in the centre of the screen. Not fun. I prefer 
 minimalism and I vote let it stay at the corners.
  
  There are stuff to unlock but I have yet to use any of these unlockables. Might be an incomplete 
 feature or something.
  
  Story is much deeper now and thus more interesting than the standard go there get this because 
 some insane guy is bent on destroying that place. Now, its more like go there because ur stressed 
 and get this but dont let them see you get it because that will screw up stuff and cause some idealists 
 to be mad and destroy that place. However, you can't help but feel that you're missing something 
 from the story. Its like having a thick novel cut down to a few pages simplified for children, 
 sparing the details but giving you the main points. This makes you feel less connected to the character 
 as well.
  
  The character model looks more pleasant on the eyes than the plastic Chaos Theory ones.
  
  
 Setting system settings can be a pain in the sphincter cell. You apply but nothing happens. You 
 Save graphic settings but nothing happens. You go back and find out that it snapped back to the 
 pre-changed settings. The only way for the graphic setting changes to work is to set them before 
 you load or start any game. Frustrating stuff.
  
  If you prefer old school SC, get the ps2 or Xbox versions. They are supposedly different somehow 
 and the story is explained in more detail in them.
  
  Read other reviews to read about stuff I missed. Good welcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shlepad
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  I will get straight down to the point that concerns me the most about the game - never buy games 
 that are direct untouched ports from a console. Furthermore, do not buy games that are neglected 
 in such a hideous way by the developer. The technical side of the game recieves 5 at best, not 
 because it looks bad, hell no. The game is stunning in detail, if you can support shader 3, that 
 is. But the frequent crashing, the buggy controls that keep stucking on you and the fact that you 
 cannot use any of the new gadgets you are supposed to be recieveing with each succesfull missions 
 makes you feel as if someone did a number on you.
  
  There are some bright spots however, for which the game does not fail completely, and that is the 
 story. Its engaging, and at times downright cool. Missions that require you to use the wicked stealth 
 we know and love are rare now, and eventually it comes down to doing the same manouvering over 
 and over again, which limits replayability severely. The HQ missions feel artificial at times, 
 but Shanghai and Kinshasa are great fun. What bothered me about the storyline was a sensation i 
 never got from Chaos Theory, for example. The game felt... well, it felt way too scripted. Concrete 
 scripted, that is. Overlapping speech, strange behavior of your enemies... Another thing that happened 
 way too often is the unstellar intelligence of your enemies. They either had supersenses or suddenly 
 became Helen Keller. I don't mind some challenge, but come on, you've got to have some common sense. 
 Take Kinshasa, for example. Everyone is shooting at everyone, a helicopter is flying around trigger 
 happy, and yet the shotgun monkeys get worried and anxious about every little body. I mean, this 
 is a warzone people. Get a grip!
  
  Anyway, to sum the game in a few short words - fair, could have been much better. Worth the money? 
 I'd have to say, with all the sadness of a SC fan - No. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jskog
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Maybe UBI should have worked out the bugs before they decided to release this game. With all the 
 unexpected crashes terrible FPS despite my 7950GX2 quad SLI, A8N32 SLI Deluxe 2GB Corsair, and 
 4400 CPU the game still runs like crap. Even with the new patch they haven't adressed the single 
 player issues. You think if they were going to charge $50 for the game it would be somewhat decent. 
 I thought I would try to suck it up and drive on, however the lagg perpetuates throughout the whole 
 game. No Id10t errors. What a way to ruin a beautiful sequel. Even if it takes UBI 6 months to 
 work out a patch that fixes there mess-up, it wont quell this once loyal customer. No wonder people 
 download the torrents first. Dont waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulor_mello
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  All Splinter Cell games are so great, but Double Agent is a perfect game.
  Double Agent brings new interface and more realistic stealth action using the new Unreal Engine 
 that offers next generation graphics and awesome effects.
  If you are an Splinter Cell&acute; s expert, when you play this game, you don&acute; t want to stop!
 
  
  But remenber:
  If you want to see all graphics potential of this game, you need a high end machine, I ran this 
 game at 1024x768 res. and NextGen option ON in nvidia&acute; s Geforce 6600GT without HighResolution 
 Textures and works fine, since nvidia&acute; s Geforce 6600GT or high is recomended for play Double 
 Agent with nice frame rate, and nvidia&acute; s 7600GT or high to see the high resolution textures.
 
  
  This is on more great work of Ubisoft team... and one more great game to add in your collection! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarybarry
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Have any of you wondered why there is no Gamespot review yet of Splinter Cell Double Agent for 
 the PC? IT IS BECAUSE THE GAME IS UNFINISHED!
  
  My rating on this game was derived by voting on gameplay, graphics, etc as if they worked AS INTENDED, 
 but of course they don't work as intended yet, so for reviewer's tilt I put the lowest score to 
 reflect that the game does not work as advertised yet.
  
  Do NOT buy it unless and until Ubisoft releases a MAJOR patch (and I'm not talking about release-day 
 Patch 1.01) . The biggest omission are the gadgets, but more on that below.
  
  EVEN IF your game will load and play bug-free, the PC and XBox 360 (i. e. NEXT-gen) versions are 
 missing many, if not most, of the cutscenes found in the Xbox and PS2 (i. e. CURRENT-gen) versions. 
 This makes the story very disjointed and frustrating to follow. Like, for example, there is ONLY 
 ONE sentence of voice-over devoted to the awful tragedy that makes Sam decide to become a double 
 agent in the first place (and those of you who have played the other SC games will understand just 
 how awful it is) . That's it: one sentence and we're supposed to understand and appreciate how a 
 man could make a deal with the devil the way Sam does. PC and XBox 360 got severely screwed in 
 terms of being provided a coherent narrative.
  
  Most critically, however, YOU CANNOT USE ANY OF YOUR NEW GADGETS IN THE PC VERSION. You can unlock 
 them, but they NEVER become available to use. This was a promised feature that was not delivered!!! 
 The new gadgets are just artwork that you can look at... whoop-de-doo.
  
  I am a huge fan of the SC series, and it pains me so much to say negative things about this game, 
 but there is simply no excuse for the state in which Ubisoft released this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  First off, I must note, I am glad there is no starforce like in Chaos Theory.
  
  I am please with the wy the story went in this series, it brings a nice twist to how I look at 
 Sam Fisher. Overall the presentation was pretty good, the game itself runs pretty darn well for 
 me. Even though I am a little disappointed in some graphical areas, but I will note upon that later 
 on. Overall, if some fixes could be made I think the title could round out to be something that 
 must be had in a PC gamers library.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphically, I was very pleased in most areas, the initial underater scene was really nice. Some 
 areas in the Shanghi mission, along with the desert areas have some really nice touches in it. 
 Unfortunately, the are some glitches in the game that really bothered me. In side the JBA base 
 there are some issues where the shadows are horribly jagged for me. Everywhere else not a problem. 
 Sound:
  Audio - wsie the game didn't give me a problem. I could hear, and tell the direction and location 
 of most of targets
  
  Gameplay:
  Not too bad, pretty much the same formula that occurred in the other games, which could be look 
 upon as a hinderance as well. The only two big things is the multiplayer is not up to task, and 
 some of the single player areas just don't feel as open as in Chaos Theory.
  
  System played on:
  AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200+ | Gigabyte S-Series GA-M55SLI-S4 Motherboard | 2048 
 MB OCZ Gold DDR2 800 | ATi X1950XTX @ 512MB | Soundblaster X-fi Soundcard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game was originally released for the XBox 360 and was ported for the PC. Ubisoft 
 has done this in the past and the result was very good. This time however they failed to work out 
 the kinks before releasing it.
  
  The graphics are quite good, if you have the right system. Not so much a super computer but the 
 kind of system that reacts well with the game. However most of us will not be able to play the 
 game efficiently on high settings.
  
  The gameplay is very well expanded allowing you to be a spy and to gain/lose the trust of those 
 your trying to fool. The only downside is it leaves the missions very linear. You are left with 
 only one path to follow, and the ways to complete the missions are too obvious.
  
  All in all, this game has amazing potential, but is hindered by the laziness of companies wanting 
 to squeeze extra pennies out of product by making available on other platforms. It desperately 
 needs a patch its not going to get, but if your a Splinter Cell fan, and don't own an Xbox 360, 
 then this game will be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akatheween
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  see their site forums for proof
  
  this thing must be a beta
  
  I played 2 hours and saved many times yesterday
  
  Today I have NONE of those SAVED GAMES!!
 
  
  It takes 3-5 minutes for levels to load
  
  The graphics are 2005 yet it required SM3 to play - why?
  
  I have a VERY capable machine thank 
 you
  
  I'd be embarrassed - I feel bad for Ubisoft - things must be rough there if they had to release 
 this turd
  
  Please look at their site before buying - save your money or wait for the debugged release in 2 
 months after the holiday season they had to make 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Great, Splinter Cell Double Agent finally came out in my country and I got the last copy that 
 was on sale at the store!!!  or at least that was the way I was thinking last Saturday. Now, 
 I cant help feeling a light, yet perceptible, disappointment at this game and all my positive 
 anxiety before purchasing the game gave place to this uncomfortable, negative feeling. The time 
 has come to share with game players in the whole world the reasons that made me feel this way. 
 Read on, fellow gamer!
  
  First of all, I should say I still havent finished the game, but Im half way through it, and 
 used all the gadgets available in my inventory. And being a Splinter Cell fan since the first in 
 the series came out, I know enough to write an accurate review, and my opinion on the game will 
 probably remain the same until the very end of the game.
  
  Id like to start with the crashes problem. Theres a funny thing about this issue Id like to 
 share with you I havent read a SC review in a while, but the first ones I read (about the time 
 it came out for PC worldwide) didnt mention anything about crashes. So I must confess I was 
 rather surprised when I saw my game crashing every once in a while, when no one alerted for their 
 existence. I think its about once every hour or so, which, in my opinion, is a side matter, though 
 it has its importance and is definitely worth mentioning. This makes me wonder if those runners 
 who were first to review the game as soon as it came out actually played the whole thing further 
 than the opening screen. Im mentioning the opening screen because theres another annoying issue 
 besides the occasional crashing the game seems to take forever to load. Ive never seen anything 
 like this. Not Just Cause, not FEAR Extraction Point (which are extremely recent and games that 
 require high-end machines) , not even the previous games in the series took so long to load. How 
 can this be possible? What am I supposed to do while I wait? Maybe go for a pee or something. Well, 
 anyway, at least you only wait for a couple of seconds if you load a game while youre playing 
 that specific mission. Now thats a positive thing. Ive already found a couple of technical issues 
 during the game (like, in the first mission, the guard Im supposed to take out from beneath the 
 ice becomes stuck between the water and the ice for no apparent reason) , and will probably find 
 more until I reach its end, but those arent even the slightest bit annoying when opposed against 
 the punishing loading times and occasional crashes.
  
  Now, the good news:
  
  First of all, Ill refer to the plot and gameplay. Now this is a completely different concept of 
 espionage for a Splinter Cell game! It has always been about terrorism, thats true, but now were 
 living the entire thing from the perspective of a terrorist! You actually feel the role of being 
 in the bad guys side, having to act like a bad guy, but at the same time having your conscience 
 questioning if the decisions youre making are right. Ive never felt this before in any game, 
 except maybe for Deus Ex. Well, it has never been so intense like it is now! It also looks a lot 
 open-ended game, with many objectives to accomplish, and extensive statistic results at the end 
 of the levels. This adds a lot to its replayability value, which is tremendous. I still havent 
 finished the game, but Im sure I will play it again, because I already know I will want to try 
 different paths, choices and difficulty levels. 10 for plot! The gameplay is everything about being 
 sneaky and silent at all costs. The inventory is basically the same, with very little to add. There 
 are a lot of tools, but the most creative and useful were already there before. It doesnt add 
 anything new to the previous games in the series, but to be honest there wasnt already much to 
 add. However, this sense of paralysing should be punished, as the programmers should have come 
 up with something new for us, players, since we deserve the best. At least the controls seem to 
 be effective until now. I give an 8 to gameplay. About the visual effects well, everythings great 
 and beautiful, as it has always been in the splinter cell series! However, I think its even better 
 now, the graphics engine has suffered significant improvements and everything looks a lot more 
 detailed than before. Of course that it will require a lot of high-end hardware to play that game 
 smoothly, but its definitely worth the trouble. Still, its not my case. But I dont mind playing 
 at 800x600 or 640x480, as long as Im with all visual effects activated. The advanced and detailed 
 shades, for instance, are essential to the gameplay, since they drastically affect the environment 
 lighting. Ill give them a 10.
  
  I havent got anything bad to say about the sound. Its, in fact, very interesting at certain times, 
 like when you approach an enemy from behind, the music increases its volume and its intensity, 
 until you finally grab or kill your opponent. That was a very nice feature to witness in this game; 
 Ive enjoyed it quite a lot. 10 for the sound!
  
  For value and reviewers tilt well, tough one. I was expecting to give this game something between 
 9 and 10, since Ive always loved the series, and I was waiting for this game for a few days that 
 took forever to pass. This sense of disappointment residing in the gameplay and technical issues, 
 however, prevent me from doing so. I wont punish it too much though, because it is still a great 
 game. Great, but not Superb and still far from Perfect. It has a high replay value, since there 
 are lots of paths and different objectives you may try (and you can also try to achieve the 100% 
 stealth on every mission!) , but the value of the game itself is penalized by those glitches and 
 problems I mentioned before. 7 points are given to the value indicator. Finally, and since my thoughts 
 now are Well, besides (blab la bla) and (blab la bla) this game is still GREAT, Ill give it 
 an 8 to my personal tilt :P
  
  If you actually read the whole thing, Im sure you wont bother reading the final paragraph, with 
 my final thoughts. All things considered, I dont regret having bought the game, and would probably 
 do the same if given the opportunity again. Still, if youre not sure whether you should buy it, 
 try renting it first and see how your system handles the game engine, visuals, and stuff. Those 
 were well spent 50 euros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soseta
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  For a Splinter Cell game, Double Agent deserves this name. It gives you quite a feeling (leaving 
 behind the bugs and the a little old graphics)
  
  The sound of this game is the most important thing because the creators take it to the edge (the 
 voices are incredible) and I think that the sound remains the best part of the game.
  
  The graphics is good but not the best, as we are usual in the Splinter Cell games.
  
  The storyline 
 brings something new in the series with certain new elements that surely pleases someone who is 
 used with the game.
  
  The multi-player ROCKS
  It brings more speed, new mods of playing it, and, of course it has BOTS to play with in the LAN 
 mod.
  
  There are some bugs that can make you mad, but you can avoid them with a little patience.
  
 
  Splinter Cell - Double Agent is good but it could have been better and it is TOO SHORT in single 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EbonDrake
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  I wonder if most of the 9-10 rated first day reviews actually played the game!?! So far I have:
 
  
  - Frequent, random crashes
  - Poor, obviously platform-ported control system
  - Features which just plain don't work (eg the automatic lockpick)
  - Game-stopping bugs
  
 
  Whew! Worst of all are the bugs. I have had multiple missions where I could not get the safe cracking 
 minigame to work at all. Sometimes the arrow keys work, sometimes I have to hold both the up arrow 
 and side arrows to get it work, and often, the game just does not respond at all. When your mission 
 depends on stealing documents from a safe, this is essentially a game-ending bug.
  
  There is simply no excuse for releasing a game in this unfinished state. I loved SC-CT and hoped 
 for more of the same. Perhaps it will get there after several more months of development. Perhaps 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjohnson3141
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  You know when you love a game franchise so much and all the previous games in that franchise have 
 been great? It is easy to get lulled into a false sense of trust when the fourth installment is 
 released. That's what happened to me with SCDA. I ran down to bestbuy the day it came out and plunked 
 down my $50 thinking it was a safe investment. Boy was I shocked when I was confronted with 15 
 fps performance even with everything turned off and running at 1025x768.
  
  My rig:
  AMD 3800+
  BFG 7800 GT OC
  1 GB ram
  
  This game is horribly buggy, has insanely long load 
 times, looses save files, don't keep graphic setting changes, frequent crashes to desktop.
  
  On top of it all it doesn't look much better than SC 2 or SC 3.
  
  Big disappointment for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdsalam
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the previous one, double agent does not give us justice. Chaos theory (c. t) graphics enables 
 older graphic cards to run smooth or acceptable... but this one... mine was configured in SLi mode, 
 but hell!! this Double Agent eats our vga alive... enabling sli anti aliasing corrupts the graphics, enabling 
 hdr also corrupts it.. then what option do i have? well this game was very beautiful at birth.... Very 
 unacceptable... huh!!!!
  
  Pity, such a good game this is... but very few options to choose.... just have to wait for the x360 
 version then.... the pc version really doesnt do justice.. Oh and so u guys remember.. the CT runs 
 even u are using Duron cpus, radeon 9xx vga.. this one.. core duo maybe... mine was 3.5 pentium d.... sigh.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  You'd think with the fourth installment Ubisoft would finally get it right and produce a Splinter 
 Cell series that is fun and smooth. Well, let me tell you they got the fun part. But smooth?, far 
 from it. Finally one of my friend snag this game and in turn I got to try it with my system. With 
 the advent of faster cpu and graphics, this game is developed however to work against it. I assume 
 so since I got the system that is far from it's requirements but during gameplay it just give my 
 laggy and choppy performance. Reminds me of Oblivion where, it renders all it's sorroundings at 
 once instead of the ones showing in the monitor. Modern graphics cards are made to produce games 
 that can be smooth and pleasing to the eyes. Not in this game, the anti-aliasing (AA) is not supported 
 not to mention systems crashing at higher anisotropic filtering or AF. Like when I adjusted AF 
 to 16x the game just looses it's display and gives me a black screen. I can hear high quality sounds 
 though. The AA is the worst quality issue here, as it doesn't support it. The patch 1.01, which 
 Ubisoft is claiming that is will solve the AA feature and some online issues, nope I don't see 
 an improvement except the game is now 1.01 version. By the way my system is Pentium D 3.8Ghz, 7800GTX 
 SLi and 2Gb of memory. Well the good thing that works with this game is my sound card, it's very 
 nice sounds. I'm using the X-Fi Extreme Music sound card and I'm very pleased with the quality 
 of the sounds. Gameplay. Big factor here. Although the story is very good, the bugs are just as 
 bad. It's like a reading a very good story book but then again there were some pages losts. That 
 would annoy the crap out of everyone. This is bad with this game. First of all loading take forever 
 and even with my Raptor raid 0, I'm still waiting for over 1 minute! Quiting the game takes just 
 as long, and to compare I could start playing BF2 faster than it takes for Double Agent to quit 
 to the main window. I'm not joking. Also progressing at the game, you know you like to save your 
 progress and if you do so, so not use overwrite saved files. Doing so will mess up the saved file 
 or loss the whole thing. It's better to just delete the old saved files and then create a new one. 
 Reloading the area again, takes so much time as it is all reloaded from the start. The gameplay 
 is great and I'm having a blast with all the sneaking and knocking out unsuspecting enemies. Overall 
 the value of this game would be a lot more if the developers managed to have fix the many problems 
 before it was released. So for all who, wants to buy this I'm not saying the game is bad with the 
 issues. But be cautios about this game and may not work well with your system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  When i went to purchase this game it was a huge risk as i wasn't aware of all the bugs and problems 
 people had. I arrived home and installed it, and it ran completly fine on my pc which is generally 
 weaker than most people who cant evan run this game. But i was amazed at how beautiful this game 
 looks and my pc and the gameplay is out of the world. So much better than every other splinter 
 cell game. This gives the freedom to tackle any objective you want. The game runs and plays great 
 offering a lot of replay value.
  
  The game does come with it faults every so often i cant evan load the game as error occurs. But 
 by the time you read the their probally a patch being made for it . Go the game if you're looking 
 for a realistic stealth game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaji
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game seems like it was geared for the console systems and is missing the intricacy of the 
 previous titles. It is too linear and has lost the ability for the player to be creative and tactical. 
 The only reason to replay this game is to change some of the decisions you make and even then the 
 game does not change much. The ending was really ant-climactic. On release the game wouldn't even 
 work with the newest Nvidia drivers. The game is supper buggy just like Chaos Theory and the graphics 
 are the same if not worse than it's predecessor . With HDR turned on the game looks horrible. It 
 looks better with AA and AF turned all the way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  It's 2008 and a new terrorist organization has just begun operations within the US and abroad, 
 Sam Fisher has once again been called into play but with his fragile state of mind his allegiance 
 to his country and to the organization in question has been put on the line. Ever since I picked 
 up Splinter Cell one I immediately fell in love with the series. When SCDA was first announced 
 I was extremely anxious to my little green hands on a copy, delay after delay soon arose and I 
 began getting impatient and annoyed at Ubisoft. On the 8th of November the sun rose and I went 
 to work after work I was like a little kid in a candy shop, I sped through several traffic lights, 
 cut people off in the road to go home to boot my trusty computer....
  
  I was more than pleased with the content and game play.....
  
  Game play:
  
  As you can 
 guess from the title Sam Fisher is a double agent working for both the NSA and JBA but the game 
 allows you to choose your allegiance to an extent. Within each mission there are an equal amount 
 of objectives for both the JBA and NSA failing any of the primary objectives will lose trust within 
 either the JBA or NSA, what makes this game more compelling is that in certain missions you have 
 decisions to make that will cause a ripple effect throughout the game. Splinter Cell relies on 
 stealth and precision to complete it's missions although you can go Rambo (I wouldn't suggest it) 
 your best bet is to stay out of site. The game also introduces new and enhanced methods to crack 
 open safes, hack computers and decrypt messages all with their own twists. For the most part the 
 game is not your ordinary story driven game as mentioned completing or failing certain objectives 
 will have an effect in the storyline, this game actually has multiple endings. Storyline:
  
  Wow simply mind numbing, as I mentioned it is not scripted. There are multiple endings to the 
 game and in some cases the decisions you make will have an impact on future NSA or JBA operations.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  What can I say, it sounds like any other Splinter Cell game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Using the Unreal Engine SCDA boasts some of the best images I have ever seen, 
 although it comes with a price. Those with a low end computer may have trouble with the frame rates 
 or simply it may not run at all, people with either a moderate-high end computer (I have a moderate 
 range computer) will occur some lag within parts of the game.
  
  Flaws:
  
  With all games there are flaws and SCDA is no exception. Currently there are stability issues with 
 the game ( I have experienced crashes at random times) , some of the game play is just difficult 
 and painful to go through. Product placement isn't as bad as the previous titles but it's still 
 there.
  
  Conclusions:
  
  SCDA is a must buy for anyone who wants a sneak peak of what an undercover agent does, it's also 
 a must buy for any hardcore Splinter Cell fans (like myself) . Although the game has a few issues 
 with it, it is none the less one of the years greatest. For $39.99 hey it was a bargain (This only 
 applies to Canadians) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmissile35
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I absolutely had a blast with Chaos Theory, as well as all the other SCs. -- this game just feels 
 wrong somehow. I can't believe they could have screwed the series over like this. No light meter/sound 
 meter? That's what made this series different than the others!! I love how Sam Fisher has that 
 yellow/green light on his back, EVEN IN PRISON!!! Like they would let him get away with that. And 
 then your buddy hands you a full-sized RAMBO knife IN PRISON!!! Come on, at least make it a shiv 
 or something. That level just didn't even feel like a prison level at all. I haven't gotten very 
 much further than that, as I was so disgusted with it.
  
  So I'm not too excited about the single player aspect.
  
  Multiplayer could be great -- but I'm 
 not a fan of only getting one gadget at a time as a spy. The other thing is that it is SOO hard 
 to get into a game -- connection issues and crashes make it almost impossible. I'm sure a few patches 
 later this won't be an issue (hopefully?) . The graphics are pretty amazing for multiplayer, and 
 I can see it being a pretty sweet game if they fix it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco_Sluiter
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I won't get into the fact of needing a beast of a machine to play this, or come to the fact that 
 it is a buggy release...
  
  The graphics are great, sound is good, but I miss the real sneaky Splinter Cell environment. For 
 example, I find Kinshasa not a good SC level. You are sneaking around in broad daylight, never 
 finding a spot where you are fully covered, you miss you goggles and certain areas are just to 
 well lit up to cross unseen. The gameplay requires some getting use to, the light on your back 
 states whether you are seen or not, and the controls are changed.
  
  New (fatal) moves however crick up the grade! Yet, not a genuine Splinter Cell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxAa
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Overview: Ok, the game is much like what you have been experiencing in much of the other splinter 
 cells EXCEPT, there is no shadow meter or noise meter (at least not on easy mode but i would suggest 
 normal since easy is TOO easy) . So you could say the game has turned into an all out assault game, 
 but you still want to approach enemies at a slow and steady pace. The storyline really isn't all 
 that great actually. Infact, it makes you feel like the game has been very watered down since chaos 
 theory (the last splinter cell) . You are basically a double agent for the NSA and have to reveal 
 the location of a nuclear bomb and disarm it. Of course, you will visit great looking maps all 
 and all, but not really as great looking as you would think for a next gen game...
  
  Gameplay: Great, but it's missing the fun that the first 3 games offered. I mean, I just liked 
 the linear maps a lot more since I'm just used to it. SAM, GROW MORE HAIR... Anyways, the knife 
 and guns as usual... Very short game...
  
  Graphics: Well, the graphics are great if you put them in a current generation kind of sense. Since 
 they are considered next generation, they don't really look so hot (don't get me wrong I have the 
 settings on highest thus the next gen setting) . I'm real surprised, I mean even with my sli 7950 
 gt setup, the frames seem to really bogg down (as low as 30 fps but usually 40 to 60) . If you have 
 a 360 and not a top of the line pc, get the 360 one and save your self (if you want great looking 
 visuals) . The next splinter cell should be all and all awsome looking since it will be all 360, 
 ps3, and pc configured (more graphic focused since ps2 and xbox are on their way out) .
  
  Sound: Great sound. It's not as good as say, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, but still great. 
 Multiplayer: The Multiplayer is AWSOME, even better then the single player. Basically spies vs. 
 mercs (or soldiers) . Real fast pace game, you will love it.
  
  ps ---
  DON'T BUY WITHOUT A DECKED OUT MACHINE FOR THE MAX VISUALS =/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VA51L
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  You know this is why people dont buy games any more thay just download them the guys at ubi got 
 lazy there is noting but BUGS BUGS BUGS BUGS BUGS AND MORE BUGS dont buy this beta for $ 50 give 
 it some time for a good patch maybe then you will just have to pay $30 for it now dont get me wrong 
 the game is sweet but it takes up to 10 min to get a game online and after that it just crashes 
 on you very fun to keep loading in i see the UBI vid up to 20 times in a day some times 5-6 in 
 1 hour really fun but if you get in a game its really fun to play intell it crashes agen =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonecoldman
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  The graphics sure is very good (if you have GF8800) and sound qualiy is very good (but sometime 
 need to restart the game as the sound will crack suddenly) .
  
  The game play is very good, as have many new ideas to adventure... BUT you have face another rises 
 for this game, too many many bug, crack to window is approx. 1 hour 1 time... Loading time: about 
 1 - 2 mins (if you have 2G RAM) otherwise, it may take longer...
  
  That's all, I just want to ask why Ubisoft can release this full demo for retail...?
  
  And 
 you can rate 9 and even 10 for this PC version!!??? May be I am crack only.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teolant
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The GOOD:
  *Unique game play style
  *New angle on actions with NSA/JBA Objective system
  *Immersive
  *Fun and challenging
  
  The BAD:
  *With my PC version, it crashes sometimes 
 and often doesn't a load a game when you exit the game and get back in, forcing you to do a mission 
 all over again - NOTE: My PC should work it perfectly by the hardware checker
  *Crashes only during loading and breaks immersion
  *Seems (In first play through) that the way 
 you go is new and exciting - But it also seems like it is the only way to go
  *Buttons that come to tell you to press the 'Action key' to interrogate and such seem way too big 
 and break immersion. The Chaos Theory ones were fine
  
  Full Review:
  
  Here it is ladies and gentlemen, the next generation of Splinter Cell games. For me, I feel it 
 hit higher on the bar then what I expected with its new and innovative design.
  
  Let me talk about layout of the HUD and such first. Basically, there's no real hiding skill anymore, 
 either you can be seen, or you can't. The green thing on Fisher's tells you this, Green = Hidden, 
 Yellow=Un-Hidden and Flashing red = Enemies are searching for you/Are shooting at you. So now its 
 much more straight forward, but I did like how technical that light meter was. Also, Sam is now 
 partially invincible - Let me explain. He doesn't have health that can be repaired by med kits, 
 but if you are shot then a flashing shield appears next to your objective checker. It flashes until 
 you are fully healed, no more med kits, no more hoping you aren't shot, just hide and heal. Simple 
 - Almost unduly so.
  
  Now, we move on to Game play. It is typical Splinter Cell fashion, hide and sneak, whistle, distract, 
 hack - but now its more realistic. Realistic in the sense that it is more then just sneaking and 
 hacking, the AI is much better, albeit not perfect. For example, in one level you're in a Antarctic-reminiscent 
 level, in broad daylight and have to sneak on a ship. This makes it more than just sneak up to 
 one and grab him, because they see your footprints and investigate them. Also, if you grab one 
 guy you have to take the other out - you can't hide him in daylight.
  I know some of you might ask But this is a stealth game, why are we in daylight? I agree that that 
 is a good question. But let's face it, when you're dealing with a terrorist group, they don't have 
 the professionalism or timing of a National Security Agency.
  There are also fun new minigames, such as hacking. It has become more immersive and realistic in 
 what you have to do. It has also become a degree harder, I'll let you have fun finding out why.
 
  
  I don't need to talk about GFX or Sound, because I never really stop to listen to sound. It's never 
 a dull moment in a SC game. Also, you can see the Graphics quality from screenshots, so I won't 
 go on about that either. But one thing I do like to mention, is that the music in the background 
 suites the level you're in. For example, if you're in a place like Iran, you'll what you'd expect 
 to hear there, with instruments from that place. Now, onto crashing. It may just be me, but the 
 game crashes for me, most of the time I load a save game that isn't F8 for quick load. Maybe its 
 my disc, maybe its my computer, maybe its because God wants a quick laugh at me because he can. 
 But regardless, this brings it down a bit.
  
  Finally, I'd like to sum it all up in some good conclusion.
  Essentially, the game is good, very 
 good but it does have its faults. So all in all, it's a great game that is let down by some hardware 
 issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc46
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  I havent finished the game yet, but I do enjoy the new style of play. I was kinda disappointed 
 to see a patch for the game the same day it shipped. That sent up some question marks and thru 
 palying it so far i have had several different bugs crash me to desktop. I think the 2 sides u 
 work for is an interesting concept, but it seems the game plays the same no matter what your choices 
 are so this is more of a trinket than actually game play changing decisions and level design still 
 seem kinda of linear. Even though they tried to make it seem idependant. Ive also had some issues 
 with the AI being unbalanced. One instance I was hanging from a cliff by 2 enemies 75 yards away 
 when then noticed something suspicous and came and found me. In another case i was on a staircase 
 underneath a guy trying to whistle to distract him and he didnt budge. The graphics are quite good 
 even though the tax my SLI machine. I havent been able to play online yet cuz it says the server 
 is offline. I think Ubisoft should spent more time in beta and testing cuz this product seems a 
 little rushed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake_PL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Its the best in Splinter Cell series. Reminds me of Prison Break (aviator-style sunglasses, YESSSSS) 
 Yes, the gameplay is getting old, but theres a new twist, hence the title Double Agent . Graphics 
 are amazing, looks far better than its xbox\xbox360 counterpart. Sound is superb with my X-Fi ;) 
 The game supports EAX-HD, which is great. I wish there was more video options, and widescreen support 
 (widescreen patch? anyone?) Multiplayer wasn't up as I was writing this so I can't comment on that 
 ; ( Theres 1.01 patch out on Ubisoft's official site. If your looking for the best way to spent 
 50$? This is it !!!
  Pre-order\Buy now !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cihuy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  just buy last night...
  actually i love this game.. i love splinter cel saga..
  but it requires 11Gb right?? very big game!!
  especially for its storyline,,,, gameplay,,,, and 
 graphic.
  but a little disappointing for its grphic that can't run HDR+AA...
  
  in Indonesia this is really big big big game... like a hitman series,, this is a proffesional game 
 that has all the best feature.. cutting edge technology.
  
  just buy last night...
  actually i love this game.. i love splinter cel saga..
  but it requires 11Gb right?? very big game!!
 
  especially for its storyline,,,, gameplay,,,, and graphic.
  but a little disappointing for its grphic that can't run HDR+AA...
  
  in Indonesia this is 
 really big big big game... like a hitman series,, this is a proffesional game that has all the best 
 feature.. cutting edge technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogert
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  seriously, i'm enjoying this game like no other, it feels like it's double the fun of chaos theory. 
 for as corny as that may sound it's the truth, and also i'm a hardcore splinter cell fan, so i'm 
 biased, at least i admit it. over all, game is visually nice, has great gameplay, and replay value, 
 very fast paced, and really gets you hooked in to the debths of the stroy.
  
  anway, it's seems i have to make this review 100 words... so here is some more stuff. the sound 
 could be better, like always it sounds kinda muffled. it could be me, but i don't know, it could 
 use some work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-man30
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  this game has everything sneaking, action , many ability's and much more. when i play this game 
 i really get in to it because of all the ability's and the excitement for example when you hack 
 a code you really have to concentrate and if you fail, the alarm sets of and you have to hide fast 
 or prepare to meet some dangerous resistance.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's really fun and the mission is very different. some mission you have to mass-murder and some 
 sneak around steal and scan thing. The coolest thing with the game is that you have to choose to 
 do work for the bad guys or the good guys (read the game story and you'll see what i mean) or you 
 have to stress and do work for both . it's all up to you!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphic is really awesome!! You don't need a super computer to play on high, i got a 7300 GS 
 and that graphic card is weak really weak.
  
  Sound:
  the sound is really awesome, but some things sound like crap (just very very few things)
  
  
 if you don't get this game you are really missing something HUGE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shock_the_Rock
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Well when first shops wit video games opened up i run to buy this game , i installed it and now 
 im playing , when i look in to xbox 360 game guide i see dat i finished allmost half of this game 
 , but its enought to write a review , ok now well this isnt the best of splinter cell , the best 
 is pandora tomorow for me , but this is allso amazing , diffculity of this game isnt very hard 
 , i play on medium and its pretty easy , well everything is fine in this game , its very realistik 
 , now theres only objetives on monitor thats good , ok here goes ma review:
  
  Graphics: Everything looks nice , but simetimes it looks like enviarment is the same , but still 
 Sam And ather stuff looks great..
  
  Gameplay: I didnt see much difference from Chaos Theory , theres a bit more moves and camera shows 
 differened
  
  Sound: Good made , but i still is something missing , but ill say its good because this game is 
 good
  
  Well its all what i can about this game...
  Simply i cant tell anything about this game because its very good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  Well when first shops wit video games opened up i run to buy this game , i installed it and now 
 im playing , when i look in to xbox 360 game guide i see dat i finished allmost half of this game 
 , but its enought to write a review , ok now well this isnt the best of splinter cell , the best 
 is pandora tomorow for me , but this is allso amazing , diffculity of this game isnt very hard 
 , i play on medium and its pretty easy , well everything is fine in this game , its very realistik 
 , now theres only objetives on monitor thats good , ok here goes ma review:
  
  Graphics: Everything looks nice , but simetimes it looks like enviarment is the same , but still 
 Sam And ather stuff looks great..
  
  Gameplay: I didnt see much difference from Chaos Theory , theres a bit more moves and camera shows 
 differened
  
  Sound: Good made , but i still is something missing , but ill say its good because this game is 
 good
  
  Well its all what i can about this game...
  Simply i cant tell anything about this game because its very good!
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sry 4 Bad English 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
