-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tonyhawksproskater4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.8, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 477 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Beenox
Genre: Skateboarding
Date:     Aug 27, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Anyone with even a remote interest in either the genre or the real-life sport should get this game, 
 provided he or she is willing to invest in a quality gamepad. 

  Though the Tony Hawk series has been appearing on the PC since Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 was released 
 in 2000, the popular console series hasn't found the PC audience quite as accepting, even after 
 last year's Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 was released with additional online multiplayer capabilities 
 that weren't found on the PlayStation 2. Perhaps this lack of acceptance has a lot to do with why 
 Activision isn't handling the publishing duties on Pro Skater 4. Instead, the publishing has been 
 left to Aspyr Media, a company better known for its Mac versions of popular PC games. It appears 
 that the smaller publisher doesn't have quite as wide a distribution chain as Activision does, 
 making this latest installment in the series a little more difficult to find than you'd expect 
 with such a well-known series of games. The PC port may be on par with previous PC installments, 
 adding higher resolution options while maintaining the gameplay that made the series great, but 
 the narrow distribution and somewhat clunky external player-matching program make for a great game 
 that's difficult to play online.  

          Tony Hawk 4 is another excellent installment in Activision's flagship series.     

 
  Tony Hawk 4 does away with the two-minute time limit so commonly associated with the genre. While 
 this takes away the exciting challenge of trying to accomplish all of a level's objectives in one 
 run, the game's larger levels would make such an effort impossible anyway. Instead, goals in Tony 
 Hawk 4 are spread throughout the level in the form of various bystanders with big arrows floating 
 above their heads. Skating up to them and hitting the grab-trick button will make them talk and 
 will start the goal, which in turn starts a timer. Many of the goals are the same sort that the 
 series has featured all along. You'll still have to reach certain score plateaus by pulling off 
 long strings of tricks, you'll still have to collect or break various goal-specific items, and 
 you'll still collect the letters that spell "skate." New types of objectives include some combo-based 
 goals that ask you to beat a specific score with one combo. You'll also have to collect letters 
 that spell the word "combo" -- without landing your combo until the word is complete. The size of 
 each area lets the game pack a lot more goals into each of the game's nine levels, and some goals 
 are only available once other objectives have been competed. Completing a goal also earns you upgrades 
 for your skater, such as cash, new slots for special tricks, or stat points.  

  All this goal completing leads up to unlocking the pro challenges, which become available when 
 you've completed 90 of the game's 190 total goals. Goals can be completed with any of the game's 
 skaters, so you won't have to play through the game multiple times to see all there is to see. 
 But the pro challenges ensure that you'll still play the game with every skater. These challenges 
 are larger in scope than your average goal, and many of them attempt to tie into a skater's actual 
 career. For example, Tony Hawk's pro challenge has you gapping from one rooftop ramp to another, 
 doing specific tricks as you go. Bam Margera's pro challenge takes after his popular CKY series 
 of videos, putting the  Jackass  star in a shopping cart and challenging you to race, hurdle, and 
 slalom your way from the top of Alcatraz down to the bottom. Bob Burnquist, who is one of the two 
 Tony Hawk 4 pro skaters not featured in last year's game, has a pro challenge that is styled after 
 his event-winning performance at the Op King of Skate competition, which aired on pay per view 
 last year. In that competition, Bob opened up the top section of a full loop and rode all the way 
 around it. In the game, you'll take this one step further, doing specific tricks while gapping 
 the ever-widening break in the loop. The pro challenges are unique, more difficult than your average 
 goal, and quite a lot of fun. Completing a pro challenge unlocks that skater's ending video and 
 also opens up a new collection of more-difficult goals in every level.  

          A newly redone career mode and additional online options are some of the highlights.   
   

  Many of the level goals in Tony Hawk 4 will be pretty difficult even for series veterans, so accomplishing 
 them will be really satisfying. The game throws some strict time limits at you in some of the goals, 
 and some of the later combo goals are tough to pull off. In previous games, failing a goal or missing 
 a jump meant that you had to spend time skating around to get back in position. Here, when you 
 fail a goal, you can use the pause menu to jump right back to the start of that goal, instantly. 
 This gives the game a real trial-and-error feel, letting you reattempt the same combo line over 
 and over again until you finally get it, though being able to restart a goal at any point keeps 
 this from getting as frustrating as trial-and-error-style gameplay usually gets. You can also jump 
 to any goal that you previously tried, which is a handy way to skip around from place to place 
 in a level.     

   

  Aside from earning cash by completing goals, you can also find it floating around each of the levels, 
 just like in Tony Hawk 2. You'll use cash in the skate shop to unlock decks for your skaters and 
 purchase various items. Cash is also used to purchase new parts for created skaters, a set of presentation-oriented 
 cheat modes (such as bloodier wrecks, fiery grinds, and slow-motion specials) , four hidden skaters, 
 and two of the game's levels, one of which is the Chicago level from Activision's latest console-based 
 BMX game, Mat Hoffman's Pro BMX 2. Depending on how into Iron Maiden and Star Wars you are, you 
 may or may not be excited by the game's hidden skaters. One of them, however, is a nice spot of 
 fan service for all the people who have been requesting the addition of some more pro skaters. 
 Three of the four hidden skaters up for sale are available immediately. The fourth, voiced by adult-film 
 star Jenna Jameson, can be purchased only once you've collected at least $100,000 in cash, essentially 
 forcing you to find all the cash and complete every goal, which will take a while.  

          The game plays even faster than before.     

  Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 plays even faster 
 than its predecessors, but the main gameplay change is the addition of spine transfers. This lets 
 you reorient your skater in midair so you can go up one side of a quarter-pipe and down the other. 
 It also works for getting out of pools and half-pipes, getting up onto high ledges, and saving 
 yourself from wrecking when you accidentally fly off the side of a ramp. But the spine transfer 
 isn't the only thing cooking. The concept of double- and triple-kick tricks has been expanded to 
 cover grabs as well, with a second press of the grab button giving you tweaked versions of existing 
 grabs or, in some cases, a completely different move. For example, a double-tapped stalefish becomes 
 a tweaked stalefish. A double-tapped benihana becomes the sacktap. Flatland tricks were introduced 
 as special moves in Tony Hawk 3. Tony 4 still has special manuals, but most of the main tricks -- caspers, 
 truckstands, pogos, half cabs, and the like -- are available to every skater without even having 
 to fill your special meter.  

  Flatland tricks, grind transitions, and lip-trick transitions are all done differently. They're 
 now done by tapping out moves with the grind, flip, and grab buttons. Flatland tricks were easily 
 abused in multiplayer contests in Tony Hawk 3 because you could do casper flips almost as quickly 
 as you could hit the button, driving your score up quickly and easily. Casper flips and other similar 
 flatland tricks are still scored the same way, but you now have to wait for the trick animation 
 to completely finish before executing another flip, meaning that it's slightly more difficult to 
 toss in a ton of cheap flatland flips at the end of every combo. This balances the game a bit better, 
 though it's still possible to abuse the system to some extent, once you get good at maintaining 
 your balance. Furthermore, you can execute a quick 180-degree turn, which comes in handy if you 
 accidentally miss an item and need to go back for it. Finally, you can grab onto the backs of vehicles 
 and skitch around the roads.  

          New moves like the spine transfer become more meaningful as you play.     

  All this 
 double- and triple-tapping in the redesigned trick system means that Tony Hawk 4 requires a good 
 gamepad even more than Tony Hawk 3 did. You can attempt to play the game on your keyboard, but 
 a console-style gamepad with some shoulder triggers -- GameSpot recommends just cutting out the middleman 
 and getting a USB adapter that allows you to plug a PlayStation controller into your PC -- is really 
 the only viable way to play the game.  

  Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 contains just about every real skating trick you'd want to see in a game, 
 and it contains a huge array of insanely exaggerated tricks as well. Most of Tony Hawk 4's new 
 specials take after Chad Muska's ghetto-blaster grind or Bam Margera's jackass move in that they 
 try to convey a little personality. Now there are special grinds like ferret fight, where a small 
 rodent crawls around your body as you grind. Another has your skater dribbling a basketball. Others 
 include a manual that involves fireworks and grinds with guitars, samplers, an American flag, and 
 even a laser blaster. These new grinds are in direct opposition to the game's level design, which 
 strives for more realism than the series has ever featured in its levels. The design succeeds nicely, 
 and the levels look really great. The Kona skate park, based on a real park in Florida, looks almost 
 identical to the pictures of the park shown on Kona's Web site. Other areas, such as some of San 
 Francisco's classic skate spots, are also rendered with a nice amount of realism. The game still 
 does have a few more fantastical levels, such as Alcatraz and a carnival level, which comes complete 
 with a good number of intoxicated hicks.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hostX9
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  What's new or different from the old series:
  
  Well the overall of the games is a little different from the 2nd and 3rd part of the series. The 
 biggest difference is that on a track you don't have a time limitation of 2 min to attain the listed 
 goals but you have at the standard level (first level) 16 goals to achieve (by collecting of the 
 pro scores during the game you get into the pro level then you got all together with the 16 goals 
 21) by each level (or place) . By reaching those goals you have to go to each person on the field 
 with a big arrow over the head and get a briefing.
  There are new goals like collect the COMBO letters in one combo and event like get best combo on 
 different places and so on... there are really a lot of them. Some of them are really innovative 
 so that the whole thing isn't becoming boring during the play of the game.
  The new thing is also that when you pimp up one of the skater with stats then you don't need to 
 do this with each player, like before in the old series, but those stat points are all the same 
 for every skater.
  Another new good thing is that you have a Pro Challenge for each skater. When you achieve it you 
 get a video of the skater like in the previous series when you have won all the three golden medals.
 
  For those who didn't played the 2nd THPS would be new the credit system, which wasn't in the THPS 
 3. Well it's all the same like in the 2nd. For each goal you get money and then you can buy special 
 clothes (this is a new feature) , skate decks etc. And the almost new thing for buy are some videos, 
 level and some other stuff.
  So what should we say. Is this new part of THPS worth of play if you well know the old ones? Hmm 
 well Yes for those who think that all the new things are enough for them and No for those who are 
 sick of trying over100 times to achieve a goal because of their difficulty.
  
  Although the game is a bit too hard, for my opinion it's the best in the series because it's longer 
 form the previous versions, the whole playing system is much better and the physical model is a 
 bit more normal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 310010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, step by step
  
  Graphics: 7
  Good graphics, but a little weak for the year (2003) , good for Low-End PCs, 32MB of Onboard video 
 is the sufficient
  
  Sound: 9
  Good effects, but, don't have effect of blood squirt, loss 1 point because of this
  
  Difficulty: 
 10
  Even for a Pro the Score Attack are hard, me, and some friends are pros on Tony Hawk's series, 
 when we played this game, our skills are nothing, weeks playing to can perform a 40k points combo, 
 a really, really hard game, amazing!
  
  Gameplay: 8
  The interface and controls are some hard and this game has Force feedback.
  
  Configurations 
 to Performance: 10
  200MB in Hard Drive, 32MB in video and 256MB of ram for a great game
  
  Ingame Options: 10
  A great menu, option to customize your skater, edit a existent skater, 
 edit parks and build your own park.
  
  Combos and Moves: 10
  Very Hard combos and amazing moves gives a 10, Combos like a fighting game and moves like PoP, 
 takes the game to a new path of gameplay.
  
  Total Score: 64
  
  Final Score: 9,5
  
  Amazing
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littledeer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  1st THUG2
  2nd THUG
  3rd THPS4
  
  This game rocked! I love it! I am such a fan of this series. The new games don't have that good 
 spice like these ones. All they have is better picture and new stupid things. some where nice. 
 but now everything new is stupid because they have to take out things. what happed to create a 
 park with the new one?
  
  I think this game had all that old classic stuff plus more. everything they added in this game 
 was great! I loved it all. The challenges got harder but at a good rate. I just thought this game 
 was great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heaveyness
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  I played Thps from the beginning, then called Tony hawk's skateboarding. Really amazing game during 
 that time, as there weren't any other extreme-sports games available that played that well. The 
 series continued to get better with every game, like in Thps2 you got the chance to do a manual 
 to tie tricks to get a greater combo or make your own skatepark. Thps3 was revolutionary in my 
 opinion. It did everything right, everything but the levels. The levels were to small. Nevertheless, 
 the gameplay of Thps3 was really good. Thps4 continues to offer you the best gameplay in skateboarding 
 games available, but adds more tricks, a more free based career mode and much bigger and funner 
 levels. The way the missions are given to you (you need to press a button in front of people, so 
 they will give you instructions for a objective) is much more fun then working of a list of objectives, 
 without any interaction. Other to that, the game stays good-old same! If you only have played the 
 underground series, you will find this game a little difficult, but then again, the underground 
 series are just to simple. ;-) Great play, but be shure you have a gamepad, the best is a Playstation 
 shaped controller, costs just 15 Euro or so.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, not much of a big improvement to thps3, but still good. Sound is 
 not changed much as well, except the music tracks. Their are so many tracks, but I'm not a big 
 fan of them. To much rap, to many unknown artists, just to much tracks and so little of them are 
 worth it. In this part, thps 1, 2 and 3 beat the hell out of Thps4 (those games made me like Rock 
 music and such) , but that's what I think. You can complete it pretty fast, but this is a kind of 
 game you can play forever. Keep the grinds/flips/grabs coming! :D
  
  This is a game you should own if you like this kind of games, it is one of the best! Just makes 
 everything right, but be sure to have a music media player with your own music on it around! ;) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  i got nearly evry skateboard game and i must say ya, this is dope. FIrst you make a character with 
 ho you gonna start. Make a clown a army dude yourself i dont now, i make my grandpa. However you 
 got good controlls and if you dont wanna do a mission just get a drink and start make your one 
 park. You can customize your park with very very much pieces like houses, halfpipes, loopings and 
 a lot of other things. Make you dream park i say. What's a skateboard game wthout a skateboard. 
 Customize and make the skateboard of your dreams. With Decks. wheels and different style and colors 
 of griptape. ya like skating?? ya like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mx2-option
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Another poser skaters masterpiece. The gameplay is just as simple as the first 3. The soundtrack 
 however was quite suprising, it was great (for the intended audience) . Featuring bands like Sum 
 41 and Papa Roach, THPS4 had a marvellous soundtrack for it's 8-10 year old audience. Value? Don't 
 even waste your 5$. Buy a Big Mac, it's a better use of your money. If you seriously want this 
 game, I strongly suggest renting it first, you'll beat it in about 5 hours, no joke. In all, if 
 you're 8 years old, get your mommy to drive you to Blockbuster to rent this game. If you're not, 
 don't even bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 19, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks!
  
  Graphics are spectacular. You can see every muscle of your character, and the designs, bulidings 
 and skate parks look very real. I feel as if I'm skating myself!
  
  The variety of tricks, combo, and skate combinations makes the gameplay of this game fun and addicting. 
 The missions you can play are creative and one or two of them can make you laugh. 
  
  The music is also some of the best parts of the games. I find myself singing when I skate. 
  
 
  I am pretty sure that this is the best of the Tony Hawk games, and if anyone wants to skate and 
 have a good time, PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Cool... 
  This game can make you feel that you are in that street and skating. The graphics and camera angle 
 is very nice. The challenges are hard enough to keep you working and the combination of different 
 moves are crazy (which means good...) . The charecters and create player mode has improved but not 
 that much from the previous version. The environment is good. But the performance of skating does 
 not decrease as you get hurt by falling (this part is unrealistic) . Well, just get this game IF 
 you want to know how it likes to be a professional skater like Tony. Alright, not much else in 
 this so that's it folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenday
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I absolutly loved this game, prehaps one of my favourite games of all time! Even though I hate 
 skate boarding, the game owns! I have it for every system i think. And it never gets old, your 
 always in the mood to play Pro Skater 4. Its also one of the few games that I've actually completed! 
 You could use cheats for this game, which made it way, way, way too easy, but i kept 2 files, one 
 using cheats, and one without using cheats. The levels were very good, and quite big. The controls 
 were very easy, and you could easily select a certain trick, and there were hundreds of combinations 
 for you to have hundreds of different moces without editing. I highly highly recomend this game 
 to everyone, on any system, it doesn't matter as long as you have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster222
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun may take a while to get rly good and though and also grinding is pretty hard 
 but it is always fun and they have some wacky goals that have nothing to do with the game (it is 
 always surprising what they think op of) but after a while you had to be amazing to finish anything 
 and also sometimes you have no clue how to do something and at the end you still have no clue. 
 the graphics were kind of iffy and i loved the music i only wish they would let you take it of 
 the game and put it in your MP3 !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's ProSkater 4 is a cute sports game. Well I'm gonna tear this game into 3 parts.
  
  GRAPHICS : Tony Hawk's Proskater 4 has some ideal graphic settings!
  To the faces of the 
 skaters to the blood that is so realistic ! the graphics get a 9.75 so 10!!!
  
  Gameplay : Well you have to chose a skater and start your career in the "COLLEGE" level. U gotta 
 talk to people with arrows on their head. You'll have to get a high, pro or even sick score in 
 2 mins! Either U have to collect something, destroy something pull some tricks.... You get stat 
 points, cash and goal points at the completitio of a goal! You can buy maps, boards or secret skaters! 
 The goals are anoying because they are repetitive and some of them weird! Also this game could 
 have some more things to destroy like in THPS 3. You can play FREE SKATE too. It's good for training!! 
 Creating a skater is fun!!!! You can make em like alliens!!!!! so 8.50
  
  Sounds : The sounds are cool are realistic! The grind, the ollie, the flips..... The falls !!!! 
 Cool is also the music ROCK yes my favourite is AC/DC : T. N. T. 
  
  So if you like X-treme sports you can buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamirganbaatar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This game can make you feel that you are in that street and skating. The graphics and camera angle 
 is very nice. The challenges are hard enough to keep you working and the combination of different 
 moves are crazy (which means good...) . The charecters and create player mode has improved but not 
 that much from the previous version. The environment is good. But the performance of skating does 
 not decrease as you get hurt by falling (this part is unrealistic) . Well, just get this game IF 
 you want to know how it likes to be a professional skater like Tony. Alright, not much else in 
 this so that's it folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Pro Skater 4 is just a amazing game on PC with its awsome skaters including the Pro 
 Sakter, Tong Hawks. Man this game rule but I like it on PS2 and the other tony hawk games. You 
 can create your own skater or build a skate park and do the Career mode and I just like being Tony 
 Hawks because he's my favourite skateboarder. I think Tony HAwks Pro skater on PC is a bit harder 
 than the PS2 version because on the PC you have to use the keyboard instead on PS2 you use a controller 
 which is easier. So I recommend this game great for the PC and it is a lot of fun guys because 
 I just loved it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
