-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tonyhawksproskater3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.1, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 597 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Skateboarding
Date:     Mar 28, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you have halfway decent reflexes and a gamepad, then you need to check out Tony Hawk 3. And if 
 you don't have a gamepad, get one for it. 

 If ever a game were truly as good as its namesake, it would be Tony Hawk's Pro Skater. Borrowing 
 the moniker and drawing inspiration from the legendary skateboarder, the original Tony Hawk's Pro 
 Skater effectively redefined the extreme sports game genre by utterly transcending its material. 
 Tony Hawk's Pro Skater wasn't just a skateboarding game -- its incredible gameplay and imaginative 
 level design made it quite unlike any game before. The inevitable sequel somehow proved even better 
 than the original, and in turn, last year's Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 somehow managed to be even 
 better than that. The new PC version is mostly just a straight port of the original PlayStation 
 2 version of Tony Hawk 3, though its graphics have been enhanced to take advantage of current PC 
 hardware. More importantly, it almost perfectly captures the gameplay of the PS2 version.      
      If you like action games, you'll love Tony Hawk 3.    

  Tony Hawk 3 is easy to pick up and start playing -- you don't even need to know the first thing about 
 skateboarding, though you do need a good gamepad. Getting proficient at the game takes time and 
 practice, though. Fortunately, experimentation is a huge part of the fun, and the learning curve 
 in Tony Hawk 3 offers limitless room for improvement. Like many of the best action games, Tony 
 Hawk 3 is a game of pure skill. As with its predecessors, the gameplay revolves around performing 
 long, complex trick combinations. There are a number of different types of tricks: flip tricks, 
 grab tricks, lip tricks, landing tricks, grinds, and manuals (essentially skateboard wheelies) . 
 All these can be linked together, almost indefinitely, to rack up huge points, reach incredible 
 heights, and exceed reasonable speeds. The game has hundreds of different tricks in it, and they're 
 all done by using simple motions on the directional pad. They also all look great.   

  Pulling a trick and linking it to the next one is where the challenge comes in. Tony Hawk 2 players 
 will need to learn to use the revert, an essential new ability used for linking air tricks to ground 
 tricks, and may also learn to master changing between different grinds and manuals without breaking 
 their rhythm. Whatever you do, you can't land sideways -- you'll bail if your landing is off, yet 
 no matter how brutal the bail, you'll get right back up, ready for more. Keeping your balance during 
 grinds, manuals, and lip tricks also requires care and precision, more and more so the longer you 
 keep your combo going. Tony Hawk 3 is an extremely fast-paced game -- it moves much faster than its 
 predecessor -- so it'll keep you on the edge of your seat, primed and ready with the best your reflexes 
 have to offer. If your reflexes can't handle a first-person shooter, then Tony Hawk 3 isn't your 
 game.   

  What secretly provides much of the incentive for becoming good at Tony Hawk 3 is the game's scoring 
 system, a complex and well-balanced system based on multipliers and diminishing returns. The more 
 types of tricks you perform in continuous sequence, the better. The more times you repeat a trick 
 during a run, the fewer points you get from it. The longer a trick keeps going, the more points 
 you get, but the tougher it is to keep your balance. If you bail, you lose all the points you could 
 have gotten -- you'll see them drip down off the screen, taunting you. You'll constantly be enticed 
 to push yourself beyond your limits to earn a high score, and when you do, you'll generally take 
 a spill for it, all because you got greedy. For a game that's all about pulling off unbelievable 
 stunts, Tony Hawk 3 surprisingly demands restraint -- another of its impressive achievements.    
        The tougher the trick you try to pull, the more likely you'll bail.    

  Though the core gameplay is incredibly fun, it's Tony Hawk 3's career mode that provides much more 
 tangible rewards for your skills. Initially, you'll be able to play in only one of the game's nine 
 main levels. You'll then have two minutes to try to complete as many goals as possible. Each level 
 has a number of different goals, several of which require you to score enough points, as well as 
 others that are much less obvious. You might have to stop a car chase. You might have to squash 
 pumpkins scattered around the level. You might have to deliver a couple of plane tickets to your 
 anxious buddies. In each level, you'll have to find a secret tape, usually hidden on some tiny 
 precipice way high up off the ground. Accomplishing some of these goals will seem impossible at 
 first. You'll be elated once you figure out what to do and manage to do it.   

  Completing a certain number of goals unlocks the next level, and you can either then proceed to 
 that level or stick around and try to solve every goal in the level you're on. For what's essentially 
 an action game, Tony Hawk 3 is extremely open-ended. Midway through a run, you might change your 
 mind and try to accomplish another goal than the one you had set out to do. At any point in a run, 
 you can either end it or restart it. Considering each run lasts merely two minutes, you wouldn't 
 expect Tony Hawk 3 to be able to hold your interest for hours on end. But that's exactly what it 
 does. You can play it how you want, but what's practically certain is that you'll want to keep 
 playing until you solve just one more goal.    

 The levels are all outstanding -- you can grind practically everything, ramps are everywhere, and 
 plenty of foot traffic too. There's the foundry, filled with grindable guard rails, disgruntled 
 workers, and molten pools of metal. There's snowy Canada, containing wannabe skaters who say "eh" 
 a lot. There's a not-so-serene suburb. There's an airport filled with crooks and nasty security 
 guards. There's Los Angeles, fraught with traffic and high-rises. And there's a cruise ship on 
 the high seas. There are some other hidden levels that don't figure into the career mode, but the 
 career mode's levels are the biggest and the best, and solving the goals in each of them is highly 
 entertaining the first time and remains so on subsequent attempts. You'll notice that some of the 
 goals change slightly depending on the skater you choose.           You can unlock a number of 
 outrageous hidden characters.    

  Career mode also features three tournament levels, and in these, you're going just for big points -- with 
 as few bails as possible. Getting gold medals in every tourney and accomplishing every goal in 
 all the main levels unlock movies, hidden skaters, hidden levels, and wacky cheats. The hidden 
 skaters are fantastic -- if you don't already know who they are, you'll be very surprised when you 
 find out. An exclusive hidden skater -- as great as all the rest -- was added to the PC version of 
 Tony Hawk 3 (unlike the others, he doesn't have an exclusive set of special tricks, though) . To 
 unlock all the hidden secrets of Tony Hawk 3, you'll need to finish the career mode all the way 
 through more than 20 times. That sounds ridiculous, but there's enough depth to Tony Hawk 3 that 
 you'll likely want to give it a shot. Sadly, all the skaters are basically identical despite their 
 different appearances. They have different starting stats and tricks, but you can completely customize 
 their stats and their tricks at any point. It's nice that the game gives you so much freedom, but 
 it makes the skaters seem a bit generic. You might as well just create your own skater -- the game 
 lets you.   

  Besides the career mode, there's a free skate mode in which you're not constrained by time and 
 can just do whatever you want. There's also a create-a-park mode that lets you build your own rudimentary 
 skate parks, complete with empty pools, rails, half-pipes, and so on. It's easier to use than the 
 PlayStation 2 version's, but it isn't powerful enough to let you build levels as detailed as in 
 the career mode. There's also multiplayer in Tony Hawk 3. Actually, the original PlayStation 2 
 version supported multiplayer over the Internet -- rather more stably than the PC version, as a matter 
 of fact. Our attempts to get into online games almost consistently met with crashes back to desktop, 
 whether we used the in-game server browser or the GameSpy Arcade program. Eight players can theoretically 
 compete in a number of different modes of play, but the levels -- which could seem packed with just 
 four players on the PS2 -- aren't very well suited to larger games. At any rate, multiplayer Tony 
 Hawk is a good idea that just isn't as fully realized as Tony Hawk 3's single-player game.   

 
  Tony Hawk 3 runs fast and smooth on midrange to high-end systems and supports resolutions up to 
 1280x1024. Though some of the objects look simple, the levels themselves are richly detailed and 
 fun to look at. But the animations for the game's collection of pro skaters (and hidden skaters) 
 are the highlight of Tony Hawk 3. Tricks and bails look highly realistic, yet the game's exaggerated 
 physics, dense levels, and immortal skaters make the proceedings seem fantastical. As skaters ramp 
 impossibly high off half-pipes, performing multiple grab tricks and flip tricks midflight, you'll 
 surely be impressed. The PC version does have a few minor graphical glitches in it, and you'll 
 see the frame rate slow down sometimes, but all in all, Tony Hawk 3 looks great.   

  Not to be outdone by the visuals, Tony Hawk 3 sounds excellent. The lengthy soundtrack includes 
 a broad mix of tracks from a number of famous artists. It almost spreads itself too thin -- punk, 
 metal, ska, rap, and rock are all represented, with the best tracks coming from The Ramones and 
 Motrhead. The recent Xbox version of Tony Hawk 3 lets you rip your own soundtrack if you want, 
 and there's an unofficial way to do this for the PC version too. Meanwhile, the skateboarding sounds 
 themselves are perfectly done, and there are a lot of good ambient effects used in each level. 
 You'll also hear a lot of hilarious quips from the various inhabitants of each level, all in good 
 fun. Unfortunately, we did experience some weird audio glitches on two different test systems. 
 Music tracks would sometimes cut off before their conclusions, and after extended play sessions, 
 the rest of the audio would start to drop out. Bugs notwithstanding, Tony Hawk 3's soundtrack alone 
 is worth part of the price of the game.           Tony Hawk 3's big levels will keep you busy for 
 a long, long time.    

  Tony Hawk 3 is ported from a console, and it shows. You can at least use the mouse to navigate 
 the game's menus, but there's no way to reconfigure your gamepad's button layout within the program 
 and some players have reported that the game won't recognize their game pads at all. The game always 
 prompts you to save your progress in between successful runs -- an auto-save feature of some sort 
 would have been convenient. The original version's replay feature has been removed, which is a 
 bit disappointing. As mentioned, you can unlock movie clips as you accomplish goals, but these 
 don't stretch to fill the screen -- and you'll find them all sitting there already unlocked from 
 the get-go in the game's install directory. Homemade skate parks are less than a meg in size, but 
 they must be manually transferred between players before they can be used in multiplayer sessions. 
 In addition to the generally unstable multiplayer mode, we experienced a few crashes during the 
 single-player game. These aren't major issues, but they're missed opportunities that make the game 
 seem a bit rough around the edges and get in the way of its community appeal.   

  Then again, no one said that skateboarding had to be smooth sailing, so just as easily as your 
 skaters will shrug off the bone-crushing blows you inflict on them, so will you rightly ignore 
 most any problems you run into in the PC port of Tony Hawk 3-- because the bottom line is that Tony 
 Hawk 3 is a thoroughly excellent, original game. If you have halfway decent reflexes and a gamepad, 
 then you need to check it out. And if you don't have a gamepad, get one for it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CrewM1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Tony hawks pro skater 3. It's rated 9.0 on gamespot therefore I rated it a 9.5. I love it!!! I say 
 its underated the star tony hawk is the best skater in the game, and deserves to be. Rodney mullen 
 is also one of the best skaters in the game. Then there's kareem campbell great with grind tricks. 
 If you get this game don't over pay. People don't know the values of this game so take advantage 
 of this. the game is easy to learn for people that are used to playing these type of game should 
 get the hang of it soon after the first hour or so. I beat the game in 2 days, very easy to play. 
 Thanx for reading.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  NOTE: I may not be entirely right about easy try not to beat it to many times because it gets boring 
 after a while. NOTE 2: may not be suiting for children 10- or under 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Ive played Tony Hawk 3 for every platform except the Game Boy Advance, and the PC version is just 
 as fun, deep, and addictive as any console counterpart. The benefit of playing on the PC is better 
 resolutions (up to 1280x1024) , a wider variety of gamepads to choose from (and you will need one) , 
 and a much better online experience. In short, its superb.
  
  For those of you too busy twinking your elf or moving pixelized tanks across hexagons to notice, 
 Tony Hawk 3 is one of the best-selling, most critically lauded videogames of 2001. It challenges 
 you to hop onto a skateboard and master split-second timing as you discover hidden trick lines 
 in expertly crafted environments. Its lack of narrative or sports-game conceit puts it firmly in 
 the tradition of old-school arcade games like 720.
  
  TH3 isnt significantly different than previous Hawk flights, except that this time the levels 
 are larger and more interactive. The trick system has been tweaked to allow more linking, and youll 
 find loads of unlockable characters. It includes a powerful level editor that lets you make (and 
 download) new parks, you can create your own skater, or you can go online and play eight different 
 game modes.
  
  The one problem with TH3? It requires a big rig to run it in all its glory. I could barely handle 
 the inconsistent framerates on an Athlon 700 running at just 640x480 with a GeForce2 card. On an 
 XP2000+ with a GeForce3, I was able to get smooth skating even at the highest resolution.
  
  If youve got the PC to run it, and you dont want to sell out and get an Xbox, Tony Hawk 3 
 is as fun (and bloody) as anything else Ive played all year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gambit_Fun234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best sports game ever made for pc. The only problem is: keyboard 
 controls. If you are like me, you had to master that game on the keyboard and that is really hard. 
 Why? Because you have to use the numbers on your keyboard to do stunts. That makes it almost impossible 
 to do many points because you are always mixing the numbers up. Apart from that, the only thing 
 I am wondering about this game is: why is Bob Burnquist not in the game? In the end, I have nothing 
 more to say about this game except that it is the best Tony Hawk game ever!!!!!!! (Even more on 
 the ps2.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celentanoad
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  The controls are really hard. The gameplay is really unrealistic and it gets so boring after a 
 while. This game is fun for about twenty minutes and then it just gets boring. Its too easy to 
 beat all of the goals and each level has like, the exact same goals except for a few other stuff 
 (collect SKATE, find the secret tape, high scores) The cheats suck too. I liked the 2nd one waaaay 
 better but it doesnt work on my computer anymore. But if you can work the 2nd one, thats way better 
 than the 3rd I think. The graphics on this arent good either. You can like, see through the guy's 
 head. This game is pretty stupid and unrealistic. I dont really recommend it to anyone.
  
  Gameplay... kind of went through that already
  Graphics arent that good.
  Sound is decent but 
 the actual songs arent that great (If you dont like modern rock)
  everything else is ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 was a Gamecube launch title and not the best but it was still very good. 
 It's the third in the series about skateboarding. There are huge new levels, a new skater. (Bob 
 Burnquist dropped, Bam Margera added.) And a whole messload on unlockables. There are unlockable 
 levels, characters, cheat codes, etc.
  
  The game controls very well and it is fun to pull off massive combos. But the d-pad is kind of 
 hard to use because it's so small on the Gamecube. The PS2 version is the best way to go. I haven't 
 played the Xbox version but I'm not so sure about the D-Pad on that. You can do more tricks, the 
 best is the revert where you can link combos even after you land off a ramp if you press R at the 
 right time. The career mode is still 2:00 timed runs where you complete goals except there are 
 lots of gimmicks in the levels such as a Los Angeles earthquake and an ice cream man that gets 
 squashed by a falling pole. There are competitions also.
  
  The graphics are all simlar and all look great. Character models don't look so great when zoomed 
 up but from a ways they look great. The levels are all designed very well and it's amazing how 
 they can turn a level into a skatepark. The soundtrack will mostly appeal to fans of punk and rap 
 music other than that there is not much. You'll find bands like AFI, Alien Ant Farm, Ramones, Del 
 the Funky Homosapien and more. Much more.
  
  There is a tutorial mode which is completely new and great for starters. You can create yuor own 
 skateboarder and level and there are bonus characters, movies, levels and much more giving this 
 replay value through the roof. This game is worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Tony hawk Pro Skater 3 may be the best videogame of all-time. Absolutely everything about the game 
 is perfect. From the amazingly Detailed character models to the Extremely deep game modes everything 
 makes you think that this game is perfect. The multiplayer takes Videogaming to the next level 
 and with the new multiplayer modes this game has unlimited replay value. The new revert trick is 
 genious allowing for ridiculous combos (my high combo was around 27 billion) If you dont have this 
 game you are missing out on possiblt the best gaming experience of your life. This is a must buy, 
 even if you own newer tony hawk games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamauchirulez
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Do not get me wrong here. I love the game. I adore the game! But I played for a year and a half 
 on this game with a keyboard. This game has no issues except for the complexity of the moves. For 
 example: I had to work the hell out of myself to do a Mctwist and I was able to do it once. Playing 
 with a gamepad makes the game sooooo easy. But on the right gamepad. For example: For this game, 
 a Sidewinder controller sucks, so I tell you to go buy a controller similar to the ps2 controller 
 or an adapter to be able to play with your ps2 controller. The best part of the game ids the unlocks. 
 You get like 10 stupid caracters (From Darth Maul to the Neversoft eyeball.)
  In conclusion, this is probably the best in the series but has AN EXTRA COST: A CONTROLLER. (If 
 you do not have one.) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
