-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Underground 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tonyhawksunderground2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 648 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Skateboarding
Date:     Oct 4, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
THUG2 hangs on to the great gameplay of the previous games, makes a few minor tweaks, and wraps 
 it all up in a new Bam Margera-centric package. 

  Despite the inclusion of the number "2" right in the game's title, Tony Hawk's Underground 2 is 
 the sixth Tony Hawk game that has been released in as many years. Over these past six years, the 
 series has created a genre and, with every entry, reshaped that genre. Early installments in the 
 series basically rewrote the book on the rewarding combo system every year, but with the gameplay 
 already in a rock solid state, the more recent entries have made more subtle changes. THUG2 hangs 
 on to the great gameplay of the previous games, makes a few minor tweaks, and wraps it all up in 
 a new Bam Margera-centric package. The result might be more satisfying for those who haven't seen 
 most of this stuff already done before in previous Tony Hawk games.  

          Tony Hawk and Bam Margera want you!     

  Yes, professional shopping cart destroyer 
 Bam Margera, and his brand of destructive fun, figure much more heavily into the latest Tony Hawk 
 game. The game's story mode essentially plays out like a  Viva La Bam  scavenger hunt, with two 
 teams -- one led by Tony Hawk and the other by Bam Margera -- setting out on the World Destruction 
 Tour. So your goals don't focus so much on becoming a star of the skateboarding world; here, you're 
 just trying to fly around the world and break stuff.  

  THUG2's story mode is a whirlwind tour that gives you four skaters and a mess of goals to accomplish 
 in each level. You start out each level as your created skater, though you'll also pick a pro skater 
 as a partner. You'll also find two other skaters -- or at least, people who ride skateboards, since 
 it seems weird to call Ben Franklin or a shrimp vendor "skaters" -- hidden in various spots on each 
 level, and each time you encounter a new skater, you'll unlock another set of goals for that level. 
 Some of these new characters don't even ride boards. You'll run into Steve-O, who rides around 
 on a wheeled mechanical bull, and you'll meet an Australian in a small go-kart.  

  Goals are handled a little differently this time around. Rather than having people on the street 
 that you can speak with to get your goals, you're given a list and set off into the world. There 
 aren't any on-screen indicators to point you in the direction of a goal, though if you happen to 
 do a trick off of a piece that is part of a combo goal, the rest of the pieces will light up. If 
 you want the skinny on what, exactly, you're supposed to be doing, you have to pause the game and 
 go into your view goals screen, which will give you more details on what you need to do. While 
 this approach frees the game of clutter and on-screen icons, it also means you're going to be spending 
 a lot more time reading text in the pause menu. Each goal is worth a different amount of points. 
 Once you've earned a specific number of goal points, you'll be able to move forward. This also 
 triggers a cutscene, which puts some more backstory to the Bam versus Tony adventure. All in all, 
 the story mode is satisfying in its structure, but it's also short. Despite having three difficulty 
 levels, players should be able to burn through the story mode in around five to seven hours. Fortunately, 
 that's not all that THUG2 has to offer.  

  Underground 2 also contains "classic mode," which brings back the two-minute run timer and goal 
 structure of the first three Tony Hawk's Pro Skater games. Many of the game's levels are the same 
 levels you see in the story mode, but a number of levels from previous entries in the series -- all 
 the way back to the school and downhill jam levels from the very first game -- appear here. While 
 it's nice to have a separate mode like this, the concept of working to unlock levels that you've 
 either already played in the story mode or remember from earlier games in the series makes the 
 mode a little underwhelming. More unique levels for this mode would have been a big help.  

          Sure, it's got Phil, but where's Raab Himself? Rake Yohn, even?     

  The gameplay 
 in THUG2 starts with THUG, which added the ability to get off of your board and run around, and 
 expands from there. Probably the most important addition in THUG2 is the sticker slap, which is 
 an airborne wall plant that shoves you off with a good deal of acceleration, making it perfect 
 for finding your way back onto a rail and continuing a combo by going back the way you came. The 
 rest of the gameplay changes aren't really as useful. You can also execute vertical wall plants 
 while going up some ramps, giving you an extra height boost that you'll rarely need to actually 
 use, but it will occasionally come in handy. You can now spray graffiti tags when you're off your 
 board, which factors into some goals. When you're special, you can enter "focus mode," which is 
 essentially a glorified slow-motion effect. A few goals in story mode require it, but beyond that, 
 all focus will do for you is make it slightly easier to land cleanly or to balance on rails, lips, 
 and manuals for longer periods of time. If this is your first experience with the Tony Hawk series, 
 you might find that useful, but anyone with even limited experience with the games won't need the 
 help. There is also a new move called the natas spin, which lets you spin in place on top of poles, 
 fire hydrants, trash cans, and other pointy items. It, like most of the other new moves, figures 
 into a couple of goals, but doesn't really seem all that necessary.  

  The game also has a new "freak out" function. After some falls, a freak out meter will appear, 
 and mashing the grind button will cause it to fill up. If you reach a certain point on the meter 
 before your skater stands back up, you'll make him get mad and destroy his board. A new board gets 
 tossed in and play continues as normal, but your tantrum translates into a couple thousand points 
 of base score. So if you can get a combo going a few seconds after your bail, you'll get some bonus 
 points to throw in there. However, freaking out just means it'll take longer for you to get back 
 on your board and start skating again, and the game has almost completely de-emphasized point scores 
 in its goal-based modes. The score bonus isn't enough to justify the extra time it takes to get 
 back on the board, so you're usually just better off keeping your cool. While not all of these 
 changes are all that great, the core gameplay in THUG2 is still very strong. The refined gameplay 
 that comes from six years of tinkering still works, and fans of the series should still enjoy themselves 
 quite a bit.     

  The PC and PlayStation 2 versions get the additional bonus of online play and a face mapping feature 
 that lets you take a picture of yourself and put it onto your created skater. The face mapping 
 works largely as it did in the previous game, though the PlayStation 2 version now has EyeToy support, 
 making it a bit easier to get your face in the game. The trade-off is that you'll usually get better 
 results with a photo from a digital camera. On the PC, you simply must crop a face image down to 
 128x128 pixels and import it from the game's front end. It's worth noting that we ran into a problem 
 where adding a face image to a created skater caused the game to crash and corrupt a saved game, 
 but were unable to duplicate the bug. Every version of THUG2 also has a handful of different create 
 modes. Aside from creating skaters and parks, you can also create graphics for stickers, decks, 
 and the like.  

          If you're experienced with the Tony Hawk series, you'll be able to blow through the game's 
 story and classic modes in ten to 12 hours.     

  The online game is largely the same as it was in the previous game, with a few additional modes. 
 Up to eight players can participate in the standard game modes like trick attack, score challenge, 
 combo mambo, slap, king of the hill, capture the flag, firefight, and graffiti. The game's new 
 modes are elimiskate and scavenger hunt. The former works like a knockout race in a driving game, 
 where the player in last place is eliminated at specific intervals until only one player remains. 
 Scavenger hunt has two phases. In the first, each player skates around and drops five coins at 
 different spots in the level. After that, it's up to the players to collect as many coins as possible. 
 The first to collect them all, or the player with the most coins when time expires, is the winner. 
 The online mode hasn't seen many additions this time around, but the modes are still fun. The Xbox 
 and GameCube versions of THUG2 are limited to two-player split-screen games, which are also available 
 on the PC and PS2. This method of play is functional, but the game is really more exciting with 
 a full eight players.  

  THUG2 has a slightly different look from the previous Tony Hawk games. Specifically, the models 
 used in cutscenes have a slightly more exaggerated apperance to them. While they may not look quite 
 as realistic, this over-the-top look makes the characters -- Bam Margera, in particular -- seem much 
 more expressive and animated than they have in the past. This fits well with the off-the-hook nature 
 of the story mode, which has you going all over the place and busting stuff up in an unrealistic, 
 but satisfying fashion. In the game, the worlds are colorful and unique looking. The skater models 
 look good and animate well, which is unsurprising given that much of the game's animation is recycled 
 from previous games in the series.  

  Despite having a full feature set and widescreen support, the PlayStation 2 version doesn't look 
 as good as the other versions. Distant objects get very blurry in widescreen mode, to the point 
 where you sometimes feel like you're watching a 3D movie without the red and blue glasses on. It 
 also has a pretty sketchy frame rate, a problem that is amplified when you play it in widescreen 
 mode. Conversely, the PC version is the best looking of the lot, but even it has some problems. 
 Some custom skater haircuts simply vanish or pop in and out of view when in cutscenes, for example. 
 The Xbox version looks quite sharp and is only a half-step behind the PC, and the GameCube version 
 also looks decent, but blurry. With those versions lacking the full features of the PC and PS2 
 releases, they're harder to recommend to multiplatform owners, particularly on the Xbox, where 
 online play is nearly standard. The control difference between versions is less noticeable, but 
 PC players should definitely expect to play this game with a gamepad.  

          With over 50 songs on its soundtrack, THUG2 delivers some great music.     

  The audio 
 in THUG2 is impressive. There's a lot of voice work from various pro skaters in the game, and most 
 of it comes across quite well. The sounds of actual skating haven't changed much, but they still 
 fit well and sound great. The soundtrack is as varied as the previous game's, containing a hefty 
 list of really crazy songs. Have you ever skated to Frank Sinatra tunes? You'll get your chance 
 here, as Old Blue Eyes joins artists like Metallica, The DOC, Ween, Less Than Jake, Violent Femmes, 
 Atmosphere, Ultramagnetic MC's, X, Ministry, Brand Nubian, and, yes, Audio Two, who contribute 
 the classic track, Top Billin'. With over 50 tracks in all and the ability to turn off tracks that 
 don't fit your tastes, you'll probably find a suitable bunch of songs to skate to.  

  All in all, Tony Hawk's Underground 2 is a strong skateboarding game, though if you've remained 
 devoted to the series, you might not be so impressed with its changes. Nevertheless, the gameplay 
 remains fast, fluid, and exciting. The visuals are, for the most part, pretty sharp, and the story 
 mode, though short and devoid of much of the character development that made up most of the previous 
 game's story, is still fun to blast through. So fans of the series will definitely have some good 
 times with THUG2, though you'll probably also come away feeling that THUG2 is merely more of the 
 same.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: connlecuddles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is something truly great. There is something about it that keeps you coming back for more. The 
 story mode may be short but theres replay value, multiplayer, uncompleted goals, different parts of 
 levels that are only on that specific difficulty. There is also create a trick mode, design a tag (spray 
 paint) , classic mode which is actually another story mode, just like the old tony hawk games used 
 to be. Its basicaly taking thug and cramming in as much fun as they can. Every inch of this games 
 disk has been used to the full. While the other tony games have been about making pro this is more 
 consintrated on the completly ridiculous and utterly fun side of things. Now you can grab it for 
 $10 so i say if you havent got it already stop reading put on your shoes and get it, your missing 
 out on one of the best games of recent times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bureksasutlijom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Since the first Tony Hawk and the rest of the Tony Hawk's Pro Skater series, the only thing that 
 missed was a story. With the introduction of Tony Hawk's Underground that all changed. Although the 
 story in THUG was not to say corny, it gave the game a nice touch. Now, with the release of the THUG 
 2, a new story enfolds. You made up skater is being kidnapped by Bam and Tony to participate in a 
 World Destruction Tour -a underground contest around the world. The game consists of two modes-Story 
 and Classic. Classic mode is more straight-forward then the story one. It is the same as in the THPS 
 series, and some of the levels are from THPS series. You can also edit not only a skate park, but 
 also, create a trick, a goal and (of course) a skater. The gameplay is great as ever and you are sure 
 to have great time with Tony Hawk's Underground 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretsk8r
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  The game was very fun the levels added more life to it as you had to destroy things to win the 
 game, the story was alright I think it could have been better but for a Tony Hawk game it was something 
 different, I actually felt that it was more along the lines of a Grand Theft Auto type of story 
 but it did satisfy me,
  
  Graphics, the graphics stood out it was one of the more complex graphic systems used in the tony 
 hawk game series so far I would have to give it a 8.9 or so I think it could have been better but 
 still it was the best for it's time,
  
  Game play, the game play was great even though I only had it for the Game Cube I loved how you could 
 get off your board and throw things at people passing by, well I would have to give it a 9.1 it 
 was pretty cool but I wish I could have gotten it for a different system,
  
  Sound, well as for sound I didn't expect anything like Bose to come out of my small little TV but 
 I would give it a 8.8 for the games sound in particular,
  
  Tilt, well as for my complete opinion on it I would have to say that it could be better censored 
 than it was, there was allot of vulgar language and even some explicit content but the game was 
 mainly shooting for that they did lighten up a bit though with the later games in the series, still 
 I would rank it probably the third best out of them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Underground 2 is a cool game, I have finished the game but I still mess around in the 
 game, like create my own tricks. This game is awesome. It is not only for skaters but for everyone 
 who like computer games, like I do, I did not pick my player I created one myself, he is cool. 
 The skateboards in the game are fantastic. The tricks are create. Who ever made this game must 
 be very happy about how it turned out to be. It would be even better with downloads and upgrades, 
 plus even more cheats. My best cheat in this game is the one for infinity grind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiwankenobi1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  this game has some solid definite game play, while the starting controls can be difficult, it is 
 fairly easy to play and is a great game, in fact, considering this is the only of the tony hawk 
 series i played on my pc i am very pleased, the graphics are great, the gameplay is great and i 
 have nothing negative really towards this game and i say if you are looking for a great pc game, 
 get it. cheap but DEFINETLY worth the money, especially the vehicle goals where unlike underground 
 1 you get to ride and do stunts on vehicles. YEAH GO OUT AND BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silph01
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY-
  
  What can I say? You're a skater, with inhumanely high air and impossibly long grinds and manuals. 
 Your mission is to skate any obstacle that comes along and help your team (which changes... a lot...) 
 win the first ever World Destruction Tour. The story mode takes some aspects of THPS 4 as you can 
 skate around without a time limit, and giving you the choice to accomplish any goals wherever, 
 whenever. With four skaters accessible in every level, this game keeps you busy for a while. Especially 
 if you want to get 100%. The secret skaters you can get, like Shrek, phil margera and Mario, makes 
 it worth it.
  
  There are three difficulties - Easy, Normal, and Sick, so this game offers something for anyone 
 of any level of skill. On Classic Mode, you only get normal and sick, but normal could take the 
 role of Easy Mode as well.
  
  Classic Mode is the usual - 2 minutes long, do as much goals as you can, and when the run is over, 
 retry again, and again. Secret tapes, stat points scattered all over... what more can you ask for? 
 The levels are pretty cool as well. They take many from the classic games, like Downhill Jam, Training 
 and School from THPS1, Los Angeles from THPS2, Canada from THPS3, and much more. All with more 
 detail and many more places to explore on or off you board.
  
  The game introduces new stunts and tricks like never seen before. Focus mode, that when you've 
 played Multiplayer for enough time, where focus is disabled, you don't need it anymore, as it's 
 more of a hazard than a helper. But it's good for novice players to get a feel and rack high points 
 and stuff.
  Acid drops help you in many places when you can't spine transfer. Sticker slaps greatly aid you 
 in getting your combos doubled to reach scores more than 10 mil. Vert wallplants are at least there, 
 though not used very often.
  
  Then there's multiplayer. What's more than playing this game by yourself is the ability to play 
 with up to 8 people. Sure, it gets irritating when you're booted from a game for no reason whatsoever, 
 and when you host a game and nobody joins, or when a game you've joined never plays any game... 
 but once it's all boiled down to playing, it is indeed very enjoyable.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  
  I recently replayed THPS 4 and only then realized how great the leap in graphics actually was. 
 I believe they've done an outstanding job enhancing all the old school levels and also how they've 
 formulated the newer ones. Not so much detail that you're overwhelmed, but just enough not to become 
 bored of the surroundings. The blood is also presented very well. You can actually feel the skater's 
 pain when he falls head first onto a statue after trying a 900.
  
  SOUND-
  
  Great music choice on the playlist, and the playlist function helps you decide what you want, when 
 you want it. Personally I only like a few songs... living end, jimmy eats world, disturbed... but 
 the others are nice to skate along with.
  
  VALUE- Definitely Worth playing, even if you're not a great fan of the series. Boredom buster, 
 and overall skill tester, THUG 2 is one of those games worth keeping in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeGamespot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  Well, hello to newcomers and PROs from this website, Im here to tell about how great this game is.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This game got a really good gameplay even if you play it on the keyboard it won't be all that hard 
 if you pratice a lot, there are some great fliptricks, specials and grinds and even the caveman trick 
 in which you remove the board from your feet to walk around the city.
  
  Sounds:
  
  Well, I have nothing to complain about sounds, even thought when you're skating sometimes you stop 
 hearing the skate riding on the street or soft ground if you know what I mean, but that's no problem.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Yeah graphics are really good, much better than on PS2 if you have a good graphic card, you can see 
 people on the street, and even find a cat on Skatopia that actually attacks you when you're doing 
 some tricks, which by the way is a very funny thing.
  
  Value:
  
  Man, that game is really cheap... even if I live in Brazil it's really, really cheap mainly because 
 it's a real classic, it's worth it! Worth your time and fun!
  
  Concluding:
  
  This game is a great skater game, if you like that kind of stuff is a must buy, you won't be disappointed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  THUG 2 is a really great game. You basically skate, run around, and do goals that are often related 
 to crazy stunts. It even had some Jackass-like destruction, like in the memorable goal in Berlin 
 where you had to destroy lights on a giant sign that said DOWNZEKD so that is says OWN E D .
  It has some crazy playable characters like Paulie, a bad-mouthed cripple; Phil, Bam Margera's fat 
 brother; and Bam himself has the best stunt ideas in the game. The greatest downside is the lack 
 of storyline, which is basically you get kidnapped, then go on the World Destruction Tour . The 
 greatest part is the unlimited replayability of fantastic online gameplay that gave you an oppurtunity 
 to share your created parks online. If you missed some classic parks from THPS3, you will find them 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumdum32
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The PC, eh? Risky business, as I tried THPS3 on the keyboard and couldn't land a kickflip! So I 
 bought it anyway. Good choice. I like the fact that you could put your face in the game, and classic 
 mode. It kept me challenged for 2 weeks, (the longest ever!) and online play rules. Story mode 
 is hilarious! I like the way Bam and Tony form a World De2truction Tour, and I like the way you 
 can FREAK OUT!!!! The DESTRUCTION cutscenes are hilarious, like the zombies in Nawlins, and the 
 train crash in Berlin. There is a classic mode where you play through THUG2 and THPS levels, which 
 gets increasingly harder. The only letdown is the graphics, which are good on the Xbox and PS2, 
 but awful on my PC and its GeForce 2MX Graphic card. My suggestion? If you like playing Hawk on 
 the PS2, buy a USB controller and indulge in the PC version. It is so much better.
  
  PS. My fave secret sk8rs are The Hand and Zombie... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Being the fan of jackass that i am, i was thrilled to hear that Tony Hawks Underground 2 was going 
 to feature Bam margera as one of the main characters. Tony Hawks Underground 2 is easily the best 
 Tony hawk game since Tony Hawk Pro Skater 3. This game features about 15 skaters available from 
 the start of the game and another 20 or so unlockable skaters, even having Bam's dad Phil Margera 
 as a playable character (why couldn't they put Vito in too?) . The levels are colorful and vibrant 
 and they may be the best in any Tony Hawk Game yet. The graphics are sensational and the game has 
 an amazingly smooth framrate, even when in the middle of a 1 million point combo. If you are a 
 fan of any Tony Hawk games, or you want a cheap game to play with friends, THUG 2 deserves a look. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 2.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  This is without any doubt the downfall of the incredibly popular Tony Hawk skateboarding series 
 which has dominated the markets since the ever popular original. As the series progressed, each 
 new game wowed and delighted us in ways unknown to man. A whole new element was being introduced, 
 and more fun was being thrown in with each one, giving new features and fun to muck around with 
 and go wild over.
  
  But when THUG 2 hit the shelves, all of my love for the THPS series went right down the drain. 
 The designers must have been drunk when they produced this game. So many elements were attempted 
 to make the game exciting and fun, and rest assured, every single element they added was a crash-and-burn 
 fail.
  
  Take one new thing, "focus" for example. It puts you into slow-motion (like The Matrix really) 
 and I think it was intended for you to pull off some stupid new moves they added. The whole mode 
 was a complete fail, as it only halves the game-speed and you'll screw up any trick, regardless.
 
  
  Furthermore, the designers were obviously desperate for ideas. I mean come on, you can play as 
 a native-Australian in a go kart or a disabled kid in a wheel chair. Really, instead of it being 
 fun, it's just some complete and utter useless crap which was obviously used as filler. What the 
 hell were they thinking for tricks this time? The wheelchair? How pathetic is that?
  
  Plot
  1/10
  
  You're some newbie, you need to get you and your buddies to be the best skaters 
 around. Join Tony Hawk or Bam Margera (who was poorly drawn and animated if I may add) . It's the 
 most pathetic plot any game has ever had, and what the hell was the use if it was just forgotten 
 and disregarded by the first damn level?
  
  Gameplay
  4/10
  
  Thankfully, some of the raw gameplay elements still shine from this trash's predecessors. There's 
 a lot of things to grind, a lot of quarter/half pipes to ride, and some pretty nice levels to skate 
 around. Sadly, the layout of every level is so pathetic, you'll never be able to rack up decent 
 combos without cheating.
  
  The inclusion of a park-builder was nice to see. However, there's hardly any freedom, and it's 
 really just a stupid little way to make a decently laid out park that the designers could have 
 added themselves. Boo.
  
  Graphics
  6/10
  
  Ah, the graphics are the second best element to this entire game. The graphics are good, for the 
 character skins however. The actual graphical layout of the level you are on is really good, for 
 most of them. However, the NPCs and vehicles look pathetic, as do some of the things you need to 
 collect and grind across the game.
  
  Sound
  7/10
  
  The best feature to this mess. THUG2 has introduced a better soundtrack. Johnny Cash, The Ramones, 
 to name a few! The general sound score is a constant loop and it's as annoying as sin after a while. 
 Hearing a CRRRRRRRRRRRRR THUMP! ORH! as you fail a grind is enough to make you scream after the 
 tenth time you hear it.
  
  I was pleased with the soundtrack though, as a fair few favoured songs were, to some surprised, 
 added to the game, which is the backbone to the pathetic sound system you have to put up with.
 
  
  Replay
  2/10
  
  Wait, you mean you aren't mean to throw it away after the first time through? After you've 100% 
 completed it for the first time, you'll be ungodly sick of this trash and will want to throw it 
 away. For me, the day I finished it completely (all gaps, etc) which was the same weekend I bought 
 it, the game ended up in the back of my game pile, and it hasn't been touched since then.
  
  Conclusion
  
  The Tony Hawks series was a complete success, and I respect the creators 
 in its entirety for that. However, THUG2 was such a humiliation to the skateboarding games, it's 
 made me lose all faith in the future Tony Hawk games to be released.
  
  Final Score (not an average) : 3/10
  Rent or buy?: Neither. Avoid this crap at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  As a long time Tony Hawk fan, I was happy to find out that Tony Hawk's Underground 2 was on PC. Since 
 I don't own any of the consoles that THUG 2 is on, the PC was my only option.
  
  Gameplay: The game overall is as large and expansive as the game's levels itself. So many new things 
 were introduced since the Pro Skater series, and I was astounded by the additions. What I like about 
 this game is the story mode. You're a local skater who is asked to accompany Tony Hawk and Bam Magera 
 on their "World Destructon Tour." While playing the game you can improve your skills until they 
 are full, making you a well rounded skater on any platform. The tasks you had to do ranged from easy 
 to hard, and because of the game's customization, you have the option of doing as the ones you choose. Also, the 
 customization of the game is huge. With many different options, the possibilites of skateparks, goals, and 
 tricks are endless.
  
  Graphics: Since I was playing on a PC that was fairly new, the graphics came out well and provided 
 no obstructions to the game. My computer screen, however, was very dark, thus causing me to have difficulty 
 seeing the enviroment.
  
  Sound: The game's playlist is incredibly. It featured great music that I enjoyed playing to.
  
 
  Value: The game is well worth your time. I was not dissappointed by the game and had a thoroughly 
 enjoyable time completing it.
  
  Tilt: This game is one of the best games I've played in the Tony Hawk series. With awesome features 
 and a creative storyline, I loved playing this game from the very beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionrulez
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  it is almost the same on the ps2 just the ps2 feels better than the pc because it just does'nt 
 feel right playing tony hawks on the pc because you dont get the same feel of the game as you do 
 on the ps2 but it is a good game and i look forward to more tony hawk games in the future 
  
  this is a good game i recommend it to everyone expecially hardcore tony hawk or skateboarding 
 fans trust me you will like this game
  
  if you want a tony hawk game buy tony hawk pro skater 3 ... just a little tip for ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  This game has all the top skaters. You can play as Tony , Bam , Bob and many more. There are a 
 lot of levels to unlock and lots of different boards and stuff. You can even play as yourself by 
 taking a 128x128 picture of your face and mapping your face onto the player. Tha gameplay is good 
 and easy to get used to. The graphics are amazing. There are a lot of funny characters you can 
 play as such as a guy on a lawn mower type machine. The game has two main modes , story mode and 
 classic mode. Story mode is the best though because of the funny little cutscenes. When you complete 
 the game you can unlock videos. Overall this game is a must have. It is definitely the best in 
 the series yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaiden1024
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  I always love the Tony Hawk games , but I've never owned a PSX or PS2 so I was always limited to 
 playing at friends houses in battle type modes or when we were all chilling trying to get through 
 the stages.
  
  I hadn't played any Tony Hawks since 3 and when I heard underground 2 was coming out on PC I pre-ordered 
 it immediately. I was a bit wary about controls initially and dusted off this old creative gamepad 
 I have, but after about 2 hours of playing it was still nothing like PS2 controls. I gave in and 
 did the unthinkable , moved over to the keyboard!
  
  After about another 4 hours , I was playing better than I'd ever done on a PS2. It was awesome.
 
  
  Now a bit about the game I guess. The graphics aren't fantastic but the smoothness of the play 
 and animation makes up for the lack of detail in certain places. The missions are kinda hard , 
 but a good challange is always welcome.
  
  I did get a bit bored near the end of the game , having to do insane stunts just to make it to 
 the next level, but the overall experiance was great and I just pushed a little to get through.
 
  
  There's no real replay value to this game for me , except in maybe multiplayer , but no one seems 
 to want to challenge me anymore :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  I played this game and boy did I had fun with it.
  
  Gameplay: You play as a young great skater, and you are taking part in a big competition of skateboarding. 
 You have these cool moves and combos that you can preform and it really rocks. The storyline is 
 very long and there are tons of missions that you need to do.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. Tony hawk never looked better, the players are awsome and the combos and areas 
 are unbelivible.
  
  Sound: You get this cool music and cool soundtracks. 
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storyline is very long and the 
 online is very solid.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome Tony Hawk game and you should get this at all cost 
 especially if you are a Tony Hawk fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriousibe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:42 am PT
Review:  cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! cool game!! 
 cool game!! cool game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judog1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Underground 2 or Thug 2 is the best Tony Hawk game that I have played. I havent played 
 Tony Hawks American Wasteland but that one should be way better than Thug2. 
  The game play is very good. You can get off your board, run and also tag Billboards. There is a 
 move called sticker slap which is a very helpful move. There is a lot of special tricks to choose 
 from. The multiplayer is good. You can choose between the games combo mambo, Trick Attack, Fire 
 Fight, and Graffiti. They are all good modes. The only bad thing about the multiplayer is that 
 the text for the chat is really big and there is no language filtering. So that means that people 
 can say bad words. The game play is great. There is the story mode and Classic Mode. Story mode 
 is short and kind of easy until you try it on sick mode. Classic mode is long and plays like the 
 first three Tony Hawk games.
  The graphics are great. For me the only bad thing about them is that when you are skating and there 
 is a place with smoke the game starts to lag a little. That is the only bad thing about them. 
 
  I really liked this game. I liked the multiplayer. I have a ps2 and dont have a network adapter 
 so I only can play online on my computer. This game is great. This game doesnt cost that much 
 anymore. You should get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk series is what makes me a gamer, but I can't say they are exactly the best. I really 
 love online play but it cant improve its just kinda cool. if you really want a good version of 
 THUG 2 get the PC version. i also found out that a clan made a new version that lets u do ur name 
 in color but seriously the story mode character-getting is pain cuz' THUG 2 needs a real story 
 that isn't stupid like frat boys and friends on an acid trip. but still i had fun playin' it and 
 thats what matters.
  
  still if u wanna buy it.... its 20 dollars so be my guest.
  
  
  
  i give it the 8.5 its good but not great. i own it by the way. just a fan of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  I don't play sports games, as a rule I find them insufferably boring. But ever since my PS2-toting 
 friend introduced me to the original THPS way back when I've been hooked. I guess skateboarding 
 is more single-player friendly than hockey and basketball. Thankfully they port to PC amazingly 
 well, in fact I find them easier on a keyboard than on a game pad. But then I haven't owned a console 
 since my NES and Super NES days, so I'm a little rusty there (analogue sticks?! R1 L1?! COLOURED 
 BUTTONS?! LOL just kidding, but really those sticks still mess me up) . 
  
  But back to the point... THUG 2 is great, a faithful addition to the franchise. I admit I did not 
 spend a lot of time on THPS 4, having never gotten around to buying my own copy, and I missed THUG 
 1 completely, so I can't really comment on the evolution since THPS 3 and I may refer to something 
 as "new" which was actually in the last two games... its new to me anyways.
  
  So...
  
  The story mode is cool, a refreshing break from the old high score/S-K-A-T-E/etc of the old games, 
 but I'm still glad to have the classic mode that I fell in love with as part of the package, and 
 the same old gap list too - there's something immensly satisfying about finding those gaps! The 
 ability to increase your stats through usage (story mode only) rather than stat coins is so much 
 better as well. 
  
  I really like having my own custom character to play as an integral part of the story, and having 
 other characters with their own unique goals per level, including a pro skater of your choice. 
 This is far preferable to playing the same game 20 times with different skaters a la THPS (not 
 that I minded really, but this is a definite improvement) . That there is actually a "story" is 
 kind of neat too. You can't say much for the plot, but at least it ties the package together nicely 
 instead of being just a bunch of levels with increasingly high scores to beat. 
  
  The levels are fun, lots of great lines and jumps and all kinds of nifty little hidden places and 
 gaps (yay gaps!!!) . There are some neat characters with interesting vehicles to drive other than 
 skateboards. The goals are fun, there is the usual collection of "find 5 of this" and "combo this 
 that and the other thing" as well as some more unique goals that produce cool, map-altering results. 
 The story mode is fairly short, but there seems to be a lot of unlockable maps judging by the gap 
 list (where locked maps are represented as ?????, and there are a lot of ?????) . More on replay 
 value later.
  
  The controls are slightly different from my last go at a Tony Hawk game. They are less simplistic 
 and so a little harder to master, but once I got the hang of them I was flying at my old insane 
 tricks again. I still find myself accidently jumping off my board and walking though, which is 
 really frustrating sometimes. I haven't decided how I feel about this walking around and climbing 
 business. It seems reasonable to be able to exist off your skateboard, and being able to go to 
 otherwise inaccessible places is awesome... but all this jumping off by accident is a real pain! 
 I suppose I am still not entirelly accustomed to the new controls yet, I've only had the game for 
 4 days!
  
  The replay value of the games in this series has always been fantastic, and this installment is 
 no different. There are 3 difficulty levels for story mode, and 2 for classic mode, a free skate 
 mode, 2- and multi-player modes with 13 games to chose from, as well as unlockable levels and characters, 
 videos, the gap list, and the ability to create your own parks, characters, tricks, graffiti tags, 
 and goals. You create your own custom character to play as an integral part of the story mode and 
 to use in classic mode as well. You use this character for every difficulty setting in both classic 
 and story mode, although stats do not carry over. The goals are mostly the same throughout, however 
 higher scores must be reached for scored goals. As I mentioned other characters can be found and 
 played within each level, with their own unique goals. I'm not sure what happens to the unlocked 
 characters - I've just unlocked my first set through completing the easy story mode and stopped 
 to write this review - probably they can be selected as the pro skater on each level.
  
  The sound track is the usual mix of punk, rock, hip hop, and the like. Lots of great tracks, I 
 think this is my favorite so far.
  
  The only negative thing I have to say about this game is that graphics aren't all that great. They 
 aren't terrible really, but they sure aren't the crisp, detailed eye candy that can be found in 
 higher profile games. Granted this game is neither high-profile nor very expensive, and I suppose 
 detailed environments aren't really necessary to this game the way they are necessary to the FPS 
 and RPGs that I usually play. And I guess the game was meant for consoles mostly, and TVs don't 
 support the high resolutions that monitors do. And I guess you fly around the levels so fast you'd 
 miss a lot of it. But still... wouldn't it be sweet if you could go flying off a wicked jump and 
 see a beautiful landscape below you?!?!?! Ahhh I'm spoiled... hahaha.
  
  Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiecutter
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2004 1:05 pm PT
Review:  THUG 2 is a tricky bird because it's almost like a "cake" rather than an entire new package, borrowing 
 elements from all parts of the series, while adding it's own features to the mix.
  
  The story mode has been changed - now focusing on Tony Hawk and Bam Margera and their "World Destruction 
 Tour", to which you have been "invited" to participate in. The two teams then are given a set of 
 tasks which are completed for points. Get enough points and you move on to the next level. 
  
  Along the way, you'll meet "guest" skaters like Ben Franklin (?) , a Tagger, a Bull Fighter, 
 and a Jester, and a host of "secret" characters that ride special vehicles like mechanical bulls, 
 go-karts, and special scooters. Each of these characters features their own goal lists and can 
 help you reach the next level.
  
  Probably the first thing you'll notice is how cut back the roster is this turn around. Only 8 pro 
 skaters are listed on the credits, and some big names are left off the list, like Steve Caballero, 
 Kareem Campbell, Andrew Reynolds and Elissa Steamer, and others who are conspicuous by their absence.
 
  
  The American rating box warns of "Crude Humour" and they aren't wrong. Most of the crude humour 
 comes from Bam and his team, some of whom are a little bit on the unlikable side. I gather that 
 most of these people are part of the "Jackass" program (including Bam himself) , and as such the 
 game has a heavy "Jackass" influence. Whether or not this is a good thing, I don't know, but it 
 would have been nicer to have included some more pro skaters instead of these characters.
  
  One thing I found slightly confusing is that most of the goals are non-specific, which means 
 that anyone on your team can complete any of the goals, but some of them are character specific, 
 but sometimes there's no indication of what's what. It's a minor gripe, but it does mean that you 
 can complete most levels without using the extra team members at all. You do have to find them 
 in the first place to get the goals, though.
  
  The Story is complimented by the Classic Mode, a return to the THPS days of the two-minute run. 
 It still plays well and extends the single-player gameplay a lot, and gives you access to some 
 favourite levels like Canada, the Airport and the Downhill Jams. 
  
  The Tony Hawk series is one of those rare beasts that almost lives and dies by its soundtrack, 
 and THUG 2 contines the proud tradition of presenting a well-balanced selection. There's some absolute 
 masterstrokes here - The Ramones' "Rock & Roll High School" and Johnny Cash's "Ring of Fire" in 
 particular - but the real kicker is the Frank Sinatra track "That's Life". It's a brave approach 
 and one I hope the developers stick to for future games, because it really does work.
  
  As for the voice acting, all the pro skaters make good accounts of themselves - although if there 
 is an odd-man-out, it's actually Tony Hawk himself, who starts out sounding like a nerd, but does 
 gets better as the game goes on. Unfortunately, the same due care and attention has not been given 
 to the pedestrians who inhabit the levels. Surely to goodness, you can hire people who don't sound 
 like they escaped from the set of Hogan's Heroes, or cheap Australian and Spanish sound-a-likes. 
 Some of it is actually borderline inapropriate - but then again it's probably not worth getting 
 too worked up about it. 
  
  The new gameplay elements are fun - the tantrum is fun to do, and sticker slap is great, and the 
 focus, while not exactly letting you recreate the Matrix, does make things a lot easier when pulling 
 off tricks.
  
  Unfortunately I can't pass comment on the mulitplayer because I don't have the facilities to experience 
 it. I did however find it disappointing that a single machine HORSE mode wasn't available, or any 
 other single machine multiplayer modes for that matter. It's either LAN, Online or go home. Fair 
 enough, I guess. 
  
  What problems THUG 2 has are minor and not detrimental to gameplay, but they do tend to gang up 
 on the player. Though the levels are nicely detailed and large, they are on the slightly empty 
 side. The Story mode is well developed but short, and the goals for each level aren't that well 
 displayed for each level. Also, the art of Cavemanning hasn't really been fixed up. Sure, this 
 isn't Tomb Raider and makes no claim to be, but for an increasingly important part of the series' 
 gameplay, you'd think they'd make it a little easier to manage.
  
  There's probably not enough variation in the levels, either. It will be the later levels before 
 you see any real variation in the level type, most of which are urban City-like environments. All 
 that concrete tends to give gamers headaches.
  
  Though it's called Tony Hawk Undergound 2, it looks and plays more like Tony Hawk's Por Skater 
 6. There's of course nothing wrong with this, but it may be disappointing to those expecting an 
 extention to the RPG-like gameplay of the original THUG. There's still RPG elements to it, but 
 nowhere near as important as in the previous installment.
  
  All in all, THUG 2 is a strong package, but unfortunately that's all it is. While it certainly 
 wasn't a bad idea to return to THPS-like action, it probably would have been better to develop 
 the Story mode more. Still, you can't really complain - there's nothing wrong with the gameplay, 
 the soundtrack's great, the graphics are fine, the cutscenes are well developed, and the levels 
 are nicely presented. It's a great game, but could have been much, much more.
  
  I tell you, they're never going to get out of that warehouse alive.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juiceless
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 13, 2004 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I love the Tony Hawk franchise of skateboard games, but I wish they wouldn't just port the whole 
 game from the console to the PC... I mean, at least spend some time creating menus, if not adding 
 PC specific features.
  
  I think part of the problem is the fact that Windows still doesn't support game controllers very 
 well. I don't get it, they've been around for years, and I still have issues.
  
  Right now I have two Belkin controllers that Windows recognizes, but THUG2 doesn't seem to. So, 
 I have to play the game using the keyboard. I played this way for about 15 minutes and shut off 
 the game. There's just no way.
  
  I'll buy it for the XBOX. I'm sure it will be great. This just isn't a PC game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 13, 2004 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Thug 2 is a good game. Im a little bit biased when it comes to the direction the story mode took. 
 Ive been playing the thps games since the first one came out. Im a skateboarder. For the most 
 part the game has been about skating. The story modes have been slowly turning away from traditional 
 skating to more stupid antics etc. The whole world destruction tour was a big let down to me. It 
 was lame, easy as that. Watching Bam do his stupid stunts every once and a while in a skate vid 
 or on mtv is enough. Giving young skateboarders the impression that pro's are out destroying everything 
 when they aren't skating isn't good for skateboarding as a whole. 
  
  Luckily though everything else is close to perfection, minus a few details that didnt get polished 
 in. One of the new things you get to do is create a custom graffiti tag. Well its good for single 
 play. But people online will not see your creation. That kind of defeats the whole purpose of having 
 a custom tag. Cpu controlled people in the single play dont care what your tag stands for. Online 
 though it wouldve been cool to be able to spray over someone elses tag while keeping a combo 
 going. Or just plain marking your territory. Leaving out something as big as this makes me feel 
 like neversoft is going to start half assing their games. A polished game wouldve had this included 
 for online. 
  
  The pc version is definitely the best, in my opinion. The graphics and performance is much greater 
 than a console version. Internet play is easy to access. All you really need is a good controller 
 since the keyboard really isnt the best way to play. 
  
  It would be nice to see Neversoft release some patches in the future, or maybe even a bonus pack 
 with some new goodies to keep people coming back for online play. But since this is a port, I highly 
 doubt they will go out of their way to keep this game alive. And as far as a mod community goes, 
 I think its very unlikely we will ever see a mod come out. 
  
  This game is still a must buy for all skateboarder/online competitive players. 
  
  When you 
 do load this game up, come online and find me! My online alias is Shawneboy_scp and I usually host 
 a server named E-Coast Session. See you there. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
