-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's American Wasteland
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tonyhawksamericanwasteland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compelling story mode.
 Interesting BMX trick system.
 Game contains a healthy dose of Crunk Juice.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The whole game is very short.
 Story mode holds your hand every step of the way.
 PC version has sketchy frame rate.
 Setting up your controller can be sort of a hassle if you don't already know how the game should be played.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 30, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 465 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Skateboarding
Date:     Feb 1, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the gameplay in THAW is still sharp, this installment just seems to lack that special spark 
 that made the series so much fun in the first place. 

  Don't let the recent name changes fool you. Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is the seventh Tony 
 Hawk game developed by Neversoft in as many years. Over the years the series has had installments 
 that made dramatic changes to the formula, but the more recent installments have focused less on 
 gameplay or structural changes and more on including a story. American Wasteland is the game that 
 finally makes good on the story thing by offering a plot that's far more interesting than it's 
 been in the previous two games. It also attempts to put all its levels together into one big take 
 on Los Angeles that's free from loading times. That part doesn't work out quite as well as the 
 back of the box would have you believe, but the real issue with American Wasteland is with its 
 gameplay. You'll find the requisite handful of new tricks, but most of the story mode feels like 
 a brief tutorial, and the classic mode isn't deep or long enough to hold the attention of series 
 veterans. It's got more of the same fluid skating gameplay you've come to expect from the series, 
 but the game's over almost immediately.  

          American Wasteland tells a pretty good story, but the gameplay is really starting to lose 
 its luster.     

  Story mode puts you in the role of a nameless skater from the Midwest who's given up on living 
 in the middle of nowhere. Tired of being hassled by The Man, you run away to Los Angeles with dreams 
 of skating in the area where skating all began. Things are going fine until just after you step 
 off the bus, which is where you get jumped by some toughs who make off with your gear. A raspy-voiced 
 girl named Mindy takes pity on you and sets you off in the direction of an adventure that sends 
 you all around the city of Los Angeles, where you'll thrash, skate, and destroy as you find a crew 
 of squatting vandals to call your friends, a skatepark to call your own, and... an alien costume. 
 When you first start, you'll be a pretty weak skater. Most of the moves you've come to expect from 
 the series, like manuals and reverts, won't even be available to you until you learn them. You'll 
 learn most of the basics pretty quickly, but it'll take a little while before you learn to use 
 special tricks, flatland tricks, and focus.  

  You'll also learn the game's new tricks, like the bert slide, which is the ground-based, surfing-like 
 maneuver brought back to the skating hive-mind by  Dogtown and Z-Boys . You can also get off your 
 board and swing it at pedestrians (which isn't terribly useful) , and you can learn some freestyle 
 running techniques for wall climbing, flips, and so on. You can also find and ride BMX bikes in 
 the game, which come up in a couple of goals but are mostly there for you to earn money, which 
 you'll need at various points in the story. The BMX bike controls are vastly different from the 
 skating controls, and they're surprisingly well thought out -- provided you have a good PlayStation 
 2-like gamepad for your PC. Bike games have traditionally just mapped that to a button and a direction, 
 just like any other trick. Here you'll have to do a backflip and a 180 at the same time to get 
 credit for a flair. The BMX stuff is minor, overall, but it's an interesting diversion.  

  Few of these new tricks really matter, because most of your goals in story mode simply ask you 
 to quickly grind or natas-spin on an object, or wall-plant or sticker-slap something while watching 
 the fun. Most of the goals are based around the skate ranch, an area found just outside of Beverly 
 Hills that's mostly a large empty dirt lot with a halfpipe in it. One of the major thrusts of the 
 story is your crew's desire to trick out the ranch, so you'll always have goals that involve you 
 busting out a piece of the city so that it can get added to the ranch. There are a lot of different 
 pieces to add to the ranch, but since most of them are required goals that get the story moving 
 again, you won't have to go out of your way to get them. You'll have a few things to do in the 
 skate ranch itself, but it's mostly just there for show and for free skating.  

  The main problem with the goals is that they're ridiculously straightforward and leave nothing 
 to the imagination. If you need to grind some support cables to loosen a sign on top of a theater, 
 the game sets you down directly in front of those support cables. After you grind them, you'll 
 be asked to pull off a wall-plant on the sign itself. Again, it drops you into the exact position 
 to pull it off. The game really seems bent on holding your hand every step of the way. While forcing 
 you to go out of your way to line yourself up might not be the most fun thing in the world, the 
 way THAW is set up makes the entire story mode feel like a tutorial. If you've kept up with the 
 Tony Hawk series over the years, you'll nail most of the goals on your first or second try. While 
 it has a "sick" difficulty mode that's meant to make the game more challenging, it still lines 
 you up just right and still forces you through all the early move-learning tutorial stuff, which 
 is decidedly un-sick.  

  The saving grace of the story mode is that the story it tells is actually pretty good. It follows 
 the standard "ragtag group of misfits' struggles to save the place they call home from evil real 
 estate moguls" plot that drove such classic films as  Breakin' 2: Electric Boogaloo . But along 
 the way, the characters become a little endearing, and most importantly, the game doesn't beat 
 you over the head by shoehorning the pro skaters in whenever possible. When you finally do start 
 encountering the game's pros, you do it in a way that feels natural, which is great. That said, 
 the plot's got some holes, and the last mission hits you unexpectedly, exacerbating the game's 
 short feel. If you were any good at playing previous Tony Hawk games, you'll probably be done in 
 four or five hours.  

          A big problem with the game is that it holds your hand every step of the way.     

 
  A big part of the story mode is that it tries to present the entire city to you as one large skateable 
 environment with no load times. That's true in theory, but it's not nearly as pure as it may sound. 
 The city's levels are all separated by tight hallways you have to skate through to change areas. 
 So you're technically still in control, but these hallways are lame and pointless and really might 
 as well just be load screens. The game starts to load the new area when you enter the connecting 
 area, which usually causes some stutters and skips in the frame rate. On some machines, the action 
 just stops for a second. If you want, you can catch a bus from area to area, which saves you the 
 hassle of having to skate from one end of LA to the other. Since you can walk around the bus while 
 the interior of it shakes onscreen, this technically isn't a load time, right?     

  Each area is pretty large and feels at least somewhat different from the other ones. In terms of 
 raw outdoor LA skating, you'll get Hollywood, Santa Monica, downtown, Beverly Hills, and East LA. 
 But you'll also skate in an indoor skatepark, tear up an oil rig, and eventually get access to 
 a casino, though this casino is taken from the PSP version of THUG2, so it's not exactly a new 
 level. The casino is the last area you'll see in story mode, which is pretty disappointing if you 
 played THUG2 on the PSP and already saw this level. The level design throughout the game is full 
 of huge skate lines that let you extend combos into strings of tricks that take you all over the 
 level. It's at a point where if you're good at keeping your grind and manual balance meters under 
 control, you can do tricks and combos forever. The million-point combo that felt so skillful four 
 years ago is now the order of the day, since some spots feel like you can hop off anything and 
 land on another trickable object almost automatically.  

          Classic mode resurrects some of the levels from earlier games.     

  The flip side 
 to THAW's story mode is classic mode, which once again takes things back to the two-minute run 
 timer, skate letters, and secret tapes that marked the first three entries in the series. It also 
 pulls in classic levels from other Tony Hawk games. The series has been reusing the old levels 
 as special unlockables for the last few years now, so most of the truly amazing levels from the 
 Tony Hawk series have already appeared in a nostalgic context. That leaves behind some good (but 
 not all that great) levels from Hawks of the past, including more levels from the PSP THUG2 that 
 was released last year. The goals have been rearranged a bit, so they won't be exactly how you 
 remember them from the previous games, but that doesn't make them especially difficult, either. 
 Again, if you're on your game, you'll probably be completing at least five of each level's 10 goals 
 on your first run-through. If you want to get every single goal in the mode, it'll take more time, 
 but vets should have at least gotten to the last level on the list -- a pretty cool postapocalyptic 
 ruined-city level -- in an hour or two. There's more to see and unlock, but if you're just trying 
 to unlock the basics so you can get online to host a game (where you're limited to hosting levels 
 you've seen in single-player) , you can do all that pretty quickly.  

  The online action in THAW hasn't changed much at all, and on the PC, competition is pretty scarce. 
 Eight players can get into a game to play score-based challenges, capture the flag, goal attack, 
 graffiti, combo mambo, and so on. The modes are generally pretty cool. Even just the plain old 
 high-score competition is worthwhile because the game lets you throw down really heavy combos. 
 Stuff like graffiti and capture the flag forces you to change the way you play a bit. And the firefight 
 mode -- which lets you shoot fireballs out of your skateboard, effectively turning the game into 
 a makeshift shooter -- is also pretty crazy. All in all, the online's worth playing, though new players 
 might have a hard time getting used to the particulars or nailing high-scoring combos, since the 
 single-player doesn't really train you for that sort of activity.  

  The modes in this year's online game are pretty much the same online options we've been seeing 
 for quite some time now. It's a little weird that your skater from story mode can't be used online 
 or in any of the other non-story modes. Considering you're sort of building this skater up over 
 time, it would have been nice if he eventually turned into some superskater to give players that 
 do well in the story some extra incentive. To sum up the online mode, if you've enjoyed competing 
 online in the past, the collection of new levels should be more than enough to keep you entertained 
 this year.  

  That said, you'll unlock secret skaters when you finish the modes on different difficulties. This 
 year's unlockable for beating the story on normal is -- like it's been in recent years -- pretty random, 
 and it represents an interesting addition. We won't reveal who it is, but let's just say that he 
 would have been a lot funnier with some voice samples, and perhaps some sort of special manual 
 move that brought out a large pimp chalice. OK, perhaps we've said too much...  

  You'll also have the same sort of "create" modes that you've seen in past games, letting you create 
 skaters, skateparks, tricks, deck graphics, graffiti tags, and so on. On the PlayStation 2, you 
 can also map your own face onto a created skater, and the game lets you upload and download things 
 like created parks from a central source. Since you can't take your story mode skater out into 
 other modes for some strange reason, creating your own skater is good for getting your individuality 
 out there, especially if you're playing online a lot.  

  Graphically, Tony Hawk's American Wasteland looks OK, though it has limited options for resolution 
 and the frame rate isn't steady, even on machines that well exceed the game's requirements. Key 
 story figures seem to animate a little better when just standing around on the street while waiting 
 for you to ride up and activate them. The areas are large, but they don't seem much larger than 
 the levels found in last year's game. Considering the console versions of the game had widescreen 
 support, it's odd that the same support doesn't appear to be included here. Also, you'll have to 
 have a good PlayStation 2-like gamepad to play this game properly, because the keyboard can't keep 
 up at all.  

          If you're any good at Tony Hawk, you'll find this game an absolute breeze.     

  Much 
 of the sound in American Wasteland has been pulled from the previous games in the line, which is 
 to be expected, since the developer got the sounds of skating down quite well years ago. Still, 
 you'll hear some new sound effects here and there if you're listening closely, and for the most 
 part, the game sounds nice. The soundtrack is once again varied across several genres, and it includes 
 Frank Black's "Los Angeles," which, really, is all you need. There are also a lot of new punk bands 
 covering a lot of old punk songs. If you're emotionally attached to a lot of old punk rock, you'll 
 probably hate it on principle, but the covers are decent. If you're playing the Xbox version, you 
 can opt for a custom soundtrack. There's a lot of speech in the game, and most of it's nicely done. 
 The pro skaters, who were occasionally rough in past years, aren't in the game very much, but their 
 performances are generally more believable overall. And the rest of the cast members do fine jobs 
 with their lines of dialogue, which are well written and fit in the context of the story, except 
 for the part where other skaters keep calling you a "noob," which really seems out of place.  

 
  While the gameplay in Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is still sharp, this seventh installment 
 just seems to lack that special spark that made the series so much fun in the first place. The 
 Tony Hawk series has always worked, because, even if you stripped away all the goals, pro skaters, 
 and extra fluff packed into each annual installment, the simple act of finding lines and skating 
 freestyle across the levels was great fun. Even with a handful of new tricks, simply skating around 
 and grinding out huge lines only goes so far, especially when the levels are set up to make doing 
 so incredibly easy. It's enough to make you think that maybe the series needs a year off to give 
 it time to incorporate some dramatic new ideas that could revitalize the once-great franchise. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors is brought up, and one might question why. Well that game and this one are incredibly 
 similar in many ways. It has an addictive fun personality in multiplayer. You can spend a few hours 
 with your friend checking out the 2-player coop modes, trying to see who can get the most kills... err 
 I mean points.
  
  But past that, others will watch you from afar wondering why the heck you're even bothering with 
 the game. To start, the PC optimization is 'fairly poor' to say at best. The graphics aren't anything 
 special and the frame-rate isn't constantly up there. In addition, it just looks... well.. ugly.
 
  
  And even though it is 2008, using the "well why are you even bothering with a 2006 game" argument 
 isn't valid here. Why you ask? Because it's the ONLY [you can check up on this] latest Tony Hawk 
 and/or skateboarding game on PC to date. Honestly. Nothing else has been ported and therefore, 
 this was my only option without going to the consoles.
  
  That said, this game isn't utter crap as some would say. Like I said, akin to Dynasty Warriors, 
 you can be surprised how fun it is to get high combo scores in multiplayer. But if you're playing 
 this game ALONE, this is what you're in for: poor story mode, frustrating goals, uninspired dialogue/drive, 
 and a fast one-way trip to boredom/frustration land. Honestly the game does so many things wrong 
 in the story mode I don't even want to begin. In addition, the poor PC optimization goes even far 
 enough to make joystick setup a pain in the butt.
  
  All in all, this game isn't hard to review. It's not like I expected an enthralling story mode 
 anyway. Play it for what you know it's good for: a scene with at least one friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  The whole game is very short - so? tony hawk is not about the stupid
  story... its about the fun in doing crazy awesome tricks!!!
  
  Story mode holds your hand every 
 step of the way - thats a bad thing? yeah right this is great thing, you dont always want to do 
 does things alone
  
  PC version has sketchy frame rate - no, in my computer the frame rate was pretty smooth, thats 
 not true that at every computer the frame rate is sketchy
  
  Setting up your controller can be sort of a hassle if you don't already know how the game should 
 be played - you got that right, i played that game like at least 5 years, and after 5 years i returned 
 to play it and it took forever to understand how the game works!!
  
  graphics: mm no... the graphic isnt good... well... mm... its ok
  
  sounds: not the best sounds 
 but also i think that its ok
  
  gameplay: fun fun and fun!!!!!!! some blood when you drop on your face
  XD thats great
  
 
  charters - awesome !! play as tony hawk, or BAM MARGRA from 
  THE JACKASS MOVIE, and alot of other skaters
  
  multiplayer - awesome! fun to play the multiplayer 
 against more people
  in skate boarding matches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricatrinda1993
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  After a lot of time playing THAW it becomes addcitive and very fun to play. The online multiplayer 
 makes THAW even better, the graphics aren't good either bad, they just could be better, in the 
 beginning the controls are hard but when you get used to them it becomes very easy. The OST of 
 the game is good, it has good bonuses and a large world to explore and when you got sick of the 
 history mode try the online play and play with other skaters, this is very fun, I've read the others 
 reviews and they say the controls are hard but as I've said you must play this for a while to get 
 used to them, besides you can put the controls as you want. This is a great game, BUT it has some 
 bugs and glitches but still is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammy0
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Tony Hawk games from the begining, and i was crazy about it from the 1'st to the 
 4'th part. Later TH Underground 1/2 came out and i played both of those parts and i saw that all 
 the tricks there are must be done. You dont get all the free style that you get in the first parts 
 now u must complete somekind of missions in a time period thats complicated cause the tricks are 
 so hard to do cause of the control. Now that i've been playing THAW i can say that it's a big FIX 
 in the sieries. Well in my opinion the music is great the controls are good and the game is rly 
 relaxing it's very very fun to play. I find the BMX thing strange it doesnt match with the title 
 of the game ''Pro SKATER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSoMnIaK604
Rating: 2.9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I am a huge fan of the Tony Hawk series, the only games I have 
 not played are Tony Hawk 2X and THUG2. And Now right to it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were fine in-game, however no matter what your specs are the game will be 
 choppy in story mode. Sound: I found alot of the music was really annoying, you'll know what I 
 mean after hearing the song in the first cinematic  .  It basically consists of the same type of 
 punk music over.... and over again.
  
  Gameplay: Alright... this is were they really blew it. After playing the game I found the controls 
 to be extremely annoying, combine that with choppy gameplay and you'll be falling off of rails 
 nearly every single time. When you first get on the BMX one of the first thing's you'll be asked 
 to do is a tailwhip. sounds easy right? wrong, instead of using the sane, and normal controls you're 
 supposed to use the camera controls, and to top that off they dont even tell you which button to 
 press just these annoying little pictures that you eventually figure out because you've seen it 
 before.
  
  Put this game back in the bargain bin and leave it there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRaChEt84x
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This game.... was supposed to change everything in Tony Hawk history. the 
  First game to not have any loading screens in between levels on story mode . it was alot different 
 than i expected, becuase in between levels, was just a long tunnel or long straightaway that the 
 next level would be able to load when going through that area. All the levels are very good skate 
 spots, but i wish they put in some more skate spots down in OC (south of LA) , because OC has some 
 great skate spots (i live here so i know) . The story mode was a little on the bad side, only because 
 it was sooooo short. I really liked the old school story mode (when you do the goals, and you need 
 to get enough goals to unlock the next level) . Also very short, but still pretty good. This game 
 is overall fun, and if your the impaticent person, who just wants to skate, get this game and have 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  When I first Picked up Tony Hawks American Wasteland I Was thinking My Favorite video game series 
 has its best entry yet. I was dead wrong. From The Moment I Put The Game in my PS2 to the time 
 i beat it (which is like 10 hours, because it is so short) i felt completely underwhelmed. The 
 Graphics took a huge 180 and got alot worse, the gameplay is solid yet again, but the game feels 
 as if its missing something, yet i cant put my finger on it. The soundtrack is great like always 
 with bands like Fall Out Boy, Taking Back Sunday and My Chemical Romance Covering Punk classics. 
 Im not Saying American Wasteland Is A bad game, because it isnt, but this series has gotten progressively 
 worse since THPS3. I tip my hat to neversoft, though, for yet again including a classic mode, but 
 the levels arent exactly classic, they actually feel like they should be in a wasteland ( pun intended) . 
 The Game Is A Solid Purchase for most series fans and a good rental for anyone else, just dont 
 buy the collectors edition like i did, because you dont get much for the 10 extra bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is the 7th Tony Hawk's skating arcade game. In earlier games you 
 skated around, performed a variety of tricks, completed challenges, unlocked boards, clothing, 
 areas and whatnot. Later in the series, features such as getting off the board and walking around 
 were implemented. Finally, a Story Mode was added. Each game offered something new and original, 
 and THAW also delivers some new features, from tricks to a loading-free world.
  To begin with, graphics in THAW were slightly tweaked - there's a bit of a blur and a bloom to 
 make the visuals look smoother. The textures got a little bit more of detail, too. However, facial 
 animations have gotten worse: they flap their mouths like a cow munching on grass. Body animations 
 are improved, though: you hop over a fence and your body leans to the side a little when you turn 
 whilst running. Overall, the graphics got a sweet update, but I personally dislike the minor bloom 
 and blur.
  Fortunately, there's not much to sound, since it's pretty much the same as in THUG2. Of course, 
 there are new areas and new sounds to fit them, and I found them fitting. As for the music, if 
 you're a fan of old Hip-Hop, punk or rock, you might like it, which was not the case for me. Apart 
 from the soundtrack, voice acting irritated me as well. Older, rugged and tough guys get a clean 
 voice while younger, slim ones get a grumpy voice, it really put me off. Besides those two issues, 
 I haven't found anything wrong with the game's sound.
  So, THAW got an update for visuals, new tricks and a few new features and stayed true to the sound 
 of previous games, so what's with the whole "absolute disrespect for PC gamers" ordeal?
  My computer specs are way higher than the ones that are required to run THAW, and even when I lowered 
 the graphical settings, the game would get choppy in certain areas, particularly in the areas that 
 connect bigger ones. Here I am, starting a manual, when suddenly the game goes mad, and the next 
 second I failed both the manual and the challenge/mission. Finally, there are times when the game 
 freezes momentarily, and after checking out the forums I found out that for some it even crashes 
 or restarts the PC. So unless you don't want your game having a mind of its own, I recommend getting 
 the PS2 or Xbox version, PS2 one preferably; the PC version is a mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anvusp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  If not for the minor glitches when you hit tables/boxes, the game is excellent. It's spiced up 
 with a ton of new cool tricks and even a BMX! The difficulty level is overall easier than in the 
 previous games, but with some of the levels in THUG 2 and THPS 4, that is a very welcome change. 
 Imagine doing a Natas Spin on your first try on ANY difficulty. In THAW it's possible, while I 
 have yet to see a person do that on their first try in THUG 2.
  
  The "no loading screens" is of course a rip-off, but they are interactive. What would you rather 
 have a loading screen that you stare at or a loading screen in which you can pull of a grind and 
 a couple kickflips? The buses are more of a rip-off, but they are much faster.
  
  The game is good. If you liked the previous games, but were frustrated at the difficulty, this 
 game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Well here we go : after almost month of waiting we actually get the game to 
  play. But nowadays it's usual to mess with release dates anyways, so it's 
  no biggie. After 
 all it had to redo some stuff after THUG 2 Bam-a-Licious 
  pile of I don't even know how to name it... they even changed name again... 
  So anyways, this 
 time you get the Whole L. A. area to skate and bring your 
  name out to the pro league. The idea didn't seem to be bad, at least not 
  THUG2 bad.
  
  So 
 story starts with you coming to L. A. in search of America's Wasteland -
  greatest skatepark ever. Eventually you get robbed and dissed, but instead 
  of your belongings 
 you get a friend Marry, who advices you how to adapt to
  "your new home". That's where come's in the NEWS : you actually have to 
  choose from few characters 
 and can't import your pre-made character into 
  story mode. Instead you can get haircuts, shirts, pants, skates and tattoos 
  in shops al over 
 the map. For that you'll have to earn money from 
  entertaining bum's (yes, BUM's , not that i had problem's with them, just 
  if i were homeless 
 i most definitely would keep my money for a bottle of cheap booze.. err.. i meant hotel stay.. IF 
 I had money) and doing BMX tricks, witch can be as fun as painful as controls some time is just 
 .... painful in 
  many sorts of places. Oh and I almost forgot that you can get some bucks 
  from bombing place with your fellow "graffiti artist" doing same drawing 
  all over again in 
 different places. 
  
  So fixed up, nicely dressed, and earned some cash you get friendly with 
  local's who show you 
 how to do tricks... apparently you was half-arse of 
  the skater so you didn't know anything besides kickflip. Also stat points are given for performing 
 tasks witch you gat at skateshop every 24 hours. Anyways your new friend's tasks help you unlock 
 new areas in town, with new tasks and new tricks to learn.
  
  There is some more story with this, but basically it's locations + tricks/tasks 
  = gameplay. 
 Well, if you played other Tony Hawk's games , you know what I am talking about, the thing witch 
 keeps us playing that is :) . 
  
  Too bad this game has some problem's too, and I don't even speak about incorrect trick description 
 or some most retarded tasks just to keep the game filled. The graphics are nice and all, but the 
 game's configuration lacks the ability to minimise "eye candy's" and maximise the performance. 
 Even on lowest resolution and seeing distance set on minimum there is bunch of places where it 
 just start to lag-a-lot and it makes impossible to do any tricks ( especially involving balance) . 
 I mean - all I ask is ability to switch off fancy mirroring, hi-res textures and useless animations, 
 or is this something forbidden in game industry? Also the main idea of whole L. A. map, where you 
 can actually ride from one are to another through special paths filled with some amazing rails 
 and ramps.. witch have absolutely no use because while riding it the game loads another area and 
 it instantly freezes... the patch doesn't fix that. Wouldn't it be a bit more reasonable to just 
 do loading screen? While this problem remains i choose to ride bus whenever it's possible.
  
  While the sound in game is ok, the soundtrack has maybe 3 good songs, and almost no variety. 
 It has been known that Tony Hawk's games has almost the best OST's around but this one just stinks.
 
  
  Looks like the franchise is going downwards since they choose not to release THUG 1 for PC. Buy 
 this game if only you absolutely must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  I've been wating to have TH American Wasteland since it was announced, here in game-spot.
  
  Well, I have the PC version of this incredible game, I got crazy when I saw the Intro Movie, 
 all the story that you must follow in the game is very interactive, the SPONSOR CHALENGES must 
 be completed to enter in the championship to to run side by side with known skaters arround the 
 world
  
  Graphics are improved. When I played AW for the first time, I thought it was nearly the sims2 (graphicaly 
 talking) . All the characters are well made, the scenarios give you a whole of possibilities to 
 make differente and never-seen-before tricks.
  
  You must learn how to do the tricks, cause you are a "farmer boy" hehehehe. don't waste your time 
 trying to make manuals, or street tricks.
  talk to someone in the game, to learn how to do them.
  
  New skaters takes the scene on AW, 
 two boys and some new professionals.
  
  If you played all the TONY HAWK series, you will get impressed with the stories, and all the things 
 that I talked above.
  
  Thanks from BRAZIL, 
  
  Fbio
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeShinizile
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good because of the new no loading system... I will say the game is also easy 
 in comparasion with the other Tony Hawk games except the games that start from THPS4 to THUG2... 
 Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 was an excellent launch for Activision... It contained a lot of new stuff 
 from Tony Hawk's Pro skater wich is very hard... But let us talk about THAW:
  -It's a good game for it doesn't have loading times
  -no loading reminds some of us players of 
 GTA
  -New and Large variety of tricks including bert slides and "Grind Stalls"
  -BMX bikes for the players that liked the Mat Hoffman series or Dave Mirra Pro Freestyle BMX
 
  -Less time to learn gameplay than the other games in the series
  those are the Pro's
  Now goes the Con's
  -No demo yet available
  -The Graphics arent such as good when you see them 
 from a close range
  That's all that i can say... i think there are also some bugs left in the game but i only seen 
 them in the PS2 version... Hope The PC's better ;) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
