-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tonyhawksproskater2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.6, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 549 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Skateboarding
Date:     Oct 31, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it may lack some of the visual flare of today's PC games, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 more than 
 makes up for it with its outstanding gameplay. 

 A little more than a year ago, video game players witnessed a strange phenomenon when Tony Hawk's 
 Pro Skater was released for the PlayStation console. Up until that point, the entire subgenre of 
 extreme sports games - after years of having mediocre games - had a stigma, which caused a lot 
 of developers to stop producing such games altogether. Then Tony Hawk's Pro Skater for the PlayStation 
 seemed to come out of nowhere: It broke the lull in extreme sports releases. It was an incredibly 
 good skateboarding game that received unanimously high praise. Unfortunately, PC game players missed 
 out on the first Tony Hawk's Pro Skater; but as the extreme sports market heated up, Activision 
 saw fit to bring the sequel, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2, to the PC. While it may lack some of the 
 visual flare of today's PC games, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 more than makes up for it with its outstanding 
 gameplay.   

  Though Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 is a multiplatform release, it's clear that each port originates 
 from the PlayStation version of the game. As such, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 doesn't exactly take 
 advantage of the latest PC hardware. You'll see draw-in and fogging effects in some of the open-air 
 skate parks, and the skater models - while much more detailed than those of the recent MTV Sports: 
 Skateboarding - are still fairly simple by today's PC standards. However, the PC version does have 
 cleaner textures than its PlayStation counterpart. The graffiti effects don't suffer from any aliasing 
 problems, which results in a very clean and colorful look for a lot of the game's skate parks; 
 and the higher resolutions in the PC version are also a welcome addition.   

  The general design of each skate park is excellent; only one park has the overused abandoned-warehouse 
 theme. Yet even that particular skate park has a number of features that make it stand out from 
 the typical design, such as a helicopter that you can grind and a small plane with wings that you 
 can use as a ramp. Other parks include a school in Los Angeles, where you must be on the lookout 
 for a golf-cart driver who would like nothing more than to run you over. There's also a standard 
 skate park in Marseilles, France, filled with typical empty pools, park benches, and ramps. There's 
 even a skate park set in New York, complete with taxis and their foul-mouthed drivers, as well 
 as subway cars and tracks. However, there is a bit of a negative aspect to having such detailed 
 and, occasionally, large levels. You'll want to spend some time just exploring and getting to know 
 the area rather than attempting to complete any objectives.   

  While there are play modes, such as free skate and single session, that are dedicated to letting 
 you become familiar with the layout of a particular park, the main portion of Tony Hawk's gameplay 
 is centered on the career mode. In this particular mode, you start off with access to only one 
 park and a skater with a solid number of varied tricks. Your main goal is to go through each level 
 while completing the necessary amount of objectives to move onto the next level. This mode gives 
 an enormous amount of incentive as well as replay value to Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2. You must complete 
 objectives so that you can gain enough money to open any of the later parks, and you'll more than 
 likely come back to the earlier levels to finish off the objectives you didn't complete. In addition 
 to opening new parks, you can buy new tricks and new boards for your skater, which become quite 
 valuable in the later levels when you need to perform some of the complicated tricks to complete 
 an objective.   

  If you're not familiar with the first Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, the career mode will be a little 
 frustrating at first because it can be difficult to complete some of the objectives. For example, 
 in the first park, you're required to grab five pilot-wing icons. Getting four out of the five 
 is no problem, but the fifth, which is located high above the park, requires you to have a significant 
 amount of experience with the game's controls. This really doesn't detract from the game since 
 there are easier objectives, and you can always come back to difficult objectives after you've 
 managed to purchase new tricks and abilities, which is what Tony Hawk's replay value largely consists 
 of. Interestingly, the ability to add new tricks and strengthen a skater's ability really isn't 
 all that necessary until the latter stages of the game, when most of the parks are already unlocked. 
 With an average skater, it's certainly possible to get all the way up to Venice Beach park, but 
 once again, in order to complete all objectives for every stage, you will have to eventually buy 
 new tricks - though it really doesn't make that much of a difference. Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 
 offers plenty of value in the career mode alone.    

 One crucial aspect to any skateboarding game is the control, and unlike in the recent MTV Sports: 
 Skateboarding, which had very loose control and poor collision detection, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 
 2's control is tight and precise. Specific button combinations pull off their appropriate skateboarding 
 trick, and there really isn't a problem with your skater performing any unintentional tricks. The 
 only weak spot is grinding rails and other various objects because, as you will find, the keyboard 
 and even a standard digital gamepad may not be precise enough to keep your balance while you grind. 
 It's apparent that this feature was designed with analog control in mind, so if you have access 
 to an analog PC controller, then, by all means, use it. But if you don't, grinding can become an 
 ordeal, as some of the later career mode objectives require you to grind for an extended period 
 of time. A balance meter or something other than the visual cues from the skater would've helped 
 alleviate this to some extent.   

  If the career mode somehow isn't enough to keep you interested in Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 for 
 an extended period of time, the game also includes a complete park editor. The editor is incredibly 
 easy to use, so those with even a basic understanding of 3D modeling should have no problem coming 
 up with a functional park. For more-experienced mapmakers, the editor is diverse enough that it 
 lets you create some fairly complex parks. Importing parks made by other Tony Hawk players adds 
 a new dimension to the game, and it should give the game an extended life period long after it's 
 released.   

  Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 also has a multiplayer mode, which gives you a choice of three different 
 modes: trick attack, tag, and graffiti. Unfortunately, the only way to play these games is over 
 a local network, so finding someone to play against may prove difficult. However, the three different 
 modes are actually quite fun; and the game also features a very fun game of horse for two players 
 on a single computer, in which you and your opponent must constantly out-perform each other using 
 better and more-complicated tricks.   

  It may not be the best-looking PC game available, but Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 has a solid look 
 and a level of replay value that's unmatched by any game of its type. The career mode will keep 
 pulling you back as you try to unlock every park, but later on you'll find yourself trying to find 
 all the secret items and attempting to complete all the objectives for each stage. It's also fun 
 to go into the single session or free-skate mode just to see what kind of trick combinations you 
 can string together. There can be a steep learning curve if you're not willing to take the time 
 to understand how different tricks function and how they're landed, but this can be overcome quickly 
 with a few free-skate sessions in the first park. The skate-park editor should interest those who 
 want to completely customize their own parks, and it's easy enough to use that virtually anyone 
 can create a park within a short time period. Overall, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 plays very well 
 - it has excellent scenario design, great control, and even a nice mix of rock and rap music from 
 bands such as Rage Against the Machine - and of course there's the incredible amount of replay 
 value. The inclusion of the original parks from the first Tony Hawk's Pro Skater only sweetens 
 the package for fans of the first game, as well as for those who are new to the series.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a good skater for it's time, however can be easily picked up and owned at.
  One day i was bored and started this game from scratch again and finished this in 45 mins, if you 
 catch my drift.
  
  AI is easily beaten once u master the game which shouldnt take too long. I can't remember my highest 
 score on the final level to tell you the truth :) but in the hundreds of thousands, i think i fluked 
 it one attempt and got a crazy score.
  
  I think tony hawk's 3 is like $10 now but i haven't played that, this is definatly worth a pick 
 up since its bargain binned now ;)
  
  tony hawk's 4 outshines this, ive only played these 2 tony hawks games but tony hawks pro 4 is 
 an amazing skater
  
  very nice soundtrack including ratm :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirdy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I got introduced to the Tony Hawks Pro Skater 2 (or called THPS2 by fans) by a neighbour. I went 
 to his house a few years ago, and we played this game on PlayStation (PSX) . It was fun and enjoyable. 
 I thank him so much. But, when it was released on the PC, everything was a bit better. Improvements 
 were online play, graphics and the sound track. To spice it up even more, they put in an additional 
 three levels from the first Tony Hawk. Sadly, it was not released on PlayStation 2 and Game Boy 
 Advanced. At least X-Box had Tony Hawks Pro Skater 2x. Oh well. Ok, I admit. This game has not 
 such good graphics, but great gameplay. Anyway, onto the graphics. The graphics on Tony Hawks Pro 
 Skater 2 were stale. Maybe it was my video card. I dont know. And, I tried it on my good computer 
 and it still was bad. I dont know, because on my friends computer, the graphics were top notch. 
 Get a good video card first, because I doubt that my video cards are good. So, I cannot rate this 
 by my friends computer, but, by my computer. Sound track? Nice. Its better than the PSX version 
 of songs. It has bands such as Naughty by Nature, Dub Pistols, Bad Religion and lots more! The 
 sound of grinds and spins, manuals and talking  you name it  they are all top notch. Nothing 
 else to say here, but, a very good job on your sound Activision!!!!! For those of you who have 
 been living near Yodas hut for the past several years, the Gameplay is simple enough for everyone. 
 You are one of a bunch of professional skateboarders and you have to visit about ten huge levels, 
 tricking off whatever objects you can find and earn mega points that way. You still need to practice, 
 however; dont expect 600,000 points on your first go at the game. Ive been playing it since 2002 
 and a load of players are far ahead of me. Just make sure you have a control walkthrough when you 
 download the demo, people! Youll find it confusing. Yes, the replay value is excellent. Its a 
 sports game and it has multiplayer, so, youll come back when you have finished the game a zillion 
 times. Seriously. But, I hate it when games go old. When games go old, there is hardly anyone that 
 plays it online. In this game, you can play multiplayer, create your own areas to skate on. Buy 
 or rent? Rent, since there are no THPS2 copies around that much anymore. But if you see one, BUY 
 IT! You might find them at second hand stores. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalesKales
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I dont like the Tony Hawk series but the fu=irst one was pretty good and I tought this one might 
 be good, and then I played and I was shocked at how much worse it was then the first.
  
  The gameplay and controls were really bad. You would always run into stuff because the level design 
 was horrible. 
  
  The graphics were absolutley horrible. 
  
  the levels looked bad and so did the people.
  
  This was every Tony Hawk game. You could play 
 through it once and then it was stupid.
  
  The controls were easy to use but they were way to touchy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is kind of old, but it was a pretty good game. And since I got it in a pack with two 
 other games it was a good deal. There are about ten levels that give you about ten achievements 
 each. And with each achievement you get money to buy new tricks, stats, and boards. Then you can 
 use your new tricks to get more points. Or your stats to let you do better tricks. And with the 
 new boards you can do even better then before. And remember that there are different keys that 
 you can ude to execute different tricks also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  THPS2 for PC was my first Tony Hawk game ever. Since purchasing it many years ago, I have played 
 it for hours on end, and enjoy in thoroughly.
  
  Though PC takes a bit of time dealing with in terms of graphics and controls, it is easily overshadowed 
 by the games more visible features.
  
  The gameplay is quite possibly the best I've seen for any skating game. With adequately detailed 
 levels, secret areas, and an easy interface, the game will win over any gamer who is a fan of the 
 genre. The tricks and and skaters are also expansive as well. Each skater has their own abilities 
 that you must adjust to while playing. I found the PC version easier to play than the PS version 
 because it seems to more faster and more precise. Mind you, I love PS version too, but there's something 
 that make me like PC version a tad more.
  
  This game is long gone-out of stores and game shops, but will remain one of the best known to myself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  The second game of Tony Hawk's is now available. More skaters available and more skates and new 
 tracks are the news on this game. Besides of his median graphics, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 is a 
 game that is always funny. Learning all the tricks are a good way to improve your technique in 
 the game, and maybe in real life. The track editor is now improved, and you have more objects to 
 build your own skate park. You have the character editor too, where you can choose the skin color, 
 the haircut, the hair color, the clothes, editing the name, nationality, choose between fat and 
 thin, etc. During the game, you'll be tested in various challenges, so that you can proceed to 
 the next area. Recommended for skating maniacs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
