-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Toonstruck
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/toonstruck/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 176 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Burst Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The designers have made a great game by creating an experience that is entertaining and challenging. 
 

 The last couple of years have been rough for adventure games. Apart from a select few (Full Throttle, 
 The Beast Within, The Riddle of Master Lu) , adventure games have seemed like nothing more than 
 a showcase for the latest technology in full-motion video or the newest Myst-like virtual world. 
 Virgin's Toonstruck seemed likely to follow suit, overly-hyped for both its technical prowess and 
 ingenious premise. Surprisingly, the game falls a little short on both of these promises - the 
 animation, while admirable, isn't mind-blowing, and the story is mildly amusing at best. But what's 
 great about Toonstruck is that neither of these drawbacks matters in the slightest; the designers 
 have made a great game by creating an experience that is entertaining and challenging but doesn't 
 become too frustrating or too easy.  

 Here's the premise, for those who haven't heard it a million times already. You control Drew Blanc 
 (hardy har har) , disgruntled animator of The Fluffy Fluffy Bun Bun Show, a cartoon so vapidly sweet 
 it makes The Care Bears look like Fritz the Cat. Through a "freak accident" (actually he just falls 
 asleep) , Blanc is sucked into the cartoon world, which is split into three territories: the happy 
 Cutopia, the wacky Zanydu, and the evil Malevolands. Count Nefarious, overlord of the Malevolands, 
 has created a machine called the "Malevolator," and has begun wreaking havoc on Cutopia, destroying 
 the landscape and transforming the cheerful denizens into sinister shadows of their former selves. 
 In order to get home, Drew must help King Hugh, the happy-faced ruler of Cutopia, build a Cutifier 
 to change things back to how they were before.  

 And that's pretty much the first half of the game, in which you must find the various pieces needed 
 to build the Cutifier. This scavenger hunt makes for some great traditional puzzle solving. At 
 every point in the first chapter, it's clear exactly what you need to be doing. Not that Toonstruck 
 is easy: it isn't. But the challenge comes from figuring out how to do something, and not what 
 you need to be doing, which is an extremely refreshing change from the almost total lack of logic 
 common in most contemporary adventure games.   

 It also helps that the game is funny. Drawing its humor mostly from pop-culture references, there 
 are dogs who talk like Ross Perot and bodybuilders who talk like the "Pump-You-Up" guys from Saturday 
 Night Live. There are some bits of original humor, such as a sinister wolf that speaks almost entirely 
 in malapropisms ("Stick around a memento, fellas, I got a little flavor to ask you") . It's all 
 really cute and amusing, but it's not until the end of the first half that the game gets truly 
 hilarious. I don't want to spoil anything, but the intermission is the first time I've laughed 
 out loud while playing a computer game in a long, long time.  

 The second half of Toonstruck follows a somewhat more traditional path - stuck in Nefarious' castle, 
 you must escape and find your way home. At this point, however, the traditional adventure game 
 conventions work. Toonstruck is such a well-crafted game it's hard not to enjoy yourself. The voice 
 work is excellent and the story is amusing enough to get you through the slow parts. In the end, 
 though, it's the puzzles that make the game so great, and finishing Toonstruck only made me wish 
 there was a sequel looming on the horizon.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gosova
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:17 am PT
Review:  a very perfect graphics and story it really deserve 10/10 if u like adventure games you should 
 play this game.
  
  the graphics: an amazing graphics i didn't see better than its graphics for adventure games until 
 now. besides the music while controlling drew blanc u will have nice feelings, and sometimes while 
 playing u will fall into sleep cus of music
  
  the gameplay: gameplay is like any other adventure game 
  
  Difficulty: its not very hard and 
 its not easy, it's just right.
  
  story: perfect story that makes u play more.
  
  every thing is perfect i wonder why it had poor marketing.
  
  so if u like adventure games 
 play this game right now.
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone6669
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. The story is very lighthearted, and real fun to go through. You play some 
 cartoonist (Christopher Lloyd) , who woke up to find himself trapped in a cartoon world. He is collecting 
 pieces for some machines that will send him back to reality.
  
  The game is typical point and click adventure, though there are lots of twists involved. The pieces 
 to collect for the machine are all given by weird clues (e. g. One of the clues is a picture of 
 "Bolts", so the correct thing to put is "Nuts", except in the game you have to put the eating kind!)
 
  
  The story has very interesting plot twists. I loved going though this game. The game was long, 
 and every minute with it was a pleasure.
  
  it is a shame this game didn't achieve the success it deserves. From what i heard, the game cost 
 $6 million to make. It couldn't quite make all this money back in sales : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairy_tuxedo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I last played this game when I was around 11 years old, so this review is entirely from the memories 
 of somebody who never got around to finishing it thanks to the wonders of Windows 98. (or was it 
 95?) anyway...
  
  When I first got the game I was very new to gaming, but understood how to play this from the very 
 start and enjoyed the story and progression of the game. After about a week of occasional playing 
 I was in Xanydu Gym where I began to find the game somewhat harder and ended up using the old 'click 
 randomly on everything until something works' technique. I liked the characters and how Drew reacted 
 to the over-the-top cuteness of the majority and how comical the answers to their simple 'problems' 
 were.
  The backgrounds and characters were well drawn and Christopher Lloyd's acting was great, a real 
 change from many other FMV games. 
  For me, the game came to a sudden and tragic end thanks to the wonderous ways of old operating 
 systems so I never got to see the later game and can only presume they were as fun as the parts 
 I played.
  
  The only thing I might say was a down-side about this game, was the item thingy in the lab that 
 I never understood... Maybe it was because I was too young to 'get it' but in general the game 
 as a whole could have done with a little bit more instruction.
  It's a wonder how nobody seems to have heard of this great game and from searching around, the 
 actors who played parts in it never have Toonstruck listed as something they've acted in, even 
 the publisher doesn't mention it. This game could have done with far more publicity and it could 
 have easily become a well-known classic of the FMV era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divjak23
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game some 10 years ago and was excited to play it. I remember that was stuck in my 
 room for two days just to finish the game. Yeah, it was so much fun and the jokes and the presentation 
 of the characters was the best. Also the evil characters of the game had a funny site. The game-play 
 itself it very good and it's easy to play and to maneuver the main characters. The game had also 
 great graphics for that time and although it contains some tricky riddles and puzzles it's worth 
 of your time. I would recommend it to anyone who likes funny and relaxing games without gore, blood 
 and shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_JJ
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest games of all times i`ve ever played. Games like this are forbidden. Games like 
 Curse Of monkey island, Discworld, Broken Sword - Smoking Mirror... etc. There aren`t any companies 
 that are making this high playing - addictive (2D) games like this. Very very Good. If i write 
 anything i would sound like I have made the game :o) but i really think that games like this are 
 THE BEST genre. games today are very complexive, you should be very concentrated to finish some 
 NEW game like DOOM 4 or F. E. A. R. This Game is relaxing and very freemind while you`re playing. 
 there`s no way you become nervous or something like that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shigawire3D
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  My opinion is that this is the funniest adventure game of all time. 
  That is a tall order to fill, because it will immediately come into comparison with any adventure-games 
 by Lucasarts. 
  
  At the same time, this was one of the most failed games, financially. This is very sad, since it 
 deserves success. But, it proves that marketing and brands are important. Burst doesn't have ANY 
 other adventure-games to point to, and so people don't know necessarily what kind of game it is. 
 But, I do remember there being a demo of the game as well.. Not knowing the whole story, this game 
 is one of those big enigmas of games that failed financially, but are major achievements.
  
  I played the game again now, 10 years on, using Dosbox emulator. And I laughed my ass off again, 
 noticing some of the very mature jokes in there. Some jokes are very mature, yet very subtle. The 
 game has a vast collection of excellent puns as well. This is seriously powerful humor material! 
 It will remind you slightly of Futurama/Simpsons.
  
  Speaking of which, one of the main voice actors in Toonstruck, Dan Castelanetta, is also the voice 
 behind Homer Simpson, Groundskeeper Willy etc. in Simpsons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peterrex
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I keep asking myself, why wasnt this game popular? It had some of the best music, voice acting, 
 graphics and jokes any game in history will ever have! Its a little old now and won't run on a 
 fast pc but if you still have an old pc lying around buy this and put it on it! You will have at 
 least 40 hours game play, assuming you dont cheat, and a hell of a lot a playing satisfaction. 
 That I can guaranty. Its a shame that the second one wasnt released; this was one of those games 
 that needed a sequel. The second one was looking pretty good till the company went wrong. But that 
 is life. I think toonstruck should of gone down in history as a better game, maybe not the next 
 Zelda but definitely should have been up there with ratchet and clank and half life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedfreak_R
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 21, 2005 4:56 am PT
Review:  To be honest, when I bought the game I never heard of it. It saw it by accident in bargain-bin. 
 But when I first played it, I was hooked!
  
  Toonstruck tells the story of Drew who gets sucked into a cartoon animated world. This world is 
 under attack by a dark lord who wants to put the entire cartoonworld in darkness. And of course 
 Drew is the one who has to save the day! Accompanied by his selfcreated buddy Flux he goes on his 
 quest to save the cartoonworld.
  
  The only control you have in the game is your mouse. You click where you want to go and what you 
 want to do. It's not hard to get used to it. What is hard though is all the stuff you have to figure 
 out in the game. It contains tons of puzzle and mysteries you have to solve in order to beat the 
 game. That's what makes this game really challenging.
  
  The game looks and sounds great! The cartoonworld really sets a great atmosphere and music does 
 its job great too.
  
  Toonstruck may not be one of the newest games out there, it still is much fun to play. Especially 
 when you like point & click-games, you won't be disapponted with this one! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
