-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Torino 2006 - the Official Video Game of the XX Olympic Winter Games
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/torino2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent-looking models and environments.
 A couple of interesting gameplay mechanics in the speed-skating and cross-country events.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only eight Olympic events, some of which are repeats of each other.
 Bad animation.
 Lame commentary and sound effects.
 You can pretty much see every single thing this game has in less than half an hour.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.9
Critic Score: 4.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 209 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: 49Games
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date:     Jan 26, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Torino 2006 represents a mere pittance of what the actual Olympic games offer, and it still manages 
 to screw up the scant few events it tries to represent. 

  Torino 2006 - the Official Video Game of the XX Olympic Winter Games is one of the longest and 
 most unnecessary titles in video game history. And it also happens to be a pretty lousy game, to 
 boot. It's not as if the Olympics, be it summer or winter, has had anything special to call its 
 own when it comes to video game adaptations over the years, but Torino 2006 is especially egregious 
 in that it pares down the number of included events to a fairly measly number, manages to make 
 every single one of them completely uninteresting, and skimps entirely on the presentation. Yes, 
 it's only a $20 game, but that $20 would be better spent practically any other conceivable way. 

          The city is named Turin, yet we call it Torino. What the hell is our problem?     

 
  There are eight different events in Torino 2006. If you're of the optimistic ilk, you might be 
 able to fathom a full 15 events, as there are some rules variations you can make to change how 
 an event plays out. If you're a realist, however, you'll actually discover that there's more like 
 five or six events in the game, since several of them repeat. The luge and the bobsleigh events 
 are mechanically the same, despite being dressed up differently, and cross-country skiing is included 
 in a single event, the biathlon, and the Nordic combined, which also recycles the ski-jumping event. 
 On top of the lack of event variety, there's also very few ways in which to vary things up. The 
 only way you can play this game is via a single event, a series of nine events, a series of 15 
 events, and a customized competition of whatever available events you want. There is multiplayer 
 for up to four players, but with no online play; and for that matter, none of these events are 
 captivating enough to hold one person's attention, let alone four.  

  The big, glaring flaw in Torino 2006 is that every single one of these events has been dumbed down 
 to the point of banality. To do the luge or the bobsleigh events, you simply press a button at 
 the right time to set the power of your launch, and from there, you just kind of tap the left analog 
 stick or the directional buttons on your keyboard to steer and keep from hitting the boards. The 
 big difference between the two? In the bobsleigh event, you can also lean left and right. Fun. 
 Alpine skiing is similarly dull in all its forms. You'd think trying to keep a handle on your skier 
 as he or she shoots down a hill, ducking through various gates should be exciting, but it's completely 
 flat and dull here.  

  The only events that try to do anything marginally interesting are the speed skating and cross-country 
 skiing events. In speed skating, you mash two buttons to build up your initial head of steam, and 
 then rhythmically press and hold those same two buttons back and forth to try and simulate the 
 rhythm of the skating. The cross-country event relies on a stamina meter of sorts that forces you 
 to measure out how much sprinting you can do. These are both relatively interesting mechanics, 
 but neither exactly translates into captivating gameplay, and after a few plays through each event, 
 you're pretty much done with them. In fact, after about 20 minutes of playing, you've seen basically 
 everything this game has to offer.  

  Another problem with Torino is that it does an awful job of actually letting you know how you're 
 doing. Though there are some events in which you're directly competing against other players, all 
 the medals are awarded via your times for the event. So even if you overtake the guy ahead of you 
 in the cross-country skiing event, that doesn't mean you're going to do anything other than place 
 seventh overall. The game does display intermediate times, and the commentators give some glib 
 comments on how that stacks up, but that's not nearly enough feedback to give you an indication 
 on how you're doing in the race, and there's no option to restart an event, for that matter. So 
 you're basically stuck playing a given event from beginning to end, even if you're doomed to lose. 

          The only way this game could be lighter on content is if the disc didn't load.     

 
  The game's style of presentation also leaves quite a bit to be desired. Graphically, Torino isn't 
 bad looking while things aren't in motion. The models for the competitors are decently detailed, 
 and the environmental designs seem functional, if not overly impressive. But once things get in 
 motion, everything kind of falls apart. The animations are stilted and ugly. Sometimes, skiers 
 will start skiing around on a flat area without even moving their legs, for example. All the menus 
 are ugly and hacked together, displaying minimal amounts of useful info and going so far as to 
 just designate all the computer opponents as "computer 1" or "computer 4." That's just pathetically 
 lazy. Speaking of pathetically lazy, there's also the horrible commentary and sound effects to 
 mention. The commentators for each event are bored, seemingly unhappy to be there, and completely 
 uninformative. They try desperately to give you a mundane piece of history about the event before 
 it stops, and then degenerate into one-liners like "that intermediate time could have been a little 
 better" and "oh no!" over and over again. Crowd effects are on a very short loop, and repeat painfully 
 often. The remaining effects are cheap and generic, and add nothing to the atmosphere of the events. 

  It's hard to really criticize Torino 2006 for not capturing the magic of the Olympics, since there's 
 hardly been a game in history to actually do the Olympics right. But Torino 2006 is an especially 
 bad case, as it is easily one of the most half-hearted and uninspired examples of developers quickly 
 trying to cash in on the event in a timely fashion. If you're not big into the winter games, then 
 there's no single reason on Earth to pay $20 for what's essentially a lousy collection of short, 
 Olympic-themed minigames. And if you are one of those people who glue themselves to the TV every 
 couple of years to watch some downhill skiing, you'll still be disappointed by how little justice 
 this game does its license.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BallOBaseSimmer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:19 am PT
Review:  This is an instance in which the pro review is biased at worst and unfair at best. Reviewers not 
 really into certain game genres tend to give bad or luke warm critiques as a result. Generally, 
 sports titles are more apt to get panned and Olympic titles get no love for not featuring every 
 single event, which is too much to ask.
  
  In specific, Torino 2006 is a fan boy game. And there's a lot more to it than meets the eye. If 
 you actually try to beat the CPU and win the Gold, the difficulty level is its saving grace. But 
 if you're not a fan of winter sports to begin with, you're not gonna have the patience or open-mindedness 
 to give the replay value a chance.
  
  Graphics here are PC awesome and keyboard controls while unwieldy are busy enough to demand event 
 mastery. After considerable practice, I managed to beat the field in the men's downhill and the 
 ski jump, two perennial faves. The game is much easier on the console. On the PC it is a die-hard's 
 adventure.
  
  Torino is as decent a game as other Olympic titles. But if you don't know or care who Alberto Tomba 
 or Franz Klammer is, you won't like this game. And making fun of the name of a Euro city Olympically 
 decked out in its native language and not English is like panning sports video games because they 
 are not RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 6 - Based stickly to the Winter Olympic's sporting events. The player gets to choose 
 which country or sporting event/series to play. Extremely Short Game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7 - Graphics are top notch for a 2006 sporting game. Somebad animations at times.
 
  
  Sound: 5 - Lame commentary that becomes very repetetive depending on which country you pick. Enviornment 
 sound is good.
  
  Environment/Maps: 6 - Enviornment is well laid out, theres just simply no room to move in it. Still 
 decently well done
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 4 - Game works somewhat well other than its wind and climate factors are 
 way random and make it extremely difficult to set steady records. Record setting is all you ever 
 do. Way way too easy on some events and exact opposite on others. Once again game was made too 
 short.
  
  Interface: 3 - Only 8 Olympic events. You really can conclude this game in 30 minutes to an hour. 
 Multiple events are the same. And seriously NO JAMAICAN BOBSLED TEAM! This was very disappointing.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 4.5 - Completely played this game through in 45 minutes. No replay value and No Jamaican 
 Bobsleding team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  The Announcers are absolutely repugnant, Offensive, etc. The Announcers just hurt my feelings I'll 
 quote of some of the things they say in the game: That was certainly not good &amp; His performance 
 was Horrible &amp; He does not deserve to be in this competition . So thats why the ratings for 
 this game is so low because of the Announcers and they should have put a button somewhere on the 
 Main Menu called the Turn Off Announcers button and then this game would be perfect. I was very 
 offended when I first turned on the game and the Announcers threw a few insults if you ask me and 
 they should have fixed the Announcers before programing them to insult people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Son23
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong Torino 2006 is no world beater but for what it is trying to do I think it does 
 it well.
  
  Skiing events, Biathlon, Cross Country Skiing, Speed Skating, Ski Jumping, Luge and Bobsleigh are 
 the events on offer and all are fun to do apart from Luge and Bobsleigh which are very hard to 
 do and not much fun.
  
  Cons are that there are not enough events. Curling or others surely could have been put in, as 
 mentioned Bobsleigh and Luge are too hard and commentary is very, very limited in variety.
  
  It has been created very well and is not a button bashing type of game like you may have come 
 to expect from olympic type games and seems to create the sport well. Which is what a sport simulation 
 is meant to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kighod
Rating: 3
Date: May 16, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The main thing why this game is boring because of gameplay. There is no missions and levels. No 
 real olympians from Torino 2006. When I first I got this game I thought that your suppose to select 
 a real athlete like Bode Miller and be trained and pass all the events to get be on the U. S. olympic 
 team to win medals in Torino. From then on in Torino you compete against others. What i expect 
 was to be a some role playing game but NO! In this game you just type the name of your character 
 and compete in alpine skiing, speed skating, bobsleigh, biathlon, luge, ski jumping, cross-country 
 skiing, and nordic combined for only medals and scores to be put in top 10 list thats all. There 
 is NO figure skating, ice hockey, curling, and missing a lot of other sports in the Winter Olympics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMG__UrDeAd
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Luckily I rented the game and did not blow $20. This game is so horrible. It's a waste of everything. 
 If you buy this game you deserve losing the $20 you spent on it. Its just so stupid. The only good 
 thing about this game is that I can use it to play fetch with my dog. How can someone make a game 
 like that? Your either brain dead or dead if you make a game like this. Imagine if this game wins 
 an award LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theharmons1218
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Torino gives a good variety of events to choose from in reference to the real Olympics. It could 
 have included a few more events (short track speed skating and curling for example) . The controls 
 are very easy to learn and are even easier to master once you learn them. The controls are much 
 more user friendly than past Olympic games. This is definetely one of the best 2K Sports games 
 that I've ever played!! This is a game that I would recommend to anyone to play at least once and 
 I promise that if you play once you will want to keep playing until you can't feel your thumbs!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  I used to love playing Winter Olympic games in days of old. It is the closest I can get to the 
 Olympics here in the UK so i thought that this year i would get whatever game was out and join 
 in.
  
  So it is with great regret that I admit that I actually paid proper money for this game, almost 
 $40 would you believe it!
  
  I got it home all excited, loaded it up and then within about 5 minutes was wondering if I could 
 get it back in the packaging and return it to the store.
  
  What amazed me first of all is that for a lot of the events you have to pummel your keyboard in 
 a 'Daily Thompson Decathlon' style to make your badly drawn and animated character do anything. 
 It brought back memories but I am past this style of play, about 10 years ago in fact.
  
  Then there are the rest of the events where you are hardly interacting at all. The only good parts 
 are the downhill skiing where at least you can do the event that it says you are doing.
  
  Oh yeah, the commentary will drive you mad, to the point where you will just turn the sound of 
 on your PC.
  
  Don't buy this game, it may be official and licensed and all that but it sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I have heard many bad things about this game, and all of it is almost true. The graffic was a little 
 better then i had thougt, but it still not good. I got sick of this game in a couple days which 
 not much playing, so its very bad quality/value too. Its like the producers only have spent a month 
 making it or something, its not good!
  
  I am sure that if it hade come from EA games or something, that they will have spent more time 
 on it, so if you are a sport fan, don't expect much from this game. I don't think its worth the 
 dollers you have to pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 24, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Decent graphics. Gets quite addictive for a bit. A Multiplayer option is avaliable, which 
 makes the game more fun since you challenge your friends. Goals for you to achieve. Even after 
 you complete the 15 events, you want to repeat it. Only $20..
  
  The Bad: Gets repetitive. The commentary makes you want to pull your ears off. Pretty much experience 
 everything within 40 minutes. Only 8 events which makes the game quite empty.
  
  Since the 80s, video games have been making Olympic games into the video game systems. Unfortunately, 
 pretty much all of them has failed into becoming a good game. This is the newest Olympic game, 
 and it has failed. With the 8 events, the game adds a lot of fun, but they leave a lot of the good 
 events off, and makes the game empty. It could be done so much better.
  
  The game consists of 8 events, but some of them are broken down into more events. Which makes a 
 total of 15 events. The events in this game are alpine skiing, (which is broken down into downhill 
 skiing, Super G, slalom and giant slalom) , ski jumping, (which is broken down into a normal hill 
 and a large hill) , speed skating, (which is broken down into 500m, 1000m, and 1500m) , cross-country 
 skiing, biathlon, bobsleigh, (which is broken down into men's and women's) , luge, and nordic combined. 
 I find that because nordic combined is an event of ski jumping and cross-country skiing, that the 
 event is a waste. I find it a waste because you just repeat the ski jump, and cross country ski. 
 It makes these 2 events more repetitive. As you can see, there are a lot of the good events that 
 are missing, such as the snowboarding races, slalom on the snowboards, cross-country skiing on 
 a sprint, and figure skating. This sounds like a lot of events, but you can pretty much experience 
 everything within 40 minutes. And in about 2 hours, you can pretty much master the whole. This 
 means that you get bored of the game, and becomes repetitive in less then a day. This proves that 
 the game is empty, and leaves out a lot of features on the Olympics.
  
  One of the flaws that makes the game even more empty is that it lacks the athlete's names. You 
 pick a country, and type in your name, there is a huge chance that you might not even be able to 
 type your full name. I couldn't do it either. The worst thing feature in the whole game is that 
 the athletes that you challenge are named Computer 1, Computer 2, and Computer 3. Basically, all 
 of the people on the computer gang. This brings down the feel of the Olympics.
  
  When it comes to the graphics, the graphics are pretty decent. Unfortunately when the gameplay 
 begins, and you start moving, the graphics decrease. It makes the game look a lot worse. Also, 
 I found that the frame rate of the game wasn't so good. For me, to experience a smooth frame rate, 
 I had to put the graphics to the lowest graphic settings as possible. And this is a new computer.
 
  
  One of the only things that makes this game fun is that you can go to multiplayer. In the multiplayer 
 section in the game, it's the same as singleplayer, except instead of challenging the computer 
 gang with the least creative names, you get to challenge your friends. It makes the game a bit 
 more fun, and you get a good feeling when you win way more medals than them. Unfortunately, there 
 is no split screen option available, even on the console version of this game. That means that 
 you can only play the event one at a time. This means that you must go one at a time. It loses 
 the hype of multiplayer gameplay, and makes the game less fun.
  
  When it comes to the basic gameplay of the game, it is pretty fun for a empty game such as this. 
 Even though there are only a couple of events, you still get a bit of gaming addiction into the 
 game. I have played the game for 2 days straight. This is because the games makes you want to get 
 better, so you practice until you master it. Although, after you master, you start to get bored 
 of the game. It becomes repetitive and boring, so you stop playing the game eventually.
  
  The bad feature of the game, is that all of the sports are practically having the same gameplay. 
 You press something, then you press another thing. And then you just move your character. The only 
 difference onto the type of gameplay is in speed skating. In that one, you actually go into a rythem. 
 Even that it was still absurd, they at least but a little variety onto the game.
  Let me tell you how you play ski jumping, and just watch how simple the game is. You start, balance 
 yourself, press a button to jump, and then keep balancing yourself until you land. As you can see, 
 the game is just too simple, and it's very boring.
  
  When it comes to the sound, it is a disgrace to all of the games ever made. Like the crowd. Each 
 time you reach a place with a crowd, you hear some yelling and applause that they do. When you 
 return to the finish line, you hear the exact same yelling and applause. It starts to get really 
 repetitive after the first 5 events. But it isn't over yet. The absolute worst thing in this game 
 is the commentary. The commentary is of 2 regular American guys, and they are just so annoying. 
 They keep saying the same thing over and over, and their comments are very boring. After an hour, 
 you get really annoyed with the sound, so you'll do what I did, just turn the speakers down so 
 you won't hear a thing.
  
  One of my theories that I made up about how the game is made will hopefull explain why the game 
 is so crappy. At like 2003, they decided just to get the Olympic game out of the way, so then they 
 can continue to create more average games. So, they had made this game in only a matter of a couple 
 of months, and then just put it onto the shelves when the date is right.
  
  For the final word, this game does provide some fun for the 8 events, but the game is really empty, 
 and left out a lot of the events. The sound is really bad as well. I suggest that you only rent 
 this game, and when you're a 100% sure you love the game, then you can get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casartelli
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Once,.. maybe twice a year... you'll play a game that seems "unfinished". Torino 2006 is such a 
 game.
  
  Sure,.. the game covers mutiple events, but nothing seems like real fun. All your opponents are 
 called "Computer 1" "Computer 2" etc.. and if you see someone from Italy finish first just before 
 you then don't be surprised if you win silver but the guy that wins gold is suddenly from the USA. 
 
  
  There are mutiple details that bother me. "Medal Plaza" seems wrong.. The 2nd spot is on the right 
 side in the game while it should be on the left side.
  
  The gameplay is horrible. Skiing seems impossible and all other events reminds me of "track and 
 field" ... This game is made for button bashers :)
  
  Don't expect anything from this game. No real names, no real jersey's, no national hymnes, no Olympic 
 medals (not even flowers) ...
  
  1 big disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Entor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  It's almost a rule that every sport event has it's video game so those who can only track the event 
 could also get their "five minutes" in this big moment in the world. Another rule is that every 
 olympic video game is criticised, I ask - why?
  
  Maybe "Torino 06 Olympic Games" is not brand-new production with multiple innovations but it has 
 something - it has a little bit of the olympic climate, a possibility to have great fun for a few 
 hours spent by computer or gaming console.
  
  The point that makes T06OG intresting an worthy playing is the best, old-type multiplayer - the 
 possibility to play Olympic Winter Games with friends and trying to "be the best".
  
  You can participate in 8 olympic disciplines which were made with some idea that makes you "want 
 play more". The key here is that the game is easy to control and it gives you a chance to take 
 part in more than one event with equal same fun.
  
  Graphics and audio aren't any innovative, but these are "in shape" - the key to everything is gameplay 
 that makes you blind for any disadvantages, the gameplay that is the heart and success of this 
 game. The question is if the reviewer's get blind also on the gameplay? No comments.
  
  Whatever anyone would say to me, I like T06OG and I think the game's made very good, with olympic 
 climate and makes it really a right game in right time. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountaingoatman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Torino 2006 is an excellent depiction of the Winter Olympics. With 9 different events and 15 sub 
 events there is plenty to do, without getting bored. 
  
  The graphics are excellent and are much more advanced than many games currently on the market.
 
  
  The game offers four game modes. Single event where players take on one sport, 15 event where all 
 events are tackled, 9 event where all main events are tackled and challenge mode where a variety 
 of challenges are faced.
  
  There are four difficulty levels (Easy, Intermediate, Hard, Very Hard) so there is a challenge 
 for everyone.
  
  Overall Torino 2006 is an excellent game that does not deserve all of its bad reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JankoiTom
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I like watching winter sports and I think that this game is a good way to spend some time, either 
 alone or with friends.
  
  The game contains 8 big disciplines which contain 15 smaller.
  
  The disciplines are fairly easy, but the bad side is that not all are inclueded.
  
  There 
 is no curling, snowboard, ice-hockey...
  
  I would reccomend buying the game, prefferably an illegal copy, cuz it is relatively short...
 
  
  Oh, yeah there are no real players... Shoot, no Janica Kostelic!!!
  
  Buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, 
 buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, buy, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: findecano85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  The Torina 2006 isn't as good as Athens 2004, but it's nice, It has a variety of different things 
 to do. The - of this game is that after you finished a level or series of challenges you dont get 
 any BIG salute... just a small one which you can accidently skip if you dont pay attention... All 
 in all, it's fun if you collect olympic games... Cause there aren't very much good winter games... 
 yet. I hope for someone to add figure skating and other stuff that's not in Torino 2006. Then you 
 just have to wait and see for the next winter game to come... In about 4 years... By then almost 
 everyone has PS3 so by then, the game will ROCK... I hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: addiv
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Considering there are very few games for the PC where you can play any of the  
 sports, it's always great to see another Olympic sports game released. Athens 2004 was a great 
 game, and Torino 06 is very much a similar kind of game, with many cool features. Unfortunately 
 it also still carries some of the not so great features Athens had.
  
  To start with the good points, the featured sports are all fun to play, quite easy to learn and 
 the graphics are good. The commentary is somewhat repetetive, but not any worse or more irritating 
 than in the Fifa series. The interface of the game is very good, it's very clear and incredibly 
 easy to use. The game is also very addictive (at least, until now. I've only had it for 2 days 
 and I already played it for more than 20 hours. Truth be told, it may therefore not be a very healty 
 game...) . I constantly find myself wanting to improve on my records, and I also still see a clear 
 progression in my playing, so although it may be quite easy to learn the basics of the gameplay, 
 there still is much room for improvement after that. 
  
  A minus is that there is not very much variation in the way you control the sportsmen. That might 
 make the game a little boring after a while, but the thrill of playing the sports and setting new 
 records more than makes up for it. 
  It's also too bad they didn't include more Olympic sports, although I've gotten used to that with 
 the Olympic games. There are 8 sports included, but there are several subcategories so there is 
 an acceptable amount of diversity. And since there are hardly any other games that allow you to 
 play these sports, let alone offer a wider diversity, I can't really blame Torino.
  
  Time will have to tell if the game will keep it's appeal to me in the next weeks. But considering 
 the fact that I only got slightly bored with Athens 2004 after about half a year of pretty intensive 
 playing I think I'll be enjoying Torino 06 for some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultra_35
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun to play. The graphics are good, the controls are easy to understand, you 
 don't need to destroy the keyboard like in other olympic games :) I'd say it's the best olympic 
 game until now, and it's something new for sports fans who don't have many chances of playing winter 
 sports on the computer.
  That being said, the game has some serious flaws. The biggest problem of the game is that you can 
 finish all the events in 30 to 40 minutes. Of course you will come back and replay them, but i 
 don't think you will be spending more than 10 hours (at most) on this game, so it's value is rather 
 low. Also, a minus is the commentary, which gets repetitive and boring.
  On the plus side, you can have multiplayer on the same computer, assuming that somebody wants to 
 play winter sports ;)
  I am recommending this game to all sports fans, but just don't expect a complex game; expect a 
 short and fun one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hape09
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Where to start!? 
  
  First the graphics:
  
  Graphics where honestly the only thing i liked about he game, the game was visually quite stunning, 
 even the crowds were passable.
  
  Sound:
  
  Being a cross country skiing fan i found the crowd voices ... wait i DID NOT find em, what was 
 up with that? Alright there was something after the finish. The commantery's where quite alright, 
 some interesting facts, but nothing extraordinary.
  
  Game play:
  
  Game play was passable, no major screw ups, although some events where a bit too easy and some 
 a bit too hard. Some interesting ways how to do sport games.
  
  Notes:
  
  Maximum 7 adversaries? well thats says it all: it is not worth your money.
  The only thing that 
 defines players besides you are countrys and as a major insult it only ahs about 30 countries. 
 I live in Estonia and i was HIGHLY offended that my country was not added, alright in winterolympics 
 we usually expect 1-3 medals which might not be very much, but that is no excuse. I want to compete 
 for my nations honor and i was supposed to play as a norwegian instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetxshots
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Now sure, olympic games are fun to play.... on some online-game sites... but as a retail game it 
 would have to inclue a couple of the Athletes in it for it to be worth it. Who in their wildest 
 mind wanted to come and play 8 games, using 20 athletes, venduring the game finished after 1 hour? 
 It makes no sense to release this game BEFORE THE WINTER OLYMPICS, whose going to play a game that's 
 ACTUALY going to happen in a few months? if anything release it after so players can atleast have 
 an emotional take on the results. At the end of day, this game is 
  A-not worth the $20 dollars and 
  B-POINTLESS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefChaz
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Selling this game for anything more than 5 would be a travesty. Although the idea of a winter 
 sports game (there seems to be a few cropping up at the moment) did appeal to me, but the game 
 plays too much like a console game relying on rythmic button bashing or even adjusting left and 
 right (in the bobsleigh) . As a game it can be pretty shortlived, though the graphics do impress 
 in some instances. I dare to say that watching this game being played is more enjoyable than playing 
 it oneself, as concentrating on the buttons detracts from watching the graphics. Multiplayer options 
 are available on the same platform, but its taken in turns. Would have been nice to have some split 
 screen modes in my opinion
  
  All in all I found this game to be a short waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProViking
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  1st when i try to play this i thought maybe i will get some snowboard;) not at all!!! no snowgorad!! 
 only whAt i liked was graphics, sceletons, bob, biatlon... only **** at all was ski... again... 
 lsft right, left right, left right, left right, as like rabit... dman **** it!!! why i want to 
 skate like a rabbit?? all time just push it and ply like;) who like it??? i dont! i dopnt think 
 many ppl like it! it was horrible bettew let me snow and and it all!!! who dont i need to ski like 
 stupid girl witch parens wants to ski!!! why?? i liked to gety hit to top up to !!!
  i liked mountain skiing;) it was fun;) get a trace as fast as u can;) but yeah!!! it was dificult 
 at all! its not typical EA game;) easy easy shit to me!!! as like Hardcore gamer to me;) i liked 
 bob itas fast FAST!!! rrealy fast but realy dificult to get 3rd place in normal;) its wery hard 
 game to normal players as like me! iu tooked normasl and took just 1!!! place in3rd position!! 
 man only 3rd possitoion!!! if i was wery best i woud took 1st place!!! i dont think anybody can 
 take1st pozition in hard!!! its impossible!! myabe possbisible, but only in serval distances and 
 only if you lucky... ok its not EA!!! but its TOO hard!!! man its impossible if you play every 
 new game!! of cuz you can train till best!! but are you dont get borin of it??? i get bored!!! 
 too hard!! better get in there live!!! get gold medal pf realy gettiing coolest snower snow sport!!! 
 than just play tyhis shsit!!!! its onlly moderated shit!!! toto hard!!! toooooooooooooooooooo!!! 
 HARD!!! deeloper think about another ppl! average player wont play this!!! its too hard!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Its a pretty fun game. I've played better but it is fun I really enjoy it. 
  Controls take about 15 20 mins to get down completely and some levels are alot harder then others 
 but it is definetley not the worse game out there it is actaully pretty fun. the bobsledding is 
 really good. not the best game out there but yes it is pretty fun. pretty good graphics and sound 
 Qaulity so they got some pretty cool parts the worse part of the game is skating.
  terrible controling for skating on this game.
  
  pretty good game rate it a B-.
  
  Thanks 
 guys. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
