-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tortuga - Two Treasures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tortuga/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Very simplistic action adventure, if you like that sort of thing.
 Reasonably interesting ship-to-ship combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very derivative and predictable.
 Dull mission objectives.
 No open-ended game world to explore.
 A few balance issues during combat.
 Atrocious voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 5.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 226 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Ascaron Ent. GmbH
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 12, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A pirate game fitting for Davy Jones's Locker. 

  Sid Meier has nothing to worry about. Even though Tortuga - Two Treasures is modeled after Meier's 
 Pirates! remake from 2004, the game is a poor copy in every respect. Where Meier's take on the 
 yo-ho-ho life was filled with open-ended adventures on the high seas, this Ascaron Entertainment 
 production is burdened with dull, linear missions that take the wind right out of your Jolly Roger. 
 Ship-to-ship combat is somewhat exciting due to some fresh options to set and trim sails, but everything 
 else is tedious, poorly designed, or both.  

          Fighting redcoats in old English ports never gets old, although the same can't be said 
 about this game's combat engine or difficulty balancing.     

  Step right up if you're looking for a formulaic pirate adventure. You play Thomas "Hawk" Blythe, 
 an 18th century buccaneer working to discover the legendary treasure hoard of Sir Henry Morgan 
 (no relation to the guy from  MASH , presumably) for the most infamous pirate of them all, Blackbeard. 
 While you don't sport an eye patch or a parrot, you've got a mysterious amulet hanging around your 
 neck and are outfitted with the Captain Jack Sparrow bandana, facial hair, and vaguely effeminate 
 airs. Toss in an exotic voodoo priestess spouting spiritual mumbo jumbo, the enigmatic connection 
 that Hawk has to a sultry English governor's daughter, and a few ghost ships and undead swashbucklers, 
 and you can check off the rest of the items on the pirate clich list. The only aspect of the story 
 not ripped off from Pirates! and  Pirates of the Caribbean  is ripped off from  Star Wars , as 
 Hawk occasionally lapses into a Han Solo imitation so complete that he calls the governor's daughter 
 princess a couple of times.  

  The plot here is only memorable because of its many problems. It begins during a sea battle without 
 the slightest preamble or cutscene to let you know what's going on, and it then skips all around 
 introducing characters, plot points, and events. You often feel like you're a step or two behind 
 the storyline, as if the developers left out every third cutscene. Logic goes right out the window 
 at times. At one point early on, Hawk takes a moment to warn voodoo-girl Sangua that she should 
 be careful because the English know she's a pirate. However, just minutes later, Hawk is shocked 
 to discover that the English are tailing Sangua out of the harbor, and he wonders if the redcoats 
 have somehow learned her secret pirate identity. Even worse, all of the game's dialogue is delivered 
 at a breakneck pace that is at first funny, and then annoying. While the quality of the script 
 is actually fairly good if you can overlook the clichs, actors deliver their lines in a rush, 
 but with a casual tone, so it sounds more like a rehearsal than a final take.  

  These tale tribulations make no difference to the gameplay, though, as Two Treasures is so predictable 
 that you could set your watch by it. This is a straightforward action adventure, where you're always 
 clicking bad guys to death in sword fights or circling enemy vessels at sea and laying into them 
 with cannons. Role-playing elements and any ability to freely roam the Spanish Main are totally 
 MIA, so you're stuck guiding Hawk from one mission to another. You're led by the hand to each objective 
 by bobbing arrows, and mission goals are as derivative as the plot and characters. You escape from 
 jail, set out to sink an enemy ship or three, kill a notorious scoundrel or three, and so on.  
 

  Scraps with land lubbers are clickfests, where you do the old "Have at thee!" routine and plunge 
 into the fray with sword a-flashing. Sea battles are a bit more inventive, in that you can set 
 or trim sails to change the speed and maneuverability of your ships, although engagements on the 
 waves still turn into overly familiar circle-and-shoot affairs nearly identical to those on display 
 in other recent piratical games like Pirates! and Age of Pirates: Caribbean Tales. And any dose 
 of reality added by sail rigging is immediately eliminated by the ability to sail over floating 
 power-up chests that let you repair your hull and sails on the fly.  

  Balance issues can make battles on land and sea even more annoying. Fights are generally either 
 way too easy or way too hard. You'll sail along, sometimes literally, from one clash to the next, 
 slaughtering the likes of solo English redcoats, and then suddenly run into a press-gang of baddies 
 that can carve you up in moments. This is a particular problem in land battles, as the game frequently 
 switches speeds from "no problem" to "how the heck am I supposed to kill nine guys?" Fleeing just 
 adds to your worries, as you only attract new enemies and seem to always automatically turn back 
 to face enemies even when trying to get the heck out of Dodge. Running generally just gets you 
 killed even faster than had you just stood your ground. You can somewhat deal with packs of goons 
 by using the special punches, kicks, and other attacks that you learn as the game goes on, but 
 you're still overwhelmed by numbers far too often.  

          Turn and shoot, turn and shoot. You know the drill.     

  A host of visual quirks also 
 gets in the way of sailing and fighting. Even though the game looks pretty good when you're out 
 on the seas, certain weather conditions reduce the water to almost featureless glass that tends 
 to hide shallows and reefs, which do huge amounts of damage to vessel hulls. These obstacles also 
 slow ships down, so already-damaged galleons can get stuck in these danger zones and then absorb 
 so much damage that they soon sink. Towns and the decks of enemy ships boarded at the end of sea 
 battles also look fairly respectable, but they are similarly hampered by camera angles that zip 
 around too much during battles. This issue is somewhat mitigated by the ability to freely rotate 
 the camera with the mouse, although angles are constantly messed up and reset during actions such 
 as enemy attacks.  

  You need to really love your yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum to enjoy Tortuga - Two Treasures. This 
 isn't a completely awful game, but you have to look high and low to find another one so derivative 
 and passionless. Especially one about pirates.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: descascaralho
Rating: 5
Date: May 6, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  
  So you want to be a pirate and travel around the world looking for treasures and getting drunk 
 and having epic sea batlles and ship boarding and all that??
  Well if you want all this forget it.. This game does not have any of it.. hell no game has it anyway.. But 
 if you want to be a pirate or closer to that you are much better of with "Sid Meirs Pirates. 
 
  
  Ok not everything in this game is bad.. The sea batlles are cool and easy the graphics are so and 
 so for a game that has been out in 2007 and the story is at the very least interesting.. Now the 
 real problem is that the game is from 2007..
  If the game was out in 2000 it would have been a good game.. not great but good.. So if the game 
 was just good in 2000 imagine now in 2007?? cmon nobody uses that clunky controles on a game nowdays.. The 
 3rd person fights and the camera are very bad... and the blood??? Wait a minute?? Is that blood 
 that cames out of the enemies??... Even the sea battles wich are cool but are very arcade like.. 
 and you can repair the ship anytime on the sea in one second as long as you have the apropriate 
 tools!!!
  
  Even if youre a pirate fan or watch "One Piece" I do not recomend this game.. BUT if you really 
 want to try it rent it first because you will not be the "Pirate King" with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGremlin1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  It appears the pirates robbed this pirate game of it's mystical value, yet some how it still manages 
 to keep me playing. Maybe its the fact that I don't really have to think while playing the game. 
 The video clips do not match the captions which do not match the narrations. This leads me to believe 
 that either the budget ran out or the developers were in too much of a rush to finish the details 
 properly. The on land combat leaves much to be desired with very little control over the combat 
 moves of the pirate, and quite honestly, a bit to simplistic. I still however enjoy running the 
 enemy ships over the reefs when in a dinghy. The story line is as predictable as a James Bond movie. 
 The graphics could have been better considering the game was released in 2007, and I find them 
 incredibly disappointing. I have games that are 5 years old with better graphics. My overall opinion 
 of the game is broken down into three parts; One, for just plain fun, I rated it as 6.7, two from 
 technical development , a 3.2, and thirdly the challenge, a 3.6. Giving and overall rating of 4.5. 
 Basically, if you want a pirate game that is not complex and a bit of fun, then this is your game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 29, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Tortuga: Two Treasures puts you in the shoes of Thomas Blythe, Hawk for short. Hawk is a young 
 pirate at the service of the famous (and infamous) Blackbeard, searching for the long lost treasure 
 of Henry Morgan. But pirates are treacherous creatures, and Hawk eventually finds himself betrayed, 
 arrested and waiting to be executed shortly after his adventure begins.
  
  The game takes place in the 18th Century Caribbean, and starts you off right in the middle of a 
 naval combat situation. This is basically your typical tutorial to get acquainted with the controls: 
 arrow keys to move, mouse clicks to fire. I can do that , I thought, as I turned my ship around 
 to try and sink those pesky English officers. And right away I was totally taken in by the landscape, 
 the water effects, the crew moving around all over the deck and my efforts to place my ship side 
 by side with the other one.
  
  Your goal is to fire at the enemy ship and weaken its hull by using whatever weapons you have handy 
 and your maneuvering abilities to position your ship properly to do the most damage possible. You 
 hear cannons firing and tons of screaming while this happens. To control the speed of your ship, 
 you learn to raise and lower your sails in turns: raise a few, raise some more and you're full 
 speed ahead. Lower a few to slow down, lower them all to come to a stop. As for Hawk, combat on 
 foot doesn't necessarily have to rely on swashbuckling alone. He can use pistols and a sort of 
 Molotov cocktail (bottles to light on fire) , and he learns new moves as he levels up . There are 
 also health-restoring potions you can use. A nice added touch to picking up gold dropped from enemies 
 is the cemetery bonus. Kill a ton of people in the same spot and watch as their tombstones appear 
 on the ground. Attract a few more to that same spot and get a gold bonus for your killing spree. 
 I personally don't mind button-mashers, especially when there's a lot of action involved with tons 
 of enemies at once, so you can imagine how pleased I was with the simplicity of the controls.
 
  
  Tortuga balances both naval and on-foot combat well, but for those expecting something more complicated 
 and immersive in terms of controls, you will grow tired of the easy clicking soon enough.
  
  It's a shame that Tortuga: Two Treasures doesn't offer a bit more of exploration and side-quests. 
 I would have loved to be able to break the barrels and crates that we find in towns, knock down 
 some doors and ransack some houses, maybe kill some villagers in the process you know, pirating 
 it up a notch! Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=tortuga2treasures 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  If you live in a city and drive a car, you might know a bit about what this game is all about. 
 Picture this: traffic.... six lanes of traffic.... you were driving along happily not moments ago 
 until you were suddenly brought to a near complete halt..... uh oh, must be an accident up ahead, 
 you think to yourself. You spend the next hour in your car, accomplishing a distance of about 3 
 miles. And then without any reason, the traffic clears and everything is back to normal..... no 
 accident, no destruction, no tragic saga at which one might rubberneck. Nothing. The only difference 
 between this scenario and Tortuga, is that Tortuga can be exited at any time and uninstalled. Don't 
 you get it man? That's time you'll never get back... for god's sake man! Don't waste valuable time 
 with this.... this.... whatever it is....
  
  next window please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themesmith
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  The best part about this is the sea battles the 3rd person combat stinks the camera control for 
 this end of the game is none and every now and then the game will crash I have not tried the sid 
 meyers game but I have been considering it I like the idea that you can change your cannon balls 
 really cool and the swarms of sharks that prey on the poor souls that get blown over board is neat 
 kind of borrowed from Disney's pirates of the Caribbean on some points in the game the map ,compass 
 you'll see the kracken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msymms
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I have always been in love with pirate themed games, so I was excited to see another take on these 
 genre. I was extremely disappointed. This game has about as much to do with swashbuckling as Playboy 
 has to do with quilting. I found the initial combat to be long, boring, and extremely void of any 
 action. Once I was able to be make it through that, the storyline was weak until I got to the point 
 of wiping it from the hard drive. Total playtime was 3 hours and fifteen minutes, and I am bitter 
 I spent that much time on this dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I must say that I expected a little bit better game. You will find that Tortuga-Two Treasures is 
 pretty much based on the second movie Pirates of the Caribbeans. In my opinion, because of that 
 I didn't like so much this game.
  
  Graphics: Maybe the best thing in the game. Sea and ships are quite good, so as the sea battles. 
 Land are and characters maybe should be a little bit better. Even on the high performance, graphic 
 is not excellent.
  
  Sound: Sound is good. On the sea you can hear waves, sounds of cannons etc. On the land you hear 
 sound of battle, running, pistols etc.
  
  Control: Sea and land controls are good. On the sea you can see quite good other ships, and on 
 the land you have good control over the character.
  
  Well, if you like pirates games, you will find this game amusing .. and nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Three words may be used to describe this game.
  
  Short, brainless &amp; just plain awful! Well OK, 5 words!
  
  I honestly wasnt expecting much, 
 it seems no one can make a truly complete, polished and open-ended first person Pirate game. If 
 its not bad graphics, its lack of depth. If the navigable area isnt full of nonexistent locations, 
 its limited to just a few places to trade. If the economic model isnt screwed up it missing altogether. 
 If the character isnt limited to just a few RPG choices, it has no individuality or personality 
 at all. If the interface isnt ported over from a console and the icons arent HUGE the menus are 
 poorly designed. THERES ALWAYS AT LEAST ONE THING WRONG with pirate RPG games... BUT OH BROTHER, 
 this game seems to have taken the cake!
  
  What did the developers say to themselves? Chief Of design: - OK people. Heres what were going 
 to do. We are going to take a look at everything Pirate fans hate in their Pirate games and put 
 it all in a bag for them!
  
  Short storyline.. Wait! Did I say there was a storyline?
  Outdated graphics.
  Simplistic Naval battles. A ridiculous purchasing system that places limits 
 on an already limited purchasing system.
  NO TRADE.
  NO REAL LOCATIONS or possibility of getting there.
  NONEXISTENT land battles.
  No weapon variety. 
 No good weapons at all.
  No Ship upgrades.
  STUPID NPC AI.
  NPC partners that NEVER DIE no matter how bad you play.
  An absolutely VERTICAL game without 
 the slightest chance to stray even a little bit from the STUPID HORRID REMARKABLY CHILDISH storyline!
 
  
  Ascaron, SHAME ON YOU! Dont DO THIS to us! Your other games are truly remarkable.. But this? THIS 
 IS A PIECE OF S#! T!
  
  I was actually able to get my money back on this purchase. I just claimed I had a MAC and didnt 
 know better... Hey if they can get away with slapping a price tag on this hunk of junk, I can get 
 away with claiming MAC folks are stupid! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markwal
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Everything in Tortuga two treasures is completely scripted. Being a pirate is living a life of 
 freedom but in the two treasures there is no freedom. The only good thing I can say about this 
 game is the graphics and sound is great. It also has all the components in it to make a great free 
 play game I hope they do. If you look back at Ascaron history there is a good chance for a good 
 free play game. After all Tortuga was nothing more than port royale without trade, So maybe we 
 could see a new Port Royale that is free play and based on the two treasures graphic engine that 
 would be nice.:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mengzor
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  The game starts off reasonably well , on a pirate ship and such and you engage in some naval combat. 
 Then as soon as you board or arrive on land [both of which you WILL have to do since this game 
 has apparently never heard of the term 'Free roam' which could have essentially saved its ass] 
 you will realise just how bad this game is , the combat system is laughable and could have essentially 
 been thought up by a 6 year old. I back this fact up with that my 8 year old brother watched me 
 playing it and reminded me that im only pressing one button.
  This becomes a problem as a fair portion of the game comes from this sort of land walking / fighting 
 stuff. Even when in a boat , you sail you shoot down and then you have to board - the board is 
 of course walking around mashing the mouse button repeatedly until the captain dies.
  
  The good:
  Graphics are fairly decent
  The Bad:
  Ship sailing , no freeroam.
  The Ugly:
 
  Everything else. Controls , animation , voice acting , movies ,sound ,characters the list goes 
 on and on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all - as always, I'm very fond of pirates games and this really peaked my intrested when 
 I first saw it. It looked good on screenshots and everything sounded intresting. How was I to know 
 better?
  
  Well, I must begin to tell you how deeply disappointed I was when I realized that the game was 
 nothing but plain stupid. The story is silly and the gameplay is even worse. The only thing that 
 made it worthwhile was the half-decent sea battles - they managed to somehow contain a little realism 
 to make it OK.
  
  Another thing worth mentioning is how slow the game went even on my computer: 4200+ X2, 1024 DDR2 
 667, GeForce 7900GT 256DDR3. I didn't manage to get decent graphichs when I put everything to highest 
 and it lagged. It didn't seem to look any worse by lowering the settings, although the lagg was 
 less. It wasn't very optimized, so to speak.
  
  What really made me lose all hope in this game was when I had played abit and got released out 
 of prison, an hour or so in the game or less. There were about 20-30 guards around and there was 
 no way, and I mean, no way for me to try to sneak out somehow - I had to fight them all - including 
 some halfbaked captain that came in later. I laughed over its sillyness. Horrible. And there wasn't 
 even a challenge doing so.
  
  Every cutscene was out of sync and the voice acting is terrible. I mean if you really want to play 
 a pirate game - wouldn't you make the pirates talk a little bit more piratish and not make them 
 sound... well.. just irriating considering the theme of the game. Also they could've skipped the 
 rewarding system after every mission. It makes the game feel so darn boring and just that you have 
 to wait to another boring mission to begin lowers it even more.
  
  There is simply nothing that made me going about this game and once again I can't say that this 
 is a good game - cause it isn't. There is not one thing about this game that make it worth playing. 
 I will now recommend the superb game Pirates! by Sid Meier which is so much better than this.
 
  
  Thanks for listening - if you did so. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbispdy
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  hmmm, very good Graphics and sound but its soooo easy (i have finished it in 6 hours!!!) killing enemy 
 was so easy.......... Sid Meiers Pirates its much, much better than this...
  the game main story its a chain of missions that i have no problem to get to the next one (one of 
 the ways to sink enemy ships is to get them to shallow waters.... lol ) . The land battles was the 
 easiest part of the game as with 3 slashes you can get a bunch of enemys with no loss of health.....
 
  Of course the Publisher and the Developer Company didn't play this game at all???? Many weakeness 
 at gameplay... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cirkelinespark
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Seriously a bad game, very unrealistic. The game is too linear, you have zero freedom, it's a very 
 limited gameplay experience you ask me. There's no really trading system. You can buy stuff yes, 
 but can't sell anything since you can't plunder the ships-&gt;&gt; Can you belive that ****
  A Total let down, what's a pirate game if you can't plunder ? You get gold for accomplishing goals 
 sure, but you can hardly call that a plunder 
  
  Land fights are a joke, all you do is click the attack button and you win, a freaking 2 year old 
 child could do this! This game requires no brains. This game is the kind you play once and throw 
 away because you go through the same old shit everytime.
  
  Only cool thing about this game is the graphics on sea (not on land!) pretty decent story and the 
 ship fights. Rest is a dissapointment.
  
  Save your money for something more interesting, really! IMO stay the hell away from this POS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  Firstly, the game is really linear, you have a mission and you do it (nothing else like wandering 
 around, speaking with characters etc) .
  
  The game is split in chapters and subchapters, in each one you have a mission which fits in to 
 the bigger story. The subchapters have between little movies which tell you the story and fill 
 in the action, all movies are interesting and looks good - I liked that.
  
  The storyline is quite good, the missions are logical and related to big picture, and characters 
 are attractive.
  
  The gameplay is simple, maybe too simple. On ship: you can sink other ships (one button to shoot 
 with your cannons) , navigation is ok but wind has no influence on ship speed. You can throw exploding 
 barrels or summon a sea monster - but don't expect anything spectacular.
  
  On land: just slash enemies  no jump or walk (just run) or sneak, 
 there are a few attack combinations but not quite useful (nothing fancy) . You have potions for 
 health, one hit pistol and some hard-to-use flaming bottle.
  
  Graphics are ok but nothing special (or worth mentioning) , movies fit very well in the game. Only 
 one funny thing, during battle people comes overboard and they are eaten by sharks if you don't 
 save them in time.
  
  There is really no 'growing' feeling during the game so while you advance in game it will become 
 repetitive and kind of boring but at least you have the story to watch and entertain you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Having quite an interest in this sort of era I usually pick up the new titles that come out involving 
 said era. I suppose the first thing is to catagorically state that this game is in no way meant 
 to be a rival to games such as Sid Meiers Pirates and Age of Pirates Caribbean Tales, what i do 
 I mean by this?. Well simply put this game isnt open ended, there is no freedom to explore or role 
 play and the styles of play are very different. So I will not compare the two styles as it wouldnt 
 really be fair to this game as it will come up short every time. Yes if you are looking for another 
 SM's Pirates or an updated version then look else where this isnt the game for you. Tortuga Two 
 Treasures is a story book kind of game. Its essentially a linnear based story with pretty minimal 
 player input it has to be said, or at least the game can be completed with minimal player input. 
 As stories go its nothing new, although it is still interesting, but in places it sort of digress's 
 from the main plot into short and pointless tangents in an effort to extend the overall plot, which 
 isnt fooling anyone.
  
  Gameplay: And I use that term with much chagrin, unfortunately the gameplay segments of this game 
 are not much of a challenge and not very original. Land based seqences are mindless hack, slash 
 and dash and really dont require alot of skill or thought. Its more or less get from A to B and 
 kill everything that moves along the way. And the sea (ship to ship) based sequences arent much 
 better, I think to try to make the game more challenging or involving, you will find yourself out 
 numbered at least three to one in most cases sometimes more and on land you will take on entire 
 ships companies by yourself (so dont expect any realism with this game, but its a story after all) . 
 I found that the majority of sea battles can easily be won by simply circling reefs and shallows, 
 as the A. I has no intelligence and will pathfind the shortest route to get to you, which yes you 
 guessed it means they will run aground over the shallows just to get to you, bang goes any sort 
 of tactical or challenging involvement. One of the most annoying factors of the game is that the 
 developers have made it in such a way that the game will lead you by the nose through pretty much 
 everything you need to do, its sort of like one giant tutorial, at no point will you need to think 
 about what to do next or how to do it the game reveals all as you go along. This would be great 
 if you didnt have a mind of your own but it kind of feels like being back at school and constantly 
 lectured by your teacher, only you arent allowed to make any mistakes. The plot has been written 
 into a mission based game which while fairly lengthy in itself, the missions can be beaten very 
 qucikly so it tends to be a lot more watching rather than alot more playing. Im not going to go 
 into the plot iteslf because if I did there really wouldnt be any reason for you to buy this game. 
 Ok in short the gameplay is poorly thought out, over simplified and totally lacking in originality, 
 3.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are fantastic well i suppose there has to be something to appeal to gamers, 
 the backgrounds and beautifully made and varied (well as varied as pictures of sea can get ;) ) 
 the models and animations are well done, although the characters move a little oddly at times especially 
 when running. The cut scenes are frequent and interesting to watch. There isnt really much that 
 can be faulted with the graphics the game looks good but could have perhaps done with more detail 
 but otherwise, 8.
  
  Sound: The sound is adequte and relevant, one thing I noticed was that quite frequently the speech 
 doesnt match the subtitles, which for me isnt a big deal but it could be for some. Perhaps a little 
 more play testing should have noted things like this as they arent difficult to spot, maybe its 
 more a case of them wanting to cut back or changes to the script but if revisions were made then 
 they should have compensated for that. One thing I found quite annoying was the voice talent or 
 lack of it, for some reason nearly every charater you come across has an american accent, why?, 
 even the native west indian characters surely it wouldnt have been politically incorrect to give 
 the characters real accents. As thats the only reason I can think of for not going with real accents. 
 The music is good and adds to the atmosphere, which if it werent so thin could have been quite 
 dramatic at times, 6.
  
  Value: Well if you like interactive short story books and feel that its worth the expenditure then 
 its up to you, I cant help but feel dissapointed. In short its nothing more than a vaguely interesting 
 short story with little or no replay value, once you have read a book you've read it. Another superficial 
 game based soley on graphics and not much else, if you enjoy things like pop culture the fashion 
 industry or any fad in general then this might kill a few hours for you otherwise hard a starboard 
 and save your broad side for a real target (sorry I just couldnt get through this with out at least 
 one naval analogy) . Just another run of the mill bottom shelf title, 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Pretty good.. The sea portion of the game has fairly nice looking graphics, and the game 
 runs quite well for me. The land portion of the game, however, has fairly awful graphics that would 
 compare to probably.. BF1942. That's unacceptable for today's games.
  
  Controls: The controls feel great for the sea battles, but things can get kind of annoying when 
 you're on the land-fighting mode.
  
  Gameplay: Overall decent, but I don't care for the linear feel. I wish the game was more free-roam 
 like sid meier's pirates, but instead you're stuck with a linear story line and basically zero 
 freedom. It also feels like the mission (sea) battles are constricted a lot, because you'll get 
 turned around if you hit a border of the 'map' (even though you're just heading out to open sea) . 
 The land part of the game kinda sucks for gameplay, and the fights are either too easy or too hard 
 (depending on the difficulty you play) .
  
  Sound: Meh, I'm a graphics junkie so sound doesn't really matter to me, no complaints here.
  
 
  Overall: I'd probably not advise buying this game.. Save your money and spend it on something upcoming 
 &amp; better, like C&amp; C 3 or Test Drive Unlimited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brilhasti
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Tortuga has a little bit of an arcade game feel to it. The ships move quite fast and there's not 
 a ton of emphasis on realism.
  
  The ship combat is quite a bit more entertaining than the land game in my opinion. There doesn't 
 seem to be much more strategy to the ground combat than swinging your sword as quickly as possible.
 
  
  There was a lot more story to the game than I'd expected but it's quite a good one, albeit loaded 
 with clich&eacute;.
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyone who's looking for a fairly simply but entertaining game, or anyone 
 who's a big fan of the pirate life. If you want a serious challenge or realism you'll need to look 
 elsewhere though. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
