-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Total Overdose: A Gunslinger's Tale in Mexico
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/overdose/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots and lots and lots and lots of shooting people in the face.
 Completely insane special moves.
 Delightfully rough-and-tumble soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Brain-dead storyline.
 Mostly repetitive missions are made less so only by how easy and brief the whole game is.
 Mostly unattractive graphics--lots of glitches and bugs.
 Not enough available ammo for weapons.
 The words .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,066 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Deadline Games
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Sep 27, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Action game fans ought to be able to settle in and blast their ways through Total Overdose's relatively 
 brief campaign with reasonable levels of enjoyment. Just be prepared for one extremely cheesy ride. 
 

  Rarely has a game reveled in its own crapulence the way that Total Overdose: A Gunslinger's Tale 
 in Mexico does. Taking the concept of a stylish, violent third-person shooter to the height of 
 hyperactive instability, Total Overdose is an all-out celebration of all things gun. Bullets fly 
 with reckless abandon, bodies pile up to an almost alarming degree, and all the while you're pulling 
 off the kinds of acrobatic maneuvers that would make Keanu Reeves say, "Woah." Of course, it's 
 also all been done before. From playing Total Overdose, you get the feeling that the developers 
 at Deadline Games had an awful lot of affection for the Grand Theft Auto and Max Payne games and 
 that they may have watched one too many Robert Rodriguez movies late at night. That's because the 
 main character plays just like Max Payne, the world around him operates just like the one in Grand 
 Theft Auto, and the storyline plays out like a script Rodriguez might have written early in his 
 career, before he knew what he was doing. Because it's made up of so many familiar parts, action 
 game fans ought to be able to settle in and blast their ways through Total Overdose's relatively 
 brief campaign with reasonable levels of enjoyment. Just be prepared for one extremely cheesy ride, 
 and to sift through a few serious flaws as well.  

          If being a DEA agent actually involved this much shoot dodging and blowing stuff up, everybody 
 would want to be one.     

  The story of Total Overdose is cut from the kind of heavy-on-the-gunplay, light-on-the-drama cloth 
 made famous in 1980s-era action films. Ramiro Cruz is an ex-convict and all-around screwup. His 
 twin brother works for the DEA. Ramiro's twin is injured while working undercover, right as he's 
 about to get in with some rather powerful drug lords down in Mexico. In a twist that plays like 
 a vaquero movie version of the Anthony Hopkins/Chris Rock vehicle  Bad Company , Ramiro is brought 
 in to replace his brother so he can get in with the shady dealers. About a billion bullets, bodies, 
 and busts later, you're dealing with crooked DEA agents, big-time drug deals, and a revenge plot 
 about who really killed Ramiro's former-DEA-agent father. None of this means a thing, mind you. 
 The plot here is merely a vehicle for you to get out and start shooting things. What little storyline 
 exists here is largely turned irrelevant by the incredibly cheesy voice acting and writing, so 
 there's no real opportunity to care about any of these people. But that suits the game just fine, 
 since you'll be too busy killing everybody to bother caring about them.  

  What makes Total Overdose more than just another dull shoot-'em-up is the ludicrousness of its 
 action. There isn't a kilo of realism to be found anywhere in this game... a fact flaunted at every 
 opportunity by the insane acrobatic moves Ramiro can pull off for seemingly no reason other than 
 because they're fun. Like Max Payne, Ramiro can shoot-dodge in bullet time while pumping tons of 
 rounds into bad guys within a split second's time, all the while bouncing off walls and spinning 
 around like a man possessed. These moves all play into a points rating that judges the different 
 maneuvers you pull off and earns you points you'll need to complete missions. It's a neat system, 
 but it's hindered by the most obnoxious aspect of the game, which (oddly enough) is the naming 
 system for said moves. Moves are named the cheesiest things possible, like "Gringo loco!" and the 
 oft-repeated "Spicy move!" In fact, you'll hear the words "spicy move" so often throughout the 
 game that after a while a small piece of you will die inside every time it's uttered.  

  Thankfully, the basic shooting is reasonably satisfying. You're given plenty of different weapons 
 with varying degrees of effectiveness. Fully automatic guns pump more rounds, but they also lack 
 accuracy. Pistols are accurate, but they lack punch. Assault rifles tend to offer the best of both 
 worlds. Rocket and grenade launchers? Well, you can imagine the level of destruction they inflict. 
 If there's any complaint to be made here, it's that you often get the short shrift on ammo. There 
 are upgrades you can earn throughout to give each gun type more available ammo. But even then, 
 in a game this silly -- where it's all about highly unrealistic action -- you'd think the developer 
 might have been a touch more generous with the ammunition. As it is, it's far too easy to run out 
 of ammo for all guns very quickly, forcing you to constantly run around to pick up weapons off 
 fallen enemies, which can be a risky affair in the middle of a firefight.  

  Ramiro can also earn a number of wacky special moves that border on comedic. Simply press a button 
 and one of several select moves will occur, ranging from a kooky jumping spin move with dual Uzis 
 blazing, to the appearance of an angry Mexican wrestler who will aid you by attacking any nearby 
 enemies. Don't question it, because you'll absolutely despise this game if you try to put much 
 thought into it. If you're willing to roll with the crazy Mexican wrestlers, the exploding piatas, 
 and the move called "El Mariachi," which straight-up gives you the Antonio Banderas-style "guns 
 in the guitar cases" from the titular Robert Rodriguez film (though they should have called it 
 "Desperado," since that's the actual film the move is from) , Total Overdose can be a hysterical 
 romp (though often unintentionally so) .  

  Don't expect Total Overdose to be an especially challenging piece of work though, because it fails 
 miserably in this regard. The enemy artificial intelligence borders on damaged. Bad guys will sometimes 
 run around in circles, shooting at nothing in particular, or they'll get stuck in parts of the 
 scenery. The only time they're at all hard is when there are just too many of them, and even then 
 you can enact the game's "rewind" feature to just reverse time back a few seconds to avoid whatever 
 bullet killed you a moment ago. Ramiro's special moves can also be abused to almost depressing 
 levels. All it takes is one bout of El Mariachi to blow away just about any boss, without taking 
 any damage yourself. Not that you need to cheat like this, since most bosses can be beaten just 
 as easily with some nifty shoot dodging, but even still, exploits like this are prevalent throughout 
 the game.  

  Total Overdose's Grand Theft Auto inspirations come from the vision of Mexico that the developer 
 has created for you to play around in. The city you work in is largely open-ended, with plenty 
 of pedestrians, ancillary traffic, buildings, and multiple locales, which unfortunately can't be 
 jumped to without some load times. Additionally, these locations are also often difficult to find, 
 since the in-game map is absolute garbage. As you wander around, you can look around for hidden 
 bonuses and items, or you can just shoot the hell out of anyone who crosses your path. Unlike in 
 GTA, though, there are really no consequences for your actions. Some cops might show up, but that's 
 as far as it escalates, which effectively turns the process into a pretty dull affair. You get 
 your missions by driving to icons located on the aforementioned terrible map, though it's at least 
 good enough to denote the difference between a story mission and a side mission.  

  Side missions are mostly secondary and optional, though there are a few instances where you'll 
 be required to do one or two side missions before the next story mission is available. Most of 
 these are pretty simple "kill everyone in sight," checkpoint race, or "blow up a few burrito carts 
 filled with cocaine" types of things, but they're fun enough for what they need to be. The story 
 missions are longer and much more involved, often with multiple sections and plenty of heavy combat 
 against drug runners, border patrol officers, and just about anyone else who might cross your path. 
 The game is absolutely rife with save points, though, so you'll almost never find yourself having 
 to repeat a lengthy section of the game. However, in the rare instance that you do, it's super-annoying. 

  There are also plenty of vehicles in the game, and they easily represent the least fun you'll have 
 with any aspect of the gameplay. The cars handle in a very squirrelly manner, like the General 
 Lee on a greased hockey rink or something. Fortunately, apart from the occasional checkpoint race, 
 it's rare that you'll have to drive for more than a short distance. Often, cars are simply an optional 
 means to an end, rather than a required piece of equipment for a mission. That's good, because 
 if you had to drive for long bouts with these absolutely atrocious driving physics, you'd break 
 the disc in half before you got anywhere near the end of the game.  

  Total Overdose certainly has style, but this isn't a particularly good-looking game. The character 
 models are drab and blocky, and they don't animate as smoothly as they ought to. The rare exceptions 
 are the style moves, but even they can be occasionally weird-looking. The cities are better-looking, 
 and there are plenty of colorful set pieces decorating the background. However, the things going 
 on in the background are frequently ugly. People dive out of the way of cars that aren't anywhere 
 near them, cars will sometimes drive onto pieces of the scenery and get stuck there, and all manner 
 of other little crazy glitches will go on -- especially if you're involved in gunplay. The three 
 versions of the game are all comparable, with only the PlayStation 2's lackluster frame rate setting 
 it a notch or two lower than the rest. The PC game also does have a tendency to chug a bit, but 
 it's marginal at most.  

          Total Overdose has style. But substance? Forget about it.     

  The game's sound manages 
 to be both better and worse all at once. The voice acting, as mentioned before, is awful, though 
 perhaps intentionally so. All the dialogue is terribly cheesy, and the actors ham it up to the 
 nth degree. The credits list a number of Latino actors as playing the parts here, but most of them 
 overdo the accents and slang so ludicrously that it all sounds forced and poorly stereotyped. However, 
 the soundtrack is, in a word, tough. Featuring a smattering of songs from Latino rap group Delinquent 
 Habits and Mexico City rap-metal group Molotov, the music complements the hard-edged tone of the 
 game perfectly. What's more, a number of action sequences kick in with random bits of traditional 
 flamenco guitars and upbeat mariachi tunes. Surprisingly, the jauntiness of these tracks sets a 
 delightfully comedic contrast to the shooting, and it just plain works. The sound effects for the 
 weapons, explosions, and whatnot are all effective enough, so you won't get any shortage of thunderous 
 booms and bullet-riddled screams throughout the experience.  

  Total Overdose is one of those games that presents a conundrum. Most people shouldn't buy it, as 
 it's far too short, too patently ridiculous, and too weak outside of its combat to be worth the 
 money. Conversely, the game's utterly ludicrous nature makes for a fairly entertaining ride at 
 times, and the shooting can be quite fun. Shooter fans on the hunt for something brainless and 
 easy, but with lots of stylish gunplay, should certainly rent Total Overdose just to see how bananas 
 the whole thing is. Those with slightly more-discerning tastes ought to just leave well enough 
 alone and look elsewhere for their needs.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (61 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: STR33TFiR3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  Total overdose is one of the games that is shockingly good. Well it is another GTA clone, but the 
 tricks up its sleeve makes it much more fun and addictive to play.
  
  So you are a american-mexican bad boy trying to search for a mysterious figure Papa Muerte who 
 killed and defamed your father, a DEA agent. You have some great abilities like shootdodge, and 
 bullet time and combining them, you can perform great combos like walk on the wall and etc. Performing 
 them one after another gives you combo bonus. And the best point is that they are very easy and 
 intuitive to perform.
  
  Some side tasks will keep you busy, and they are great fun as well. Getting more points in them 
 will unlock bonuses, so you will likely repeat them.
  
  Graphics and voice acting are not great, but you can look over those faults. And some funny quips 
 by your character are really fun to hear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TattoomanSLB
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game is nice, funny and full of action with some good ideas and easy missions.
  The only thing i really dislike was the graphics, average quality, should be improved in future sequel, wich 
 i thing this game deserves.
  You can drive every vehicle you find, despise the low variety of vehicles. Ive only find ONE motorcycle 
 in all game.
  Not a GREAT game (like GTA series) , but worth to play, specially if youve already finnished all 
 your other games. The first missions are boring, but then the game will improve a lot. This can easilly 
 be called "GTA-Mexico City" with lots of  and lots of weapons 
 for you to use while exploring the areas.
  If you understand Spanish, youll love some comentaries and songs. Dont pay more than 15.00$ (10.00) 
 for this one, i got mine in a magazine for 5 .
  Nice gaming to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rammsteingamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Total Overdose tries to follow gtas open world strategy, but of course it doesnt succeed.
  And i say this for various reasons, first of all, one of the first things i noticed was that Deadline 
 Games didnt put as much work on this game as it needed. We can see people popping up in the middle 
 of the street, just respawning in front of us, and then disappearing, and then reappearing again...
 
  The controls, especially in the vehicles are really disappointing, even more if we compare it 
 to gta games, gta 3 was quite older and it offered way better controls...
  The graphics arent bad, nothing amazing but ok , they give the game that Mexican look it tries 
 to have...
  The sound isnt bad, there are some interesting tracks on the games radios, although the voice 
 acting isnt that great; the gun sounds are good .
  Out of vehicles the game runs quite better with shooting being satisfactory and fun, especially 
 with the called "loco moves" ( meaning crazy moves ) , where we can do a spin like attack killing 
 all enemies at the same time, or have two guitar cases as machine guns in a move calledel mariachi 
 ", and a few more of these moves that are as much fun, as they are unreal...
  Total Overdose is a game not to be taken serious, it is always joking around, but i think the producers 
 should have taken it more seriously; because playing a game that the only thing we do in it is 
 shooting guys, begins to get pretty boring soon enough...
  With more work on it Total Overdose could have been a great game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  First things first: I had a blast with Total Overdose. It's been sitting on my shelf for over a 
 year and I finally decided to give it a shot. It definitely has its problems, but the style is 
 so explosive I was quick to forgive some of its shortcomings, if not all. It demonstrates every 
 facet any Robert Rodriguez fan would want -as stated on the back of the box- including flair, a 
 decent story, and lots of face-shooting. And by lots, I really mean it's fair to say that's all 
 Total Overdose is: finding the next enemy and putting hot metal in his eye sockets. But is that 
 necessarily a bad thing?
  
  Unfortunately for Deadline Games and Total Overdose, the answer to that question is a resounding 
 "yes." You might not notice it until the last three missions, but the "Loco" stunts and gunplay 
 are amateurish at best and serve up a frustrating platter of undeserved deaths. (Spoilers ahead 
 and for the rest of the review) For example, in the final mission players are tasked with blasting 
 through a speeding train (not unlike the original Soldier of Fortune, although it's fairly obvious 
 which did it better...) . This isn't inherently bad, but to succeed, you must employ the "Loco" 
 moves -which is fundamentally bullet time with some extra bells and whistles- heavily. Too bad 
 using them can easily vault you from the train to an instant death, or directly into a grenade, 
 or, did I mention shooting you straight off the train? Oh right; I did, because it happens every 
 thirty seconds. Even more frustratingly, every enemy is armed with grenades, rocket launchers, 
 and heavy artillery -along with body armor which sucks every bullet fired into a vortex of empty 
 space. Literally, I can fire two whole clips of bullets into a non-boss enemy and he will still 
 live, pumping my frail human flesh full of lead. Fair? Of course not. Fun? Hell no. More times 
 than I care to remember I flung my mouse in the air and shout-spitted extensive strings of foul 
 language into the monitor, fully wanting to seek the lead designer of Deadline Games and force 
 him to play his own three levels. But I got up, paced around for a minute or so, and got back to 
 business a little calmer.
  
  It's too bad the final three missions are so atrocious because the levels preceding them are so 
 well done. For the next story mission to unlock, players must complete one of the "optional" quests 
 located around town. Sometimes, these are more fun than the real missions because of their simplicity 
 and ease. I met with an officer of the law and he tasked me with exterminating sombrero sellers 
 who trafficked drugs. Another agent assigned me with eradicating snack carts who also moved contraband. 
 I cleared out gangs from bars, raced around a junkyard, and utilized a forklift to save a dock 
 worker's car. Story missions are excellent as well -excluding the final three. I blasted my way 
 into a marijuana farm and took out the cultivating towers before hijacking the boss' speed racer. 
 I re-stole a convoy of eighteen wheelers from a shipyard, then sank a massive transport vessel. 
 I shot my way through ancient temple ruins before making a quick getaway. I gunned down M16-toting, 
 bikini-clad buxom women defending an overweight, speedo-clad boss. Even the final three missions 
 -said ancient temple complex, gunning into and out of the DEA headquarters, and blasting up a speeding 
 train- are well designed if sown with cheap bottlenecks and ridiculous objectives. If the game 
 ended on the fifth-to-last level, I would have sat back with a massive grin on my face and written 
 a far more positive review. It even would have been semi-logical, even if there were a couple plot 
 points left hanging. I would have been much more pleased. Oh well.
  
  Complimenting the very good missions is an excellent soundtrack full of Mexican-style music ranging 
 from Mariachi to a strange blend of brass and hip hop. Whatever was playing, I was thoroughly happy 
 and it accented the gunplay well. The same cannot be said for driving portions of Total Overdose. 
 Summing them up with the word "heinous" would not be nearly bad enough, since every single aspect 
 is awful. Imagine, if you will, driving on ice, blindfolded, whilst having fire ants crawling under 
 your clothes and being unable to use all but one finger to steer and one toe to brake and accelerate. 
 Then multiply that times eighty thousand and that begins to explain how embarrassing attempting 
 to maneuver a vehicle is. Semi trucks and forklifts are the exception only because their top speed 
 is four miles per hour. Luckily, missions can be instantly jumped to, so driving is kept to a minimum 
 -save for actual missions which require it. Thankfully.
  
  I'm sure I've given mixed messages. I'll try to sort them out: the artistic design is unparalleled, 
 the music is fantastic, the combat is interesting only through variety of bullet time moves, and 
 the first ninety percent of the missions are excellent. However, the final ten percent are terrible, 
 the graphics are muddy and undetailed, driving is laughable, and the game becomes frustrating and 
 monotonous in parts. With six more months of polish, Total Overdose could have been the next Grand 
 Theft Auto. As it stands, Deadline's game is no more than True Crime in Mexico. ... okay I take 
 that back: it's better than True Crime. Barely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gyaagasso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game with great car and bike stunts ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 !
  Highly addictive like gta sa. But the weak point is we can not use cheats.
  Advice - Play the game.
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x
  xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx
  
 xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx
 
  xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx
  
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
  
 xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  Story: Your a twin brother of a DEA agent and you need to find who killed your father
  
  Missions: Blow something up then kill the rest of the people
  
  Controls: Mouse and Keyboard
 
  
  Features: Story, driving missions, weapons, lots of areas to explore.
  
  A. I.: Usually complete idiots. They run into walls and get stuck.
  
  Loading Times: Long going 
 inbetween city districts and short during auto saves.
  
  Graphics: Horrible. The graphcs are not detailed at all and look like a game from the year 1995
 
  
  Audio: Horrible. Cheasy mexican accents.
  
  Multiplayer: None at all.
  
  Requirements: PC, mouse and keyboard.
  
  The Good: Nothing Really.
  
  The Bad: Everything
 
  
  The Ugly: Everything. This game is just horrible.
  
  Replay Ability: None.
  
  The Bottom Line: A Horrible GTA clone that should never have been released, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  you got style and you got a move so do you want shooting action game or just plain fun steal hat 
 and shoot bad guy's to face or by style if you want that game try this one and see the 
 
  start and max Payne now i play as an detective or not truly detective cause the true one is here 
 brother that seat and the wheel chair after he hit by an explosive hand grenade now you been substitute 
 your brother to finish what he started 
  shoot bad guy's with style and not like max Payne you need adrenaline to shoot your enemies with 
 style........................ 
  also you have some extra mission to move on to the main mission also you can train all different 
 style and the training yard or training center large map to explore..................
  the level detail or graphics of the game is just right for the game and the game difficult also 
 just right not easy not hard, also some mission or even not and a mission you need to go to roof 
 to go to other building to get item that you need for the extra skill of your weapon or kill the 
 bad guys if your and the mission 
  some mission that you need to chase a car and also you can ride taxi or just get a car to go to 
 your next  
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Total Overdose gives u some of the best action sequences u can find in a game... the player can 
 do a no. of acrobatic maneuvers... incredibly fun. The game is actually pretty funny.. the fight sequences 
 especially... intentionally or unintentionally. The gameplay is pretty much flawless... the developers 
 have attempted a take on the GTA titles... but the game is not as diverse as the GTA titles... but 
 i think the action is definitely st par and at times even better... vehicles r'n't all that gr8.... no 
 cops in free roam mode... So basically its the story mode missions thats the real deal in the game. The 
 game cud have been much better but for the outdated gfx it suffers a lot. They r pretty old for 
 a game of 2005. The story line is good enough to keep u hooked to the end... TOD also features a 
 gr8 soundtrack.... the lead character, Ramirez feels like Max Payne on steroids... One thing for sure-the 
 game will never get boring... its brief but offers a very enjoyable experience (no pun intended) .... the 
 game's easy... no brain cracking stuff just kill kill kill till the end... there r very intense firefights 
 in the game which u'll find easy to tackle by using special loco moves... u can ram others like 
 a raging bill, a lucha wrestler with a grenade launcher can b summoned to help u, u can throw a pinnata 
 bomb... so on.....
  
  Now people looking for a gme that runs good on older PCs this is it...
  
  This game is 100% 
 worthy of a try... u may not like it overall but u sure can't deny the fact that TOD offers a gr8 
 but short gameplay experience.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first had this game I didn't know what to think about it. On the first hand it was funny, it 
 had a cool combo system but on the other hand it had boring objectives and it was too fragmented.
 
  
  VIVA LA MEXICO!!
  You start as the dad of two brothers. He's a DEA agent who gets killed. One of them gets injured 
 and the other is freed from jail to find their father's killer. This is the weak story behind the 
 game.
  
  VIVA LA CONTROL!!!!
  The control is easy and the coolest part in the game is the combo system. It is the coolest combo 
 system till now. You can try to do them all but you'll need a lot of training to manage to do them 
 all. When you die you can turn back the time as the Prince does.
  
  MISSIONS
  The mission system isn't too nice. You must do side missions with different objectives to get access 
 to the main missions. Sometimes they are ugly, sometimes not. The city is too fragmented and there 
 is no satisfaction in killing innocents. But at least the action during the missions is dynamic. The 
 graphics are old as well.
  
  OVERALL MEXICO COULD BE BETTER
  This game could have been a gold mine if the producers would have cared more but it's still worth 
 playing!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Total Overdose: A Gunslinger's Tale in Mexico is a really fun game. Not just because its a blow 
 'em all up game but because of its totally humorous storyline. The game is having a likeness to 
 GTA: Vice City with a touch of the features in Matrix, Max Payne and Timeshift. The game is a total 
 blend of all these games but isn't a perfect mix to say but it is sure to provide hours of fantastic 
 gameplay. In the game we play Ramiro Cruz, an ex-convict who is the twin brother of a DEA Agent 
 and he takes his brother's place in investigating who killed their father and finishing up their 
 DEA Agent father's last mission before he was killed. The game is centred around the US-Mexico 
 Border and for most of the game you are finding yourself in Mexico. The game progresses and you 
 find yourself armed with a whole array of guns and ammunitions to use as you please. You find yourself 
 shooting up and piling up corpses as you shoot-dodge yourself through the middle of various encounters. 
 The game has standard weapons such as Pistols, Shotguns, Machine Guns, Rifles.... The game also 
 features LOCO Moves which you can earn by piling up LOCO points by pulling off various stunts such 
 as mid-air multiple headshots while shoot-dodging your way through the situation at hand. The LOCO 
 moves help you through some sticky spots where there are too many opponents to deal with. The REWIND 
 feature also helps you to rewind you back a few seconds to a better situation; you will find this 
 feature saving you from death an umpteen number of times.
  
  The game can leave you in fits of madness when it comes to the driving because the vehicles are 
 really not up to the mark and the game has some bugs in which the cars can get stuck to the concrete. 
 The designs of the vehicles are really not good and this game really lacks good vehicles that have 
 proper acceleration and top speed that would have otherwise helped to liven up the game. The game 
 has repititive gameplay in some cases but after a while you will get to like this game and even 
 though the campaign is brief there are a number of mini-missions you can play to further your progress 
 of the game. Even after completing the game, you can replay some of your favorite levels by driving 
 to the same venue where the mission had started.
  
  The game is overall one of the games that can provide you with a few hours of enjoyment but the 
 development of the game in a better road could have made it a bigger success than it turned out 
 to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Total Overdose isn't a serious game. It's a funny combination between tge GTA-s &amp; Max Payne. 
 The graphics are not good at all, but they're somehow fun. The sound is superb... everything rocks... music, voices... the 
 chaos. Gamplay's nice. You'll shoot people &amp; gamgsters from a mexican town, you can drive cars 
 on streets, do missions, take hats, do  have bullet time &amp; other 
 nice moves (4 example, wall walk kill, fly on the wall, etc) &amp; abilities (Tornado, El Mariachi, El 
 Toro, Golden Gun, Pinata Boom-Boom, etc) -very funny. A lot of waepons, but few cars, but very funny in 
 stunt-making ( a stunt with a tractor...!!!) ,&amp; fragmented districts, wuth loading screens=not 
 nice. The story isn't that great, but it's very very very very funny (almost as funny as Serious 
 Sam 2) . I had a lot of fun with Total Overdose. They say it ain't good. It ain't as good as Mafia, the 
 GTA-s, The godfather, Scarface or Just Cause, but it's FUN!&amp; that's what matters whwn you have 
 a sombrero, two sawed-off shotguns &amp; big cojones! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Action game lovers with love this game because of it's not stop action and completely over the 
 top gameplay. However more serious gamers might not like it so much because the game's as shallow 
 as a small puddle.
  
  The games graphics were quite impressive for this type of game at that time but seem very outdated 
 by games like GTA: SA. The explosions are the best bit out the graphics, nice and bit like we want 
 them. The real let down in regards to the graphics are the NPC's. They all look pretty much the 
 same which is a real disappointment.
  
  Sound in the game is quite average which is another one of the games dissapointments. The voice 
 overs seem dull and uninspired and the NPC speech is repetitive. The soundtrack is a saving grace 
 though as that's actually quite good.
  
  The biggest dissapointment is the driving part of the game. The physics on the cars is awful, you 
 can get cars stuck in buildings, the cars are hard to drive, you can't shoot from inside your car 
 or even view different angles which in the car. It seems to me that the driving part of the game 
 was just thrown in at a very late stage of development and it shows.
  
  For those gamers who just want over the top action and completely mindless violence then this is 
 the game for you.
  However if you're a more serious gamer then i'd give this a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Total Overdose: A Gunslingers Tale In Mexico, takes a basic third-person shooter and infuses it 
 with over the top gunplay and acrobatics to capture the player in a fun filled escapade of adventure 
 and violence. It pokes fun at itself and never acts like it wants to be taken seriously which adds 
 up to a ton of fun for anyone that plays the game.
  
  When you start the game, there is no doubt that you are playing something that takes homage to 
 a mix of Hong Kong action and Robert Rodriguez gunplay. The setting alone gives it a spiritual 
 link to the El Mariachi trilogy as it takes place south of the border in Mexico. You play as Ramiro, 
 a delinquent that has a twin brother that works at the DEA. The brother is injured while working 
 an undercover drug ring and they ask Ramiro to fill in and complete the investigation. Along the 
 way, you meet up with a contact that works for the Mexican police that is trying to bring down 
 the drug cartel from the inside. While the story sounds cookie cutter at best, it works, because 
 it is just an excuse to blow the crap out of stuff.
  
  And blowing stuff up is what this game is all about. You will find that just about anything during 
 a mission will not only blow up, but let loose a fountain of destruction that you will have to 
 be impressed with. Explosions destroy the target and a good 10 meters around it. It is a sight 
 to behold. And they look good too, normally happening in slow motion for an instant and then just 
 pummeling anyone in their path.
  
  Mission structure is simple, but effective. The game is broken up into several sections. You have 
 about four missions in each section. The missions normally are fetch and receive or destroy something. 
 You will also be presented with some race missions and these by far are the toughest part of the 
 game. This is mostly due to vehicle physics, but we will address that later.
  
  Graphics are good, but not great. While explosions look big and impressive, they are reused quite 
 often. Same goes with the character models. Most characters you go after look identical as there 
 are only about half a dozen models for the NPC characters. The bosses have some distinction, but 
 even then it is very limited until the end boss. The main characters look good and have more realistic 
 features. Backgrounds are repetitive, but serviceable. A little more detail in the city would of 
 gone a long way to suspend reality. As it stands, you feel a little claustrophobic.
  
  Sounds are good, but again, not great. The main characters are voice with a lot of humor and give 
 the parts conviction. Cars sound strong and have a good throaty sound. The soundtrack is amazing 
 and is quite catchy. In particular, you will get hooked on the opening credits track. The explosions 
 are huge in nature and bellow when they happen. They fit the immense size when you see them.
  
  Driving in the game flat out stinks. If there is one thing that kills this game is the driving. 
 While in the game, you have several areas you have to drive to as well as racing in several car 
 races. None of these are fun and they are as frustrating as they can possibly be for someone. You 
 will get stuck in buildings, if you fishtail around a corner, you will skid forever unless you 
 let completely off the gas. Cars magically get glued together and make it impossible to complete 
 a race. It feels as if it was tacked on and unfinished.. Driving should have just been eliminated 
 from the game considering the shooting is what will get people to purchase the game.
  
  While Total Overdose is average in many things and downright awful for others, I have to say that 
 the gunplay takes the game from mediocre to a must play. The feel of playing a game that takes 
 the best of Hong Kong action flick and melds it with the world of El Mariachi and Desperado, will 
 put a smile on any fans face. And the game offers a lot of extra challenges that can be replayed 
 long after finishing the main storyline. It is by no means perfect and you feel that a little more 
 time and care would of made for an even better experience. But as it stands, Total Overdose is 
 a fun diversion that will give you a lot of fun if you dont take it too seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  This game is basically El Mariachi: the game. So if you liked El Mariachi, Desperado, and Once 
 Upon a Time in Mexico, you'll love this game.
  
  Set in a fictional city in Mexico, you play through a uniquely-told story in flashbacks as the 
 brother of a DEA agent out to uncover who killed their father. In other words, a lot of people 
 are gonna get shot.
  
  A third person shooter with style, Total Overdose relies on you running around with dual sawed 
 offs (and other assorted weapons) diving through the air while shooting. Gibbing is possible, and 
 many enemies stupidly (but AWESOMEly!) stand next to explosive barrels. You can also drive trucks 
 and cars, and dive out at the last minute as you drive it into a wall and watch it explode with 
 the original vehicle owner still inside.
  
  Let's face it - this game has awful graphics. But graphics aren't what's important, it's how fun 
 the game is. Though ugly, it feels like Mexico - pedestrians die randomly as they walk down the 
 street. It must be the water.
  
  The soundtrack is awesome! It's the type of soundtrack you go download the second you stop playing. 
 Latino rap-metal kicks in at just the right times to make you feel like a badass. The voice acting 
 is horrid, but I think it's supposed to be. Just try to have fun while playing it and you'll have 
 a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, not the best game you can buy really. But still a good one to pass time by. The game presents 
 GTA style gameplay ( though the cars aren't even close to as good as GTA's ) . Missions are fun, 
 enemies are comical and killing them sure gives pleasure. You also have a handful of weapons to 
 deal with starting from grenades, ploughs to rocket launchers. The bad is of course the vehicles 
 in the game. The handling of the cars is awful, there are a few models of cars in this game and 
 only one bike which ain't great by no means. Now then about the sound of the game which is pretty 
 good especially concentrating on the comical representation of the game, are of spanish features 
 which suits. And also, your character's cool ! So have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  The Good: Lots and lots and lots and lots of shooting people in the face; completely insane special 
 moves; delightfully rough-and-tumble soundtrack. A satire version of gta, also much more cartoony 
 and completly unrealistic which makes the game so fun. Loads of weapons and missions are fun, and 
 dont feel to repetitive as enviroments change.
  
  The Bad: Brain-dead storyline; lots of glitches, crap graphics, to easy and doesn't offfer any 
 replay value. Fun game which you can find in your bargain bin for around 15 dollars and a recommend 
 anybody who wants a stupid game which is a lot of fun to buy this now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  Total Overdose... of Marijuana? Yeah, that's what I thought at first. Then I played it and wowwed 
 myself. It has all the basics of GTA, all the snuffs of The Getaway and all the great racing cars 
 found in Driver. Other than that, it has a good matrix feel to it where you can slow down time 
 to pop your enemies one by one. The guns feel powerful once you've got the grasp of it. The graphics 
 look so and so, but the game style gives it dat mexican flava, you down, holmes? In fact, it's 
 like dis and like dat and like dis and up.. It has all the bells and wistles, but is a bit short. 
 You can buy it, sure. But I strongly suggest renting in first. Most GTA fans will dig his new world 
 matrix meets Grand Theft Auto, but some will say the same; another GTA rip-off. Well, go whack 
 a Pin'ata! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerox_dogma
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This Game is Great, For Lovers Of Grand Theaft Auto Series.
  
  I Love It. all About Of This Game. The Style, The sound, the gameplay.
  
  Pros: gameplay, style, 
 sound, graphics, weapons, vehicles, zone. Obtimitation of the game. ( play in any machine, pc or 
 laptop)
  
  cont: don't support GAMEPAD.
  
 
  
 
  
  This Game is Great, For Lovers Of Grand Theaft Auto Series.
  
  I Love It. all About Of This Game. The Style, The sound, the gameplay.
  
  Pros: gameplay, style, 
 sound, graphics, weapons, vehicles, zone. Obtimitation of the game. ( play in any machine, pc or 
 laptop)
  
  cont: don't support GAMEPAD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s7aTyC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Total overdose maybe is the BEST action game in 5-6 years ! I can't understand why gamespot don't 
 like this game ? The gameplay ROCKS ! It is so fun, and enjoyable to play this game ! The graphics 
 are good for 2005... but don't expect to see a lot of special effects and other graphic stuff...!
 
  The Soundtrach is cood, and mix well with the atmosphere in the game .
  The storyline is not very interesting, but still makes you playing for hours :) !
  If you're fan 
 ot GTA series, forget about them ! Play total Overdose and you will feel the world of the Maxican 
 action life . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoeJohn531
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the game I wasn't all that sure what to expect. I knew from watching the trailers 
 way before the game was released that the game was a comedy of sorts, which really appealed to 
 me, and despite some bad reviews I got it anyway. Boy am I glad I did. The game is reminiscent 
 to the old Worms Armageddon days for me, with the tongue in cheek delivery of the action, and the 
 sometimes simi-serious gameplay. 
  
  I think the story for Total Overdose was great. And the one-liners in the game are super funny, 
 however repetitive. "Eat Chili and Die!" There are some moments in the game that even a month after 
 completing the game I still remember fondly. 
  
  I do love the game, but it still has several issues, such as the sound. The soundtrack for the 
 game is sweet, and the voice acting for the main character is abysmal. I don't know whats wrong 
 with the main characters voice exactly, it just doesn't fit in the game. Not to say that his lines 
 are not funny or anything, they just arn't mixed correctly with the game. Also the graphics are 
 kind of sub par, but all in all I think that this game is at least worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Total overdose tries to mimic the style, size, and scale of GTA, but fails in each department. 
 Of course what game matches GTA?
  
  Basically if you're looking for a game to match GTA then forget this.
  
  But if you're looking 
 for a bit of fun, then step right up.
  
  The game plays, and looks, like a cartoon version of GTA. You have Max Payne style 'bullet time', 
 which make the moves you can pull off look extremely cool. The moves are easy to learn, but for 
 the odd time you are required to pull them off, they are not essential. They can be off huge benefit 
 for extra health and amount of 'bullet time' you have, as scoring points allow both to increase. 
 Points and bonuses can be collected from different areas in the game.
  
  The plot? Not really worth mentioning. Bad ass brother replaces his goodie brother for the DEA, 
 and attempt to take down a drug barren, who also killed their father. But you'll probably just 
 skip the cut scenes to continue the shooting.
  
  update later......
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerXT
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  TOTAL OVERDOSE must be indeed the best action game in years. yeah, it's hard to compare it to GTA, 
 but it's easly can compite on the spot with games such as MAX PAYNE, HITMAN, THE SUFFERING and 
 THE PUNISHER, who is all game i played and love 'till today.
  But there's something different about OVERDOSE, it's totally addictive.
  so, you're right, for 
 some reason they did TOTAL OVERDOSE, like a crazy-styled-humour-packed mexican version of GTA, 
 and that's not right.
  What can i say, the handling in the cars is awful!
  You got stuck, you barely turn, and if you do the car flips down, totally getting on the nerves, 
 every time, especially in the driving bonus missions.
  Now, to the action:
  Yeah, many people will say that the game is repetitive, because the action is pretty much the same, 
 but i'm telling you: no game uses Slow-Motion Shooting Dives good as hell as this game, not even 
 the MATRIX games who pretty much invented this in the MATRIX movies, and even not MAX PAYNE who 
 pretty much invented the genre on PC games.
  As a matter of fact, i'm total OVERDOSE burnour, it's like drugs for me!
  i mean, some people 
 say it's repetitive and boring, and just cut out in the middle, but as for me, give me more levels!
 
  I Completed the storyline game 4 times, and also all the bonus missions, except for few annoying 
 one with cars.
  I can say the game's pretty much repetiive, but as you start, you can't quit!
  You just having 
 fun by diving in slow-motion around and shooting the hell out of those people.
  It's sometimes annoying with the ammo, but overall - who cares?!
  IT"S SO ADDICTIVE!
  I discovered 
 and started playing the game, like half a year ago, and just a month ago i stopped playing, but 
 i still turn in to play my favorite missions.
  The sound by the way is pretty much cool - like some mexican-styled hard-rock and punk, and it's 
 cool.
  The Graphics, what can i say - pretty much lame, and i don't know why.
  They're like too bright in times and done a little like a cell-shading comic books based games, 
 but pretty much the graphics are not too bad, but it's the only thing that ruins my mark, and makes 
 it 9.1.
  
  Overall, TOTAL OVERDOSE is a action-packed 3rd person game, which is very recommended to people 
 who first of all like to slo-mo dive and shoot, and second - people who liked games like MAX PAYNE, 
 THE PUNISHER, HITMAN, GTA (forever the best!) , THE SUFFERING, EVIL DEAD: REGENERATION, DEAD TO 
 RIGHTS, TOMB RAIDER: LEGEND, and more 3rd person action based games.
  
  A 9.1 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrThomsen
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 4, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  If you like hardcore-action and insane killer "loco"-moves this is a must-have game for you. It 
 has action right from the start and a great humor throughout the game. And you don't have to use 
 the first 2 hours to learn the game in just about a 15 min you will know all the moves. One of 
 the things that annoyed me the most was the lack of effort put into the experience when you are 
 in a car. The cars reactions are at the edge of being plain stupid. But since you doesn't spendt 
 that much time in a car in the main quest I guess you can live with it.
  
  I liked playing this game, but the thing about shoot-em-up games like this is the lack of variations. 
 The missions are basically just: go in, kill everything and try to get out alive.
  
  It's a fun game, but you have to like destroying things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abojinca
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 4, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  If you look at the poster and if you see the score on Gamespot you would say that is a bad game. 
 But it isn't. It's a very good game, a lot of action, very good moves, lovely weapons. I would 
 say that is the best shooter I've played this year. I also really loved the fancy moves. And one 
 more thing that I loved - mexican way of speaking - "hombre". About gameplay, is a combination 
 of Max Payne and Grand Theft Auto. Th echaracter can slow down time in order to shoot the enemies, 
 can move very well while the time was slowing down. If you can have it, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Now that Total Overdose has been out for a while, I would recommend checking the used games section 
 at your local game shop for a copy. If you can pick it up for 10 or 15 bucks US, it's well worth 
 it. There isn't anything rspecially groundbreaking or innovative about TO's gameplay. It borrows 
 heavily from the GTA & Max Payne games, as well as ripping off the "rewind" feature from Prince 
 of Persia when you get killed. This game is all about having fun & wasting malo hombres, by the 
 truckload. I especially got a kick out of the Loco Moves, which give your character some innovative 
 skills & upgrades to deal with the baddies.
  
  Heavily influenced by the 3rd-person shooters I mentioned above, as well as the movies of Robert 
 Rodriguez, TO is at its core a fairly mindless run & gun shootfest. Not a lot of strategy or planning 
 involved, just grab your weapons & get to shooting anything that moves. The graphics are somewhat 
 behind the curve for such a recent game, but aside from that drawback it delivers the goods. I 
 can only imagine what the game would play like if it had a graphics engine like Max Payne 2... it 
 would really be a pretty awesome little shooter then.
  
  The levels are varied enough to hold your interest, & in between the missions there is a free-roaming 
 city you can explore & wreak havoc in. I found the game to drag somewhat over the last couple of 
 levels, where the difficulty seems to get unnecessarily ratcheted up. In any event, if you're looking 
 for a few hours diversion with little $ investment, I would recommend checking out TO. "Eat chilli 
 & DIE !
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Andy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Game Play
  the game play of the game is quite good overall, but there is a few things that could have been 
 better like the AI, and the car steering.
  
  Graphics
  the graphics arn`t realy good but in the same time it gives the game som weird kind of flavour, 
 but as i sayid its still kinda crappy even for it`s release date.
  
  Sound/music
  The sounds are very well adapted in the game, and the game music set`s you right into the Mexican 
 craziness of the game.
  
  overall
  the game is sure worth buying for about 15 USD if you like games like GTA, and Max Payne. and enjoy 
 taking different killing combos and shooting people in the face! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  A lot of games today focus on free roaming environment while only few get the formula right. Total 
 Overdose lacks a lengthy campaign, the developers focussed on a free roaming city which isn't much 
 good nor is it used the way GTA SA did with a lot of varied missions in varied surrounding. They 
 should've just worked on a better campaign but nevertheless TO is worth a purchase or maybe a rental 
 for action fans.
  
  Graphically it ain't a gem, it's just good enough for a game. Sound is better. Gameplay could've been 
 a bit better but still works.
  
  TO also has some nice moves called LOCO Moves which can be activated thus giving u some much needed 
 assistance. It also has a handy rewind which is very very useful.
  
  This ain't the best shooter but it could've been a very good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  When I first started this game, I was pretty hyped up due to the screen-shots and previews I had 
 seen and read prior to the games release. Needless to say, I was a tad disappointed with the final 
 product. 
  The game comes off really well, with a Quentin Tarantino-like story (I mean come on, let's face 
 it, who doesn't love the idea of a Mexican revenge story) and a cool soundtrack, and it doesn't 
 really take long before you find yourself kind of immersed in the seedy underworld south of the 
 US border. 
  
  The gameplay itself, is rather like a mixture of the GTA series and Max Payne. You control a character 
 in an environment, in which you are free to go around and explore. Your character has the ability 
 to slow time down, thus giving him an advantage over his foes, when it comes to shooting them and 
 blowing stuff up. The game is however not completely sandboxed. The missions you are sent on happen 
 separately (think: True Crime) . This is of course to blur the fact that the area you can explore 
 while you are not on a mission, is rather small, and there is not a whole lot to explore as such. 
 The missions themselves are quite good, ranging from stealing trucks of ships using a crane, single-handedly 
 raiding a farm producing illegal drugs and so on...
  
  Tech-wise the game is not quite up to scratch. The graphics suffer under the fact that they are 
 ported from a console, and there are quite a bit of glitches, such as pop-ups and clipping errors. 
 However it does capture mexican stereotypes quite well. The sound is your standard AK-47 and street-sweeper 
 sounds, making the music and the voice-work the best thing in this department. 
  
  Total Overdose: A Gunslinger's Tale in Mexico steals with both arms and legs from the competition. 
 This, in itself, is not a crime. But when you steal, you should at least utilise the stolen ideas 
 better than the original. Somehow, it feels a little constricted when you ride around in a (quite 
 small) Mexican town, and nothing really happens apart from the odd traffic accident (in most cases 
 caused by yourself!) . GTA did this better. 
  The firefights, including the bullet-time, gets dull after a while, because A. The AI is quite 
 moronic B. It's too overdone, with points for head-shots, and guitar-cases with M60's in them. 
 This stands in stark contrast with the otherwise, quite serious story. Max Payne did this better. 
 
  
  The bottom line of all this is: Total Overdose is a fun game, with some crazy action, and cool 
 Tarantino feel to it, just don't complain when you sit afterwards and think about all the things 
 you wish had been a tiny bit better. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  Pros: The mexican setting is the first thing you'll notice. It has a kinda GTA feeling, just roaring 
 around a mexican city while doing missions when you want to. The story is gangsta style and a lot 
 of fun. The gameplay element like SlowMo and Special Weapons like Guitar cases with miniguns in 
 it, are just cool! Finally someone delivers something different from the rest of the games. It's 
 funny, Action packed and very well executed! You have to try this!! 
  
  Cons: The game was kinda short and without the multiplayer not worth a full price. Further no negativer 
 comments, only that the demo is VERY SHORT! Beacuase the level from the demo is a lot bigger and 
 has more objectives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Rarely has a game reveled in its own crapulence the way that Total Overdose: A Gunslinger's Tale 
 in Mexico does. Taking the concept of a stylish, violent third-person shooter to the height of 
 hyperactive instability, Total Overdose is an all-out celebration of all things gun. Bullets fly 
 with reckless abandon, bodies pile up to an almost alarming degree, and all the while you're pulling 
 off the kinds of acrobatic maneuvers that would make Keanu Reeves say, "Woah." Of course, it's 
 also all been done before. From playing Total Overdose, you get the feeling that the developers 
 at Deadline Games had an awful lot of affection for the Grand Theft Auto and Max Payne games and 
 that they may have watched one too many Robert Rodriguez movies late at night. That's because the 
 main character plays just like Max Payne, the world around him operates just like the one in Grand 
 Theft Auto, and the storyline plays out like a script Rodriguez might have written early in his 
 career, before he knew what he was doing. Because it's made up of so many familiar parts, action 
 game fans ought to be able to settle in and blast their ways through Total Overdose's relatively 
 brief campaign with reasonable levels of enjoyment. Just be prepared for one extremely cheesy ride, 
 and to sift through a few serious flaws as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: francohfg
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is like a pack of GTA + Max Payne with hot mexican style. Pretty fun for the ones who 
 like the genre!
  If you GTA series anf Max Payne. You will love this game. It has features which reminf you of the 
 movie "Desperado" and "Once Upon a Time in Mexico".
  Like in Max Payne, you can use the bullet time feature, and blast your enemies while dodginf their 
 bullets. Like In GTA you have a straight storyline, but also lots of side missions which are very 
 fun to complete.
  A 6.7 score isn't fair as said by other people here. This game deserve more, as developers worked 
 seriously on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  as a Hitman fan, I personally am disappointed that I have to deal with this Vin Diesel crap Eidos 
 is gonna put on us in the Hitman games. luckily, they can try to take my mind off the horror Hitman 
 is going through by making Total Overdose. it's worth Max Payne fans attention. the gameplay is 
 really fun. the cool bullet time that they kinda ripped off from Max Payne is still good enough 
 to please. still the special moves and rewind feature make gameplay a blast. the graphics have been 
 a little bit dated at moments but in full-fledged cutscenes they bring out the best. the sound... aw 
 who gives a fat rat's @$$ about the sound. all i know is they say Spicy Move! honestly i don't 
 care about sound. the value is not too well at the moment. since most people are looking at $60 
 360 games not many will take this game for it's well deserved ride. it gets an 8.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Total overdose is a pack of fun; right from the beginning you appreciate the sweet quality of colorful 
 decors and graphics! actually I was amused by the graphics and environment and I was convinced 
 about the good quality of this game. The game pla, on the other hand, is a great load of fun indeed, 
 and i enjoyed the "Max-Payne" style of the game. Also, when playing Total overdose i felt like 
 playing GTA because it delivers the same fun ( approximately) and you can drive, shoot, run in the 
 streets like a mad!!! really enjoyable. The only side of the game that i did not appreciate pretty 
 much is the sound quality; in fact it's not very good and affects the game to some extents!! too 
 bad... However, the game can not be judged by it's defects only but also it's qualities and Total 
 overdose has great qualities that makes it worth-playing and i personally loved it a lot and enjoyed 
 it !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaeltm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  I heard some guys recently talk about some new game.. i heard that its similarity to gta is enormous, but 
 its not... it is wrong and not fair to compare between this two awesome but very unique each in 
 its way games.
  Total Overdose is a very good "script game" and usually the missions are interesting and very well 
 scripted and fun to do, but its not a "freelancer" game like we "used to in GTA BUT ITS NOT GTA!!!... although 
 you CAN walk in the city, you can even run :) but the areas are very small and the map is divided 
 to areas like the "port" or "Los Angeles" that you can reach after you go threw a loading screen.
 
  The most annoying thing that should be fun is the "cars" thing.... the control of the car is very 
 difficult and "glichy", not accurate and sometimes STUPID. For example, when you "meet" our beloved 
 friend "Mr wall" the car sometimes stuck there and you have to do a reverse even if you are not 
 in front of the wall, it happens even when you touch it. It makes the races missions not as fun 
 as they should of been.
  The bullet time is very useful and many missions are based on this skill. You can learn some tricks 
 in a special school. Big arsenal of weapons also available. 
  Although this 3D shooter can be sometimes annoying but be not fooled its very well packed mission 
 based 3D shooter, the Mexican theme is a plus point....
  enjoy.... not from my English... from the game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpt
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  So here I am, reviewing Total Overdose. Going straight to the point:
  
  This game is totally action packed, and if you want you can end it in no time. Basically because 
 it's difficulty isn't at all high, and also the fact that you can go straight to the missions without 
 needing to drive all the way to their place makes it easier too. You can just bring the map screen 
 and choose whatever mission that you want to play. But I'm not really into that, because it's always 
 fun to search the place around for upgrades which boost your health and adrenaline capacity, ability 
 with weapons, etc.
  
  The combat system is great. Of course it has been done before, but it has an interesting mix of 
 combat styles. For instance, you can apply shoot dodge - MAX PAYNE STYLE -, and whenever you mess 
 up you can always rewind time, Prince Of Persia style. And it has a very nice GTA feeling all over 
 it.
  
  The playability overall is also quite good, the character is very nice and smooth to control. The 
 vehicle controls might give you a tough time in the beginning, but you'll get used to it. The only 
 "no no" in my opinion is the fact that you don't have control over the camera when you're driving.
 
  
  The story, well, it sounds interesting. Probably I'm one of the few who think that, but the beginning 
 of the game actually surprised me a lot, and gave me a few good laughs. I won't spoil it here, 
 because I know I wouldn't have felt the same if someone told me how it was. I'm still not through 
 the game, so I don't know how's the plot going to roll, but I'm enjoying it.
  
  The graphics are great. The game looks really good. But you have to see through many (some of them 
 significant) glitches that occur through the game. Yesterday I played it for a couple of hours 
 and ran through 3 or 4 graphycal glitches. One of them, for instance, I killed a civilian, his 
 body disappeared and his hat remained on the scenario.... suspended on air. Yeah, it really happened. 
 Another one: I fell off of a roof when I was driving a car, and I got stuck behind a trash bin, 
 without any possibility to move. So I exited the vehicle, naturally. I walked a few steps, then 
 I looked back and... surprise, the car wasn't there. Wow. But anyway as I said before, don't let 
 these glitches fool you, because this game is very entertaining and garantees you a very satisfying 
 gameplay.
  
  The sound is the weakest point, in my opinion. The walking on cement or concrete feels totally 
 unreal, like he's walking on planks of wood or something. And the car engine doesn't always look 
 synchronized with your car movements, but oh well, nothing critical here.
  
  I chose the "Surprisingly Good" classification because I really wasn't expecting to like it so 
 much, after all the fuss on the reviews about the game. I'm not sure if it is long enough to buy, 
 because I'm only playing it for 2 days, about 5 hours total time, but I'd definitely give it a 
 shot if I were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bossweed
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  I must disagree with the score you guys at gamespot gave to Total Overdose. First of all : Whats 
 a game main objective? Why do we play games? Because we wanna have fun. I dont really care if 
 a game has some glitches, bugs or unrealistic feeling, as long as I have fun playing its good 
 enough for me.
  
  Total Overdose its a game with his own, and spicy style. Its like a mix between gta (yeah, like 
 every game, compare it to gta) and max payne.
  
  The moves of the character are unreal, the loco moves, but they look cool. The driving physics 
 are really bad, dont even think about using your handbrake to bend a corner like you do in san 
 andreas. The weapons sounds are just fair. The garphics are good, but textures dont look detailed 
 (even in a high end graphics card) when you look close at them. 
  The cars are too repetitive, i have seen only 3 or 4 sedans, and kinda 3 trucks but I didnt finish 
 the game yet. Theres a sport car that looks cool, Virgilios car that end up destroyed in a mission.
 
  When you are involved in a gunfigt you will hear "Spicy Move" or "Gringo loco" to many times, 
 but chill....
  
  The creators of TO had watch El mariachi to many times, theres even a Loco Move where he has two 
 guitar cases as machine guns...
  
  I raelly like TO soundtarck with kick ass tunes from Molotov every once in a while, and the mexican 
 music really suits the game.
  
  The game missions are maybe to easy even in normal difficulty.
  You can start shoothing and killing 
 easily when you find a red skull, thats the day of the dead, a resamblancee of the popular mexican 
 party.
  
  Well I highly recommend this game because its plain fun!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma7aseno2002
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  this game is a good game but it has some weak points in graphic and gameplay, in graphics I see 
 that GTA - San Andreas is much much more better than it, and the same in gameplay, but it's better 
 in music and also I liked the story very much, another thing, car driving is not interesting and 
 I felt like I play a game released in 2000 not 2005. I playe it cause I want to know how the story 
 will go. the rewind system of the game is much better here than you save and reload when you die 
 gust press Tab. and it's all right I liked this system too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohaibhm
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  For a long time I was looking for a game like Max Payne having it's own story it's own style but 
 the substitute only there was GTA San Andreas but now 2 weeks ago I just got what I want an original 
 story having some style in it I can play it hours and hour without any feeling of boring simply 
 it's the best after Max Payne and better tha GTA Series including Vice City and San Andreas. And 
 it's not only me who agree this that it's better to play Total Overdose than playing GTA San Andreas 
 all of my friends do. Believe me if you still don't have it just get it, it's the best of it's 
 type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreig_jones
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 13, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  dumb , backdated graphics. Old western style chases. Didnt like it at all. This game is a serious 
 waste of money. Do not like to waste much words on this.
  it takes a hefty amount of disc space ( more than DOOM ) and look at the graphics, downright primitive.
 
  drab textures, short levels.
  what do all that disc space used for anyway ?
  and you have to insert the dvd everytime you play .It stinks .should learn from DEFIANCE how to 
 keep it small.
  It gained popularity from its insanly easy firefights. just aim and burst. downright stupid.
  better 
 play QIIIA instead at "i I can win" if ya really want spank ur opponents.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kold_Killah
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Total overdose is a game of 2 halves, its funny very funny at times but theres just too many glitches 
 to make the experience as enjoyable as it could have been.
  The shooting with its Max Payne shoot dodge is done well, the combo system adds some spice to this 
 tried and tested formula, but after you have completed 10 levels of this you have seen all the 
 game has to offer. The driving sections are crap and as for the exploration, you have intrusive 
 loading times every couple of minutes, i think we have been spoilt by GTA.
  Overall i think you will enjoy this game if you are looking for a mindless shoot em up with some 
 funny story elements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habetsas
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:47 am PT
Review:  Imagine a total free gaming enviroment for the PC, those wideopen worlds are unique to the PC's. 
 Except "World of Warcraft", there is none mentionable good games with large cities, crazy stunttracks 
 and vehicles ready to be smashed in the nearest wall...
  
  Thats why I find "Total Overdose" so wonderful. And also "Unarmed combat mode" and "Day of the 
 dead" mini-challenges makes the game worth playing. 
  
  All around the world there are plenty of small bonuspoints to the games "Globalscore" and special 
 tokens such as the "Unarmed combat mode" (the symbol is a pink hand) or "Day of the dead" (the symbol 
 looks like a red burning skull) . These little goodies transforms the gaming world for a short time 
 and lets the player experience a whole different wiew of the world.
  
  "Unarmed combat mode", transforms the player into a yellow-purple dressed wrestler and the nearby 
 civilians turn into wrestlers too, wielding bats, broken ironbars and sometimes even krates.
  
  "Day of the dead", transforms the world into a bloodred arena filled with civilians dressed 
 in skeleton-suits. Armed with heavy weapons they attack the player and the only thing to do is 
 to kill them. But the twist is that the mode are called "Day of the dead", so all the defeaten 
 enemies rise up again to keep attacking you.
  At the end of this mode you're glad the nasty undead are gone, promise me.....
  
  Only by trying 
 these two special modes, the player gets a small piece of the opportunities in the game.
  There is also all the fun "Loco moves", but you must try em' out yourselves and thats all I've 
 got to say about the game....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krauklis
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:11 am PT
Review:  Total Overdose: A Gunslinger's Tale in Mexico
  Spicy Move thats what it is totally spicy and totally bloody. Do I like it? Hell yes! There is 
 nothing cooler than going around and killing loads of stupid Mexicans with an arsenal that makes 
 Serious Sam luck like a little girl and the moves you can do make Neo jealous. The game is totally 
 unrealistic and is sometimes might make you scream from anger but it e'int so bad. The game looks 
 wryly good it has it own style and it is totally cool. The amount of cars in the game is large 
 enough and there are some bikes to. The music is fine to thou it can get boring sometimes. This 
 game isn't for everybody some might think that it is stupid and thats totally true but there is 
 an other side of the game it is so much fun that I can't describe it. To buy or not to buy thats 
 the question I say yes but its your choice. I say its grate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joojoo500
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  thats briefly a simple preview for the game
  
  SOUNDS
  voices of the actors are pretty good, i love that Mexican language
  they got cool car horns too 
 
  
  MUSIC
  we got a music genius here ppl MOLOTOV is one hell of a ( singer / band )
  most of soundtrax of the game rox 
  
  GRAPHICS
  need some care, kool while in shoot dodging 
 ( blurring ) , weak overall
  
  SCENARIO
  Strong powerful scenario ( although it contains some weak fictions )
  Starting from the father 
 mission till the exploding train
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  lOCO MOVES - good idea, interesting 4 beginners
  MISSIONS - i liked saving during missions very 
 much ( lacks in GTA )
  FREE ROAM - a failing try to imitate GTA, plz "SCI" don try this again
  - the city is too small
 
  - too many loading points ( when u move between district ) 
  VECHILES - thats the only one considerable weak point in the game
  ....... awfully bad ........
 
  - vehicles are too light have no weight at all
  - E-Brake slides the car too much 
  REWARDS - a strong methodology, makes the player seeking 
  objectives and rewards all the time
 
  
  CONTROLS 
  simple not too much 
  
  As others mentioned b4 the game made a successful combination between max payne and enter the matrix 
 and GTA ( without comparison with GTA )
  
  The game deserves 9.4, considering vehicle control and poor grafx we can
  say 8.8 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir_Badshah
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  
  
  The Game here it a game for who like Un-Realistic Thing's
  
  For Example : You kill a man with an Uzi and the man will being Teard Apart and the hole street 
 will be full of blood. Hehe... Do you Understand..?
  
  Graphics : The funny in here is there are someting, and some objectives there are Very high Detail, 
 and some of the things are very low detail't.
  And i think that the Company of Deadline Games hasn't saw't a crashed car yet, because the cars 
 can't be Rented, crashed, totalet or anything like that.
  But, they are a little but Creative because the parts of the car will fly away when you've drive 
 into a bulding 5 times. And another Creative thing is the car can Explode! But... It is also very 
 Un-realistic. When you drive 30 - 60 m/ph and Jump out of the car, of cause the car will still 
 drive. But, if the car just hit a thing... It.... will... EXPLODE!!!!
  Also if you drive 1m/ph....
  
  fx : The small things on the ground ; Cans, and other small 
 part are Good Detail't and the Characters are very bad detailed ... (Just look at the Start Movie...)
 
  
  Sound : The sound in the game are OK. Not so speciel and not so bad..
  It's okay when you shoot for Example... The sound of a Sawed-Shotgun are quality make't. But, If 
 you Shoot Without slow-mo/Dodge-shoot the sound will were Exactly were the same WITH and WITHOUT 
 the slow-motion mode... To bad.... Hehe 
  
  Music : You're in Mexico...! So of Cause it is on thier own MeXicanO Style...!
  It's Okay.... 
 One of the best parts!
  
  Gameplay : Arrh..! It's bad.. But not Terrible..! It's bad controls when you steer the man on. 
 The Effect they have tooket from Max Payne aren't on a bad Button. on the "Space" button. In Max 
 Payne it is on "Shift" of "Ctrl"... :D
  And the way you steer are car, it's so bad maked... But it is one of the things there are funny.... 
 When you go in a car.. the Engine will already start when you are outside the door and ready to 
 god in....
  
  Value : Sometimes the game get me a bad feeling. And a strange taste. Not like Driver or Grand 
 Theft auto.... So the first 3 times, i've turn it off after 45 min. But, now... It's OK funny :) 
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt : In here i gave it 8.2 (outside 7.9)
  Because some part of the game aren't done.
  And there are many Graphic-Error's.
  
  So i'll 
 give it 7.9 - 8.2 
  Not Higher... Not lower...
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sorry for the bad Spelling... : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  this game is excellent on all remarks. the coolest this about this game is definently the loco 
 moves. they are AWSOME. on of them is you pull out two marriachi guitar cases, and use them as 
 machine guns. another is you spawn a mexican wrestler to fight with you. he has a shotgun and totally 
 clears guys out for you. and yes, this is freeroam, and yes there is some kik ass acrobatic **** 
 like cartwheeling off the wall, or just dodging shots by doing slow mo diving. you can jack cars, 
 and you can even jump out of the car while its moving to create a combo by shooting guys when you 
 emerge, and most likely, the cars will kill some guys too. there are some cool platforming segments (kinda) 
 where you get on a zipline while taking people out. the story is a tad ridiculous though. it involves 
 twin brothers or something. whatever. if your like me, and you like acrobatic shooting doging and 
 runnin on walls, and if you like gta, this game is like they put the two together. the is GTA: 
 mexican flying off walls and shit edition. dont rent. MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chifundo
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  I dont know a single person that could really enjoy this game for long. This games' biggest draw 
 is the endless shooting and action plus the fact that its hard to die because of all the generous 
 power-ups and health packs littered around the stages.
  
  When I first picked up the controller and played this game I kept thinking of Grant Theft Auto; 
 San Andrea and there are lots of similarities between the two. But its just not in the same league, 
 the map is impossible to use and should only be used as a general guide. The cars are all horrible 
 to control, the movement of the player is not very precise and learning how to aim the various 
 weapons effectively is a massive struggle.
  
  One of the important parts of GTA was the strong police presence, especially later on in the game. 
 Not so in Total Overdose, you have a license to kill whoever you want, even the police and there 
 wont be any retribution coming, although I wouldnt recommend wasting your ammunition which is 
 as scarce as a carton of cigarettes in a high security prison. 
  
  You cant buy any guns or ammunition but have to pick it up off the bodies of slain characters!?
 
  
  If youre thinking of buying this game do yourself a favor and send the money to me instead. I 
 will send you an email saying 'thank you' I'm sure you'll get much more satisfaction out that.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesoul_man
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Man, I can't be impartial I simply love the Driver-GTA-MaxPayne Type games and I simply love all 
 the music on the Soundtrak. The game is awesome, some fresh air on a, for me, stopped genre. When 
 I first this game I thinked: 'An other GTA' but it's more than that. At first the combination of 
 the controls was quite good, the graphics (even in my not-too-new computer) where awesome, everything 
 looked solid and real, but it is far more colorful than other similar games like GTA San Andreas 
 (It loosed a lots of point because everything looked so brown) . The Soundtrak is excellent, i listen 
 to Molotov, Control Machete and a lot of Mexican music in that style, every part of it fits perfectly 
 with the atmosphere of the game. About the controls, they are very nice and smooth, specially for 
 who played the GTA series (sorry about the comparissions with that series, but noone can deny that 
 they are for inspiration for a lot of different titles) , and the addition of combo-style killing 
 and the loco-moves add a lot to the game (that golden gun rocks!!, toma eso maldito culero!) Overall, 
 for those that enjoyed the GTA series and the earlier Driver Series, a very good addition, and 
 for those who never played that kind of games, a very good choice for start. Bluesoul_Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyber04
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game mixxes in so many games, but mostly this game is about killing mexicans. This game has 
 all the gore, fun, astonishment of when GTA3 came out. It pretty much is about pointless missions, 
 and pointless killing.. they need more games about just killing people, and killing wrestlers, 
 and killing dressed up skeletons, killing, killing, ohh man, i think i should stop writing and 
 go play. If you havent tried this game you need to try it right now, u will have months of constant 
 fun. the game has great replay value becuz there is so much stuff you most likly missed the first 
 time around, also you can try to beat your old global score!
  
  If you want blood
  If you want guns
  if you want cool moves
  if you want instant replays that can save your life
 
  if you want cool cars
  if you want to hit people with your car door
  if you want to beat people with machetes, and rakes, and other various melee weponds
  
  And.... 
 if you want to KILL!
  Buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legumo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  Played 20% of the game and uninstalled it, this is MAX PAYNE on a budget guys, i love the idea 
 of MEXICO, the huge explosions, the great slow-mo Bullet-Time, but it failed miserably on the execution.
 
  
  The graphics are so Playstation 2 even at high detail, the menu is boring, the gameply repetitive, 
 the story is stupid, and the game isnt even a patch on GRAND THEFT AUTO.
  
  this game is good you never played MAX PAYNE / GRAND THEFT AUTO....
  
  for us cool gamers....... AVOID!
 
  
  too bad cause the idea is fine, but the game is tiresome, boring, lacks polish.
  
  roll on to MAX PAYNE 3 .... or something :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfspeedr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  Total Overdose (named as TOD too) is a great action game, Its something like Max Payne+Gta+Matrix 
 :P
  Its good for those who love guns and much action those who play max payne, getaway, gta, etc.. 
 would like very much this game.
  The graphics are not very good but the gameplay is awesome. You can walk in the road, kill the 
 civilians, go to pistoleros associados where you can pratice, you can steal cars, and much more 
 things
  The first missions are short and easy, but, if you pass the history missions it will be longer 
 and harder =)
  Btw, do you want to know the weapons you have?? Hehe, I wont tell you :P go to http://www. totaloverdose. com/ 
 and find. 
  In my opinion, it worth to get this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendead
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  This Game rocks. There are combinations of Prince of Persia (When you die, you can turn the time 5 
 second back before you die) , Max  tricks) , GTA (Differents vehicles 
 and a different missions) , You can carry a lot of weapons. You got a lot of trick from the movie 
 Desperado (I think) . That machineguns in that cases. You even have a golden gun (The golden gun never 
 miss and it kills in one shot) , Tornado (Jump with two machineguns in the air and rotating) , Toro (Became 
 a *Toro*) , Pinata (A Tricks bomb) and a lot more. Very interesting game!!! Worth to play!!! The Best 
 Game Ever Played!!! There is even a great humor in there. Well, Story really isn't impresive, but the 
 whole game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: som3az
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  Don't know how does it get 6.1 cause this game is extremly fine... it's very nice and it keeps 
 you in a world of motion action and fun.
  
  The moves are cool, the guns r awsome and the controls give u real entertainment..
  
  The graphics 
 may not be very strong and poweful as many other games but it's fine and the idea of the game is 
 great so hope you all enjoy it and have fun knowing where it goes in the end.
  
  At last i have to talk about the music which is very nice and give u the feeling u r in mexico 
 also the language is very nice and the whole game is good to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  - The good: Lots of fun shooting crooks and bad guys in there faces! Cool shoot dodge moves for 
 example my favorite wall move. The loco moves is also great. Really great fun!
  
  The bad: The graphics has some problems, and driving a car in Total Overdose isn't something you 
 should shout "hurray!!!" for... The story is also a little bad.
  
  - Total Overdose is really a game that i'm proud of having in my collection! The game offers tons 
 of tons of fun!! I never get tired of playing it! But anyway here's a short rewiew of a brilliant 
 game:
  
  - Gameplay: T. O. is a mix of Max Payne and GTA.. or so i think... but that's just great. Can't 
 get enough of it!
  
  - Graphics: Great graphics, but could have been better.
  
  - Sound: Really cool soundtracks, music and sound effects in the game! It really creates a good 
 "shooting-bad-guys" mood :P
  
  - Value: Lots of replay value!
  
  Go buy the game, cause i did. And I don't regret it.. hehe :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havanacigr
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This was just another in a line of GTA knock-offs. There were elements of Max Paynes camera work 
 and bullet time style moves as well as flashy Tony Hawk type moves and graphics plastered on the 
 screen. The real problem is it wasn't as innovative or immersive as GTA it lacked the gritty world 
 you are thrown into in a GTA game. And the Tony Hawk and Max Payne Elements were equal in their 
 short comings. If you have a weekend to kill and there is nothing else left at blockbuster I say 
 go for it but it is far from worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianKnight
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is really boring, there is only music when you start shooting in a heavy fight and the 
 special skills are lame. At first when you play it you start thinking of GTA, but when you advance 
 in game you see that it is nothing compared to GTA, the Suspense is missing en the story is very 
 lame. Graphics are alright I suppose but the one of the missing parts is the music, it is really 
 very irritating when you play the game and it's silent all the time until you see some enemies 
 you need to take down.
  So my advise to you, dont buy this game, unless you really have too much money and very good patience... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsmeamit
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  Shades OF Max Payne 2/ Enter The Matrix/Gta
  Great Combination Of Gameplay
  Eidos Hit The Jackpot
  Bink Video Througout Rules
  No Real Story, But Awesome Action
  
 
  A Must For Every Payne/Bulletime Fan
  
  Diving IN Slo-Mo Is Amazing
  And the special combos you can pull off
  This game is perfect if ya just wanna have fun
  Goodish 
 Graphix but nowhere near the quality of the gameplay
  
  Hope You Guys Like IT
  
  Enjoy
  
  I just writing now to reach the 100 character limit
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liel234
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  6.7? i give this game a 10 is the best game!!!!
  you poor....
  is a good game and the walk on the wall is very good way you give to this game a 6.7 
  too bad 
 becos this score no many pepole play the game
  6.7? i give this game a 10 is the best game!!!!
  you poor....
  is a good game and the walk 
 on the wall is very good way you give to this game a 6.7 
  too bad becos this score no many pepole play the game
  6.7? i give this game a 10 is the best 
 game!!!!
  you poor....
  is a good game and the walk on the wall is very good way you give to this game a 6.7 
  too bad 
 becos this score no many pepole play the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnalshadow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Bears some similarities to the Max Payne series and a little GTA.
  Although in my book does not beat either one. Seems a bit on the short side for my taste. The graphics 
 are nothing all to spectacular, but they serve their purpose. I did always have to make sure I 
 had a good shot before I would fire with the lack of ammo can't afford to many misses or you end 
 up using your fists.
  In the end I would rather play any of the Max Payne or GTA games again than this again.
  
  
 If you are thinking of buying this. I suggest try the demo first and see if you like it before 
 you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_k_o_mystery
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  have nice gameplay which may be the better at all
  i think its better than more than one game released before like maxpayne , hitman
  this game 
 have the intelligent gameplay 
  really i amazed from thats action inclueded in this game
  note: this is the first time for me as a large mysterious corporation to write a user review in 
 gamespot
  but trust me i am speak as my corporation to tell you gamespot members that you will never regret 
 your choice if you follow my oppinion
  thanx for all
  i love you gamespot tooooo much
  
  by : future fantasy for games co., ltd. (3FG) corporation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segevraz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:48 am PT
Review:  yeah... maybe the graphics are little bit out dated... but still there are
  some nice effects life the fire and stuff 7/10 for graphics.
  
  now the sounds is great! great 
 sound effects... lots of funny stuff
  great voiceovers and overall great sound 8/10 for sound.
  
  gameplay... well... this is the greatest 
 gameplay combination iv'e
  seen for years! max payne, a litlle bit of gta and a lot of other stuff!
  really great gameplay! 
 9/10 for gameplay.
  
  Overall... this is a great game! anyone can enjoy this game
  it has a lot of weapons.. a lot of nice effects... i lot of stuff
  to do!
  9.1/10 for this game!
 
  
  Total Overdose Rulez!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Topazworm
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  This is very short, grammatically incorrect, lacklustre and basic review. 
  Just to give you a flavour if the game, this does leave a bad taste in your mouth!
  
  This 
 is a negative mini review. Picking out all the bad points of the game, which I think is more important 
 if youre considering buying it.
  
  Ok well first thing I noticed was the graphics, reminded me of GTA. 
  But GTA did it right. Animations 
 were smooth and little details were all there to make the world seem real. The cars for example, 
 the way they animate, are absolutely dreadful. So lets break it down:
  
  Cars:
  
  First off there is only about 5 different cars. In the entire game (same goes for character skins) .
 
  Car wheels hardly turn if at all, going over the smallest of bumps will make your car travel on 
 one wheel (yes ONE wheel, which is impossible to steer or stop with) , and the fact the cars handle 
 like full trolley of food doesnt help!
  You can assign a key to handbrake, but in reality you may as well not bother. Using the handbrake 
 the car wasnt affected at all, not a thing. Yet if I press use to enter/exit a car, the car 
 stops instantly and your character calmly gets out.
  
  Driving around the city isnt a GTA experience. In fact its dreadful. When you need to get from 
 one part of the city to another, you hit loading barriers areas which when you pass through the 
 game brings up a menu and you can choose which city to drive to next. If you expected GTAs level 
 of detail with scenery and driving etc then you will be grossly disappointed!
  
  Other driving bugs include, when you press the use button to get in a car, you can actually drive 
 off and steer etc while your character is still climbing in. Shooting the driver of a car will 
 cause him to automatically appear on its roof, dead! There are others butI cant be bothered to 
 load the game again and experience them!
  
  FIGHT!
  
  So what about the fighting sections? Well if you played the demo you will be familiar to this. 
 However things in the game dont improve much. Its the same thing over and over. Badly animated 
 enemies spawning from nowhere and just shoot at you. You then must shoot back and try to do it 
 with as much flare as possible for extra points!
  
  You can perform special moves, like wall walking and such, which all sound wonderfulbut actually 
 its not. Wall walking is just bouncing off the wall in slow motion (not walking across it) . You 
 have no control over your character while this happens (because all enemies are auto targeted!) . 
 There are different special moves you can perform. These include:
  Having 2 guitar cases in each hand, each is a high powered machine gun
  Golden Gun: One shot 
 to kill
  Whirlwind: Kills all enemies (and about anything from cars to chickens) in your immediate area!
 
  
  You can also shoot dodge ala Max Payne, but its not done with any degree of expertise. Like I 
 mentioned before, all enemies are auto targeted, so only enemies with red crosshairs on you can 
 shoot. The others shooting at you wait their turn.
  
  Anything else?
  
  Well yea. There are other bugs in the game, that sometimes make it unplayable but some that make 
 me damn right laugh out loud!
  If you pull a gun out in public, passers by will run around screaming. Fair enough you say. But 
 they run into walls, posts, cars, each other and just die on the spot!
  
  What I didnt mention:
  
  Storyline: Its so dull and boring that you forget about it within 
 10 minutes. The character you play is also boring and totally forgetful!
  You just play the game from one boring mission to the next. The missions are just as boring as 
 the story; these involve nothing more than killing 10 people in 1 minute, something like that. 
 Hardly exciting. The story is totally forgettable.
  
  Other game features: Sounds, music etc. Again nothing important to write home about. Ergo not worthy 
 of entry in this mini review
  
  In closing I would say this game would be a very small diversion from other games for a few hours. 
 I severely doubt you will be playing this any more than a week after you install it.
  
  These are all my OPINIONS. This isnt an in-depth review. If you want to know more about the game, 
 ask!
  
  Thanks for reading ;)
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
