-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Total Annihilation: Kingdoms
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/totalannihilationkingdoms/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 490 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Cavedog Ent.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     May 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Kingdoms suffers from a long list of problems that collectively prevent it from exceeding its ancestor 
 or from rejuvenating a tired genre. 

 It isn't often that an upstart game company breaks through with a major hit, but when Cavedog released 
 Total Annihilation in late 1997, that's what happened. A year and a half later, Cavedog is trying 
 to follow suit with Total Annihilation: Kingdoms, a fantasy real-time strategy game that is an 
 apparent effort to reclaim the interest of Total Annihilation fans. And while Kingdoms does include 
 four different playable factions and a much more interesting story than Total Annihilation did, 
 Cavedog's second game suffers from a long list of problems that collectively prevent it either 
 from exceeding its ancestor or from rejuvenating a tired genre.  

 You can begin to see what's wrong with it right from the start. Although the graphics in Kingdoms 
 are more detailed than those of its science fiction-themed precedent, the jagged-edged polygonal 
 graphic style was far better suited to the rough-hewn metallic shapes of Total Annihilation than 
 the more organic style of Kingdoms' designs. The consequence is that it's not so easy to tell one 
 unit from the next in Kingdoms, and while some look distinctive, such as the kingdom Veruna's massive 
 warships and dirigibles or Zhon's squid-like krakens, many or even most others look plain at best 
 and messy at worst. The flat 2D backdrops aren't much better, and the 3D units clash against them 
 much like they did in Cavedog's first game.  

 The Kingdoms graphics engine, only slightly enhanced since Total Annihilation, makes limited use 
 of 3D acceleration to accentuate certain special effects but does not take advantage of your card 
 in order to enhance the game's frame rate or smooth the edges on the polygons. Even if you have 
 a very fast machine, you'll still find that the game's frame rate bogs down noticeably during large-scale 
 battles on account of the software rendering, which not only makes the game look worse than it 
 could have, but proves to be a serious detriment during gameplay.  

 Yet while Kingdoms' graphics aren't all that bad, it's difficult to find anything nice to say about 
 the game's sound effects. The dozens of robotic units in Total Annihilation could be easily forgiven 
 for their plain mechanical noises, which seemed appropriate even if altogether uninspiring. But 
 in Kingdoms, which is evidently modeled after Blizzard's character-driven real-time strategy games, 
 the sound effects are mediocre and often downright bad and cannot be excused as easily because 
 the game professes to have so much more context than its predecessor. If the various units sounded 
 interesting, that might have gone a long way toward lending the game the sort of personality and 
 idiosyncrasy that helped make Blizzard's real-time strategy games so popular.  

 At other times, the sound in Kingdoms seems altogether unfinished, and events for which you'd expect 
 audible cues, like unit construction and healing, are strangely silent. Even the game's soundtrack 
 leaves something to be desired, and while the orchestral score is the work of the same Jeremy Soule 
 who lent Total Annihilation its incredible soundtrack, the music in Kingdoms is a missed opportunity 
 to play up the differences between the four warring factions. Though the countries involved in 
 the conflict each have opposing morals and ideals, the soundtrack suggests little evidence of this 
 and drones slowly and similarly for all four sides.  

 At least the story holds up rather well, which is told as though it were a historical narrative, 
 through the static painting montage style of documentary filmmaker Ken Burns. The single-player 
 campaign spans nearly 50 missions, each of which is preceded by a cutscene that sets the stage 
 for the ensuing battle. While the cutscenes are often interesting, just as often, the missions 
 themselves are not. The Total Annihilation engine apparently isn't equipped to handle complex scripted 
 situations, and so the missions' supposed surprises and twists tend to be underwhelming. And aside 
 from the quirkier escort and defense missions, you're stuck with the usual formula of having to 
 wipe out all your enemies. The cutscenes prove to be the biggest incentive to play through the 
 campaign, which is unfortunate since Kingdoms should be at least as enjoyable to play as it is 
 to watch.  

 There are few obvious problems with how Kingdoms plays but plenty of more subtle ones. While the 
 game carries over its predecessor's sleek interface, which readily allows you to set unit waypoints 
 and building-production queues, the game moves slowly and feels awkward. You're responsible for 
 only a single resource, which is generated continuously when you build a lodestone on the right 
 spot. Lodestones are fragile, and you'll almost always have to spread yourself thin setting them 
 up, and what's more, they rarely provide you with the kind of resources you'll wish you had. In 
 consequence, your armies must be assembled deliberately and specifically, as certain types of units 
 on each side are simply more effective than their weaker counterparts. Why should Taros build zombies 
 when executioners do the same job so much better? With very little base building and resource management 
 to deal with, your goal in Kingdoms is to assemble a large army as quickly as possible.  

 When you're ready to strike, using combined arms seems neither entirely necessary nor necessarily 
 practical; certain flying units are extremely powerful in groups and can attack without fear of 
 retaliation from the game's more common units that carry short-range weapons. These ground units 
 also tend to get cluttered together, and since certain spells and ballistic attacks affect a wide 
 area, you're liable to lose a great many warriors at once as you try to storm the enemy's position. 
 Defensive structures are very powerful, long-range ballistic weapons are very fragile, and most 
 melee units are so slow that they get mowed down before they can get close enough to attack. Furthermore, 
 unlike ranged units, melee units won't attack their enemies while moving, unless you expressly 
 order them to engage a target. In practice, many of your melee units will stand idly by in combat 
 while the front ranks take a few practice swings, rather than the lot of them surrounding their 
 enemies en masse. On top of that, there's no way to tell how far your units can detect their enemies 
 on the map, which makes it very difficult to gauge just how many enemies there are in an area, 
 or whether they're anywhere nearby in the first place.  

 For all these reasons, it is difficult to mount a successful attack in Kingdoms. If you let a battle 
 drag on for too long, it's liable to drag on even longer since resources are unlimited and defensive 
 structures so deadly. Since you're restricted to a 250-unit limit, and there are no all-powerful 
 melee or artillery units (nothing like Total Annihilation's Big Bertha cannon) , it's easy and tempting 
 to kick back and defend, and watch your enemy waste dozens of troops trying vainly to breach your 
 perimeter. All the while, your defensive units rack up more and more kills, and achieve veteran 
 status, making them even less likely to be eliminated. And should your foe waste the huge amount 
 of time and resources to summon a holy dragon, the superunit of Kingdoms, know that just a few 
 defensive towers placed in close proximity will be able to take it down. With these concerns in 
 mind, it seems almost a moot point to question the play balance between the four sides in the game, 
 which are intriguingly different but perhaps too much so in certain ways. For instance, Veruna 
 is the only kingdom with a serious navy, making it an obvious choice for water maps while the asset 
 goes to waste in any other situation. Then again, the game doesn't include many multiplayer maps 
 in the first place, and there's only a single two-player map in the whole lot. And they all take 
 a really long time to load.  

 The best thing Kingdoms has going for it is that it has no real competition right now. It's not 
 a bad game, and if you're starving for real-time strategy, there's enough in Kingdoms to hold your 
 interest for a while. Cavedog promises to provide new units and maps for download regularly, and 
 the included map editor means you might find another two-player map to play on soon enough. Plus 
 you get free online play courtesy of the Boneyards service, which means Kingdoms can indeed keep 
 you busy if you choose to overlook its problems or find ways to work around them. But the fact 
 is, Kingdoms is not a better game than Total Annihilation, nor does it approach the other real-time 
 strategy games it hopes to emulate.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: singhway2000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Pros- Excellent single player story, good graphics for its time, great game play, and really good 
 sound effects and music.
  
  Cons- one minor bug I can think of is units getting stuck into each other for a few seconds some 
 times when walking into each other.
  
  Other notes: Game minimum requirements allow it to be playable on even some of the slowest of computers
 
  Game works on my computer with win 98 SE, XP pro , and my vista home ed laptop without any issues.
 
  
  Game play notes: Single player story puts you in a fight between 4 nations. Thorough out the story 
 line you will have to play from the point view of every nation (you don't have a choice of which 
 nation to pick, it just goes back and forth between the nations in a preset order) . The fighting 
 in the game is done on land, sea, and air. Units are themed to fantasy and medieval type characters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  I loved Total Annihilation and when I heard about this game I was excited, a TA style game in medieval/mythological 
 ages, and when it first came out was half the price of any new release PC game, so I choose to buy 
 this game that day, and here's what I thought about it.
  
  The FMV presentation was beautiful for it's time, you saw dragons flying around, and beautiful scenery.
 
  
  The gameplay started off basic enough, it's just like TA but in medieval/mythological times, it was 
 fun swtiching back and forth from the 4 sides so you saw the story from their perspective without 
 having to play through 4 seperate campaigns, but some of the missions started becoming more annoying 
 than fun.
  
  Many missions you can end up in long stalemates, as the CPU will keep expanding his base and build 
 powerful defenses that mow your units down, and the only way to defeat the CPU is to send a ridiculously 
 huge number of units to overwhlem it's base or you have to defeat the CPU early as sometimes the 
 CPU can expand it's base so much it will expand and rebuild buildings and units faster than you 
 can destroy them.
  
  I remember missions I maxed out the unit limit and sent the most powerful units available in that 
 mission only to have them slaughtered by inpenetrable defenses the CPU had, or maybe I was able 
 to destroy a couple of buildings then the CPU could rebuild them in minutes but it would take me 
 another 20 minutes to rebuild an army powerful enough to attack his base again.
  
  I remember a mission you had to destroy the enemy base before they killed all the prisoners, I just 
 hated that mission because you couldn't take your time to enjoy the game.
  
  There is good variety of missions though, such as assassinations, using the first cannons after gunpowder 
 was discovered to hold off a huge number of Taros forces attacking a castle, missions you have to 
 use what limited forces you have and eliminate an enemy presense plus the basic build an army and 
 destroy the enemy base missions.
  
  What makes the gameplay have variety is the 4 races in the game are very diverse in appearance, strategy, technology 
 as well as being farely well balanced.
  
  The Aramon are your typical good guys in medieval times who are trying to protect their kingdoms 
 and villages. They consist mainly of knights and use technology such as cannons and catapults.
 
  The Taros are the evil side, they consist of black  
 knights, giant grasshopper type creatures and use magic like making fire fall from the sky, and can 
 build magic powered powerful defensive structures.
  The Veruna are a race of sea people, they have mermen/mermaid type units who can use powerful magic, they 
 have the best navy by far, but are weak over land.
  The Zhon are a race of beasts, they cannot build structures but can create units using spells, and 
 build many beasts, orc, troll like creatures, as well as dragons, and Golums (Giant stone people)
  
  There is also special units available who either had powerful spells or had had much more health, damage 
 resistance and attacking power and could individually turn the tide in battle. Special units health 
 regenerated over time, so the special units could add an extra element of strategy in battles.
 
  
  The story is told well as you go through the campaign and also in the instruction book, you are 
 also presented with a map of the land and awesome illustrations in the gamebox.
  
  Some of the missions can be as fun as any other RTS game, the diverse medieval and mythological 
 units can be fun to use, although many of them look far stronger than they really are, but in the 
 end you will be using ridiculously huge numbers of units for rush tactics to win many missions.
 
  
  The units and landscapes were colorful, but some of the landscapes were also fuzzy. When you scrolled 
 across the landscape it's like the graphics would stutter, even though I played this on PC's that 
 far exceeding the recommended requirements.
  The animation in the units stuttered a bit, and were not free flowing like in Total Annihilation.
 
  There was colorful forest, desert, tropical island locations and medieval style looking towns and 
 castles. The desert locations and tropical islands looked really nice with their sand dune effects 
 and sharpness but other environments such as forest looked rushed.
  
  The Aramon dressed in bright green or silver, the Taros in black and red, the Veruna dressed in bright 
 blue to match the sea.
  
  The Taros spell effects such as fire falling from the sky looked ugly, but the Veruna's Mermen character 
 had some nice looking water spell effects that he fired from his giant Mermen style wand and it 
 was cool seeing his legs transform into a fish tail when he went into water to allow him to swim 
 faster.
  
  The music had enjoyable medieval tunes, or your could hear loud drums beating which suited the Zhon's 
 beast environment.
  The Aramon units had a quaint British accent, The Taros zombies would say ''brains'' when you clicked 
 on them which was a nice feature, but the rest of their units didn't sound scary. The Veruna ships 
 would have their crew of sea men cheer as if they were vikings which was a nice feature, and the 
 Zhon just sounded like brutal but respectable beast warriors.
  
  Some of the spell effects like the fire falling from the sky sounded just like a horrible tapping 
 sound, while the Veruna's spell effects sounded cool.
  
  There is over 40 missions to play through, so it's a long campaign, some of the missions can take 
 hours to win, while others can be won very quickly (even missions midway through the campaign can 
 be very short) there is good variety in the missions but many flawed ones too but the gameplay 
 is still very fun at times, and the presentation and story might keep you interested. If you have 
 never played this game unless you see it for a bargain price I would recommend Age of Mythology 
 instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Czm21x
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  After i bought this game I wished I had not bought it, but instead just continued to play TA. I 
 saw Ta: k in the bargain bin 4 weeks after I had bought it.
  Too bad it had not been a TA2 instead, and set in the same era as TA. What other rts would I rather 
 play then TA: K ?
  
  Warcraft 1,2 and 3.
  Age of Empires
  Age of Empires: Age of Kings.
  Total Annihilation.
  
  Some map Designs in Ta: K were alright. 
 Couple maps I recall that I liked.
  
  Unlimited resources in the form of mana points. Not a good idea.
  Limited resources are logical 
 for a time period such as that. Unlimited is not good unless you got tanks and bombers that you 
 can use to bust a base down with.
  They tried to think up a different idea for a resource gathering ,so the players could concentrate 
 on the tactics of the game.
  
  Race/Unit balance was terrible. Each race in WC3 is unique and it works very very well.
  Even 
 in Aoe2 when the opponent is a Briton and has those longbowmen there is a way to mow them down.
 
  
  Defenses were insane. I do recall throwing many many troops at a highly defended spot. Only to 
 see all my units get mowed down. The other side might as well have had modern day mortars and machine 
 gun nests. The result of the attack would have been the same.
  
  what it needed.
  
  Better Unit balance.
  All sides should have had some type of naval vessels.
  All sides like 
 in TA should have had some type of good Air fighters. ( Dragon Riders, Gryphon Riders etc)
  
  Better balance between the races in that game.
  
  Defenses that could have been overcome. 
 ( Example. Towers in AOE, AOK Etc)
  
  Some type of long range weapon. Since they had included magic in TA: K they could have included 
 a long range weapon based on the use of magic, or just some type of GOOD siege attack weapon.
 
  
  Difficulty: Very Hard to get past opponent's defenses. It can be done if you can sepnd 3-10 hours 
 doing it. Even if your troops come from different directions to attack they still get mowed down 
 a lot..
  
  Fun Factor: Kinda lacking really. it can be fun at first to try out the new units and stuff, but 
 after that it is frustrating to see all your attacks go down the tubes.
  
  Compared to TA this game was Disastrous.
  Actually compared to Aoe and Wc, Wc3 it was not very 
 good at all.
  
  Hopefully they got it right with Supreme Commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrkHammer007
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This is NOT the greatest RTS of all time; in fact, it's not even close. It is, however, a very 
 fun game nonetheless.
  First, the bad: for today's standards, the graphics aren't that great. What was WOW in 1999 is 
 just blocky and coarse in 2007. Also, sound effects are somewhat irritating (battles are announced 
 by a high-pitched gong that, if you're not braced for it, will make you leap out of your chair) .
 
  Balance is nonexistent: only two races (Aramon and Taros) have even a nodding equality with each 
 other. Zhon is badly over-matched in power (though they do have a good hit and run force) , and 
 Veruna only makes sense on a naval map.
  You've basically torn the game apart, reviewer! Why give it the score you did? 
  Two words: it's 
 FUN.
  The single-player campaign uses a very unique mechanic (switching viewpoints between the 4 factions) 
 to tell a compelling story of fratricide and civil war that lasts close to 30 chapters. The climax 
 is a good vs. evil battle that could take hours to beat.
  In short, I got more than my 3 dollars worth out of this game, and (at that price) I can say that 
 I recommend it, even with all its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Com_Meister32
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Since i got this game 7 years ago i coudn't even count the hours upon hours of fun this game has 
 given me... Though there are a few inbalances in gameplay such as Aramon and their damn trebuchets.. 
 but for the most part Kingdoms is soooooo much fun with an awesome capaign. You can also just load 
 up battle made from scrath and pick from one of the 100's!!!! of maps. There are 4 kingdoms to 
 choose from including Aramon, Veruna, Zhon, and Taros and tons upon tons of units for each!
  
  The most fun comes from the LAN partys though!!... ahh the glory of fire demons.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickeySteroid
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihalation Kingdoms is a very fun Warcraft like game that should be fun to any Warcraft 
 fan. In this game you will play as one of the 4 elemental lords. Elsin of earth' (my favorite) Thirsha 
 of wind' Lokken of fire' and Kirina of water. Each team has their own set of strengths and weaknesses. 
 Example: Elsin: Best land fighters Thirsha: Best air fighters Lokken: Best ranged fighters Kirina: 
 Best water fighters.&lt;
  Anyways what is weird about this game is that in the story mode unlike Warcraft you play as all 
 4 teams many times before completing the story campaighn. Also you will actually be able to play 
 as the leader of the teams sometimes which are very powerful and difficult to kill with normal 
 soldiers.
  Well if you are a Warcraft or roleplaying fan get this game and make sure to buy the upgrade to 
 the game called the Iron Plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whebbyj
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 23, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I loved TA and when i first heard about kingdoms naturally i ran out and got it. But after playing 
 it for a few hours i realized how rushed the game was , cavedog really shouldn't be rushing anything 
 exspecially when trying to follow up a hall of famer like Total Annihilation . As this was one 
 of the first games i had played at the time with multiple races to choose from i was very impressed, 
 exspecially the Zhor. The gameplay was overly chunky , nothing smooth about that, graphics where 
 not very impresive and i found that it has a tedency to crash and/or freeze on a regular baisis. 
 very annouying. I would have liked to have seen a sequall or an exspansion (official ones that 
 it) to improve some of the neglected parts of gameplay and micro management ... oh wait there was 
 hardly any of that anyways all in all it's actually worth the $15 dollars i paid for it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I have played some bad games, but this is ambarresing. I dounloaded the demo first and I found 
 it to be a wate of memory. After I bought the full game, I was right; a waste of memory. Now don't 
 get me wrong, the other TA games are pretty good. Kingdoms hase four fractiond and the AI is too 
 confused, they would kill their own men if that was possible. I have actually met players who like 
 this game. I sudjest download the demo first then maybe rent the game. Now, I am strict on grading 
 games; I gave GTA San Andres a 6.5 and Halo 2 a 6.9. But this game just lacks basic qualities that 
 actually make a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceoaces
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, this game is bad. Which I say in spite of LOVING Total Annihilation. I tried so hard 
 to love Kingdoms, I cut it lots of slack, but it was just lame. The graphics don't look cool like 
 in TA, everything just looks fruity. I don't think I even have to bother reviewing this, it has 
 already fallen into obscurity. TA deserved so much better than this, Chris Taylor should have just 
 created a TA2 instead, they would have done a lot better. But hey, they've got that Supreme Commander 
 coming out now, so all isn't lost. If you want a old-timey game like this just play some Warcraft 
 3 or something. They've got like 20 better titles out there. But seriously, just go back and play 
 some original TA, it was awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickzero
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2004 2:05 am PT
Review:  I love this game, it does have a few balance flaws with certain units in the game (trebuchet) and 
 can sometimes cause frustration. the single player missions are very fun and creative, and this 
 game has a very good story, but its skirmish mode is way below par. But its multi player, via gamespy 
 arcade is amazing, but the Kingdoms community is dying, so there are not many people to play with. 
 I suggest everybody to buy it, wether you like it or not, its worth the price of 2 happymeals any 
 day. The only flaw in the game is the trebuchet, the range is to great and its overpowered, it 
 is also not as expensive as it should be, allowing 5+ trebuchets to be allowed, pummeling your 
 whole army and really brings down the enjoyment, but thats only if you are going against sombody 
 who doesnt want anybody but himself to enjoy the game. Other than this, this is an excelent game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
