-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Total Pro Football
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/totalprofootball/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 12, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.9, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 31 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: .400 Software Studios
Genre: Football Management
Date:     December 2003

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Colorful graphics, an interface that practically takes you by the hand, and loads of added details 
 and options make Total Pro Football the best inaugural football sim in years. 

  Friendliness is the biggest hurdle that sports management sims have to face. Unwieldy text-based 
 interfaces and dated production values, which leave games looking like spreadsheets, have been 
 the death of many-an-otherwise-exacting simulation. This is a particular problem in the early editions 
 of a budding series, and as such, titles are usually made on a shoestring budget. So it's a welcome 
 surprise that .400 Software Studios' Total Pro Football (only available online at the official 
 Web site) gets all of these elements correct, right out of the gate. Colorful graphics, an interface 
 that practically leads you by the hand, and fantastic depth make this the best inaugural football 
 sim since the release of the original Front Office Football.  

          A handy list of tasks and a PDA help you organize all of the offseason duties that go with 
 running a big-league football franchise.     

  What first stands out is the vibrant interface. Vivid menus and an opening splash screen that features 
 the pad-smacking and grunting of a play being run make you immediately aware that this isn't your 
 typical numbers-first sports management release. All of the usual accoutrements are on hand, so 
 as usual, you get to take complete control of a pro franchise from front office to sideline -- and 
 you get to do it from now till doomsday. Furthermore, these accoutrements are beefed up by design 
 frills that provide a lot of personality. Player cards not only contain reams of stats and ratings, 
 but they also feature color photos. Agents are represented by pictures and brief biographies. The 
 in-game interface boasts colorful transparent windows, an attractive background photograph, and 
 even crowd sound effects. Nobody's going to mistake this game for Madden NFL 2004, though it is 
 much more attractive than its closest competitor, Front Office Football 2004.  

  The game's interface was obviously designed with an eye toward ease-of-use. All of the oft-onerous 
 offseason tasks, such as signing free agents, negotiating contract extensions, and scouting players 
 for the college draft, have been simplified by a 20-week schedule that's set up with a PDA. Finish 
 a week's duties, such as submitting the year's budget in week three or cutting players in week 
 16, and you simply click a button to advance. A panel of buttons in the lower left corner lets 
 you access all of the tools needed to complete these tasks. You  can  get lost in some situations, 
 but it usually isn't for very long. For instance, when signing rookies, you need to access the 
 team roster screen, pull up each individual player card, and then click on negotiate. The only 
 serious annoyances come when trying to sort players for the draft or when making trades. There 
 just aren't enough options here to arrange players according to skill ratings, so you often have 
 to wade through player cards to get needed information.  

  Finding your way around during the season is also a snap. The home view features a top-down view 
 of your team's stadium and associated buildings, like the practice field, media center, and coach 
 and general manager's offices. To access any function, all you have to do is click on the appropriate 
 building. Go to the GM's office to sign free agents and check out the salary cap. Head to the practice 
 field to work on the training schedule and determine how much time your players spend in the film 
 room this week. And so on.  

  Despite this mostly friendly surface, Total Pro Football has a remarkable amount of depth. Players 
 are exceptionally well detailed. Each is loaded with the usual position-specific ratings for things 
 like route-running speed and pass accuracy, but each also comes with 12 personality and character 
 traits, in addition to a sliding morale scale. While you might recruit a QB who can go deep with 
 the accuracy of Joe Montana, this skill doesn't mean much when he is always in the dumps, thanks 
 to a zero work ethic and dollar signs in his eyes. Players also come equipped with high-powered 
 agents, who have ratings of their own when it comes to such things as stubbornness, pricing, and 
 holding a grudge. Even owners have to be taken into consideration. They also have personality ratings, 
 so you need to know when you're entering a bidding war with a guy who's a profiteer and just wants 
 to maximize the bottom line. Likewise, you need to know if you're dealing with his polar opposite -- a 
 guy who wants to win at all costs.  

  Needless to say, contract negotiations can be very complex. So in addition to all of the above 
 factors, money and terms are big issues. Dealing with the salary cap seems to require a degree 
 in sports economics because you have to juggle contracts, which can run up to seven years in length, 
 with such things as prorated signing bonuses. You'll also have to handle such things as offering 
 optional incentives for reaching performance milestones, like providing cash rewards for those 
 players who reach a certain number of sacks or games started. Furthermore, there are even different 
 contract options for restricted free agents. Don't forget, those cranky player-agents can also 
 hit you with additional demands before their clients will sign on the dotted lines. Thankfully, 
 you can assuage egos by guaranteeing a starting job, the chance to compete for a starting job, 
 or even just the opportunity to be a long-term depth player.  

  A lot of decisions also need to be made on the field. Not only do you run the show in the boardroom, 
 but you also have the option of putting on a headset and calling all the plays from the sideline. 
 As with the other interfaces in Total Pro Football, the one-governing playcalling is first-rate. 
 Suggestions are given for every play, and the main screen even shows diagrams of your options, 
 complete with Xs and Os. The game screen also features a play-by-play window that gives a descriptive 
 rundown on all the action, which adds more character even though some lines are marred by spelling 
 mistakes and typographical errors.  

          The in-game interface tracks all relevant stats and includes an immaculate playcalling 
 window where you can even see each play mapped out with Xs and Os.     

  A more significant problem becomes noticeable after you get about midway into a season. Nearly 
 all stat-generation is inflated. The box scores on some Sundays are almost CFL-like. It's as if 
 the developers took regular NFL totals and added 20 percent or more across the board. After a few 
 seasons, this becomes an issue because you'll see career totals, like running yardage, passing 
 yardage, and even interceptions, mounting faster than is normally possible in the league that Pete 
 Rozelle built. Stick with a league for a decade, and you'll see seven or eight running backs who 
 are already approaching Emmitt Smith's NFL career running yardage record, which means that each 
 is averaging well over a hundred yards a game. That said, there  is  a level playing field here 
 since all players enjoy the benefits of this hepped-up offense. It would be nice to see the numbers 
 adjusted to something closer to the norms (patches are being released on a frequent basis, so changes 
 are possible) , but at least the higher stats and scores don't unbalance play. Also, fictional team 
 nicknames and players are used due to the absence of an NFL license. As a result, it's not like 
 you're confronted with players who are performing beyond their capabilities in the real world. 

  Add to all this the multiplayer mode, which supports online leagues, and you've got everything 
 needed to carry football diehards from the Pro Bowl to next summer's training camps. Total Pro 
 Football does an outstanding job in simulating the trials and tribulations of running a pro football 
 club, and it manages to put a friendly face on all of the number crunching, to boot.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
