-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Total Annihilation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/totalannihilation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.9, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 2,718 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Humongous Entertainment
Developer: Cavedog Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1997
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Cavedog has done a commendable job of taking the basic mechanics of real-time strategy and using 
 them to create something new. 

 The gaming industry is gearing up to bury consumers under an avalanche of real-time strategy games. 
 Every developer is touting the one or two features that will help its game to "redefine the genre" 
 - but the majority of these features do nothing but take away from the precarious balance which 
 made the big two - Warcraft II and Command &amp; Conquer - such runaway hits. At first glance, 
 Total Annihilation, with its much ballyhooed 3D terrain and more than ten dozen units, appears 
 to be nothing more than another in a long line of real-time games with a few minor innovations. 
 But in this case, the innovations work. Cavedog has done a commendable job of taking the basic 
 mechanics of real-time strategy and using them to create something new: A game that relies less 
 on constant mouse-clicking than careful planning and strategic thinking.  

 Initial impressions of Total Annihilation may be misleading. Fire up a campaign and the first few 
 missions will seem like nothing more than another Command &amp; Conquer clone, albeit one with 
 strikingly realistic terrain and a great symphonic score. But as you play deeper into the game, 
 or play a few multiplayer battles or skirmish missions where your opponent is less forgiving, the 
 complexities of the game begin to become apparent. Total Annihilation is a game about balance, 
 from the tightly interwoven resource management scheme to the very diverse units.   

 It's hard to talk about one without the other, and resource management provides a great tightrope 
 you must walk to keep the army strong, both in numbers and brute force. You need the two resources 
 in the game (metal and energy) to power and build your units. Unfortunately, metal is usually rather 
 scarce in the early parts of a mission (later you can salvage wreckage from destroyed units) , but 
 you can build generators to convert energy to metal. This solution to the metal shortage poses 
 another problem entirely: Your units need energy to fire their weapons, and these generators use 
 a great deal of power to produce a small amount of metal. Building a massive army of units is fine, 
 but won't help you much if you don't have enough energy to keep them firing.  

 The units themselves - robotic mechs, vehicles, aircraft, and naval vessels - provide more to the 
 balancing challenge. The stronger units are devastating but require a great deal of power and move 
 very slowly. Large tanks and ships take a great deal of time to simply turn and fire at a target, 
 and large bombers often must traverse the entire length of a map to turn around and make a second 
 run. As a result, you must create balanced forces, small units to hold the enemy while the big 
 guns ready themselves. There's no "ultimate weapon" like Red Alert's Mammoth Tank or Warcraft II's 
 Ogre Magi - there are only more powerful weapons that have equally powerful disadvantages. And 
 then there's the Commander, your strongest unit, your fastest builder and possessor of the devastating 
 D-Gun that destroys units with a single shot. The Commander provides another great strategic conundrum 
 - he's your best warrior, but it's risky to send him into battle because once the Commander's gone, 
 the mission is over.   

 Total Annihilation is full of great features. The 3D terrain - pre-rendered maps with tall mountains 
 and deep valleys - plays an important part in strategy, as units situated at higher elevations 
 have a much wider firing range. Units can take cover behind trees, but these trees - and whole 
 forests - can go up in flames with a single stray shot. When units are destroyed, complete with 
 bass-heavy explosions and a slight shaking of the map, shrapnel flies everywhere, and structures 
 and troops unlucky enough to be hit by the flying debris take damage, adding to the need for strategic 
 placement - just standing and firing at the enemy will cause your units to get destroyed very quickly. 

 Your units gain experience, and with five kills they become veterans with much more accurate firing 
 ability. You can also give units numerous commands at once (simply by holding down the shift key) , 
 so that minor tasks can be queued while you go off to worry about more important matters. These 
 types of details make Total Annihilation great, and every time you play you'll discover some subtle 
 little feature that makes you want to change your tactics and try something new.   

 There are a few small details that could have been improved. The opening missions of the Core campaign 
 are set on a metallic backdrop that is somewhat confusing, making the area in your line of sight 
 and grayed-out; invisible areas look very similar. The manual is a little on the skimpy side, and 
 the lack of any tutorial to demonstrate the game's mechanics seems like an oversight, especially 
 in a game where many players will bring tried-and-true real-time tactics, only to find they're 
 almost completely useless. There's also the lack of a dedicated server for Internet play and the 
 noticeable lack of a scenario editor. Finally, there's the Commander AI bug, which makes the enemy 
 AI send his Commander into battle early on in skirmish missions, causing most to only last a few 
 minutes (Cavedog has promised that a patch for this problem will be released shortly) .  

 But in the face of all that is right about Total Annihilation, these minor details are fairly easily 
 overlooked. If you're looking for a real-time strategy game that adds some new features without 
 breaking from the standard formula, Total Annihilation may be too foreign to satisfy your needs. 
 But if you're looking for a game that is challenging and rewarding on entirely new levels, Total 
 Annihilation is highly recommended.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (76 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thepwninator
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation, released in 1997, is one of the few real time strategy games I have played 
 that actually involved *strategy*. TA involves immense thought, both in economic and tactical planning 
 due to the unique resource model and vast library of units, each one of which is extremely useful 
 in its own rights. Matches in TA tend to last far longer than those of its contemporaries such 
 as StarCraft and Red Alert (both of which it preceded) , but this, by no means, indicates a lack 
 of depth or speed to gameplay itself. Indeed, quite the opposite is true; there is always something 
 to be done, and none of these things are ever trivial.
  
  The biggest real problem with this game is the single player campaign, which lacked a good, or 
 even existent, story, as well as relatively poor level design. However, the problem of poor level 
 design does not carry over into multiplayer, which features some of the best-designed maps I have 
 ever seen, featuring chokepoints and resource clusters placed in such a manner to make them extremely 
 strategic positions and, consequently, the sites of some of the most epic battles the genre has 
 ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlarn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Total annihilation is in my opinion one of the best RTS's released at its time. Total Annihilation 
 was by far one of the games that further refined the strategy series, by refining it took some 
 of the annoyances out of how your units act like controlling whether they fire on enemies, return 
 fire, or just cease fire entirely. Sure by today's standards this game may seem a little dull compared 
 to say Universe At War or Supreme Commander or Command & Conquer 3 but during its time it was the 
 best in my book and I still play but not as much. Sure the music in this game does not even close 
 to Red Alerts which has still some of the best music in any RTS I've come across today but the 
 game play completely makes up for it in the fact that you can take your heavy duty commander with 
 his strong laser beam and d-gun which I think is the most powerful unit attack in the game or you 
 could take a whole mob of like 100 other units to your enemies base and just rip it apart.
  
  I give this game a 10/10 for pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkkong
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  this game was an instant classic in my mind as soon as i started playing it . it started off the 
 whole stragery series aswell eg Dawn of war command and conquer and all them classics. I would recommened 
 this to anybody likeing strategy games eventhough the graphics are prehistoric but the gameplay 
 is superb some missions are a bit long winded when u only have ur commander but its all worth it 
 destroying the other team in the biggest battle ever n the last mission cause you overpower them 
 soo much its hilarious cause u build like 200 pee-wees and make them charge so look at my other 
 reviews and if u can rate me and this review and get this game. it is very cheap and worth the 
 money but make sure ur have an old/compatiable pc to play to uir hearts contebnt
  
  
  
  GET THIS GAME
  PUNKKONG OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malavos
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Total was a great game which retraits a future, a very far away future. Which energy and resources 
 was runned out and BLBA LBA LB AL BALBLAB LABLABL. Now you play the game. It's have some VERY NICE 
 POINTS. ANd some very BAD. I said: BAD. points. Ill go the grades, and you should play the game 
 and make your opiniom.
  
  Fun playing it: 8,7. Why? He rocks. Simply.
  
  Sound: 5. No music. That is all. T_T
  
  Graphics: 6. They are not good. I guess, they are O. K. 
 But nothing like "OHH OMG WTF PWNS0ME"
  
  Interactivity: 10. Just play the game and get your commander to a tree. or a rock.
  
  Style: 
 10. No way, i give it a ten!!!!! NO WAY! XD~
  
  Overral: 7,9. The game is nice, give it a chance. I secure you, he is OVERRATED. If you dont look 
 to the sound or graphics, course. PLAY IT! And talk with me if you liked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juck_VII
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I got TnA 6 or 7 months after it was released and loved it from the first time I ever played it. 
 I think I was in the 3rd or 4th grade when my dad picked this up for him self and than for me as 
 well when he found out I liked it a lot. We both played each other over LAN never got a round to 
 playing online so I can't really say how good or bad the multiplayer side of TnA was. Loved the 
 store line still do to this day Starcraft is cool but TnA kills Starcraft in my mind and yes every 
 one has their own opinion so I don't care what any one says to me about Starcraft being better. 
 The skirmish side of TnA rocks can't get any better than what it is I always played the AI on the 
 most difficult settings in the game some times I lost and sometimes I won the best units in my 
 mind for the Arm for Air would have to be the Freedom fighter and the Hawk, as for bombers it would 
 have to be the phoenix it's hands down the best in the game. Land is hard to say I used the peewees 
 a lot same goes for the Flash light tank and the Stumpy tanks as well. never really played the 
 core that much. I never used nukes I always thought they gave some one a unfair advantage against 
 you but I did use the radar jamming a lot. The sound affects are good I would always piss my parents 
 off when I was out of school in the summer time. So I would turn the speakers and the sub woofers 
 all the way up and a big explosion would come on right after I did that. The music fits in well 
 when you are not in a battle or being attacked its kinda soft but once you enter a battle the music 
 heats up. If you are looking for a RTS game that isn't new but is still a good one you should really 
 check into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation is a story about 2 armies at war with eachother, fighting on thousands of different 
 planets. And the only thing they care for is the Total Annihilation of the other. But it won't be 
 quite that easy as both sides have the ability to create new units by converting matter into new 
 units so each minute that goes by, both sides have the armies grow even huger in size!
  
  Before the war started, the 2 sides the Arm and the Core were humans who transported their minds 
 into robots, for eternal life and easier maintenance of body parts, but the 2 sides turned against 
 eachother and war broke out.
  
  The gameplay is where most of the fun is at though.
  You have a HUGE variety of robots, vehicles, aircraft, naval vessels and other weapons to build. In 
 the earlier missions you start off in the low parts of the tech tree, the game gives you an oppotunity 
 to get used to the game, and as you go further into both sides campaigns (which are 25 missions each) 
 you will need to learn how to win battles on land, over the sea, use air support and outthink your 
 enemy to penetrate through their base (building a huge army of forces doesn't always work like in 
 other RTS games)
  
  The key to TA is balance and controlling the areas you can harvest metal (the resource you collect) 
 More powerful vehicles take longer to build while smaller lighter vehicles obviously build quicker, you 
 can build as many robot, vehicle, naval, air unit producing structures as you want, the more unit producting 
 structures you build obviously means you can have more units being producted simutaneously, but 
 you need to carefully manage your metal and energy income levels, as building too much too quickly 
 will bring your unit production down to a snails pace, but building not enough or too slowly will 
 mean you will be overwhelemd.
  
  Besides units, you can build structures such as long range artillery to wreck havoc on your opponent's 
 base, they take a while to build, but have extremely long range (can fire almost across the map) it's 
 a gamble to do, (they require a lot of time and resources to build) but if you successfully build 
 them your opponent better make sure they get rid of them quickly!
  
  So even though you use such advanced technology, you will still need to be good at old class warfare 
 strategy such as the use or artillery, and aerial surveillance and holding key ground (such as higher 
 terrain, controlling key access points between mountains and where the metal extraction points are.
 
  
  The things I didn't like about the gameplay were, often because of the unlimited supply of metal 
 and you and the CPU will throw massive numbers of forces against eachother non stop, and often you 
 can end up in stalemate situations. Also sea missions can be just a race to see who can build the 
 most powerful battleships the quickest, and the fact you have to keep building defensive units and 
 the most powerful naval units build so slow you can play the game for an hour before you realize 
 you are in an unwinnable position.
  
  The physics in the game are good though, ground units move slowly up mountains, you cannot use aircraft 
 on moons, small lighter units can take down a heavily armored high powered tank by using it's speed 
 to dodge the tank fire and using fast rapid shooting. Debris from destroyed units can also get in 
 the way or can be used as cover.
  
  I also like how the makers of this game do know about science, such as being able to build fusion 
 reactors (have energy the equivelent to a star) and converting matter into units such as robots, vehicles, aircraft 
 etc)
  
  The graphics were great for their time, while they weren't 3D, they had 3D effects and the planet 
 environments varied from forest, to tropical islands and sea based  
 planets made purely of metal, alien terrain with weird vegetation.
  
  There was also big explosions and missles looked awesome when they were fired in the air at aircraft 
 or over long distances. The robot movements were very smooth and flowing.
  
  Vegetation could also catch fire for a real effect, and after battles you saw debris from destroyed 
 units everywhere.
  
  The music was a bit boring, during battles the music changed to war theme type music.
  The sound 
 effects of the units sounded realistic for their time, robots made robot sounds when you told them 
 to move, smaller ligher vehicles made sounds like they were powered by some futuristic energy source, aircraft 
 sounded like they made the air vibrate as they moved through the air.
  
  Overall, one of the most tactically deep RTS games you'll ever play and one of the best ones ever 
 made period. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmoPurpl3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The best RTS of all times and the most revolutionary. Is an amazing game, unlimited, you can create 
 millions strategys on gigantic maps with thousands of types of units (air-land, land, underwater, 
 land-underwater, land-water, air-water, etc) . At the beginning of the mission you are totally free 
 to choose what strategies to combine and what units types to win, not like in Starcraft where you 
 have some obligations, and you are not free because you have too many rulz. There are 2 races, 
 Arm and Core who fight for supremacy, every race has a main unit (Commander) who can create the 
 primary buildings and hundreds of unit types. You have two resources types, energy and metal. The 
 metal can be recyclated from the destroyed units. This game has inspired many games but he remains 
 unique. Every time i play this game i wonder myself how someone could make such an amazing game. 
 Starcraft looks like a bad joke compared with Total Annihilation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: top_hat_14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I dont hesitate in saying that this game ranks first in all of my gaming experiences. I have spent 
 hundreds of hours on this game over the last 8 years and i still enjoy a match almost daily this 
 game sticks with you through thick and thin. Whether you want to take down those Arm marauders 
 trying to purify the universe or obliterate the robotic Core advance. This game has a vast array 
 of units and buildings to choose from with a battle strategy for all interested whether you want 
 to hole yourself in an impenetrable bunker of lasers and rockets or if u want to battle forth with 
 one of your giant robotic units. And all of this without even buying the expansions which brings 
 huge new units to your disposal such as the Krogoth (so beautifully destructive) . Also there is 
 an ever-growing number of units being created everyday that can be downloaded from many websites 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  To be honest Total Annihilation is quite truly the best.
  
  Simply and honestly the graphics are great the gameplay is brilliant it isi amazingly fun and it 
 doesnt take long to complete but there is patches for new missions which is interesting also you 
 can download new bots from certain sites.
  
  It is simply Annihilative and I love the aeroplane bots especially the hawks if you make 100 of 
 them and send them out to kill all the other teams bots you win in a matter of seconds and thats 
 no joke at all.
  
  It is a revolutionary game and i say it is definetly a 10 from me. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyjwol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  The basic story line for the campaign thrusts the player into a galactic civil war between two 
 sides; the Arm and Core. Core finds the cure for death (doing away with those body things we all 
 have and replacing them with robotic bodies) and thinks great, we'll force everyone to do that 
 . Arm decides it a satanic idea and tells Core where to stick it... and then there was civil war. 
 Not the most exciting scenario, but the player chooses which civilizations he or she fights for 
 which is quite good. Campaign isn't this games strong point, mainly because unless you're a hardcore 
 TA fan it gets a bit tedious after a while. However, the multi player options and skirmish mode 
 really make this game worth buying if you enjoy real time strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skathe08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Total annhilation is one of the greatest RTS games to date if you ask me. With versatility in every 
 form of combat from melee, to tank combat, to air combat, to sea combat you can fight anyway you 
 want to in this game. Much like the command and conquer games except then some. I would recommend 
 this game for anyone old or new to RTS games. I have been able to play this game for endless hours 
 with non stop action and fun. Total annhilation is a game for any avid or irregular gamer. Can 
 play for hours and hours and hours on end with the same amount of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostLegacy54
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Total Annihilation is the epitomy of a good RTS. There are so many units and strategies you can 
 use. Not to mention this is one of the most moddable games you can find. (next to UT of course.) 
 There is a slew of user-created mods that are really fun and keep the gameplay fresh. TA isn't 
 very easy to find these days but if you get your hands on a copy, DONT LET GO. I can honestly give 
 this game a ten out of ten because if 1 game can keep me entertained for almost 10 years, it has 
 got to be amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breezey29
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Even now that supreme commander has been released onto the world. Its predecessor has lost none 
 of it's impact in my eye's.
  
  Maybe it's just nostalgia but I think the game was way ahead of it's time.
  
  The graphics 
 are now some what dated but anyone who wants the bell's and whistles can easily jump over to its 
 spin off.
  
  Only two word's you really ever need to review this game.
  
  BIG BERTHA!
  
  I have to say I was too young at the time to experience this game online in 
 it's moment of glory. I have had a few games over network but I would have loved to experience 
 the boneyards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacemanboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  First off Id like to say that this game was made in 1997, its ten years later and i still think 
 it is one of the best RTS games Ive ever played. The key thing that i think makes this game so 
 great is the fact that you can do anything you want to. Its so simple but the simplicity of it 
 makes for vast complex situations created by you. The story mode is ok but isnt the real meat of 
 the game, most of it is in either online or single player skirmish. Most of the time skirmish is 
 a bit of a let down in RTS's but the AI is great and can be really challenging if you don't know 
 what your doing. Another great thing about the game is that there are few restrictions, there are 
 only two resources and with the right mods no unit limitation making for epic wars with 1000+ units. 
 The last and probably greatest part of the game are the MODS. There are 1000s of units maps and 
 total conversion mods that will make it impossible to stop playing. I wouldn't just take my world 
 for it.. go try it you wont be disappointed, as i said it is one of the greatest real time stratagey 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spirosway
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Long ago, the galaxy had known peace. Paradise was ruled with the hand of science, and the hand 
 was that of the galactic governing body known as the Core. Ironically, it was the Core's ultimate 
 victory, the victory over death itself, that brought about the downfall of its paradise and started 
 the war that would decimate a million worlds. The immortality process, known as patterning, involved 
 the electronic duplication of brain matrices, allowing the transfer of consciousness into durable 
 machines. Effectively it meant immortality, and the Core decreed the process mandatory for all 
 citizens in order to ensure their safety. However, there were many citizens unwilling to toss aside 
 their bodies so casually, many indeed who regarded patterning as an atrocity. They fled to the 
 outer edges of the galaxy, forming a resistance movement that became known as the Arm. War began, 
 though it was never officially declared by either side. The Arm developed high-powered combat suits 
 for its armies, while the Core transferred the minds of its soldiers directly into similarly deadly 
 machines. The Core duplicated its finest warriors thousands of times over. The Arm countered with 
 a massive cloning program. The war raged on for more than 4,000 years, consuming the resources 
 of an entire galaxy and leaving it a scorched wasteland 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cards2
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 28, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game great for those who love RTS games. i own this game and it is superb in almost all categories 
 of RTS gaming huge battles and MASSIVE explosions. it also reshaped my expectations for RTS'ing 
 ( i KNOW that is not a real word at all) at my knowledge, there is an expasion pack for it but 
 i don't know if it is real or not but i heard rumors of it. it is just that i can't play skrimish 
 on it because of an error. like almost all RTS games, it is very easy to learn but very VERY hard 
 later in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamildy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  I think Total Annihilation is an understated game and still holds it's own in the modern market. 
 The fun of obliterating your opponent in a blaze of plasma death is undeniable. It also has massive 
 modding potential and if you spent a little time searching out resources you can triple the games 
 entertainment factor, there are hundreds of mods as well as maps and single units that you can 
 use to modify your gaming experience you might want to try your own hand at modding as TA was designed 
 with easy expandability and Cavedog planed to release frequent new units and maps but the company 
 went under and it was left to the gaming community to improve on an already excellent formula. 
 However nothing can be done about the AI pathfinding, which can cause your triumphant march to 
 victory form in to a single line and be obliterated one by one until you have to start over again. 
 but to be fair their are only two games I know of that don't have bad pathfinding and they are 
 Supreme Commander and Ground Control II. If you are not stratified with the old game engine I recommend 
 Spring TA at http://spring. clan-sy. com/ it's free and has a fully 3D engine (but it is also behind 
 the times a bit) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagru
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Of all the strategy games ever made, few can even brush shoulders with Total Annihilation. It's 
 game-play is superb, and offers hundreds of diverse units to employ on large-scale maps; large 
 enough to make an event happening on one side of the map seem far away, but small enough to not 
 take away from the feeling of the game.
  
  Huge, several screen wide, slug fests between hundreds of units, punctuated by the explosion of 
 nuclear weapons on the battlefield, are quite possible. And the carnage of the aftermath, burning 
 metal corpses that litter the battlefield, do not disappear after! If untouched, the corpses stay, 
 giving evidence to the intense battles you've fought.
  
  The soundtrack, composed by Jeremy Soule, is brilliant; the best I've heard for this genre. The 
 music automatically matches the mood, and if you ever tire of it, you're given the option to play 
 your own music.
  
  A large modding community exists for this game (Designed to be easily modded) , offering many new 
 maps, missions, units, and whatever else you can think of.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is kept from a 10 score by one flaw: The storyline is almost non-existent. 
 While it is a sad absence, the game-play is enough to push it past this roadblock.
  
  Total Annihilation is unsurpassed in the RTS genre so far. Newer RTS' have each contributed to 
 the genre, or refined the old formula, but none have reached the overall excellency of innovation 
 and game-play that TA has. I would recommend this game to any person who considers them-self a 
 fan of strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhole45
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation is a really fun strategy game to play for a number of reasons.
  First of all, the graphics are outstanding for a game that came out nearly 10 years ago. It is 
 a pleasure to watch units fire lasers, missiles and shells and consequently leave behind a scrap 
 heap when they are destroyed. The fact that destroyed units and buildings actually leave behind 
 rubble is really cool since it can be harvested for resources. There are two sides; ARM and CORE. 
 Even though many of the units from both sides share similar functions, there remain enough subtle 
 differences in appearance and gameplay to make things interesting. There is a large selection of 
 units and buildings in this game, from Kbots (your foot soldiers) , to tanks, aircraft, ships, defensive 
 towers etc. TA is not a difficult game to get adjusted to but the campaign mode can be challenging 
 at the later stages and will test the mettle of any veteran strategy gamer. There is also a skirmish 
 mode which allows up to a total of 10 players including yourself. The music is entirely orchestral 
 which fluctuates according to how much action is taking place on screen. It is pretty good. The 
 one minor complain I have with the game is the fact that your allies are not immediately revealed 
 during skirmish mode on your radar screen. It is necessary to search them out, along with your 
 enemies. I just think it is somewhat annoying having to do this. TA has some gigantic maps which 
 will take a long time for units to traverse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Boneyards is dead so now the only places you can play this great game are.
  
  http://www. phoenixworx. org
  http://www. ewarzone. com
  http://www. gamingbattleleague. com
  http://www. cavedog. com/boneyards
 
  http://www. gamespyarcade. com
  http://www. comrade. gamespy. com
  http://www. kali. net
  http://www. wireplay. co. uk
  http://www. heat. net
  http://www. ten. co. uk
  http://www. mplayer. com
 
  http://www. boneyards. net
  
  REMEMBER THEY ARE
  http://www. phoenixworx. org
  http://www. ewarzone. com
  http://www. gamingbattleleague. com
  http://www. cavedog. com/boneyards
 
  http://www. gamespyarcade. com
  http://www. comrade. gamespy. com
  http://www. kali. net
  http://www. wireplay. co. uk
  http://www. heat. net
  http://www. ten. co. uk
  http://www. mplayer. com
 
  http://www. boneyards. net
  
  sorry for restating myself there
  
  YOU CAN ALSO GET A LOT OF MODS AND UNITS, ITS A GREAT GAME, SUPREME COMMANDER IS OUT NOW ALSO!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  please click on my username for my forum posts and other reviews
  
  i hope you enjoyed this review, i really love writing reviews. please feel free to contact me.
 
  
  this review contains links and urls, some of which may no longer exist, i typued that myself you 
 know.
  
  also, some of the no longer alive lilnks can be accessed at http://www. web. archive. org or http://www. reenactor. net. tc 
 or http://www. fileuniverse. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  this is one of those thing you seem to be able to get ONLY in charity shops now these days and 
 i fortunatly found a copy of this and took it home.
  i cant remember why i sold or lost it, but i was being a fool when i was.
  now, obviously, the 
 graphics compared to todays stardards are rubbish, but thats not what we focus on in old games 
 now do we?
  
  now, lets get onto the good bits. after about an hour to get it set up on XP, i played a skirmish 
 to get back into it. it is brilliant, the game suits every and all types of gameplay. you a tank 
 rusher? then build a basic base and start pumping out the tanks and Kbots, you a hedgehogger like 
 me? then revert all your reasources to making a lead curtain. air commander? then build a basic 
 base and start pumping out your aircraft. the list is almost endless.
  
  and the maps are HUGE. i played on one and i swear its bigger than any C&amp; C map. amd this is 
 where tactics come in. because the map is so huge, flanking is possible without being detected. 
 naval battles can be immense if its an island map. nukes can take out your entire base in a single 
 hit, yet they might not have noticed your other base youve been secretly building which has both 
 nuke and anti nuke silo and let rip when he thinks he's clear, but that doesnt mean he cant detect 
 them with early warning radar.
  and artillery is key in this game, in other smaller game you could just rush and arty unit without 
 him hitting you once, in this game its differant. the big bertha (BIG GUN) can fire shells that 
 can iradicate entire coloumns of medium tanks in one shell. thats firepower. and the old RTS rule 
 of if you fire it, its going to hit is out the window, dumb rounds like shells and plasma projectiles 
 are not exempt from the rules of physics, they will follow a straight path unless they hit a hill 
 or a unit, both freind or foe which is why we come back to arty, it can fire over hills and freindlies 
 into massive ranks of units and wipe them out.
  
  but the nukes in this game are key and the end game. whoever can get the most nukes into the other 
 teams base practically wins. if you hit the commander you have then it is definatly game over as 
 this is the most important unit in the game.
  
  overall, a great classic, if you find it in a bargin bin or charity shop, pick it up and buy it, 
 you wot regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric-2-2-er
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  For most of you that don't know. The superb soundtrack found in the game is actually made by the 
 artist Jeremy Soule, who actually made the Oblivion and Morrowind soundtracks. Moreover, the soundtrack 
 has a huge impact on the game, setting the atmosphere for the different stages of battle.
  
  For example, when you've got a bunch of tanks and start attacking the opponents base, the soundtrack 
 will instantly change to a highly motivating track. All of a sudden, you begin to feel a sort of 
 obligation to win the game. Its trully a very hard feeling to describe but, trust me this game 
 deserve all the credit given to it. Its an unforgettable game that has drawn the line between a 
 good and bad, future based RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonmaste
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  i like all of the vehicles such as the robot and the fight jets. found it hard at first but got 
 the hang of it after a while and then its got even better. the graphic are not that good but it 
 is and old game but it is way before its time and also its cool on line against other players. 
 but i still prefer total war series. my favourit vehicle is the freedom fight because its fast 
 as hell and also i like the advanced bommer because it is so powerful and is good for wipeing out 
 an entire base. i hate it when people get nucs because if you dont have and radar jammers your 
 screwed within a second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  If you were an RTS gamer in 1997, you were used to slow paced games with small amounts of units 
 and constant resource management. The fastest paced game you most likely played at that point was 
 Command &amp; Conquer or Red Alert. But in September of 1997, Cavedog Entertainment released what 
 is probably one of the most incredible strategy games to have ever graced our computer monitors. 
 While games such as Starcraft and Homeworld stack up nicely, it just doesn't beat the pure ferocity 
 and insanity of Total Annihilation. Unheard of scale and graphics blessed this magnificent game. 
 The soundtrack was incomparable to any other game, and the carnage satisfied gamers like nothing 
 had before. Truly, if there was a pinnacle of the RTS genre, it was with the release of Total Annihilation.
 
  
  What will first strike you as unusual about Total Annihilation are the 3D graphics, combined with 
 pre-rendered 3D terrain (which became the norm after its release) instead of pixelated hand drawn 
 areas, it was most likely one of the most beautiful games of its time. Explosions were amazing, 
 more than just tiny little bitmaps, instead, the entire nearby area would be lit up, and debris 
 would fly in every direction. With a cast of fully mechanical units, it was a normal sight to behold 
 around fifty tanks all exploding at once from a nuke streaming from the sky.
  
  The story in Total Annihilation is filler at best, but it does nicely. A century long conflict 
 between the Arm and Core, two different warring factions, continues as you assume command of their 
 armies (whichever you choose) they've battled across countless planets, used limitless amounts 
 of resources, and are still going at it. It's almost a battle between machines, as mechanical warriors 
 have taken place of humans on the battlefield. The campaign is probably the least interesting aspect 
 of Total Annihilation, but it's still well done, missions are varied, and there's a voice over 
 for each one of them. There's a rather high amount of missions for both sides, and each has a few 
 memorable moments that'll keep you reminiscing about just how completely insane or close it was.
 
  
  There's a wide variety of actions in Total Annihilation. The AI is well constructed, and there 
 are many useful orders you can carry out. Units can be set to roam, exploring the map, or just 
 attacking random units, they can patrol, attack on site, wait until they're attacked, stand totally 
 still, retreat upon site of an enemy, and more. There's a vast amount of these different orders, 
 and they provide limitless strategies to the game. Placing a patrol over a contested pass between 
 two mountains with a few of your airplanes could provide a nice barrier for enemy troops for example. 
 While Total Annihilation has a rather overwhelming illusion of total chaos, it's never unmanageable, 
 and despite the fact that there's around a thousand units all battling at different points on land, 
 air, and water, you'll never lose track of what's happening, which is good, since action heats 
 up quickly. Despite the rather traditional unit massing the game encourages, a clever player can 
 easily destroy massive armies with the proper units and techniques, which totally throws off players 
 who in other games would simply create a mass of the same units and throw them constantly at other 
 players.
  
  Unlike other strategy games, battles in Total Annihilation can be very tight packed or long range. 
 Missiles can fly half-way across the map and certain pieces of artillery can deliver destruction 
 from jaw-dropping distances. Whereas some units will get right in each other's face and begin blowing 
 each other up with reckless abandon. This provides a great contrast, since it delivers multiple 
 layers of complexity to what might otherwise be mindless insanity. A troop of short range Pee Wees, 
 for example, might be able to massacre some long range slow unwieldy tanks, while some overhead 
 mid-range fighter jets could easily destroy the weak but cheap Pee Wees. Instead of providing a 
 different range of resources to harvest from different points on a map, Total Annihilation nearly 
 completely removes the hassle of resource management by providing two solid resources, Metal and 
 Energy. Energy can be created simply by building power structures, and Metal is obtained by building 
 Metal Extractors on designated spots on each map. What's great about this method is that these 
 buildings will give you an endless supply of each resource, and there's no limit to how much there 
 is, a Metal Extractor you build five minutes into the game will still provide the same amount of 
 metal an hour into the game. The same goes for energy. You can also recycle energy and metal, since 
 enemies or friendlies that explode on the battlefield all leave debris (which vary from smoking 
 husks of metal, to small little pieces of debris scattered around) you can easily harvest that 
 for more metal and energy, or harvest trees, rocks, and other natural flora for energy. Most games 
 in Total Annihilation center around your Commander unit, which on most games is your primary and 
 most important unit (it's usually set that when the Commander dies, that team loses) he builds 
 the fastest, he's one of the hardiest units in the game, his D-Gun is one of the most powerful 
 weapons, and he can harvest nearly anything in the environment for resources, he can also build 
 structures that no other unit can. Throughout your game, you will have to protect him, although 
 with proper care he can be a lethal weapon (one shot of his D-Gun can turn a quarter of a base 
 into smoking rubble) . The sound is one of the highest points in Total Annihilation, not just for 
 the fact that nearly everything has an appropriately massive sound (explosions deliver a definite 
 boom, and etc.) but because of the incredible soundtrack. This orchestral masterpiece by Jeremy 
 Soule is probably one of the greatest I've ever encountered in any video game. While the operatic 
 sound may seem unsuitable for a game with Total Annihilation's carnage, it can't suit the game 
 better than it already does. Hearing vibrant horns, violins, and the such over a raging battle 
 will get your adrenaline pumping and elevate the game to an almost cinematic level. With its music, 
 Total Annihilation can deliver some of the most entertaining to watch conflicts in any game, just 
 because it draws out like a war movie. Brigades of slowly rumbling tanks moving over hills firing 
 at fast but weak units emerging from the tree lines, setting an entire forest ablaze with fire 
 is just breath-taking. Even now, the only games that can possibly even touch the level of detail 
 into making these battles come to life can be titles such as Company of Heroes or Dawn of war.
 
  
  If you haven't experienced Total Annihilation already, there's absolutely no reason not to. What 
 is probably the greatest strategy game ever is waiting for you, and it won't dissapoint. If you're 
 fighting around flaming lava, green forests, or a snowy planet, Total Annihilation will always 
 deliver the carnage and scale you always wanted in an RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my type of Real Time Strategy. The size of the campaigns for both sides, range from easy 
 to somewhat difficult. The units in this game are very well though out and rendered with a lot 
 of little details. For example some aircraft fold their wings when they land. The Big Bertha Unit 
 ejects an empty shell after firing. Even the ground gets battle scars. The vehicles look like they 
 have a hard time going through hard terrain and the AI knows blind spots on defenses and setups 
 a pretty good defense at times.
  With all the details in the graphics, I didnt pay attention too much on sound quality.
  The 
 multiplayer is quite when hunting down each other Commander
  What makes this a great game for me is the replay ability. You can play the same quick maps over 
 and over using different tactics. My favorite is using gun ships to over run an opponent. In my 
 view only a handful of RTS surpassed the game in quality since released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecing
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  TA, is the daddy, the big one, the king of RTS. It may look crude, but its age dosn't tell on its 
 gameplay. Even so, i doubt you'll find many modern RTS games willing to put 5000, yes five thousand, 
 units on the field, per side. but scale isn everything. In TA you can go with K-bots, Vehicles, 
 Air or sea. all of which mount an impressive arsenal ranging from massively ranged missile systems, 
 to short range lasers. its also fairly balanced, as long as any Arm player knows how to beat the 
 monstrosity that is the Core Krogoroth. just the sheer variations in the battle strategies, the 
 massiveness of the game, and tactical fun you can have with a massive range of easily explodable 
 units. oooh yeah. All Hail the King of RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blubberman001
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is unique. It is a one of a kind game that lets you command mass armies of tanks, robots, 
 and jets. I am very impressed with this game. I have had this game since 2 months after it came 
 out. When I played it, I was astonished by all of the units and maps there was. I was not that 
 surprised that there are still dedicated players that play this game 9 years after it came out. 
 The amounts of players that still play this game and the fun that it is playing this game make 
 this game worth it if you find a copy of it. This game might get boring after a while, but theres 
 much more units and mods to make this game more interesting. Unlike most of the RTSs I have played, 
 this is the first one that I have seen that can fit almost anyones challenge level. I highly suggest 
 this game. It might be from 1997, but it is a heck of a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MocaMoses
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is unique because it came out in 1997 and is still played now in 2006. That alone says 
 something about the value of this game. And it being a RTS from 1997 I personally am impressed 
 with the graphics for its time.
  
  And say you did get bored of the same old maps and units. There are hundreds of maps and units 
 all over the Internet which can spice up your game any time you'd like. Unlike some other RTS games 
 I have had the chance to play Total Annihilation's difficulty settings can suit any player. From 
 the experts down to the newb. The hard is hard and the easy is easy which can keep the game fun 
 longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hetgenie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Aah Total Annihilation, dunno why I write this review now, cause the game is like 10 years old 
 but this game is so wonderful I thought I just need to write a review about this game because its 
 so cool.
  
  Total Annihilation is basically a fight between arm and core, 2 armies that are sworn enemies. 
 (Perhaps I give it a very high score for a strategy game if you compare it now with games like 
 Rome Total War but in the early 90s this game was one of the best, if not the best game in its 
 genre.)
  
  So what made Total Annihilation so extremely cool, if you ask me the very long story mode and the 
 very hard difficulty, even on easy the game was hard if you compare it to modern strategy games. 
 I first played the game when I was 11 years and immediately I was glued to the seat of my computer. 
 The machines and robots and all other things you can build are so original and the explosions and 
 action when you face the enemy with your full force are so thrilling and breathtaking. My favourite 
 machine was without a doubt the goliath. Ofcours the game basically consists of making the largest 
 force by making the most resources and then attack with all your might, like all other strategy 
 games in that time, but because the graphics, even for that time, and the sound are so well done 
 and because this game is so original this game is without a doubt a classic in its genre!
  
  If you find Total Annihilation somewhere in a store, I doubt you still will but if ;) , then 
 I can just say buy it, its nothing compared to todays strategy games I agree but nonetheless 
 its still very addictive to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodKn0wn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation's fitting name implies the best of two worlds. For one, what other game has 
 annihilated the RTS genre as well as TA (but in a good way?) If it weren't for TA, new strategic 
 gaming concepts wouldn't have been as developed. The game introduced fresh new ideas like the infinite 
 queue all structures acquire, and a better projectile system.
  
  On the other hand, TA can be total chaos, but imagine the word total in full caps and bold. Every 
 minion under your control is a robot equipped with weapons like lasers and rockets. Of course you'll 
 always standard infantry, but this is the first game I have played which introduces the power of 
 constructing more advanced structures, infantry, or vehicles. In advancing to a higher branch on 
 the tech tree, you will definitely realize an increase in power.
  
  I won't go into high detail about this game, since there are countless other reviews, but this 
 is worth a look at. I warn that if you buy this game, you might just sell your soul. Total Annihilation 
 is an addicting and almost perfected game, albeit its small technical glitches which are more of 
 a bother than a real problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_fido
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can i say about this game, for me, it's the greatest strategy game that have made in 
 this gaming industries... before when the first i saw &amp; buy this game since 9 years after, i 
 only play a platform &amp; action genre game, like Rockman X4... when i play it, i don't know how 
 to start it... think &amp; play like a no-ob... i send all my army, including the leader to attack 
 the enemy force, then i saw i defeated very easy, what a shame... thats a lesson i get when i play 
 without strategies, unworthy... i spend about and hour to experienced it, and i get my own resolve... i 
 play as defensive, why..?, coz i only concentrate on making energy &amp; metal storage, coz cannon 
 need energy supply to operated.. i placed that sentinel/anti-aircraft and cannon surrounding in 
 my command area to counter the enemy.. it give me time to make my superiority air force.. after that, 
 i make super-cannon to weaken the enemy ground force, and for the final blow i send my air force 
 to punish that enemy without mercy... now they fell my temper who make me angry... hahahaharr. For 
 me, this is the game that should have for the hardcore strategy gamers.. i would say that u even 
 wan regret it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knight_991
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  This is the RTS of all time!! (Atleast in my eyes...)
  This game brings me back too my first hardcore gaming years!
  This was the first game I really 
 got into and played ALOT, so it'll always have a special place in my gaming.
  The gameplay and value of this classic game is just amazing it's mindblowing how much this game 
 OWNS!
  Sure, it's abit old and that makes the graphics not that good, but, the graphic are really good 
 for an old game. ^^
  The campaign is good but the Skirmish and multi -player is easy the best part of it just start 
 a game and enjoy. It's really alot about just plain force and overwhelming your enemys but strategy 
 is a big part of the game, like taking out the enemies Commander
  cripples the enemy hard, cuz he's a strong unit and a quick builder.
  
  There are two factions 
 in Total Annihilation.
  
  Core
  They have alot of big, stronger but slower units that also costs alot of energy and metal (thats 
 like the currency in TA) . They kinda rely on there strength and brute force.
  
  Arms
  The Arms however have smaller, faster and alot weaker forces that costa less energy and metal. And 
 rely on fast and agile troops.
  I just love the Peewees that just mass out bullets out of there arms that are guns! If you haven't 
 played this game, DO IT! It's a great game, that deserves a 10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  This is the first computer game I ever played, and it remains one of my favorites to this day. 
 Nonstop action with many impressive mods, not to mention the graphics, it's a game worth buying. 
 It's easy to pick up and get used to plus downloadable AI keeps the game from becoming too easy. 
 One thing I liked about it is that it doesnt focus too much on the economy. Just build up metal 
 and energy then fight. Mixing up your units really help out, not just build your best unit and 
 win. You'll need to attack with soem brains, air assaults, artillary, close-quarters, sea battles, 
 AND NUKES!!!
  easily better than command and conquer, age of empires, and star craft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronFlux2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is strangely good. It looks bad on the screenshots, the demo isn't that good, and the 
 story is pretty cheesy, but when you actually play the game theres a lot of room for strategy. 
 Critics often say that this game involves just quick rushing and no strategy, and they can be right. 
 But this is one of the few RTS games where just about any aspect of it can be addictive. If you 
 like micromanagement of units, play on a map with lots of hills to manuver around.
  If you like epic battles, play on a sea map with two shores and have epic naval battles. Theres 
 lots of room to learn in this game.
  
  The game contains around 150 units. It seems intimidating at first, but if you play it a while 
 you will be scared to find out that you have memorized every unit in the game... by accident. (I 
 could list them, but this is not the place for that.) So many units can be useful for so many things, 
 yes some of them are specialized. For example, the Aircraft carrier can repair aircraft in the 
 middle of the water, yet it also generates lots of power from it's on-board reactor, making it 
 a floating power plant. Underwater fusion reactors can be very useful, and some things such as 
 the Doomsday device, a 3-laser base defence that effectively chews up rushes, are just plain cool. 
 Also you are allowed to build an essentially unlimited amount of nukes, that alone being very interesting 
 for an RTS game.
  
  This game is worth the $10 that you might spend on it, but the graphics don't quite live up to 
 todays standards, although I really don't care about graphics. Recommendation: Play this game on 
 a LAN. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGBORONBBQ
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Well, Total Annihilation, in my mind, is kind of overrated. Anyway, I'll continue on with the review. 
 (I haven't played this game for a while so I'll recall) .
  
  Anyway, this game tells a story of power struggle between two omnipotent factions (Core and Arm) 
 sometime in the future. Transhumanism and galatic domination are the keys in this game, and therefore 
 all of the faction's creations are warlike machines. This is a strategy game, and building your 
 units are an essential step. Fundamentally, you have a Commander in each level/map. The Commander 
 is a unit that is the root of all building, and has the ability to cloak and use a destructive 
 weapon. When the Commander dies, it nukes the area and you are likely to fail the mission.
  
  In the single player portion, you select a side to fight for. Then you are given a solemn-ish 
 briefing, and a diffculty selector. In multiplayer/skirmish, you select a map, your side, your 
 allies/enemies, and unit's respective viewing ability. When you first begin the game, you sees 
 something quite innovative on the screen- 3d units on prerendered terrain that animates smoothly 
 that also has weapon physics, the ability to box-select anything, including buildings; cool naval 
 battles; units with default turned-off health bar; unit abilites such as patroling and guarding; 
 and (drumroll) unlimited resource (the game has two resources that build stuff: energy and metal. 
 They are gathered by resource gathering structures) . Another thing that you'll notice that's ahead 
 of its time/avant garde, I'd say, is the huge amount of units (this is mostly prevalent in the 
 Supreme Commander vids...) . This factor makes battles intense, and therefore conflicts preferred 
 big guns than strategy, and that's one of the problem I faced... An example of this is when I played 
 the second Core level. I was just a novice back then, and thought like other strategy games, this 
 game requires you to wait for the enemy to come, waste their units on your offence, and then you 
 counterattack to win, and possibily repeat to win. However, I was wrong... I used my Commander 
 as my only weapon because it's the most powerful unit I have. Then, I saw, for the first time in 
 a strategy game, over 20 units rolling in (It was fun at first, but then it got kind of scary) . 
 So I used my Commander on them, and ended up having 4000+ (ROTFLCOPTOR BUT TRUE) kills for it after 
 several waves of enemy. After a while, I thought to myself, I needed to win this battle and stop 
 the suicidal enemies. So then I built my own army mass and erased them. Later in some levels, I 
 simply cannot handle the exuberant amount of enemy charging at me, especially vehicles that fire 
 long range death rockets and ships that drops deadly plasma cannon from afar, even if I did try 
 hard (VERY HARD) to build my own force. It is then I realized that this game is actually about 
 large forces and powerful weapons rather than thinking strategies, and the unlimited amount of 
 resource means that enemy will build non-stop until their resource gatherers perish. (I forgot 
 to mention The AI is programmed to built lots of units) . As of this, the game gets very repetitive 
 as you play on, and although different terrain and obstacles can bring some tactic skills, you 
 are still required to amass a huge army (which also require you to get tons of resource gatherers) 
 or else, die trying. In conclusion, the waves and waves of enemy and the demand for big guns are 
 still hated by me today.
  
  Hmm, I seems to be only focusing on the brute force aspect. Let me tell you of other things that 
 this game offers. The game does have its moments, or else it wouldn't be overrated. First of all, 
 the terrains and objects behave realistically. A hill blocks fire and can be skipped over by artillery 
 units. Rockets bounce on water, and trees burn down like huge forest fires. The terrain aspect 
 especially performs like a star, as it can be a obstacle, a vantage point, and a visual thrill 
 (the prerendered image looks gorgeous) . Second of all, the music and sounds are VERY GOOD. The 
 game features psuedo-Doppler effect of weapons sounds, which sounds cool. But what really shines 
 is its orchestra and quasi-orchestra effects. It sets the mood really well, (sometimes even profound) , 
 and sounds as though you are sitting in a opera house. Third of all, this game does feature other 
 fun parts. For example, a player is likely to build a radar ASAP. Then he builds his long range 
 hitters that can shoot out of their viewing range. Then he builds some protection like heavier 
 tanks and turrets. Then he does whatever he wants to finish his opponent. And when he gets angry, 
 he builds high-tech weapon like a nuke to annihilate the blasphemy that is his enemy. And as a 
 final note, I actually had a fun time chasing down the remaining enemies. And sometimes intensity 
 and speed (I turned my game speed to maximum just for my own excitement) and big explosions galore 
 from dying enemy are good things.
  
  In the end, this game is sometimes fun, but for me it's repetitive after a while. The graphics 
 are neat, and runs at a smooth frame rate, but a with closer look today, I sees somewhat hand-me-down 
 unit models. I didn't try online modes and its huge dossier of mods, which I did't intend on doing 
 that much. This is just my own opinion, and not a universally accepted fact. I believe that there 
 are a lot of human out there that praise this classic; I am not one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceglacier08
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Long, immersive campaign, fun multiplayer and skirmish modes, and a decade later, the explosions 
 still look cool as hell. Great variety of gameplay in general, offering all kinds of land, air, 
 and naval units, all of which can be extremely satisfying th use. Brawlers are one of the best 
 air units in any game that I have played. Anyone who has it should hold on to it, there are skill 
 hours of fun gameplay left if you know where to look. The only real problem is the storyline needs 
 work, but you can overlook this easily because the game is so damn fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmrysJ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This is simply an amazing game. An instant classic, it combines fast paced action with amazing 
 depth and strategy and huge immersion. For starters, this game has to be one of the best value 
 games ever. Especially (as I recommend) if you get the commanders edition which comes with both 
 expansions. With only two sides, it may seem that there isn't much choice. How wrong you are. Each 
 side has weel in excess of 100 differant units of all types (Boats, aircraft, mechs etc.) to choose 
 from. Als othe single player canpaing has over 100 differant missions for each side (including 
 the expansion packs) . While the graphics are majoutly outdated, the game is so immersive, you forget 
 about graphics and get down to the hardcore strategy. The replayability and multiplayer are great. 
 Just buy this now unless you want to be branded an RTS n00b for the rest of your life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfaction_fast
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  total annilhilation, the conversion of age of empires to future warfare.
  the game it self has its own chain of advancements, or anhancements, aka technology.
  you have 
 3 choices, 1: start the missons, or campaign.
  2: start a multiplayer game with friends.
  3: play agaisnt the computer, and thats were the fun starts, there 3 levels of difficulty, obvisously 
 easy, medium or hard.
  after you choose all your game settings, Eg, map, difficulty, etc..
  you start off with a commander, nothing else (note this is in vs the computer) and the plot is 
 simple, build enegy and metal makers for energy to build your standed building then create an army 
 of units and send them in to destroy ever thing that moves...
  evan though the game was created wile back, it still keeps up with the graphics, with its own 3d 
 view (so i say) and the sound, and gameplay are all out of this world, literally :P...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosDrone
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  One of my favourite RTS games to this today. TA was the first RTS and computer game I played and 
 it's still addictive. The graphics and sound aren't as great to games today but the gameplay is 
 worthwhile. The story line is alright, but the multiplayer is where this shines. There are two 
 sides for this :Arm and Core, units are fairly similar but there are some changes in weaponry. 
 AI isn't the best but doesn't wreck the game, there's nice explosions and no lag even when maxmimum 
 units (250) is reached. Units cover land, air and water. Alot of mods for this game are still available 
 to enhance gameplay and replayability. Epic battles can be created, with hundreds of units waging 
 war against each other.
  Give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hesselager
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation is a jewel from the dawn of RTS gaming. the game is highly addictive as well 
 as enormously fun to play against your friends.
  The first thing that strikes you as you start the game is the lack of buildings. Contrary to many 
 other games in the genre TA focusses on the protection of a single unit, The Commander. Though 
 the commander is quite a formidable combatant in his own right you will need an army to assist 
 you. This is one of the places where the game truly comes to it's right. Wheter you like to shellshock 
 people from the shores of their base, trudging them over with infantry, grinding through the terrain 
 with tanks or bombing people from the skies, ignoring the land below, the game offers something 
 to sate your vice. On the mention of terrain it is quite important to mention this, as the game 
 uses topographic maps, meaning that units can hide from enemy fire behind hills and mountains meaning 
 that a good line of advance is quite essential. A problem with the game can be that it is quite 
 hard to come by, and even harder if you also want the expansion "The Core Contingency" though this 
 is almost a must-have for full enjoyment. another problem that may occur is the quite low unit 
 count of 200 wich includes buildings. Even though some of the units are quite powerful, the game 
 still might feel like it is missing something because it simply is not possible to swamp people. 
 Fortunately this can be solved by downloading some of the many tweaks that has been made by fans 
 an can be downloaded from a variety of sources. All this sums up to that this game is an absolute 
 must-try for all RTS gamers, old as new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardock2k2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  When I originally purchased this game, I was amazed by how great it was. I was not aware of how 
 many upgrades, extra units, maps, and mods were out there. Even to this day, there are dedicated 
 fans that still create units. The music was also amazing. It was almost as if it could notice your 
 mood. When youre attacked, a high paced music pops out of nowhere. Then once that attack has finished 
 a soothing music come out. Initiating your rebuilding time. 
  
  There is still a loyal group of followers who still play this game. I am one of them.
  
  There 
 are two mods that stick out in my head as notable
  
  First, a Gundam mod I found. It uses units from the 1-year war saga. However, there was no real 
 good air attack components.
  
  Second the Star wars mod. An overall great mod. Every side has strength and a weakness. Its great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  ok based on this game i would have to say is TA is one of the best rts since 1997. and not from 
 graphics but from the battle systems, u can see many stuffs happening just in one screen. i dont 
 really play the game but i can feel that this game will be as good as starcraft in the longrun. since 
 this sort of game is a masterpiece and where it has cool units/armors and fight ur way out of the 
 game! LAN/Internet is provided for u to pit with other players/or even at home! it never gets bored 
 once in a month touching TA for more than 5-9 times! so best for those who dotn have this yet. try 
 to order it if there are still production! coz old game tend to have reorder products for those 
 who havent got this. anyhow u can lend from friends to play. to witness the best game during 1997! 
 which 2006 still amazes of! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation is one of the best RTSs i've ever played. Just so damn good. Starcraft was very 
 much like TA, but TA came out first and i think a lot of starcraft took after TA. I don't have 
 the balls to judge which one i think is better, because i love Blizzard and cavedog is just good, 
 so i'm just gunna shut up about comparing the two. TA has everything that almost any RTS has and 
 more. This is one of the first PC games that really got me started onto PC gaming. Any person sane 
 would get TA and would be blown away. If you liked starcraft you'd love TA, and if you love Cavedog 
 this is your game, cuz TAs da **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieg6529
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  The premise of the game is simple: two similarly armed factions are destroying themselves and the 
 worlds upon which they battle. In the 1 player mode, you play as the ARMS against the CORE, and 
 I found the 1P mode very difficult. The AI is simple: attack at every opportunity. In the 2P mode 
 (Skirmish) , you can play as either side and set battle parameters to suit your desires. Similar 
 to Warcraft, your forces need resources: metal and energy. From those, your Commander and the fabrication 
 buildings can create your army. The metal is very scarce and must be guarded at all costs. Energy 
 can be acquired in the following ways: water turbines, solar capture devices, windmills (worthles 
 w/o wind) , geothermal plants (require vents to be found) , and nuclear power plants. 
  
  For offense, both teams have 4 basic units: bots, vehicles, airborne, and naval. Bots are the weakest 
 but are effective in swarms and guerrila warfare. For defense, turrets, antiaircraft guns, and 
 spikes may be laid down. Personally, I used the more powerful turret guns for offense, especially 
 the Big Bertha. Though inaccurate and imprecise, one shot destroys most units. Once your camp is 
 humming with efficiency, it is time to build a missile defense system and then create some nukes. 
 Just hope the enemy doesn't respond in kind. 
  
  The music and sound deserve special attention. The effects of the latter are perfectly done, from 
 explosions, lift-offs, landings, and firing shots. The music is wonderfully composed, perfectly 
 fitting the desperation, bravado, and determination of war. 
  
  The graphics for everything except the stage layouts are 3D rendered, something that was unique 
 for a game so old. Better than Starcraft, if you ask me. There are many stages, and despite not 
 being 3D, there are expertly designed to challenge you to both fortify and expand like a plague 
 of locusts to the nearest resources. 
  
  Here's a naughty trick you can pull once you have PLENTY of contruction units: have the carrier 
 plane pick up your commander and send him hovering over the enemy commander. The ensuing explosion 
 will wipe out a large portion of the enemy's encampment. 
  
  Total Annihilation is a splendid game and a great way to spend some sleepless, dateless nights. 
 Very highly recommended, especially in the collection with the expansion pack and TA Kingdoms.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Queener69
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  this has to be one of my all time favorite strategy games to date. It really is becoming a true 
 classic. The fun factor is out the roof. If your new to the strategy genre, this is a must have 
 to a new collection. It has a great story line, the units are great, numerous options of ugrades 
 and differnet bots. playing in the all metal fields with nuclear powerplants lets u create and 
 army that cannot be matched. It seems no matter how many times i play Total Annihilation, i can 
 never it bored with it. A must have for any collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fragmaster3000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  TA is a must have for any RTS gamer, willing to play a very old game. This is mainly because of 
 TA's amazing amount of units and features. I am not exaggerating when I say this is better than 
 most RTS games on the market. The graphics are good for their timeperiod, and so is the sound. 
 If you have never played this game before, see if you can pick it up online. If not, you are missing 
 a great gaming experience. If you can't stand the old graphics, download TA Spring, or wait for 
 Supreme Commander by the same makers as this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxx2222
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  In fact, its hard to describe something, that has already been described million times before. 
 So lets just summarize the facts. Maybe this review will help somebody to make a final decision 
 and to make a deep search through eBay or any other store with classical games to buy this awesome 
 masterpiece.
  
  The Cavedog team led by Chris Taylor released in late 1998 their first real hit. Its name, Total 
 Annihilation was significant to the storyline. "War between Arm and Core has already destroyed 
 more than thousands of worlds. Now, its time for the final battle between the last remaining commanders 
 on each side."
  
  Yeah, this is the storyline. Great isnt it? Well... umm.. okay, its surely not the next Metal Gear 
 Solid, but I think its enough for a strategy game.
  
  Graphics is really fantastic. The 3D terrain and units, unique and innovative models, hundreds 
 of multi player levels, 25 levels in campaign on each side. Uffff..... do I have to continue? I 
 dont think so...
  
  Absolutely great. Grab your piece before someone else do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGeorge
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Despite being an old game by Gaming Standards. Total Annihilation will be remembered. It has a 
 great gameplay that keeps you focused throughout the entire scenario/skirmish. Other games, such 
 as Empire Earth 2, can become quite boring after playing for an hour or too. 
  As a matter of fact, EE2 failed to bring you a game in which the end of a skirmish gave you the 
 satisfying feeling that you have completely obliterated, crushed, demolished your enemy. You spend 
 hours, looking for a single peasant after you have destroyed the infinitesimal, disperse VILLAGES 
 the computer AI builds. Total Annihilation did not fail in this sense.
  Total Annihilation can compare to the speed of Command & Conquer: Generals Zero Hour. In which 
 armies are made with tremendous speed, and entire battles can flash before your eyes, but unfortunately 
 you blinked and missed it. (excuse me, I was exaggerating. But it is still fast)
  
  Unfortunately because of the age, we could not experience Total Annihilation with great graphics 
 such as those belonging to Age of Empires 3, or the LOTR: The Battle for middle-earth.
  However, despite the age of the game, Cavedog provided a game with good graphics. Considering the 
 age at least. One must notice that the units in this game ARE 3D. While games of around the same 
 time like StarCraft, which was published a year later, were still in all 2D graphics.
  The 3D graphics for me are a great feature, since it gives the units in the game that really "robotic" 
 touch (torso spins around, stuff pops in, stuff pops out of the bodies) , which other games that 
 also have robots couldn't give you. 
  
  On another feature, besides the gameplay, the sound is quite frankly amazing. It is so realistic. 
 Each explosion, each laser, each movement smoothly sets into your brain that "gamers hone", that 
 feeling when his mind and his hand are working in perfect symmetry and cooperation. The sounds 
 make you think as if you actually are in a galaxy far far away, thousands of years in the future, 
 commanding cybernetic forces to fight for your survival.
  
  In terms of the Campaign. I'd say that it's the one thing that might take the game down a notch 
 or two. The two campaigns are WAY too similar, killing all the surprise between them. And the two 
 sides you can choose, have too few differences between them. It is in that aspect in which I might 
 prefer StarCraft or WarCraft 3, both games with unique races.
  But it is the large variety of units that compensates for this. This game has Infantry, Vehicles, 
 Navy and Air Force. Other games don't provide all of these. Like StarCraft. There's no Navy. I 
 know it doesn't make sense Story-Wise, but... wouldn't you like to see Protoss-Terran Naval Combat 
 with a few aquatic zerg monsters lurking by? I know I do.
  And, there are A LOT of units in Total Annihilation, leaving a great variety. For example, in infantry. 
 There's the normal assault kbot (laser or machine gun) , the rocket launcher, the missile launcher 
 and the artillery kbot. All this adds for a great battle in which sometimes you might have TOO 
 many soldiers.
  
  In terms of history, as far as I know, every game has a history. Or at least, every single game 
 in existance I'VE played has a history. Now, I know Total Annihilation has a history, it shows 
 it to you in the intro video. But I think that it is too vague. It only tells you how long it has 
 been going on and somewhat of how it started. If the history had a least a little bit more detail, 
 it could have been a lot better.
  
  History or not, it is still a good game. It's still a GREAT game. In many ways. And it will be 
 a astounding beacon in the history of video games. It was an honor for to write this review. It 
 was an honor for me to have played Total Annihilation.
  Thank you for reading, I hope you also think that Total Annihilation is a great game. And if you 
 don't, I suggest you play it again, and pay more attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game truely brings the meaning of RTS with its immersive game play and campaign mode, it is 
 a must have! This is probably the only game that can actualy put 3D enviroments at the time! You've 
 seen Starcraft, Warcraft, and C&C? Those games were made before and after and yet they havn't gone 
 into the immersive details TA brings you with good solid fun!
  
  There is no question about this game being the top of RTS and still is as games continue to try 
 and go for looks not entertainment. So this is something you must buy! So please don't doubt this 
 game if you love Starcraft than you will love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  Well in ta the basic story is that humans no longer exist and only robots do, the main unit (the 
 one you start off with at every battle) he is the core of your army.
  
  There are two sides the ARM and the CORE, not one unit is the same on each side, they both have 
 the same sort of buildings but they do not look the same, you can get many different paches that 
 let you build exra cool units and very powerful ones two.
  
  My favorite units (one from each side) are the peewee and the thud, and the buildings would have 
 two be the guns you can build to defend your base, you can also build war ships and aircraft wich 
 are great to use.
  
  I reccomend this game to stratergy game lovers and robo and war fans, the sound and visual quality 
 is great.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthnysta
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  While being similar to games such as Age of Empires and Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds this 
 game has at least one distinct advantage the realistic effects of the planes. The bombers actually 
 make bombing runs, the other aircraft attack on the move and dont just site above the target and 
 attack targets (like in Galactic Battlegrounds) . It is a quick game to get the hang of but with 
 the missions and the skirmish settings it can be played for many hours without becoming repetitious. 
 While other games have better graphics it makes up for it with the realizism of the physics behind 
 it. It may not be easy to find but if you do pick it up right away. 
  
  One of the best games i have ever played even though it is several years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franatium
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  At the time it kicked everything else in every way and today though the graphics may be dated compared 
 to AOE3 and such it doesnt matter because in the gameplay which is where it counts thats where 
 TA owns. The balance is good of the units is good the missions are quite hard in places on the 
 hard difficulty though if theres anything you dont like or you get a bit tired of the same units 
 over and over just go and find the extensive TA modding community which will make you fall in love 
 with TA all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snippey
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game indeed, extreme good graphics and sounds, but all the else is a little bit 
 old though, so this game doesn't get full in 8,8 in my review.
  
  But. it is still getting 8 in game play because to play it is fun, just that the story is a little 
 bit too "classic".
  
  If i shall take if it is worth it when it comes too price, yes, if you like strategy so should 
 you try this, im not saying it sux, but it is not extreme good, just VEEEEEERY good
  
  The story have i not quite understood 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vul52988
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  TA was once the best RTS out there. It's ease of play and ease of moddability made it an instant 
 internet clasic. But over the years, most have forgotten about this RTS masterpiece. While there 
 is a small group of hardcore fans left (me included) , few seem to remember this awesome game.
 
  The graphics, while having lost their luster years ago, aren't too shabby. It's no Dawn of War, 
 but the environments look pretty even today. The campaign was possibly the most chalenge I had 
 seen in a while. But of course the multiplayer is where it's at.
  And what a multiplayer game it is. Literally thousands of mods, unit packs, and maps can be found 
 for this easily accesible game. The game uses a certain packing system for it's information that 
 makes it incredubly easy to mod. Needles to say, it's a modder's dream-come-true. Now, if we could 
 only get more people to play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bertiebaggio
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  If you don't like watching little tanks, infantry, planes and boats do battle from above then please 
 turn away now. This game is not for you.
  
  However, there is something to love in this game for any strategy lover. Heck, even the 'occasional 
 dabblers' or the 'normally I don't' people will like this.
  
  The true 3d environments are varied and well crafted. This offers challenges to the pathfinding 
 algorithms... which are well-met. It is great to see a bunch of Kbots hold formation in a line 
 as they march towards an enemy base; or to see fighters flying in formation ahead of bombers to 
 provide cover, while the bombers themseleves drop lines of bombs on their targets.
  
  Next up is the sound. The music, done by Jeremy Soule, is a fine example of how good game music 
 can sound. The full orchestral tracks complement the current gameplay: in the middle of a battle, 
 the music will switch to a pitched, epic piece; during the quiet building phase, the music will 
 be mellow, relaxing.
  
  I would rate the music high enough to be listenable outside of the game - something Frank Keplacki 
 by comparison only managed to attain in the first C & C game.
  
  Gameplay itself is a treat. The campaign offers a compelling storyline and some tough challenges, 
 while the skirmishes give high levels of replayability at all difficulty settings. In the battles 
 themselves, the interface is intuitive enough to anyone who has played strategy games before - 
 except that it takes the "workers" idea a bit further. A construction unit can either build independently 
 or add to an under construction unit or building by 'nanolathing'. Each construction unit 'nanolathes' 
 at a different rate - the commander (the embodiment of the player and most valuable unit) constructs 
 fastest, while construction airplanes construct slowest.
  
  Finally, the community is still going strong, releasing new maps, units, tilesets, AI enhancements, 
 campaigns, and even conversions.
  
  I would strongly recommend Total Annihilation to anyone who plays strategy games - especially now 
 that it can be purchased for a small amount. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blibs_ug
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Total Annhilation is a great game showed by the fact it is still recognised today, nearly 10 years 
 on. Its is increasing in value and has amazing strategy gameplay that rival the best games on the 
 market today. It set the standard and was a platform for games should as age of empires and Red 
 Alert. TA involves many zones and covers various areas with vast detail with massive amounts of 
 units for land, sea and air that over games of that type only touch upon. Any game player that 
 enjoys strategy games would fall in love with this game even thought its outdated it still shines 
 as an epic game. With 3-D graphics and multiplayer online features it outclasses every game of 
 its time nearly and is not supported with the Total Annihilation Kingdoms. Unfortunalty Cavedog 
 seem to have shut down and will not be making any more games after their blockbuster of a game, 
 which is a shame as a game of this caliber, if made by EA games could have had many more games 
 alike, but the game still has followers and is still a saught after piece of software nearly ten 
 years into its glorious reign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:53 am PT
Review:  I love this game; I have loved this game since I cracked it out of its shrink-wrap!!! With the 
 addition of the expansion packs and the downloadable extras it just adds to the overall great experience 
 of this classic game. I love single player mode as multi player is some times very long and drawn 
 out! Single player allows you to speed up time to ease the wait of mining and collecting ore metal 
 and energy. This game is not mindless; there is a definite strategy to gaining the right offences 
 and defenses and putting them in the right place. The computer (sometimes) learns what works and 
 what does not and will attack and defend accordingly. Check the discount shelf!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paraclete4269
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  After this faultless work of art came out I said to my friends that the only thing CaveDog has 
 to do now to ensure immortality is:
  
  1: Release new maps every few weeks.
  2: Create a "Unit of the Month Club" for download.
  3: Allow some AI innovations to be available.
 
  
  That's all. Now I hear that Supreme Commander will come out in 2006. All I can say is it has some 
 HUGE boots to fill. As stated many times before, TA is the best RTS made to date.
  
  Those Berta guns (I love having half a dozen firing at once) , waves of The Can slowly bearing down 
 on a weakened enemy, Battleships bombarding far inland, Nukes shaking the screen, dozens and dozens 
 of gunships and smart bombers sweeping encampments clear, the Commander striding into the edge 
 of a base and D-guning a score of troops and buildings to fine particles........... magic.
  
  This is probably the only game I know that, 20 years from now, I wil pull out onto my Pentium 
 XII and play on a random basis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cski00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics are really good considering when this game came out. There are water effects, spray 
 underneath the hover vehicles, and explosions galore. The game won't even slow down when you use 
 tons of rapid fire weapons.
  
  Sound:
  Weapons sound the way they should. Artillery is a massive boom, rapid weapons have a nice effect, 
 and the construction and movement sounds fit perfectly.
  
  Gameplay:
  Two playable races with a wonderful amount of units. Lots of different types to choose from too. 
 KBots are mechanical/robotic infantry. Vehicles are the tank support. Air units are VTOLS and normal 
 planes. Naval units are either surface ships or submarines. Hovercraft are great for mobility. 
 The best part is the modablility. There are tons of different player created units, with some being 
 truely amazing.
  
  Value:
  Well worth the money to pick up if you can still manage to find it. This game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teroristen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  I want updats for total but I cant find them were can I find them. but for the rest I LIKE IT. 
 buy I diddent play it for a long time so I cant play verry wel but I am leurning again. somtims 
 it's booring but moost it is funny. maby u coud help me to find a few new units ore unit pack that 
 does wurk. coud you send them to bash_chieko@hotmail. com ?? I hope u can help me becose noboddy 
 els coud help me : ( . I hope u can. I play olmoast evvery day and I stil like it but I can't win 
 much times but that doesn't make much I like it.
  
  terrorist 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Burly_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  It's been so long since this title was developed, and yet I find it still meeting some of today's 
 standards for strategy games. In the heart of this stellar title lies the feel of Warcraft II, 
 but without copying anything from the game. It's got everything you could ask for, amazing graphics, 
 enormous battles, great control, intelligent team AI, as well as opponent AI, many maps to choose 
 from, and a campaign mode that is generally all around fun. Don't get me started with the battles, 
 this is with out a doubt the feature that carries this game into greatness; since you're allowed 
 to control as many units as you want at once, these battles are already the most hectic I've ever 
 seen, but all the different amount of punishing units you can build also makes battles all the 
 more action oriented. The energy and metal system that Total Annihilation uses for you to build 
 units, also allows you to build by the masses sometimes; see, you build units and buildings out 
 of energy and metal, so you just need to build plenty of solar panels, and other energy collecting 
 devices to keep the energy raking in; metal is a different story, you need to find metal spots 
 in the maps to place metal extractors, so you can keep your metal supply in check. Spending this 
 constant supply of metal and energy can go quickly, since you can assign more than one builder 
 to help you make buildings, and to construct units. 
  
  Everything the game offers puts the battles together with finesse, with weapons that fire ridiculously 
 fast, explosions that shake the screen, bomber planes that fly through, and much more. This is 
 no joke, there will literately be hundreds upon hundreds of bullets flying around the screen while 
 engaged in combat; there's really nothing like it when you patiently await your enemies' attack 
 for your first time, you'll feel a rush as your enemies intertwine, exchanging bullets, rockets, 
 and bombs like there's no tomorrow (there really is no tomorrow for these machines) , even the first 
 air raid you unleash will give you an extreme rush, just imagine your opponent's base getting stormed 
 by 70 some odd jets and bombers flying through, reeking serious havoc as they pass by, and then 
 turning around and pass by again. The sound is a superb work of art, as it is comprised of symphony 
 music, and will constantly change depending on the situation at the moment. The explosions are 
 not short changed here, and there are tons of different gun fire sound effects to keep the battles 
 from getting annoying.
  
  The only gripe I have with Total Annihilation is the campaign mode, it isn't horrible, but the 
 skirmish matches offer way more maps that you can choose from, with your own rules, and however 
 many enemies you want, with as many allies you want too, the campaign just doesn't always capitalize 
 on the game's amazing battles, which took me away from the campaign often. I believe the game is 
 online too, but I'm certain that's over, because there wasn't many people to experience this game 
 in the first place.
  
  You've most likely never experienced anything like Total Annihilation, it's still not too old to 
 miss this PC legend, well... it should have been a legend at least, everyone was just busy being 
 consumed by Warcraft II, which was released a couple years earlier, and showed no signs of slowing 
 down until 5 years after its release.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceoaces
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Never have I stuck with a game for so long, and never has a game remained so fun for so long. Replayability 
 is the key with this title. Playing this one in multiplayer is a blast. The only bad thing to report 
 about it is that the AI can be a bit dumb, but you can actually download AI patches for that.
 
  
  There's a lot of different features to it. Nukes, aircraft, naval, defensive walls, all the good 
 fun and (big emphasis here) NO stress. Warcraft 3 was fun and all, but I felt pressured to build 
 build build all the time. In this game you start 'er up and the only management after that is the 
 fun kind. You'll actually get to focus on strategy for the most part. God forbid game makers create 
 a strategy game where you play a game of strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STWELCH
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation is easily the best RTS in the genre's history. The game was and still is a bar 
 which has yet to bested. Maybe Supreme Commander will improve it. I hope so.
  
  Storyline: The storyline in this game is that two robot armies have been battling each other for 
 4,000 years. It is time for you to end it. Will you play the Arm, which has awesome aircraft and 
 defensive structures like the Annihilater, or the Core, which has the best navy and tank forces.
 
  
  Gameplay: The two sides have very good balance with their respcetive strengths and weaknesses. 
 The campaigns are fun and challenging, the missions varied so the fun never ends. Multiplayer is 
 also very good and not to miss. If you don't play multiplayer, the games excellent skirmish maps 
 are are just as good and fun as online play.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are dated by todays standards, but still enjoyable. The game can render 
 huge battles in real-time, land, sea and air, so you won't notice the old graphics with all the 
 action.
  
  Sound: The score of music is extremely well done, a masterpiece. The units themselves make individual 
 sounds when you select them, and combat is full of explosions, so you feel like your in the thick 
 of it. The sound in this game rivals the best of todays easily.
  
  Value: The campaigns are very entertaining and replayable, and skirmish and multiplayer are fantastic, 
 so the hours you spend playing the game will fly. I have been playing this game for seven years 
 and it is still a blast.
  
  Tilt: Overall, this game is a must for any real time strategy fan. While it is very old, it still 
 is a blast to play. I urge you to go out and get a copy right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Styxe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The bottom line is that this game is truely the greatest in its genre to this date. 
  The game was released right around when command and conquer, and Starcraft were released. Although 
 sails would not suggest it, TA was a much better game than both of these.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplays is near perfect. The game rush smoothly and has simple contols. You can 
 select your units to Hold their fire, Fire at will, or return fire before they are even built. 
 These kinds of inovations are non-existent in other games to this point. Overall there is nothing 
 that can be critized of this games ecellent gameplay.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for when this game was released were perfect, puting all others to shame. 
 With the wizzing missiles, the massive explosions, the flying metal when a units is obliterated, 
 and detailed lanscape, this game truely set the standard for its time.
  
  Sound: The musical soundtrack definately adds to the epic scale of this game. It mainly consists 
 of a orcastra music that isnt that bad. The units sounds are not that great. Every time you click 
 on somthing it clicks and buzzes, this is fine, but it will eventually drive you out of your mind 
 and you will end up turning off the sound. The battle noises on the other hand are sweet. My personal 
 favorite is the Big Berthas shell exposion, which will definatly send shivers down an enimies spine.
 
  
  Value: The value for this game is never ending. Online games will never get you board, because 
 they are always different and exiting.
  
  Overal: Greatest RTS of all time. I just cant wait for its sequal Supereme Commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykopenguin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Since switching to Apple I have forgotten about what once was (and perhaps still is) the greatest 
 thing about a PC. That is Total Annihilation. Amazing, breathtaking, without compare, how else 
 can I explain it. I need a PC now, for I am experiencing the one weakness to having a mac, no Total 
 Annihilation. I guess this seems like more of a pondering of those good ol days rather than a review 
 so I will try to fix that. This game ROCKS! Simple as that. Play it and you will understand. Otherwise, 
 well, there is still WoW which is all I have now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  TA is absolutely the best RTS in my mind. Even today, TA is incredibly different from other RTS. 
 TA was one of the first games I had played where you could create your own units or download other 
 gamers units and play them, even online if the other people you were playing had those units. This 
 opened up all new possibilities, and made the life span of the game, for me, last litterally years. 
 I still will pull out TA every now and then when games like Act of War just don't cut it, and Act 
 of War really doesn't cut it. TA has a better set up for building bases and units then any other, 
 and it was light years ahead of it time. TA has features in it that modern RTS games have never 
 even thought to include. TA was great, then came TA Kingdoms which screwed it all up. Why couldn't 
 Cave Dog just made another TA and stayed doing what they were good at. They tried something new 
 that alienated TA fans and brought about their own demise at the hand of EA or one of those larger 
 publishers. Somebody owns the rights to TA, why aren't we seeing sequel after sequel? Somebody 
 out there MUST MAKE A NEW TA, I'm having withdrawls since you can't really download new units for 
 the old one anymore..... sigh... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swimmer33
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation was an underapprecitated Real Time Strategy game. This is because it came out 
 at the same time as Starcraft and Diablo. These games took away from some well derserved publicity. 
 The game was revolutionary and wasn't like any other RTS out. 
  
  The gameplay was great. You started the game with a Commander and that was it. He built buildings 
 to harvest metal and energy. Those were the only two resources in the game. They started at a set 
 number and fell or rose based on the input compared to the output. If you were spending more at 
 the moment your bar fell. If you were making more the bar rose. It wasn't the traditional unit 
 costs x so you loose x. It was unit costs x metal per second so you loose x metal per second. The 
 best part was you could start building even if you had 0 metal. The building would just go periodically 
 not steadily. 
  
  The Commander also built four types of plants to build your miltiary machine. Kbots were the basic 
 land unit. They were the robot infantry and the bread and butter of your forces. Vechicle were 
 the heavy hitting tanks of your force. They were slower than Kbots but more powerfull. Ships were 
 well ships. There were subs, cruisers, destroyers, aircraft carriers, and battleships. There were 
 also many varieties of aricraft. The Commander built the basic plants for each of these units. 
 From that plant you would build a construction Kbot, vehicle, airplane, or ship. This unit would 
 then build the Advanced Plant that would let you build more powerful units of that type. This plant 
 would then allow you to build an Advanced Construction unit which would build really powerful artillery, 
 power plants, and other cool buildings. 
  
  The single player campaing contained 50 missions. There were two campaings one with the Arm and 
 one with the Core. The only thing lacking in the campaings was a good story line. The campaings 
 were long and challenging. The game takes a while to complete. 
  
  There is also a multiplayer skirmish mode. You can choose from the Arm or the Core. There are plenty 
 of different maps to play on. Each map is different and provides a new twist to each game you play. 
 You can also choose how much metal and energy you start with at the beginning of each game. 
  
  The game keeps going and going with all the downloadable content. There are plenty of maps 
 and units availble for download. There is even a map editor that allows you to create you own maps. 
 These things make for a great replay value. 
  
  Overall the game was awsome. Great graphics and gameplay make for one of my favorite games of all 
 time. If you can find this game you should definatley buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaethro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation, as far as real-time strategy goes, should be the example that all other games 
 follow. Period. The game simply has no comparison in many fields.
  
  First and foremost as an excellent kickoff is the music. It is fully orchestrated and I'm not just 
 talking about some random catchy tunes played in a small band arrangement; I am talking about full-blown 
 double bass-to-piccolo orchestral compositions of an exception caliber. The battle music is exhilarating 
 and powerful; the "quiet before the storm" music gives you paranoia strikes and leaves you in cold 
 anticipation for what's coming next. If the CD did not already have the music on it, I would have 
 a soundtrack CD. It is THAT good.
  
  The physics engine this game runs on should be carved in binary onto a stone tablet and be put 
 atop Mount Everest to frown down upon the rest of the world for all eternity. I am only human (I 
 think) so I can only express to you in so many words what a divine encoding this truly is. Here 
 it goes.
  
  This one of the ONLY games to employ out-ranging as a tactic. Archers fire approximately across 
 the screen in most games. Peewees are one of the shortest ranged units in TA and can fire that 
 far. A battleship? Three screens. "Run, run, run as fast as you might, engage and you'll burn before 
 getting to fight."
  
  It also employs range modifiers, accuracy, and debris on a scale rivaling and almost always surpassing 
 any game since. On a hill? You shoot farther. The enemy is on the other side of the hill? That's 
 too bad. They are launching missiles that go OVER the hill (Your bullets have to have a direct line 
 of sight) . Can you try to hit him? Sure, but you'll be firing for quite a while until a really 
 lucky hit comes! Want your battleship to fire at that Kbot Lab way over there? Okay, but its going 
 to take a while to hit it directly. That does not matter however because even your slight misses 
 cause damage from debris and you might end up hitting enemy units sitting next to it anyhow! And 
 then when the building is destroyed, it burst into shrapnel pelting everyone around it randomly. 
 It is not even a radius explosion, but rather large number of random pieces of metal flying in 
 all directions that causes the damage. Unbelievably well done.
  
  Logistics are another area in which TA triumphs. You cannot just build an army of tanks and be 
 done with it (on most maps) . Sure, vehicles are faster and stronger than Kbots, but tanks have 
 nearly no specialized capabilities and if there is an obstacle in the way of their path, they have 
 to slow down and maneuver around it. They are bigger as well, so the risk of collisions and back-ups 
 is much higher. They can also get stuck behind dragon's teeth, another beautiful example of the 
 game's realistic design. These little white pillars of vehicular frustration are all you need to 
 block up a tank invasion and give yourself enough time to either eliminate them with your base 
 defenses or get your army over there and personally take the column down. Kbots, however, can simply 
 walk around anything in their way and don't lose speed doing it. Vehicles also have to accelerate 
 to their top speed; another trait that is rarely portrayed correctly if at all in current RTS games. 
 And as a side note, ships are a ton more powerful than tanks and rightfully so. The problem? You 
 won't be doing any hook arounds in a Millennium battleship. If the pathway is narrow it can take 
 the ship over half minute to turn all the way around.
  
  Rock paper scissors quite simply does not exist in TA (Alleluia!) . A Kbot can take out a tank, 
 a bomber take take down a Kbot, a building can take down an artillery, so on and so forth. There 
 are not different types of units: there simply different forms of ammunition and armor. I won't 
 go into much detail here, but each form of ammo is special within itself. Shellshot explodes in 
 a radius and does a lot of damage, but it is not accurate by a long shot (ha ha ha haaaaaa... stupid 
 pun) . Lasers do no collateral damage, require energy to fire, and must fire straight to the opponent 
 but they almost never miss and do much damage to whatever they hit. Missiles go over obstacles 
 to their targets so they play their own role not based on WHAT you are fighting, but rather on 
 WHERE you're fighting. The shellshot is even fired at different angles for each unit so though 
 your tank can't hit a solar collector on the other side of a hill (though it will try) , a mobile 
 artillery unit can chuck a shot over the hill, though with nearly comical inaccuracy (depending 
 on whether or not you own the artillery in question) .
  
  Though there are many other points of interest that I would love to delve in, I must get to the 
 only true bad point of the game: the AI is not too bright. Despite it sending waves at you, once 
 it has a strike force, it sends it in incrementally, allowing your base defenses to slaughter it 
 with relative ease. They also have serious problems with overloading their energy and metal supplies 
 to the point where they are not producing anything. Thankfully, the multiplayer support more than 
 makes up for this atrocious point.
  
  That aside, Total Annihilation is a beautiful creation by the one and only (and now sadly gone) 
 Cavedog and if you don't already have it (it has been out for around 8 years now) BUY IT NOW. Strategist 
 or not, this game is phenomenal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerberus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2004 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Not many games came close to this one even several years after Total Annhiliation came out in 1997. 
 Being someone who was introduced to RTS through Command & Conquer, I was very hesitant to stray 
 from the C&C series. Once I played TA, all that changed.
  
  From gameplay to graphics, everything was perfect, for 1997. If you were not an impressive RTS 
 player, it was very difficult to complete the final missions. I found one of the best feature to 
 be the Skirmishes. While games have surpassed TA on every level since then, I have yet to find 
 one that I am still playing 6 years after it was released. 
  
  There has been talk of TA 2, but very little in the last year except for EA signing the designer 
 of the first TA for a RTS scheduled for a release in 2006, so maybe we will get to battle the machines 
 at least one more time, until then, back to kicking some Arm ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximummaker
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2004 12:25 am PT
Review:  It's been so long since this title was developed, and yet I find it still meeting some of today's 
 standards for strategy games. In the heart of this stellar title lies the feel of Warcraft II, 
 but without copying anything from the game. It's got everything you could ask for, amazing graphics, 
 enormous battles, great control, intelligent team AI, as well as opponent AI, many maps to choose 
 from, and a campaign mode that is generally all around fun. Don't get me started with the battles, 
 this is with out a doubt the feature that carries this game into greatness; since you're allowed 
 to control as many units as you want at once, these battles are already the most hectic I've ever 
 seen, but all the different amount of punishing units you can build also makes battles all the 
 more action oriented. The energy and metal system that Total Annihilation uses for you to build 
 units, also allows you to build by the masses sometimes; see, you build units and buildings out 
 of energy and metal, so you just need to build plenty of solar panels, and other energy collecting 
 devices to keep the energy raking in; metal is a different story, you need to find metal spots 
 in the maps to place metal extractors, so you can keep your metal supply in check. Spending this 
 constant supply of metal and energy can go quickly, since you can assign more than one builder 
 to help you make buildings, and to construct units. 
  
  Everything the game offers puts the battles together with finesse, with weapons that fire ridiculously 
 fast, explosions that shake the screen, bomber planes that fly through, and much more. This is 
 no joke, there will literately be hundreds upon hundreds of bullets flying around the screen while 
 engaged in combat; there's really nothing like it when you patiently await your enemies' attack 
 for your first time, you'll feel a rush as your enemies intertwine, exchanging bullets, rockets, 
 and bombs like there's no tomorrow (there really is no tomorrow for these machines) , even the first 
 air raid you unleash will give you an extreme rush, just imagine your opponent's base getting stormed 
 by 70 some odd jets and bombers flying through, reeking serious havoc as they pass by, and then 
 turning around and pass by again. The sound is a superb work of art, as it is comprised of symphony 
 music, and will constantly change depending on the situation at the moment. The explosions are 
 not short changed here, and there are tons of different gun fire sound effects to keep the battles 
 from getting annoying.
  
  The only gripe I have with Total Annihilation is the campaign mode, it isn't horrible, but the 
 skirmish matches offer way more maps that you can choose from, with your own rules, and however 
 many enemies you want, with as many allies you want too, the campaign just doesn't always capitalize 
 on the game's amazing battles, which took me away from the campaign often. I believe the game is 
 online too, but I'm certain that's over, because there wasn't many people to experience this game 
 in the first place.
  
  You've most likely never experienced anything like Total Annihilation, it's still not too old to 
 miss this PC legend, well... it should have been a legend at least, everyone was just busy being 
 consumed by Warcraft II, which was released a couple years earlier, and showed no signs of slowing 
 down until 5 years after its release.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjdgoldeneye
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2004 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation is one of the greatest real-time strategy games ever. It blends a well made 
 Campaign mode, an addictive Skirmish mode, tons of units, and a soundtrack worthy of a Star Wars 
 movie into one awesome game. Not to mention, it was made in 1997. It is years ahead of its time!
 
  The games campaign is based around the two teams in the game, Core and Arm. They are stuck in 
 an endless war for some reason I am having trouble understanding, and you can choose to fight as 
 either one. Each team is different in units and such, but both have one common trait. The mighty 
 Commander unit. The Commander is a giant robot that has the ability of fast build, and the D-gun 
 (a gun that destroys any unit or building in one shot) . It is also your first unit. Goal: destroy 
 your enemy buy any means while surviving yourself. Overall, the game is too complicated to explain, 
 but take my word for it, it is the best of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2004 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation is simply a must have for everyone that plays real time strategy games. It's 
 an older game now, but is still a great game and many people that remember this title will all 
 agree it's a classic. 
  
  The graphics are still fairly good, but not great compared to todays games. However this goes back 
 to the old school top down view with a difference.. The units in TA were 3D. It was the first game 
 to introduce 3D units in RTS games, yet it was still in a 2D world. The outcome was great.
  
  Weapons fired at the sky weather they were Anti Air or not. But if they were designed for anti 
 air then they would be more effective. The units were unique, as were the buildings and weapons. 
 You could use ground units, air units and sea units. The result ended up with a lot of great battles. 
 
  
  The maps ranged from very small 1on1 maps to massive maps that took quite a while to travel across. 
 The terrain was interesting with different tile sets. 
  
  The single player campaign has a lot of missions, but was VERY hard. Skirmish is a blast and multiplayer 
 is fantastic. Not only will that keep the game going, but the number of user made units is incredible. 
 There are literally thousands of units out there to be downloaded for this game, as well as mods 
 (like the great Star Wars mod) . Then of course, is the expansion packs. 
  
  This is one RTS game EVERYONE should have in their collection. It's a great game, like the other 
 old school RTS games (Red Alert and Warcraft2) , it's a high quality classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geraldw
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2004 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Will anyone ever make a RTS game that competes with this one? I really love all of the base defense 
 weapons, and the large selection of troops/vehicles. I like long drawn-out battles, where tons 
 of resources are pumped into building the super weapons, while hordes of troops are used to pound 
 the enemy. Maybe it's just my play-style, but it doesn't get any better than this.
  
  The Core Contingency is an excellent expansion - not to be missed.
  
  I'd say Command & Conquer 
 Generals is the second best RTS available, but it's still not in the league of Total Annihilation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugmenot42
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 2, 2004 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation, even in its old age, is still an excellent game worth playing.
  
  Though it started with an interesting story premise, however, Total Annihilation's strength is 
 certainly not in its campaign -- but rather in its multiplayer and skirmish modes.
  
  While the base Total Annihilation features more or less very similar factions to choose from with 
 minor play differences, the hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of customized third party units, 
 as well as officially released add-on unitpacks, more than make up for this -- and the game's easy 
 moddability in regards to maps and mapping, has helped extend its life a full seven years after 
 its release.
  
  If you're looking for a game where you can command hundreds (and, depending on your computer specs, 
 with a variety of tools and utilities available from www. tauniverse. com -- thousands) of units 
 at a time and wage war over massive maps (some epic class maps made by third parties requiring 
 128 megabytes of ram) -- then this game is for you.
  
  While the persistant online community of TA is not reccommended for novices to play against, this 
 is _the_ game for LANs or playing against your friends, or even against the computer -- and by adding 
 additional third party units or full fledged mods, you can change the gameplay to anything you're 
 looking for.
  
  Bottom line:
  Definately worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whosjohnny
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2004 11:44 am PT
Review:  Total Annihilation came out before Gamespot has the option to write a review back in 1997. Now 
 that I'm here, let me do some justice for this often overlooked Real Time Strategy (RTS) game. 
 I can't believe it's been over 7 years now and I'm still talking about it. Similar to Nicola Testla 
 in the late 1800's to contemporary scientists & physicists today, TA was in a word, "way ahead 
 of its time". So advanced, so well designed, so well balanced, that you cannot begin to appreciate 
 the magnitude of its achievement until years later. Similar to movies, there are some that stood 
 the test of time and won accolades in which in its days was never fully appreciated. Beethoven, 
 Mozart, and many of the popular musicians aren't popular until after their death. 
  
  Total Annihilation, though highly reviewed and won Gamespy's No.1 Ranked best RTS ever created, 
 is still hugely underrated. After Chris Taylor the creator of TA left Cavedog, everything boils 
 down to politics and "game" rights. If publishers would just have a "gamers" mentality to create 
 the best games that people want to play, then we would have seen Total Annihilation part 2 many 
 years ago. To this day, only rumors that a Korean developement company is making TA2. Who knows 
 after 7 or 8 years, will TA sequel ever do its original justice. Total Annihilation is in a word 
 a classic case of how a game should have been created and a classic failure in "game development 
 world" politics failure at its worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Scientist
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  It may seem strange that I am reviewing a 1997 game in 2004, but given Gamespot's recent induction 
 of Total Annihilation into "The Greatest Games of All Time", and the strange disappearance of all 
 other written reader reviews, I've decided to write my own review. If GS's review and induction 
 of TA weren't enough to entirely convince you of how great TA was (and still is) , maybe this will 
 help remove any final doubts.
  
  To put it simply, TA is one of the finest RTS games of all time, and in many ways is superior to 
 any RTS created, even nearly seven years after it's release. It's interface, gameplay, and music 
 are where it shines the most today, and where it is still superior to many, if not all, RTS games 
 today.
  
  INTERFACE
  
  The interface of TA is simple to use, but it gives you a huge amount of control. One of the great 
 things about it is that you can queue up a series of commands, ANY commands, by simply holding 
 down the shift key. This may not seem like a huge thing, but it makes the game much easier to play. 
 It is also an area where the game is superior to many games today. Most RTS games now allow you 
 to queue up "move" commands by holding down the shift key, and maybe "attack" commands also, but 
 not other commands. Take the Patrol command, for example.
  
  In most games now, you can use that command to order a unit or group of units to move back and 
 forth between two points. The unit/units will attack enemies they see, making this command useful 
 for defending an area. But so often you might want to have your units patrol between more than 
 just two points, but are unable to.
  
  In TA, you can simply hold down the shift key and have your units patrol between multiple points. 
 With this, you can easily have a group of aircraft circle around your entire base, rather than 
 just patrol one side of it. You can also order repair units to patrol throughout your entire base, 
 and they will automatically repair any damaged units they go near.
  
  Another nice thing you could do is queue up build orders. This is very useful when building an 
 outpost or base defenses, as you can simply queue up the structures you want built rather than 
 have to constantly go back and forth between your construction unit and whatever else you are doing. 
 Few other RTS games allow you to do this.
  
  Queuing orders is just one example, to mention all of the advantages of the TA interface would 
 take way too much time. To sum it all up, the interface of TA does what should be impossible: it 
 not only gives you more control than just about any RTS game in existence, it is very simple and 
 easy to use, often easier to use than those of games that give you less control.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game's interface and unit AI options allowed you to do things in TA you couldn't 
 do in any RTS before, and even in many RTS's today. That, combined with it's huge breadth of units, 
 allowed for tons of unique strategies. Adding the Core Contingency expansion pack gave you even 
 more units; that expansion pack alone had more units in it than many complete games today.
  
  Aircraft, hovercraft, mech-like robots, tanks, boats, submarines... No game before or since 
 has such a variety of units. And almost all of these units were well designed. The boat combat 
 in TA is probably the best boat combat in any RTS ever created. The same could be said for the 
 way TA did air combat. And it's not as if the land combat was bad either.
  
  TA had fully 3D terrain, in a time when that was very unusual. This affected not only line-of-sight, 
 but combat as well. TA used real weapons trajectories, so having the high ground could have a definite 
 effect on battle.
  
  Again, there are to many things to mention in this review. I could tell how TA incorporated radar 
 in a unique and cool way not seen in any other RTS game, how destroyed units left wreckages that 
 not only looked good but could be harvested for the metal and serve as an obstacle to both units 
 and weapons, how the Commander predated many "hero" units of today and helped stop early rushes... 
 but this review is long enough as it is. Simply put, the gameplay is superb.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Even today, nearly seven years after the game was released, the graphics still don't look that 
 bad. And at the time the game was released, they blew away most of the competition. The explosions 
 were superb (the large one's shaking the entire map) , the terrain was highly detailed, and overall 
 the game looked spectacular.
  
  SOUND
  
  The game contains decent sound effects, with the units making suitable noises and the other effects 
 sounding fine, though not particularly special. But the music, on the other hand... The music of 
 TA is one of the best game soundtracks ever created, and changes depending on what is going on 
 in the game. It really highlights and enhances the game.
  
  VALUE
  
  Two long campaigns, and a horde of skirmish and multiplayer maps gave TA great value. The game 
 contained a huge amount of multiplayer options, and a massive variety of maps, ranging from close 
 quarters maps to gigantic maps that dwarf anything found in other games. And the Core Contingency 
 expansion pack added two more decent sized campaigns and a bunch more maps, as well as a bit complex 
 but still useful map editor. But even before adding the expansion pack, the game had a huge amount 
 of value.
  
  FLAWS (Every game has a few)
  
  As many fans of a certain RTS game released shortly after TA will tell you, TA did not have a particularly 
 great storyline. Also, though the game's two sides, the Core and the Arm, were a lot more unique 
 than they seemed at first glance, they weren't as varied as the factions in some other games, such 
 as those in the afore-mentioned RTS. Still, these flaws were very minor when compared with all 
 the things TA did well.
  
  RECAP
  
  While it may not be as well known as some games, TA's gameplay, graphics, music, and multiplayer/skirmish 
 features makes it perhaps the closest to perfection for it's time the RTS genre has ever achieved. 
 It is a game well deserving of the critical praise it has received, and one any RTS fan should 
 consider checking out, even today.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
