-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Total Immersion Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/totalimmersionracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.0, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 62 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Razorworks Studios
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Nov 9, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game has a variety of gorgeous real-life cars, race-long bumper-to-bumper action, and emotionally 
 charged AI drivers -- too many positive attributes to be ignored. 

 Empire Interactive's latest venture into the world of computerized automotive competition is Total 
 Immersion Racing. The game has an interesting combination of both driving simulation features and 
 arcade racing features that may prove disappointing for hard-core fans of either category. If you 
 prefer your driving to be as realistic as possible, you'll undoubtedly be frustrated by Total Immersion 
 Racing's indestructible vehicles, less-than-realistic physics, and constant bumping. If you're 
 a fan of frantic, high-speed races, you may not appreciate the game's generally conservative pace 
 and complex car setup routines. However, if you play Total Immersion Racing with an open mind, 
 you should find it to be quite appealing. The game has a variety of gorgeous real-life cars, race-long 
 bumper-to-bumper action, and emotionally charged AI drivers -- too many positive attributes to be 
 ignored.           Though you begin with only two cars, Total Immersion Racing lets you unlock 
 new vehicles.    

  Like Infogrames' less-enjoyable Le Mans 24 Hours, Total Immersion Racing focuses on the close-wheeled 
 production and purpose-built GT and prototype cars that frequent such events as the famed round-the-clock 
 24 Hours of Le Mans. But unlike the grueling Le Mans races, most of this game's events are over 
 within 10 minutes. The game offers 18 vehicles spanning three classes, including such examples 
 of advanced motorized technology as the BMX M3 GTR, Audi TT-R, Panoz Esperante GTR1, McLaren F1 
 GTR, and Bentley EXP Speed 8. You can race on any of 12 circuits, including real-world facilities 
 such as Hockenheim, Monza, Rockingham, and Sebring, as well as imaginary tracks such as Springfield 
 Raceway and Talheimring.   

  Total Immersion Racing features a range of gameplay modes, but rookies will want to begin by entering 
 either a single race or a time trial; these modes should give new players an idea of the game's 
 physics model and also let them study a given track without the pressure of the game's main career 
 mode. Beginners may also want to try the challenge mode, which lets them compete in 30 class-specific, 
 manufacturer, and endurance events. But it should be noted that the vast majority of Total Immersion 
 Racing's cars and tracks aren't available at the beginning of the game and must be unlocked by 
 either winning a challenge, moving to the more demanding professional or legend difficulty settings 
 (and eventually the nearly impossible extreme level) , or advancing several races in a career. Unfortunately, 
 at the beginning of the game, you'll have access to a measly two cars and five tracks.         
   The game's cars are highly detailed, right down to the decals.    

  One of the first things you'll notice when you do get out on the pavement is how much effort developer 
 Razorworks has spent on the game's appearance. The cars in particular look gorgeous -- each is a 
 heavily decaled and generally authentic replica of its real-life counterpart. Total Immersion Racing's 
 cars feature slick motion effects on their tire rims, animated steering wheels and driver arms, 
 and a high level of detail throughout. Each car even has a towing hook on the front. And the cars 
 churn up particles when they venture off-track, occasionally blow off thick clouds of black smoke, 
 and lift momentarily from the ground when stressed.   

  What's even more impressive about the way Total Immersion Racing's cars look is the way they react 
 to varied lighting. In broad daylight, each car glistens and gleams. In diffused light and when 
 blasting through the shadows of roadside vegetation, the cars' exterior surfaces react precisely 
 as they should -- not only becoming darker and brighter but doing so in waves and displaying a midlevel 
 hue that many racing games fail to capture. And if your event is held at dusk, as many are, you'll 
 experience some of the most realistic depictions of headlamps in any racing game. As it turns out, 
 all of the game's tracks and areas also have excellent lighting, especially in race replays. Even 
 though you can't edit or control your replays' speed, you can adjust each replay with a number 
 of dramatic trackside camera angles. And even though the game offers only 12 tracks, each is unique. 
 You'll find tight, technical sections and massive sweeping turns, hard-braking hairpins, monstrous 
 straights, and roller-coaster hills, so you won't get bored with them for quite some time.   

 However, Total Immersion Racing doesn't look perfect. For instance, the game's spectators are completely 
 two-dimensional. The game's weather cycles aren't dynamic, so if you start a race on a slick, rained-out 
 track, you'll end on the same surface. Rain itself kicks up a healthy dose of spray, but without 
 any visible droplets. Also, races that aren't held in direct sunlight can seem too dark, a situation 
 that wouldn't be so irritating if the game had a gamma correction feature. Worse still, when the 
 action is heavy or the objects you're viewing are distant, some items on the track assume an obviously 
 pixelated, indistinct appearance reminiscent of the 2D games of old.           The open cockpit 
 of a prototype offers a great view of the surroundings.    

  With one possible exception, Total Immersion Racing's audio engine is excellent. Motors growl and 
 whine and fluctuate in pitch. Bodywork scrapes against the ground when you pass over raised curbing. 
 Collisions generate a cacophony of visceral effects. The wind whistles by your helmet. If you own 
 a surround speaker system, you'll undoubtedly appreciate the game's source-sensitive setup, which 
 pans sound realistically between all four positions. However, though everything sounded great on 
 a SoundBlaster Live sound card, we experienced frequent engine note dropouts when running the game 
 through a Philips Acoustic Edge.   

  For simulation buffs and arcade veterans alike, driving a Total Immersion Racing car will be an 
 unusual experience. Razorworks has very effectively separated and translated the power distinctions 
 between a quasi-street-legal GT machine and a state-of-the-art high-speed prototype. It has kept 
 the pace somewhat conservative to better reflect real-life GT racing. And the developer has factored 
 in the effects of a wet track and the advantages of a winning mechanical setup.   

  But when you hit your first turn, you'll realize the game isn't a hard-core simulation. Total Immersion 
 Racing cars tend to pivot like a pendulum rather than contact the ground through four individual 
 points. They don't lose traction, but rather they seem to actually break free of the road and float 
 for a split second and then grab the pavement again. Total Immersion Racing doesn't let you drift 
 realistically through a turn. And as far as stopping power goes, you'll quickly find that your 
 cars can drop from 100mph to a dead halt in little more than a second.   

  And even if you forget to brake, Total Immersion Racing's cars don't fold, spindle, or mutilate. 
 Nor do they lose control or spin out unless you really do something drastic, like fly off the track. 
 As such, you can rebound off barriers or other cars and emerge unscathed. This is a distinct advantage 
 when following other drivers into a braking zone, as you can simply ignore your brake pedal, pound 
 on their rear bumpers to decelerate, shove them out of your way, and take the turn. As a bonus, 
 you may have propelled them completely off the racing surface or into a barrier. However, the AI 
 drivers will actually remember what you've done to them and will find ways to exact revenge. They 
 may get nasty with you right away or, if you're playing through career mode, they may wait for 
 a race or two. AI drivers will also become exceedingly confident if they pull off a few good moves, 
 and they may become more capable as a result. They'll even drive defensively in the last few turns 
 if they're leading the pack. However, like in many other racing games, Total Immersion Racing's 
 AI drivers will always match your level of competence -- if you're having a lousy race, they won't 
 widen the gap by beating you out, and if you've been flying along the track without a single mistake, 
 you won't be able to substantially increase your lead.           The game's AI drivers know how 
 to hold a grudge, and they'll come after you if you run them off the road.    

  Apart from the surprisingly complex garage area, Total Immersion Racing's career mode is rather 
 straightforward, and its limited multiplayer play allows only split-screen racing for two drivers. 
 However, the game's championship mode lets you compete to qualify in successive races until you 
 hit the prototype class, which will let you get behind the wheel of the most powerful cars in the 
 game.   

  Total Immersion Racing isn't complex or dangerous enough for fans of ultrarealistic motorsports, 
 nor is it wild and crazy enough for arcade buffs. And certainly it lacks some of the perks and 
 the longevity found in many other top-level racing products. Yet it looks and sounds excellent 
 and delivers some tantalizingly competitive moments that will keep you glued to your steering wheel. 
 Total Immersion Racing may not seem perfect, but it's nevertheless an innovative and at times exhilarating 
 game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Car racing games have long been a mainstay of the gaming industry, and with so many of them out 
 there it seems an almost impossible task to come up with something new and original. Some give 
 you the option of building your car from the ground up, others have given you the ability to build 
 your own tracks, and almost every other option under the sun has been offered by one game or another. 
 So what is going to make TOTAL IMMERSION RACING stand out from the crowd?
  
  How about an AI system that allows your computer opponents to learn the way that you drive and 
 then act to counter that style? Yeah, even that has been done to a degree, but lets now add the 
 Emotional factor to that equation. Yes, the AI drivers in TIR now show emotion! Heres how it works. 
 Each driver, either in real life or in the games AI, has individual strengths and weaknesses with 
 regard to stamina, track knowledge, judgment, ect. These are converted to emotions, which can change 
 during the course of a race depending on the interaction with other racers and situations. A driver 
 may become AGGRESSIVE if he is blocked or another racer makes contact with him. He may show CONFIDENCE 
 if he overtakes another driver or causes him to commit an error, but this can easily become overconfidence! 
 Other drivers may show DEFENSIVENESS, especially during the last lap of the race when he wants 
 to protect his racing line. These emotions are shown during the game by small icons, watch these 
 carefully and they may give you the edge you need to make a move depending on the other drivers 
 emotions!
  
  TIR follows a pretty standard Gameplay format, practice, qualify, and race, set in a weekend race 
 format.
  
  It is also very linear, you start out in the GT class driving your choice of two stock cars at 
 one of five tracks. You must learn your driving line and get good enough to win some races before 
 other classes of cars and additional tracks are unlocked for you. And here there are a couple of 
 more neat features not usually found in other racing games. The first is your 'In Race Engineer,' 
 that will help you make adjustments to your car during your practice sessions. During your practice, 
 your 'Engineer' will come on each lap and make an adjustment to the car. It may be an adjustment 
 to the gears or possibly the suspension or wings. At any point during the practice you may elect 
 to stop and save those settings for the race, or you may also go in without the 'Engineer' and 
 make your own adjustments. Second is the 'Race Team' factor. During your career you will be approached 
 by several Race Teams offering you a race contract to race for their Team. When you accept an offer 
 you will get a Team Manager that will offer advice during your career 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Since I'm the oly person who is reviewing this game, or the first I hope!, I'm gonna be totally 
 sincere cause I feel that propably NO ONE is gonna read this review. I was gifted Total Immersion 
 Racing or TIR as I commonly refer to it, and didn't play it for a long time (didn't install it 
 at all I mean) , since one day... I was out of uncompleted games in my PC and I searched at my CD 
 cases and found TIR. I installed it, started a career but it wasn't as good as it had to be for 
 me to like it. Then I started the challenge series, and they're GREAT! This game doesn't have cool 
 graphics, audio but surely has something that makes you like it. If you are planning to buy this 
 game you should know that this is a good game and that the challene series are the only thing worth 
 in it. Good luck. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
