-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Total Extreme Wrestling 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/totalextremewarfare/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.5, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 59 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: .400 Software Studios
Developer: Adam Ryland
Genre: Wrestling
Date:     Mar 31, 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a successful look at the sweaty soap opera that is pro wrestling, although a few interface 
 issues and complex mechanics make it a little unfriendly to wrestling newbies. 

  Esoteric sports such as horse racing and curling have simulations to call their own, so why not 
 professional wrestling? Developer Adam Ryland and .400 Software Studios are filling the gap between 
 sports and sports entertainment with Total Extreme Warfare 2004, a turn-based, text-management 
 simulation that lets grappling fans unleash their inner Vince McMahon. It's a successful look at 
 the sweaty soap opera that is pro wrestling, although a few interface issues and complex mechanics 
 make it a little unfriendly to wrestling newbies.  

          Wrestlers on your roster come with 14 stat categories, but having good numbers isn't always 
 the key to winning over the fans.     

  And when we say complex, we mean it. Ryland has been working on the Extreme Warfare series of management 
 simulations since 1995, and he has built up a solid following among squared-circle buffs due to 
 his games' detail and authenticity. Total Extreme Warfare allows you to play a promotion owner 
 or head booker, or a combination of the two, in one of more than 20 federations spread all over 
 the globe. Each is fictional, so don't expect to find Chris Jericho or Triple H bouncing heads 
 off the turnbuckle here.  

  Some of these promotions are small-time operations, such as the Canadian Charisma Championship 
 Combat (4C) based out of Montreal. Others are multinational conglomerates, like the WWE-like Burning 
 Hammer of the Wrestling Gods (BHOTWG) headquartered in Tokyo, or the American Supreme Wrestling 
 Federation (SWF) . Challenge varies depending on which promotion you join, as things are a lot easier 
 with access to the BHOTWG's $15 million bank account than they are with the 4C's paltry $60,000. 
 You can randomize numbers before beginning play as well, and tweak the difficulty by choosing either 
 a strong or a weak wrestling industry. Each promotion comes with background information, including 
 date of formation, current roster of wrestlers, and so forth. They also wrestle according to one 
 of nine different style portrayals, ranging from the blood-and-guts garbage to pure wrestling to 
 a combination of just about everything.  

  Six world regions are represented in the US, Canada, Mexico, the UK, Japan, and Australia, along 
 with more than 100 cities -- so you can stage pay-per-view extravaganzas in every corner of the planet. 
 No matter where you set up, however, the goal remains the same -- establish your promotion as the 
 big kid on the block by making more money than your rivals. Of course, the best way to accomplish 
 this is by signing a roster of top grapplers who people will pay to see.  

  Wrestlers are rated in 29 categories that grade their skills in athletic areas like brawling and 
 high-flying, show biz areas like microphone skills and sex appeal, and personal areas like menace 
 and morality. You need to balance these scores against the portrayal that best suits your viewing 
 audience. For instance, running a Lucha promotion in Mexico requires wrestlers who are skilled 
 in wrestling basics and high-flying so that they can pull off the requisite acrobatic feats. Running 
 a sports entertainment-styled promotion needs stars with good charisma and microphone talents, 
 hardcore has to have the best brawlers, and so on.  

  Even after you've hired the best, you need to utilize your stars properly. Much time must be spent 
 tweaking each grappler's moves. You can make wrestlers babyfaces or heels, move them into different 
 divisions, assign them managers, and choose their two finishing moves. Even crazy gimmicks can 
 be selected, so you can turn your stars into pimps, porn stars, cross-dressers, lumberjacks, and 
 just about anything else you can imagine.  

  Getting together a crew of wrestlers that go over with your fan base in Total Extreme Warfare 2004 
 is difficult, both because of the many skill categories and the heavy demand for talent. Promotions 
 have been set up geographically so that everyone has rivals ready to poach disaffected wrestlers. 
 Also, you have to fine-tune your promotion in many other ways. Tag teams are set up, announcers 
 hired, merchandise sold, TV broadcast facilities upgraded, storylines written, and so on. The latter 
 is one of the most enjoyable parts of the game, as you get to concoct whatever outrageous soap-opera 
 storyline you can imagine and then write up a description of the planned antics.  

  It all plays in a much more abstract way than the traditional sports management simulation, but 
 it does have a great deal of charm. It feels more like a business strategy sim than a sports sim -- sort 
 of a sweaty version of something like The Corporate Machine. Part of the reason for this is the 
 turn-based mechanics that divide days into AM and PM sections, and each section has specific tasks 
 within it that need to be fulfilled. Another reason that the game is different from the usual sports 
 sim is the statistics-light nature of professional wrestling. Where the average pro sports sim 
 forces you to track stats game by game, the focus here is on getting wrestlers into the right position 
 to win over the fans and to make money.  

  The focus in this game simplifies play in some ways and it makes it harder in others. The non-mathematically 
 inclined will appreciate having fewer numbers to wrangle, although not having those stats to lean 
 on means that you must make more intuitive decisions when it comes to recruiting wrestlers and 
 setting up cards.  

  Relying on instinct is actually a huge part of booking a regular television show or pay-per-view 
 event, as you need to entertain viewers during every minute of the broadcast with backstage brawls, 
 ladder matches, interviews, story angles (you can set up nearly anything, including having a car 
 run over a wrestler in the arena parking lot) , and so forth. Scheduling is critical, since you 
 need to make sure that good matches aren't cut too short, that poor matches end quickly, and that 
 wrestlers doing interviews and angles be skilled enough with charisma and mic skills to win over 
 the crowd. If you don't hit it just right in all these areas, your show flops and the fans don't 
 come back.  

          Scheduling TV shows and PPV events are at the heart of Total Extreme Warfare. You have 
 to set up fights, backstage brawls, and story segments, and keep the length just right so the audience 
 doesn't get bored.     

  The one problem with all this complexity is the interface. It just isn't good at allowing the player 
 to get into the game. Bland visuals don't help matters, either, since menu screens lack color and 
 they all appear the same after a while. We needed a good three hours before we could figure out 
 the basic options, and a couple of days of steady play passed before we were able to play without 
 getting lost in the myriad menus every 10 or 15 minutes. A tutorial and a better online manual 
 are sorely needed. There is a really nifty feature where you can ask specific questions of your 
 wrestlers and booking team, but it's just not enough.  

  But even with those omissions, Total Extreme Warfare 2004 is a very enjoyable and addictive game. 
 There is even a play-by-e-mail multiplayer mode that is good to try out after you've conquered 
 the wrestling world in solo play. The amount of detail and depth here is simply spectacular to 
 behold, especially if you're a hardcore wrestling fan. And if you're not a hardcore wrestling fan, 
 this game might just turn you into one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ransik1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I recall one day finding a very old version of EWR, and I got hooked immediately. The game has 
 only improved every single time as well. Pics of your wrestlers will allow you to keep track of 
 who is who, and a full editor will allow you to make changes to what ever you do not like. The 
 load times can be the annoying part, but don't worry about that, just sit back and enjoy getting 
 yourself to #1!
  
  You can either choose the default Cornellverse, a world that was made to be released with the game 
 to avoid lawsuits, or you can find your favorite era of wrestling at several TEW message boards 
 to put into the game.
  
  http://s15. invisionfree. com/Extreme_Warfarre_V/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luzzu
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  As a devout fan of the now-defunct freeware developed Extreme Warfare Revenge series, I was eager 
 to see what Adam Ryland would do to improve upon his all-ready catchy wrestling simulator. Ryland 
 and .400 studios have finely tightened the original mechanics behind EWR and added some new ones 
 in the process. The game as a whole in fundamentals remains largely the same, but intensely expanded 
 upon to make for a more comprehensive, realistic simulator. For example, at the base of things, 
 each individual wrestler is represented with a total of thirty different statistics - which separately 
 shape the worker to behave uniquely inside and outside the squared-circle (the ring that is, the 
 ring) .
  
  Upon starting the game you may choose to either operate as the owner of a promotion, the head booker, 
 or even both. Afterwards, regardless of your selection, you must venture the routine of: hiring 
 workers and staff, applying for the creation of television shows via network deals, booking your 
 events, commissioning road agents and components of the booking team, among other things. Noticeably, 
 there's never quite a shortage of things to do, trust me - you'll find something to keep yourself 
 busy. Aside from owning/running your promotion, you also have training camps and developmental 
 territories to situate through. These babies are the prime-rib for grooming your young lions to 
 be the next generation of superstars, which is useful considering not everyone's going to be around 
 forever (unless your name's Hulk Hogan - don't worry about that guy, eh?) . These workers, as well 
 others, may have their own gimmicks and pushes assigned to them; which will possibly lead to all 
 kinds of pandemonium if you're not careful (that meaning you're doing it on purpose, of course) . 
 Gimmicks and pushes and must meet statistical and overness requirements if they are to be effective 
 in connecting with the people, if it doesn't happen, try that little grooming process.
  
  Non-worker-wise (that's an odd combination, isn't it?) , there's still a few other things you must 
 master in order to keep fans interested. Such as in the procedure of booking events, you'll find 
 yourself mixing up angles, matches, and interviews to what best suits your fan base's style. Your 
 fan base is determined by what kind of promotion you choose to portray (traditional, sports-entertainment, 
 etc.) - you'll need to supply the fans to whatever the heck turns them on. In these different options 
 aforementioned, you may use different segment types to play to one worker's strengths in order 
 to heat up a rivalry or pump up the crowd. In case of a rivalry, you can start these guys to garner 
 more attention to your federation - resulting in bigger crowds, more home viewers tuning in, and 
 greater merchandise sales. Once you master these many crafts - you can eventually expand your market 
 and position yourself to take over and conquer other promotions that threaten your place in the 
 wrestling industry. Concerning the other aspects of Total Extreme Wrestling, such as the sound 
 - I believe the expression 'eww' accurately covers that. Thankfully you can turn the sound affects 
 off and enjoy your own tunes whilst crunching down on gametime. Also, the skin the comes with the 
 game isn't the most appeasing thing ever; but you may download some nice user creations to rectify 
 that problem. So, all in all - if you're a wrestling buff and want to control your own garbage-fed 
 turned million dollar corporation; feel free to hit up TEW; it's uhhm uhhm good like Campbell's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagged_rock
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2004 3:56 pm PT
Review:  It's bad enough to over charge your fanbase for a textbased simulator, but to release an unfinished 
 game that was working properly enough for an honest trial.
  
  Defenders will say that his freeware games had similar problems but were corrected. To that I say 
 there is a $34.95 difference.
  
  The best advice I can give on this game is wait awhile for the patches to make this worthy of a 
 purchase.
  
  That was what I wrote almost a year ago.
  
  The game has been heavily patched since then, and i feel I really should give an updated review.
 
  
  Gameplay is quite good, with options that shame THQ's recent efforts. You can create your wrestler, 
 fed, and many other elements of the game. You have total control virtually every aspect of of your 
 world. Just wish the match editor didn't have so many rules.
  
  Graphic are about as good as you'll get a text-based game. The graphice do improve how ever when 
 you bring the mod community into the mix.
  
  The sound is pretty weak. An MP3 feature would have been a great feature.
  
  Value? I still 
 think that the game is over -priced but if you want a wrestling promoter, this is the best there 
 is.
  
  Tilt. The game has come a long way since its March 04 release. With the patches, fan feedback, 
 and Mod community this game is a fun an addictive game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
