-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Total Annihilation: The Core Contingency
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/totalannihilationthecc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 15, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.4, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 404 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Cavedog Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What we have here is an avalanche of new material, which, depending on how you view it, may or may 
 not be a good thing. 

 This expansion pack for Cavedog's Total Annihilation features 75 new units (plus all of the units 
 that were made available for download and through other sources) , 25 new single-player scenarios, 
 and 50 new multiplayer maps (including six new terrain types) . Bearing this in mind, "expansion" 
 may be a bit of an understatement. What we have here is an avalanche of new material, which, depending 
 on how you view it, may or may not be a good thing. Sure, there's a bunch of new stuff, and a large 
 portion of it is really great. But much of it borders on overkill.  

 The single-player mode features one new Arm campaign and one new Core campaign, and if you complete 
 these, you gain access to a bonus mission. The single-player campaign is solid, and fans of the 
 original will be pleased to try out some of the new units and buildings in a structured setting. 
 But single player has never been Total Annihilation's strength, and, frankly, the missions seem 
 downright dry when compared with the excellent story-driven campaign of Starcraft.  

 Total Annihilation's strengths have always been in the multiplayer department. The Core Contingency 
 continues this tradition, offering more than four dozen new maps for skirmish games or multiplayer 
 battles. Many of these new maps are set on the six new worlds. Unfortunately, two of these worlds 
 are somewhat difficult to play on - namely the crystal world (which features a monochrome magenta 
 hue that's a little hard to look at for long periods of time) and the gas world (featuring large, 
 ugly, floating "gasbags" in enormous numbers) , but the other four counterbalance the visual problems 
 of these two. Most of the new maps facilitate certain types of play, and there's less emphasis 
 on straightforward battle maps. On the plus side, The Core Contingency features the latest version 
 of TA, allowing you to play against computer opponents in multiplayer games.  

 Of course, the real treat here is the new buildings and units. There's a lot here, and there's a 
 lot to like. Both sides get the same basic upgrades. The new hovercraft class vehicles are excellent, 
 and their maneuverability and versatility is a welcome addition to the arsenal. Likewise, the minelayer 
 is another excellent addition - a little mobile production facility that can set six types of cloaked 
 mines, each with its own strengths and weaknesses. On the structure side, there are two excellent 
 additions - the advanced targeting facility and the Krogoth Gantry (available to Core only) . The 
 former gives your units the ability to target enemies out of their line of sight but in radar view 
 (make sure you have a surplus of energy before turning it on) . The latter is a production facility 
 that builds Krogoth, a super Kbot that is rivaled only by the commander in terms of destructive 
 power.  

 But that's just a handful of the new units and structures. The rest run the gamut from the clever-and-somewhat-useful 
 (the decoy commander) to the  (three words: floating metal 
 maker) . To be fair, many of the new maps require the use of these structures, but it seems like 
 a usefulness that is simply forced upon you. Even more disappointing are the units that are just 
 slight variations on existing units - such as the medium assault Kbot, which, it seems, was created 
 to fill that glaring gap between small and large assault Kbots.   

 Of course, it's easy to find something to criticize among the staggering amount of new stuff (which, 
 unfortunately, does not include any new music) . The Core Contingency is sure to prolong the life 
 of the game, especially for those who have played it to death. The included map editor only helps 
 to extend this life, giving you a versatile, though somewhat user-unfriendly, means of creating 
 your own scenarios. Cavedog should be commended for making such an open-ended game and continuing 
 to support and enhance it regularly. Now if only it could come up with more minelayers and fewer 
 floating metal makers.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  As an expansion disk this is an decent buy. Mind you Cavedog released a lot of the units on heir 
 website. There is not really any innovative vehicle. There is a few though that is worth using. 
 Each side was given an advanced artillery structure worthy of playing. Even though it takes a long 
 time to build and a lot of power to use, the sheer destruction it causes justifies the wait. Another 
 unit that makes this expansion worthwhile is called Krogoth. This very large unit looks like 
 a large robot with wings and has lasers , guns and surface to air missiles. Its a walking battleship. 
 Using this unit unbalances the multiplayer option with everyone wanting to play Core instead 
 of the Arm. Speaking of multiplayer there are plenty of multiplayer maps included. Some are uninspired 
 others are well worth playing.
  Anyone who loves the original game will enjoy this expansion disk, anyone who was expecting more 
 in terms of an upgrade will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamiJoey40K
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 22, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, an RTS game needs two one of two things. Either the constant threat of foreign armies 
 charging in on you at any moment, unsure of what they could do; or having access to unknown units 
 and being unaware of their power, defence and overall strength. If it does not, the game becomes 
 very boring, very fast. In addition, let me tell you this, Total Annihilation definitely had both.
 
  
  The original Total Annihilation game was by far one of, if not the best RTS games of its time. 
 The 3D effects were the best of its time, and the AI was amazing. After a while however, it got 
 a little samey, and went from one of the best games you have played in a long time, into a mediocre 
 to good game you could play on when you have nothing to do. The only reasons were the lack of maps 
 to play, the shortage of different mission and the small variety of units to build and destroy. 
 Someone important must have felt the same thing and so came up with an idea. The idea that even 
 though the Arm, being the good guys, had finally won this long, drawn out, arduous battle; the 
 Core could still have lived on. They could have lived on, and implemented a back-up plan, a plan 
 B... A contingency plan. This contingency plan would mean new missions, more world to use and, 
 of course, new units.
  
  This add on pack to the original death dealing war game created a method of resurrecting one of 
 the greatest game series in the world. The story behind The Core Contingency, is what happened 
 after the immense battles of the original game. The Skirmish games are extremely exiting, flinging 
 you into a battle against an AI opponent with access to any of the units the game has to offer. 
 The system of levelling up from basic units to their advanced versions has not been touched, though 
 with the Cores Krogoth only being accessible via Advanced Construction creating a certain factory 
 it is like a third level up. This may seem a disappointment for some, but I feel it was perfect 
 to begin with and am pleased it has stayed the same. In fact, most of the game has stayed the same 
 with them only removing or altering the things that actually needed changing.
  
  All in all, Total Annihilation: The Core Contingency is an amazing success and a fantastic game. 
 45 minutes to learn, but a lifetime to master. With all of the new units/maps/missions, you will 
 be on this for a while before you see sunlight again.
  
  10/10 for its enjoyability. 9/10 for its overall score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation was like my second computer game I've ever owned and it has been fun playing 
 it it many ways even though its not using the newest in RTS 3D graphics its still has a straight 
 forward game play that you can always have fun playing. So this is probably another addition to 
 the must have RTS that is just addicting. However its hard to find TA on sale anymore which really 
 sucks but there are very few places actualy selling TA and all of its expansions if you search 
 hard enough or just download the demos off this site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is an add-on for the Total Annihilation game for PC. It is well worth picking up as you get 
 a lot of new maps and toys to play with. THis add-on is better than the Battle Tactics, so if you 
 get one,,,,, get this one!
  
  I love this game; I have loved this game since I cracked it out of its shrink-wrap!!! With the 
 addition of the expansion packs and the downloadable extras it just adds to the overall great experience 
 of this classic game. I love single player mode as multi player is some times very long and drawn 
 out! Single player allows you to speed up time to ease the wait of mining and collecting ore metal 
 and energy. This game is not mindless; there is a definite strategy to gaining the right offences 
 and defenses and putting them in the right place. The computer (sometimes) learns what works and 
 what does not and will attack and defend accordingly. Check the discount shelf!!!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
