-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Touring Car Challenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/touringcarchallenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 42 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
All its problems are alleviated by the excitement and sheer fun that Touring Car Challenge has to 
 offer. 

 If you live on the western side of the Atlantic, you might not have a clue about the British Touring 
 Car Championship. But don't let that stop you from trying your hand at Touring Car Challenge, a 
 highly addictive racing game from UK developer and publisher Codemasters that marks a great conclusion 
 to one of the best years for PC racing simulations in a long time.  

 Touring Car Challenge focuses on the 1998 British Touring Car Championship season and features 17 
 real-life drivers competing on eight different tracks. Since most Yankees have never heard of BTCC 
 stars like James Thompson, David Leslie, Yvan Muller, and Peter Kox, you'd think that driver bios 
 and profiles would be in order. But all you get is an in-game rundown of basic data such as date 
 and place of birth, career wins, and where each driver placed in the 1998 standings. The in-game 
 track info is slightly better - at least you're shown the recommended passing areas on each circuit 
 - but it doesn't come close to making up for the manual's lack of detailed information. Fortunately, 
 the game itself is a lot of fun.  

 One of the most appealing features in Touring Car Challenge is the selection of cars you get to 
 drive. They are mass-production cars just like the sort you might buy for your family, although 
 not many American car buyers are likely to get a Renault, Peugeot, or Vauxhall for their second 
 car. Other manufacturers represented in the game include Ford, Nissan, Honda, Volvo, and Audi, 
 and all must conform to BTCC regulations: four doors, 2-liter engines, 8500rpm maximum, and a mechanical 
 gearbox.   

 Touring Car Challenge offers some pretty exciting action on the track. You powerslide through turns, 
 bump and tap your opponents, and hit top end on straightaways while the engine's screaming as you 
 push it to its limits. Races are fairly short, but once you see just how torturous the competition 
 can be on a car, you'll understand why. Cars take visible damage - you'll see cracked windshields 
 more often than you'd care to - and it eventually affects your car's performance. You can undergo 
 repairs during the mandatory pit stop in the longer of the two races at each venue, but it significantly 
 increases your time in the pits. In addition, the game effectively renders weather effects such 
 as rain, although they don't seem to have quite the impact you'd expect on your car's handling. 

 Car setup options in Touring Car Challenge are rudimentary - you can change tire types (but not 
 tire pressure) , adjust bias toward front or rear brakes, adjust downforce (presumably by adjusting 
 the rear wing, but you can't specify a particular angle) , set gear ratios (of course) , and make 
 the suspension harder or softer on each wheel. If you play in novice mode, you can head out for 
 a first-place finish without tinkering with your car - but when you crank the difficulty up to 
 standard and expert modes, you can count on having to make adjustments to shave precious seconds 
 off your lap times. Unfortunately, Touring Car Challenge makes it difficult to race practice laps 
 because there's no way to put your car through the paces before qualifying for a single race or 
 a race in championship mode. The only workaround is to head to the main menu and use the time-trial 
 mode to learn the tracks and figure out what adjustments you should make. The championship mode, 
 which consists of two races at 13 events, is clearly where Touring Car Challenge provides its most 
 intense action - especially since you have to rack up at least 15 points (based on your finish 
 in both races) before you can move on to the next races. There's also a great two-player team mode 
 in which you and a friend must work together to get 27 points to advance. But there are also all 
 sorts of other race types in Touring Car Challenge to keep things interesting. There's the time 
 trial, which includes a ghost car that mirrors your last lap to give you an idea of where you went 
 wrong; the support car championship, in which all drivers are given identical cars (you can unlock 
 exotic cars like the Lister Storm and Jaguar XJ 220 if you win) ; a single race on any of the available 
 tracks (including hidden tracks) ; and a generic test track.  

 At first, the graphics in Touring Car Challenge seem a bit blocky. But the visuals grow on you after 
 a while because of the high level of graphical detail in all the cars. Smoke effects are nicely 
 rendered as well, and trackside objects, which are oftentimes the weakest part of a driving sim, 
 are as good as can be expected in Touring Car Challenge. The animation is smooth on a fairly fast 
 system; the only time the game's frame rate dropped down was during a huge bottleneck in a curve 
 where a lot of drivers were slamming their brakes and kicking up a lot of dust.  

 Just the thought of driving a blisteringly fast four-door sedan in a bent-for-hell race against 
 human opponents is enough to get any race fan's heart pumping, and Codemasters has included every 
 conceivable type of multiplayer support possible. But the manual is totally mum on how Internet 
 play works. It turns out your best bet is to join the Touring Car Challenge chat room and exchange 
 IP addresses with other players. But that best bet never paid off for me - it was difficult to 
 find any willing competition, and there's no way to see who or how many gamers are even in the 
 chat room at one time.  

 However, Touring Car Challenge is one game for which you really should expect to see more drivers 
 looking for online competition in the future. The game has a few minor setbacks, but many of them 
 are directly related to its origins as a console game: It has no mouse support in its menus, humdrum 
 force feedback, and a lot of initially hidden tracks and cars. But all such problems are alleviated 
 by the excitement and sheer fun that Touring Car Challenge has to offer. If you got a kick out 
 of racing games like Sports Car GT and Viper Racing, then Touring Car Challenge is a must-buy. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rarson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out, and while I was initially put off by its difficulty, I 
 couldn't stop playing it. The more I played this game, the more it rewarded me. There is not much 
 more satisfying than playing through Brands Hatch at full tilt, hitting every single braking point 
 at the very last second and still keeping it on the road. Even today, I remember fondly the fun 
 that I had.
  
  It helps that I had the Logitech force feedback wheel. What an experience! The graphics were great 
 for the time and the damage modeling second to nothing. I even liked it better than the excellent 
 Nascar Racing 2 from Papyrus. The windshield cracks and chips with stones, and will be completely 
 obliterated if the damage is extensive enough. Running full tilt into a wall actually prevents 
 you from continuing (not very many racing sims, even ones with damage modeling, actually realistically 
 prevent you from continuing in a car that should be unusable) . Rain peppers the windshield and 
 gets washed away from the windshield wipers... even in today's gaming age, these graphics are great!
 
  
  If I could play this game on a current system with a force feedback wheel, I would gladly pay full 
 price for it.
  
  Jarrett and Labonte Stock Car Racing on the PSX is very similar to this game, but with graphics 
 that aren't quite up to par of the PC game. Still has excellent handling and damage modeling, and 
 still worth dusting off the PSX to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_hell94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I brought this game for 99p at gamestation. I took it home and installed it and started to play. 
 At first you think damn this game really suks, definatly if you have just played on Forza Motorsport 
 2. I thought to myself "oh well it was 99p", and just placed it in my bookcase. Now im a fan of 
 the BTCC and driving games (defenitatly ones where the cars a different from the popular ferraris 
 and porsches) so the other day i got it back out the book case and put it in my pc (again) . I started 
 to play with it and realised why i was becoming annoyed with it - THE HANDLING. Yes it features 
 that stupid handling engine from many 1990's 3D games. What i mean is that if you try to go right 
 the car turns sharply and then you crash. Now due to the damage engine on TOCA 2: TOURING CARS 
 the car just kept tipping over. So i went through many laps on a oval and figured where i was wrong. 
 I went to the options and selected low steer sesitivity - IT WORKED - well almost. The car would 
 still steer sharply so i decieded to try the championship. I went into the tuning section - now 
 from playing Toca 3 i know that low suspension on tarmac is good and improves handling. I almost 
 had done it - the car actually went round corners :D. But every now and then it would still veer 
 off the road making me go all the way back to 16th. Becoming soo annoyed i closed my door and sat 
 in a comfortable postition and just stared into the screen of my pc. Even when my sister came into 
 the room i told her to shutup. I have realised not to press hard on the keys as the car just veers 
 off the road. So if you are turning a corner - DO NOT TAKE YOUR FINGER OFF THE ACCELORATE BUTTON. 
 As the game is not as good as next gen simulators (e. g Forza Series) , the friction to deaccelorate/accelorate 
 CAN be used to turn. After conquering this little catasrophe i decieded to start to look at other 
 features. The graphics on this game arn't all that great and have been made using MS Paint. It 
 so funny when you see a crease line in the sky!!! But then again i owned a PS1 and all the graphics 
 where like that mainly. So really the graphics are not bad for a late 90s game. The selection of 
 cars may not be great (Peugeot 405, Nissan Primera, Ford Mondeo, Audi A4 [?] , Ford Fiesta Zetec 
 ect.) but they are fun to drive. Of course its just like anyother TOCA game it has that bugging 
 arcade music in the menus (bit like Grand Turismo and Sega GT 2002) but the car sounds are really 
 cool. I have a few words to describe this game they are:
  #Addicting
  #Great
  #Fun
  #Interesting.
  I almost forgot to mention the damage engine. Now its not as good as the damage 
 engine on say Colin Mcrae (R. I. P) 2005 but its good for a game that old.
  I give this game a 9.5/10. 9.5 because its just plain fun and the 0.5 because of the handling problems.
 
  
  Review by 
  
  Game: Toca 2 - Touring Cars
  Genre: Driving/Racing/Simulator/RAC BTCC
  Price: 99p
  Format Rieviewed: PC
  Made By: Codemasters
 
  Requirements:
  Pentium II 200 MHz (Min) [266 Mhz Rec]
  Windows: 95/98/Me/XP (Not sure about Vista)
  4x CD Rom Drive (Min) [8x Rec]
  32Mb Ram (Min)
 
  Direct X 6.0 supported 3D Graphics Card with 4Mb Ram (Min)
  Direct X 6 compatible sound card
  Mouse + Keyboard
  55mb HDD Space Needed
  Optional Online; 
 Modem, IPX, TCP/IP Network
  DirectPlay
  For 11+
  (Version Reviewed - SOLDOUT)
  Reviewed on a:
  ADM Athlon XP 2000, 1GB Ram, Windows Xp SP2, Nvidia GeForce 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Touring Car Challenge offers some pretty exciting action on the track. You powerslide through turns, 
 bump and tap your opponents, and hit top end on straightaways while the engine's screaming as you 
 push it to its limits. Races are fairly short, but once you see just how torturous the competition 
 can be on a car, you'll understand why. Cars take visible damage - you'll see cracked windshields 
 more often than you'd care to - and it eventually affects your car's performance. You can undergo 
 repairs during the mandatory pit stop in the longer of the two races at each venue, but it significantly 
 increases your time in the pits. In addition, the game effectively renders weather effects such 
 as rain, although they don't seem to have quite the impact you'd expect on your car's handling.
 
  
  Car setup options in Touring Car Challenge are rudimentary - you can change tire types (but not 
 tire pressure) , adjust bias toward front or rear brakes, adjust downforce (presumably by adjusting 
 the rear wing, but you can't specify a particular angle) , set gear ratios (of course) , and make 
 the suspension harder or softer on each wheel. If you play in novice mode, you can head out for 
 a first-place finish without tinkering with your car - but when you crank the difficulty up to 
 standard and expert modes, you can count on having to make adjustments to shave precious seconds 
 off your lap times. Unfortunately, Touring Car Challenge makes it difficult to race practice laps 
 because there's no way to put your car through the paces before qualifying for a single race or 
 a race in championship mode. The only workaround is to head to the main menu and use the time-trial 
 mode to learn the tracks and figure out what adjustments you should make. The championship mode, 
 which consists of two races at 13 events, is clearly where Touring Car Challenge provides its most 
 intense action - especially since you have to rack up at least 15 points (based on your finish 
 in both races) before you can move on to the next races. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
