-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tournament Dreams College Basketball
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tournamentdreamscollegebasketball/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.9, 7.4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 42 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: .400 Software Studios
Genre: Basketball Management
Date:     December 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tournament Dreams College Basketball comes as a blast of much-needed fresh air to the somewhat predictable 
 pro-sim scene. 

  Sports management simulations have become so prolific of late that lines are beginning to blur. 
 Since everybody is working off the same stellar Championship Manager template, all sports are beginning 
 to feel the same. If not for a few graphics and different stat categories, it would be hard to 
 tell the difference between a football game and a hockey game, since you're fulfilling the same 
 management tasks no matter if you're dealing with pigskin or pucks.  

          The in-game menu is colorful and informative, and it features a full range of coaching 
 controls.     

  So Tournament Dreams College Basketball comes as a blast of much-needed fresh air to the somewhat 
 predictable pro-sim scene. The .400 Software Studios title stands apart from most of its rivals 
 by focusing on the college game. Instead of simply adding some routine recruiting and program-building 
 options to an NBA sim, the developers have turned the design philosophy on its ear by building 
 around the unique nature of college basketball. Basketball almost takes second chair to the yearly 
 recruitment drives that are vital to developing a Division I powerhouse. This gives the game both 
 an impressive (almost unparalleled) authenticity and a very different (somehow friendlier) atmosphere 
 from the usual text-based sim dealing with professional leagues.  

  The basics of the game are about what you would expect. You take over the basketball program at 
 one of 320 Division I colleges spread across the country and gain complete control over everything 
 from calling up potential recruits to scheduling games to setting a starting five. You can play 
 solo or go online to take on friends in multiplayer leagues. Game difficulty is dependent on the 
 school you choose, since each program has different strengths and goals. So, for instance, running 
 Syracuse -- with its powerhouse freshman class, solid reputation, and big bucks -- is a lot easier 
 than running a traditionally weak sister school, like Maine. Of course, with bigger schools come 
 bigger expectations. Where the powers-that-be at Stanford aren't happy with anything less than 
 a conference championship and a subsequent strong showing in the national tournament, the folks 
 running things at Baylor are a lot more tolerant of a losing season.  

          As with real college basketball programs, a good recruiting program is vital for success. 
 You need to spend a lot of time working the phones and setting up campus visits.     

  The best way to avoid offending your boss is, of course, to win a lot of games. And the best way 
 to do that is to recruit top talent each year to make sure you're always able to send a contending 
 club onto the hardwood. To reflect the importance of recruiting, .400 Software Studios has made 
 it the heart of Tournament Dreams. For starters, it runs concurrently with the season, which means 
 that you have to simultaneously keep an eye on playing games with the current squad while also 
 recruiting players for next year's squad. This gives play an organic feel. You can go from offering 
 a scholarship to a budding superstar in a local high school one moment to that big showdown with 
 a divisional rival the next. Everything dovetails together in a way that you don't see in pro-sports 
 sims, largely because you can make up for poor drafts in those games by signing free agents. Here, 
 the draft and free agent markets are one and the same, so mistakes can cripple your program.  

 
  Another plus with the game's recruiting is its realism. While you do hire a scouting service to 
 provide player ratings and numbers in a long list of categories, like offensive awareness and inside 
 scoring, convincing a player to commit to your school involves hard selling. You typically start 
 off with a phone call to gauge the interests of the players that your scouting service has identified 
 as possibilities. Then you proceed to mount an aggressive, moderate, or light recruiting campaign. 
 Finally, you offer campus visits and scholarships. Everything you do takes a chunk out of your 
 weekly recruiting budget. In fact, even your phone calls are restricted to $300 a week -- and remember 
 that it costs more to call cross-country than it does to call within your home state -- so economizing 
 is a must.     

  Dedicating your efforts solely to those players you have a chance to sign is crucial. Incessant 
 recruitment efforts stand the most chance of convincing a player to commit to your school. You 
 need to go back to a few key targets week after week, and you mustn't spread your efforts around. 
 Of course, this can be heartbreaking. Players take many weeks to commit, and in the meantime, they 
 can run into trouble at school, be downgraded by scouts, declare their eligibility for the pro 
 draft, or simply decide that another school is a better bet. Sometimes the sure things bail on 
 you at the last minute. Sometimes an underdog has a change of heart and chooses you over rivals 
 when you least expect it.  

          Track your team through the season on a variety of polls. The ratings are somewhat arbitrary, 
 as in real life, although big wins and disappointing losses are always reflected here.     

  The whole process is remarkably true to life. A big reason for this is varied phone dialogue. 
 There seem to be dozens, if not hundreds, of different player responses available. There are enough 
 so that repetition is never an issue. It seems like you're talking to real people, too, since their 
 conversations are so wide-ranging. Instead of canned "not interested" phrases, a player might blow 
 you off with comments like "I feel Jar Jar Binks is misunderstood." or "You think  I'm  good? You 
 should see my little brother." The same goes for positive responses, where players talk about their 
 strengths on the court or how they've always dreamed of playing for your school. Late recruits 
 even add a touch of desperation. One low-ranked potential we spoke to was only concerned about 
 how many tickets to the Big East Tournament he could score and if it was OK to sell them. Others 
 talk about getting kicked out of school for fights. The developers obviously took a lot of time 
 with this dialogue, and the result is the inclusion of players who act like real individuals with 
 identifiable personalities.  

  .400 Software Studios also spent a lot of time on refining other aspects of the simulation. Team 
 control is as fully featured as the recruiting engine. For simmed contests, you set up a depth 
 chart, choose primary and supporting offensive and defensive strategies, and even establish substitution 
 patterns and player roles. Games can also be manually played, thus giving you on-the-fly access 
 to all of the strategic options, time-outs, and last-minute shot instructions. There is a lot of 
 depth here, but you don't have to be a basketball expert to appreciate everything. The program 
 walks you through every step of each season via an e-mail interface, and more-intricate features, 
 like the offensive and defensive strategies, are described both with text and with moving diagrams. 
 While Tournament Dreams might not make you a basketball coach, it  will  give you enough information 
 to fake it.  

          Have no worries! The interface walks you through all of the game's features and even includes 
 descriptions and diagrams of all of its coaching strategies.     

  Friendly and attractive graphics go along with the personable presentation. Every screen is colorful 
 and easy to read, and many boast visuals that give the game a lot of life. Every player is represented 
 by a picture; the recruitment screen features graphics of all the options; and even the player 
 ratings are represented by big, red boxes. This is the most attractive sports sim we've ever seen. 
 The emphasis on production values extends to sound as well. The background music consists of a 
 varied original soundtrack that mixes hip-hop with school-marching-band tunes. It's very catchy. 
 All menu functions come with unobtrusive sound effects. Crowd noises and auditorium sounds accompany 
 the manual simming of games, and these aren't just generic noises. The crowd actually reacts to 
 events on the court with boos and cheers, and the stadium announcer calls out "Going to the line. 
 Shooting two." every time a player goes to the charity stripe. Frills like these are almost unheard 
 of in the bargain-basement world of the typical text-based sports management simulation.  

  Any way you look at it, Tournament Dreams is an outstanding achievement. College basketball has 
 never been so thoroughly, enjoyably re-created. Sports management sims are rarely so captivating, 
 no matter what real-life pastime they represent. Add to this solid developer support and regular 
 updates that are still being released, and you have an absolute must for college basketball fans 
 who need a fix now that March Madness 2004 has come to a close.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
