-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TrackMania Sunrise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/trackmaniasunrise/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 One of the deepest track editors ever found in a racer.
 Crazy physics and ridiculous speeds make for some pretty exciting races.
 Plenty of lasting value, both online and off.
 A much-improved graphics engine.
 Good soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Track editor is a little hard to sift through at first, due to its lack of tutorial.
 Still no car collision.
 Periodically frustrating, especially during the puzzle mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 739 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Developer: Nadeo
Genre: Racing
Date:     May 6, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sunrise is, in most every way, exactly what you would want from a sequel to the original TrackMania. 
 

  Chances are you didn't play last year's TrackMania -- at least, not if you live in North America. 
 Despite being one of the most addictively simple and wholly enjoyable racers of last year (not 
 to mention one of the only decent racers on the PC last year) , TrackMania never found the same 
 level of popularity here as it did in developer Nadeo's native Europe. Thankfully, because the 
 game was a success across the pond, Nadeo and publisher Enlight have produced a sequel with TrackMania 
 Sunrise. Nadeo has ramped up the wonderfully addictive style of stunt driving and expanded upon 
 the community-driven elements of the original, creating more ways for you to share your own crazy 
 creations and to download others. Throw in a better overall sense of presentation and an insanely 
 deep track editor, and what you've got is a truly great sequel.  

          Insane stunt driving returns to the PC in TrackMania Sunrise.     

  Despite being a 
 racer at its core, TrackMania Sunrise isn't really about its cars -- it's far more about all the 
 crazy crap you can do with those cars via the completely insane roster of tracks. This game is 
 all about stunt driving, with loop-de-loops, huge ramp jumps, massive bursts of speed, and general 
 track layouts that seemingly only the most insane people could possibly concoct. The cars in the 
 game have a very toylike feel to them, though the car physics found in Sunrise are a big improvement 
 over the original TrackMania. Cars run at ridiculous speeds and tend to bounce a lot when they 
 land. However, turning feels a whole lot better than it did in the original, and you no longer 
 have to worry about overshooting a turn completely by putting just slightly too much pressure on 
 the turnkey. Between the high speeds and wacky track designs, no two races ever feel quite the 
 same, and each race tends to be a lot of fun.  

  When playing single-player, there are a number of different single-player race modes to choose 
 from. Nearly all the races in the game are time based, so you'll find yourself racing against other 
 cars. However, these other cars are actually only there to give you a visual guide of how close 
 or how far you are to beating the required time for a race. Each opponent car represents the specific 
 time needed to win the bronze, silver, and gold medals for a given race. There's also no car collision 
 in the game, effectively making your opponents ghost cars -- though, you'll also encounter a ghost 
 car version of yourself if you've already raced once on a track. The different types of offline 
 races are broken up into the categories of races, which are the aforementioned time trials: ramps, 
 which are jump-heavy races where your goal is to only use a minimal number of checkpoint resets 
 before you reach the finish line; puzzle races, where you are provided a certain number of road 
 pieces and an environment, and you have to lay out those pieces in a specific way to get from point 
 A to point B in the allotted time; and, crazy races, which are pretty much exactly what they sound 
 like.  

  Each one of these races starts off easily enough, but then becomes increasingly challenging over 
 time. Once you beat a series, a new series will open up, provided you've earned enough gold medals. 
 And therein lies the primary challenge of the offline races. Reaching the goals so you can get 
 a bronze or silver medal is not usually too tough, but getting a gold medal can be nearly impossible 
 in some cases. Make no mistake, this can be quite a tough game when it wants to be, and at times 
 it can become a bit frustrating -- especially in the puzzle races, in which the solutions sometimes 
 initially just don't make any sense at all. But even with that said, the frustrating portions of 
 the game are dwarfed in comparison to the enjoyable portions.  

  There's also TrackMania Sunrise's track editor to play around with offline. Like the original TrackMania, 
 you can create utterly insane courses of your own design using Sunrise's track editor, though now 
 with more options. Trying to list everything you can do with this mode would take us forever, so 
 we'll just sum it up quickly by saying that you can literally spend hours upon hours creating a 
 track in this game, and the amount of variety you can throw into your creation is pretty staggering. 
 Like the previous version, the actual variety of pieces isn't gigantic by itself, but where the 
 variety does come in is more in the way that you can format the pieces to fit your own twisted 
 design. The one fault with the mode is that it isn't the easiest thing in the world to grasp from 
 the get-go, as the menus aren't super user-friendly and there is just so much to sift through. 
 However, once you get the hang of it, you'll have a blast coming up with the wackiest tracks you 
 can think of.  

  The best part is that you can take your tracks online, or you can just download other people's 
 created tracks, if you're so inclined. All you have to do is pause during a race, select "save 
 track," and voila, it's instantly downloaded into your game. If you just want to hop online and 
 get into a few quick races, it's quite easy to do, thanks to the game's simple yet effective server 
 browser. Those who are creating matches can set up basic time trial races, rounds matches, and 
 even team-based races. Despite the fact that nearly everyone we played against was from Europe, 
 we never had a single problem with lag playing online. The online play is just like the offline, 
 in that again, you're racing against ghost cars without collision detection of any kind. But considering 
 that the races are mostly all time based, that's not shocking, nor is it a problem. If you don't 
 feel like playing the game online, Sunrise also features LAN play as well as hot seat multiplayer. 
 The online play is really where it's at, but these other features are suitably enjoyable as well. 

  The biggest problems in the original TrackMania fell squarely with the graphics and sound. In TrackMania 
 Sunrise, these categories are where the game shows the most improvement. Gone are all the muddy 
 textures, overly simplistic car designs, and lackluster lighting schemes of the last game. The 
 tracks look much, much better now, with nicely reflective lighting and textures that, while not 
 overly impressive, are far more pleasant to look at. There are still only three types of cars, 
 but each features multiple available skins, and there's also a customization mode that lets you 
 paint and decal your car to your heart's content. Even better, the visual upgrades have had little 
 effect on the frame rate, though occasionally frames do seem to chug ever so slightly here and 
 there. Sunrise also introduces a more dynamic camera system, one that zooms out or in quite a bit 
 depending on the situation. If you're going through a loop and need a close-up view of the road 
 to make sure you stay on point, the game automatically does it for you. There are occasions when 
 the camera shifts can be a problem, though, rather than a help, but these are infrequent problems 
 at most.  

          Sunrise is a big visual improvement over its predecessor, and it features even more depth 
 in terms of track customization.     

  The audio has improved mainly because the soundtrack has improved. Instead of the oversimplified, 
 looping smattering of generic songs found in last year's game, in Sunrise you get a number of well-produced, 
 licensed songs, though not necessarily from any artists you've ever heard of. Regardless of the 
 lack of name value, the music is a lot more enjoyable and serves as good background ambience to 
 the racing. Apart from that, the sound design features a lot of solid crash effects, tire screeching, 
 engine noises, and what have you. Nothing that stands out too much, but the sound is still good 
 in spite of this fact.  

  TrackMania Sunrise is pretty much exactly what you would want from a sequel to the original TrackMania. 
 Nadeo has simply taken everything that was great about the last game, added a bunch more to it, 
 and then killed off some of what wasn't so great. Like its predecessor, Sunrise isn't going to 
 appeal to diehard driving fans, mainly because this isn't really a game for fans of racing so much 
 as it is for fans of stunt driving and building the most ludicrous stunt tracks imaginable. Sunrise 
 is more toy than racer, and that is in no way a bad thing. Fans of the first TrackMania will love 
 the sequel, and any stunt-driving fans that ignored the first game really ought to give Sunrise 
 a look, as they will find themselves pleasantly surprised by what it has to offer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Zmery
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game is plain great... tracks are awesomely challenging, all 3 cars are fun, there's a lot 
 race mode variety, including a challenging 10-error-max to finnish track mode in which you only 
 can let your car get off track for 10 times till race ends in order to win copper medal on the 
 specific track.. that may sound easy, but when 1.5 miles jumps get in order, insane loops, and 
 other... it gets very fun...
  
  Despite all that revolutionary funny gaming, it just gets repetitive after a while.... so, I'd 
 say it's a great game for those who like to try out new racing experiences and just have a good 
 time, but now for great racing addicts nor gamers who don't like racing games... The first will 
 get disappointed and the second will find some tracks unbeatable and eventually give up...
  
  Overall graphics are good, so is the gameplay... but value isn't that much...
  
  20+ hours 
 of fun, that's about it : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zodix
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those titles that didn't really catch on to be a hit, most than likely because 
 people weren't aware of its existence. That is really quite unfortunate because I'm sure there 
 are some out there who are missing out on a great game. For those who are unaware, TrackMania is 
 a track building game that involves ramps, loops, corkscrews, speed boosts and more. Well its sequel, 
 TrackMania Sunrise, has improved in every possible way while staying amazingly true to its predecessor. 
 The single player campaign works fairly similar to the first. You play through a particular campaign, 
 and receive coppers for each race you beat. Which in turn, allows you to create larger tracks as 
 track parts cost a certain number of coppers. Each challenge within a campaign will consist of 
 three medals you can earn which are bronze, silver and gold. The higher medal you achieve, the 
 more coppers you receive. Don't worry about being restricted in the track editor due to the lack 
 of coppers though, because you'll end up with way more than you'll normally be able to use. As 
 an addition, once you achieved all of a particular medal for each challenge in a campaign, you 
 can go for a cup. You start out by deciding which cup you want to go for whether it be bronze, 
 silver or gold, then you will have to play though each challenge in the according campaign on that 
 difficulty level without losing once. You can imagine that winning a gold cup would be pretty tough 
 -- it is. This adds another way to obtain more coppers. You can select from four different game 
 types each with their own set of campaigns. The first is race, which is basically your standard 
 Beat the clock scenario. Your main focus will be to get from one end of the track to the other 
 within the assigned time limit while racing with three other ghost cars. The second game type is 
 Platform, where you race through some crazy tracks involving huge jumps or stunts, and try to finish 
 in the least amount of checkpoint restarts. Game type number three is Puzzle, in which you are 
 given a certain number of parts where you must place on the map to complete the track and then 
 race on it to beat a certain given time. Finally the game type that's new to the sequel, and my 
 least favorite, Crazy. Upon first examination, it projected an image of a game mode in which you 
 attempt to achieve some crazy trick to reach the finish line. Instead it's a game mode where a 
 huge number of ghost cars split off in every direction and you must cross the finish line without 
 getting confused and wiping out. One thing for those new to the series must understand is that 
 this isn't exactly a game where you directly race against opponents. What I mean to say is that 
 there are no AI opponents so to speak, but rather prerecorded ghosts. Because of this, you can't 
 run them off the road, you just go straight through them. You technically still have to beat the 
 ghosts to receive a gold metal for that track as they finish in the goal time you need to achieve. 
 Basically, it's best to think of it more of a time trial than a race. There has been a decent graphical 
 boost between these two games. Textures have certainly taken a turn for the better as they are 
 more sharp and realistic. The new locations are pleasing to the eye, though there could've been 
 a larger variety of buildings to choose for the level editor than there was. And the ability to 
 play in different times of day shows off a well built lighting engine with realtime rendering shadows, 
 clearly where they got the name Sunrise. There are still only three car models for three of the 
 different courses but they look great. Plus you now can give your car a custom paint job. Overall, 
 there are many significant improvements with the graphics engine to be found. You'll notice that 
 a lot of the physics feels the same. With the new cars you'll find in this game, you can drive 
 at a much higher rate of speed than its predecessor, but when you jump off a ramp or how you slide, 
 it just feels similar. TrackMania Sunrise also retains the weak car crashes from the original. 
 An interesting thing about this particular installment is that the water now effects your car when 
 you drive into it unlike the first where you would just fall through it without a splash. Yes, 
 now if you're flying really fast and hit the water, you'll skip across it. Something about this 
 came off fairly unrealistic. I have mixed thoughts about the multiplayer component here. The plus 
 side is that you can download tracks that other players have made online. The downside however, 
 racing against other players doesn't bring any new gameplay. Whoever finishes the track in the 
 quickest time before the server time limit runs out, wins. But I'll stress that the ability to 
 play and download track creations of other players is a huge plus, guaranteed to tack on many more 
 hours of gameplay. TrackMania Sunrise is truly an amazing game. Though it wasn't perfect, and probably 
 could've used some improvement in the multiplayer area, it remained an excellent experience overall. 
 A game in which anyone can easily create tracks without the need of knowledge in game development 
 makes it incredibly addictive. This game stays unusually true to its predecessor, with improvements 
 in almost every department. Even though it isn't your standard driving game, I urge racing fans 
 to go out and give it a shot, and for those looking for something simple and addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgf01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Trackmania is the most innovative racing game. The well done gameplay allied to an excellent technical 
 quality and great originality of the tracks makes this game very fun and challenging. At least 
 one of these last two things is absolutely necessary in a game and Trackmania Sunrise has these 
 things in huge amount.
  
  Sunrise takes us to coast paradise where sun and sea make wonderful landscapes. Its an invite 
 to fun.
  
  Betting on physics of cars and surfaces, TM is a pure game where each stage can be played with 
 maximum fun along hours.
  
  The game has 120 stages plenty of pure fun. Editor mode comes to increase the challenge, taking 
 you make your own tracks and give your personality to the game. This will keep you playing for 
 hours along many months.
  
  With great presentation and good sounds (pleasant soundtrack and good technical sounds and ambient 
 music) , the weak point of this game is just the need of a good PC to support better graphics quality 
 and quicker loadings.
  
  So, when will we tire of this game? Never. A game that can conciliate such well challenging with 
 fun and at the same time is innovative and original becomes a classic and then becomes immortal.
 
  
  Trackmania is an example to follow. With few resources, its a dream videogame because its innovative 
 and was well thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  TrackMania Sunrise is fun. I would have never played it if it wasn't for the G4 Cinematech commercial 
 of it. The loops, corkscrews, jumps, going 700+ of whatever speed. Platform is really fun, because 
 there really isn't any games that capture really beautiful, scenic tracks, and huge ramps. It's 
 pure fun. Problem is that is not sold at retail stores. This game brings the fun like NFS 3, Burnout 
 3, and Midnight Club 2. This is a must game for people who like cars, and tracks. The add-on download 
 make the game better with the stunt tracks doing a lot of cool flips and aerials. The game is less 
 than 20 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkViper1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  TrackMania Sunrise is one of those very few games which i can say are close to perfect, for me 
 it has been great fun and given me things i have always wanted to do in a racing game, plus more
 
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  Gameplay is plentiful and can be entertaining, Single player campaigns are challenging, sometimes 
 frustrating but track designs and racing on them can be really thrilling and satisfying. Not being 
 able to collide into cars does make Race feel more like Time Attack but it shouldnt make too much 
 of a difference. The track editor is hard to get use to at first but it wont be long before its 
 quick, easy and satisfying and you can bring them online. Okay physics may be ridiculous, but who 
 cares?! NADEO didnt say it was a serious realistic game and while car models are limited you can 
 download plenty on the internet ;)
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  On the highest detail, TrackMania Sunrise is a beautiful looking game, not one of the best looking 
 games but you cant say it is at all ugly. Their does seem to be a bug sometimes which makes things 
 smudgy and blurred but this doesnt happen often and can be resolved.
  
  Sound - 7
  
  Sound is the lowest point of TMS i admit, Car sounds and sound affects are basic, very few music 
 tracks but no sound issues and no real problems at all in general.
  
  Value - 10
  
  This game can last you a long long time! As well as all the single player challenges and track 
 editing there is also the easy to use online play to try out many incredible tracks made from people 
 around the world and compete against other players around the world. On top of that you can download 
 billions of cars, tracks, skins and other mods on various websites easily.
  
  Overall - 9.1
  
  In my opinion, this is a fantastic game and i think the creators deserve much 
 credit for this. If you like arcadey, fast paced, challenging car racing in various enviroments 
 and with track creating. Then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybeo
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  ... unless you want to be frustrated by the poor physics of the coupe (which makes up 30% of the 
 car selection) , the extremely tight requirements for gold medal finishing, and many silly track 
 designs. This game is dragged down by these factors and although the editor is brilliant you can't 
 design an excellent track unless you finish the required races to earn enough coppers (or their 
 units of reward) . To enter the Surfers campaign (before halfway on the list) you must earn a gold 
 for one of the previous campaigns. What a foolish rule. Trying to do so is almost impossible and 
 if you want to focus on designing tracks most of the time, you're preventing from doing so by this 
 rule. 
  
  Only the sports car has physics worth mentioning. It's fun to drive. The SUV is just acceptable. 
 The coupe is ridiculous - slow acceleration, slow stopping, lots of inertia in corners, pathetic 
 cornering, maximum understeer.
  That means that 1/3 of the race car selection is any good!
  
  The tracks for the Race campaigns are, I'm sorry to say, extremely silly. They require you 
 to make millimetre-precise jumps, and turn arounds in the air, etc. This fiddley stuff takes the 
 fun out what we're suppose to be doing, which is ... racing. It feels more like torture to accomplish 
 these things and even restarting the race a 100 billion times doesn't guarantee you'll earn gold. 
 The tracks are too taxing, disjointed, and not centred on making good times. Rather it's a case 
 of... We designed this so you make a fool of yourself. The player isn't King, the developer is, 
 and they've just ruled you out of playing more than half the game.
  
  I've given this game 3 for value. The reason being is because of their gold medal requirements 
 for qualifying, a hefty part of the game is locked and can't be opened by above average drivers. 
 Relative to all my friends, and family my computer driving skills are top, but that doesn't seem 
 enough for unlocking the campaigns in this game. Ok so I'm failing by 0.4 to 0.8 of a second, but 
 I cannot find that extra bit to proceed. Above average drivers must be going mad. Who knows what 
 average and poor drivers are doing. Anyway if you are not a super-elite driver, don't even consider 
 buying this game as most of the game wil remain locked for... forever.
  
  The gameplay I've given a 1. Building tracks - perfect 10/10. Playing your own tracks 10/10. Painting 
 up your own car 10/10. So why the ultra-low score?
  1. Lack of cars. 
  2. The very bad physics of the cars. 
  3. ... and the main game isn't fun, not at all. 
  4. 
 The online feature isn't thought out too well either, so these pull down what's good about the 
 game as a whole.
  
  The sound I've given a 4. The sound loops are too short and repititve and quickly irritate. The 
 ambient sounds should be randomly layered, ie. bird call, wind, waves should occur at different 
 stages, and there should be a greater number of ambient noises. Instead there's one loop per setting 
 and you notice this in the editor. The cars don't sound tough. The engine noises are very arcade-like 
 and are below what NFS provides. I like the variety in the car clunks when they land, but think 
 this can be expanded even further.
  
  Track options - there should be an option to change the sides of tracks. Some of the railings aren't 
 very friendly and one can become stuck in the scenery or between barriers. A lot more thought can 
 be put into improving this.
  
  Overall, I think this game is in its infancy, a work under development. There is a great deal of 
 potential, but the developers must implement ways of opening up the game and not keeping it locked. 
 I'm disappointed that there are no saved games available online and no cheats except for unlocking 
 the tracks into challenge mode. I believe its the developers duty to have cheats in the game to 
 help those who aren't gifted, otherwise they are only selling 15% of the game to players. The full 
 100% should be available through a variety of ways and not just by a display of super-human skill.
 
  
  If the above was made available then I would consider a higher score, but this is bad planning 
 on Nadeo's part and I'm hoping they will remedy this in the short term.
  
  End comment - Very good packaging and presentation. I enjoyed the intro movie and think the millions 
 of cars in the end was a nice touch. Look forward to seeing more zanyness in future releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelumux
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect. Most sequel games are a load of cr*p but this one isn't. It is unique. It 
 gives you the greatest stunt/racing game ever. 
  The graphics are great, for example, when you are driving into the sun you will see what I mean. 
 The clouds and the buildings are created beautifully. This game offers you three cars: 1 a very 
 fast car, 2 an off road car and 3 a country car. They all have got tracks that match the cars. 
 Anyway, a very good buy. 
  It may look very unrealistic, but you will get addicted to it in under 10 minutes. 
  
  Pros: 
 Stable, graphics, value, varietey, sound, fast feeling when driving, the jumps!
  
  Cons: Nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splitmetaphor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you don't like arcade racers, don't get this game. The controls only consist of Gas, 
 Brake, Turning, and a reset button. The physics are hardly realistic. But oh-my-god is it addicting.
 
  
  Trackmania's main draw is it's amazingly deep track editor, with which you can make any visions 
 you have come to life, and the puzzle mode, which involves using a set amount of pieces to build 
 the shortest track possible from a set start to a set finish, through some set checkpoints.
  
  Those modes are amazingly executed, but lets go through the other departments.
  
  GRAPHICS:
 
  On a whole, Trackmania looks nice. You'll notice some pop-up in the distant enviornments here 
 and there, and you need a fairly strong PC to run it, but it has a nice, crisp graphical look to 
 it, and looks quite handsome in it's own right.
  
  SOUND:
  No recognizable music here, but it's all quite upbeat and well written, and fits the game very 
 well. Engine noises sound great, and all the sound effects in general are well done.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Ohhhh boy. Here we go. If a game like F-Zero GX made you frustrated, don't get this 
 game. This game isn't necissarily as hard as F-Zero, but boy oh boy this game doesn't have hardly 
 any difficulty curve to begin with. The very first race in the game is very challenging, and if 
 you're new to Trackmania, will probably take a few attempts. From there on out, all missions in 
 all modes will probably take you 4-8 attempts if you're going for silver, more than twice that 
 if you're going for a gold.
  
  But this game is genuinly addicting too. While it is frustrating, it feels very rewarding when 
 you pass a race.
  
  This is all hampered by some bad track design though, unfortunately. Some tracks are frustrating, 
 while some tracks cross the line to simply annoying in bad design choices. Whose idea was it to 
 place a billboard right over a jump that is proceeded by some turbo boosts? It forces you to have 
 to brake wildly through the turbos and slowly drive over the bump, rendering the whole thing useless.
 
  
  That's only a hypothetical case though, since I can't remember any specific examples - I can't 
 take notes while I'm glued to my screen.
  
  VALUE:
  This game's value is through the roof. With the included track editor and tons of sites with custom 
 tracks and vehicles, you could play this game for years, stopping occasionaly to download a few 
 more tracks and cars.
  
  So if you at all enjoy designing tracks or Arcade Racers, by all means BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I played TrackMania for over one year, and I still do sometimes. It is one of my favourite games 
 of all time. So no wonder my expectations were extremely high for this game. But the game wasn't 
 as good as I hoped, while still good...
  
  First of all, the game is basically same as TrackMania, but with different environments, a more 
 serious look, and less intuitive editors (that was moved to TM too, unluckily) . And unluckily, 
 that is not enough for making me play this instead of the prequel...
  
  As for graphics, the game is fine: cool shaders, nice effects and textures, correct shadows, outstanding 
 water. Works fine on slower PCs too, even if you miss a lot without having the water maxed out.
 
  
  As for the sounds, the game improved: now more professional musics are in, even if everything else 
 is basically the same as TrackMania. Not that is a bad thing at all, really.
  
  As for gameplay, it is like TrackMania: simple, fun, addictive. Though, the editors are not as 
 good as before, and after TM it gets boring fast.
  
  As for value, well, it's absolutely worth the 20$-30$ that it's sold at. If you played lots of 
 TrackMania though, I suggest you to think again about buying: maybe you want to find a new game: 
 and Sunrise isn't it for sure. Otherwise, get this game without even thinking: or else you'd miss 
 a total masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Hello.
  
  TrackMania Surnise.
  
  Its a Great game you wont regret buying this one.
  Its arcade all the way but its got awesome graphics stunts and crazy wacky thing in it.
  
  
 It should get an award for best arcade game made so far.
  
  Its awesome choose from alot of differnt cars.
  
  TRUST ME IF YOUR INTO ARCADE GAMES THIS IS 
 THE 1 AND ONLY GAME FOR YOU.
  
  GET THE DEMO EVEN THOUGH THE DEMO IS GOOD ITS NOTHING COMPARED TO THE ACTUAL GAME.
  
  Download 
 Campaigns online that people made awesome game.
  
  BUY BUY BUY THIS GAME IS AWESOME!!!!.
  
  I would rate it a A++++++++++++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuron_V
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the pure embodiment of all the classic arcade racing games.
  In complete contrast to racers like Gran Turismo the Trackmania series are pure arcade fun you 
 can pick it up for the spare five minutes before you go to work, also possibley the only racing 
 game where your four arrow keys are all you need, although this doesn't mean there is no depth
 
  
  The game itself is broken down into several different modes, no suprise there then, oh i forgot 
 to mension one of them is a puzzle mode! All of Trackmania's tracks are made on a grid style map 
 so in puzzle mode your objective is to get from the start point to finish however its never as 
 simple as placing a straight line between the two, you'll often find yourself flinging your car 
 over insane gaps to shave seconds off your time. There are also three basic types of car (which 
 can be completely custom painted in the in game paintshop) and there matching terrain. Being block 
 based tracks you can also create your own in the built in editor and then take them online to share 
 with the world, which takes seconds as the tracks are only a few Kbs in size.
  Nadeo who are the developers are the sort of company who i love, its all about creating great games 
 and they even released at free expansion pack to add even more content to the game.
  
  Graphicly the game is superb considering its a custom engine for a relitively unknown game, its 
 sharp, shiny and gives a great sense of speed. The only real fault in the graphics that i have 
 noticed is that there is a defined edge between the cars and the road (not that you'll spend much 
 time on the road) .
  
  You won't have heard any of the soundtracks before but they are seriously catchy once they get 
 going. All the road noises are there so theres nothing to really fault. 
  
  By now this will be in your local bargain bin, if you see it grab it and don't look back, you won't 
 be disapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievable, I wish I can just advertise this game around the world because this game is down 
 right awesome. Despite that the cars go through each other and that there is not a lot of variety 
 of the cars. The only thing that makes the game so awesome is the extremely insane tracks and beating 
 those tracks at your best to get gold. There are 4 types of modes, there is racing, platform, puzzles 
 and crazy. The racing mode is you know racing other cars, platform is making insane jumps and trying 
 not to crash at all, and puzzle is to build a track that can get you to the finsh line as fast 
 as you can. And crazy mode just has the most insane tracks ever created. Not only you can play 
 the game's tracks but you can also make your own tracks. Although there is a few people that play 
 this game online and online can be entertaining. But this game is really underapperciated. I hate 
 when there is such a great game out there that people don't even know about. There is a demo you 
 can download, and if it's satisfying to you then buy it. It won't disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cricketboy2238
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  My game collection is, admittedly, mostly shooters. I don't know if it's in my blood or not, but 
 every major shooter release gets the blood flowing and I kick it into high gear. My favorite games, 
 which include FarCry and Half-Life 2, have single handedly dictated my computer hardware upgrades. 
 I was never expecting such an innocent, unsuspecting title like TrackMania Sunrise to sweep me 
 off my feet and remind me just why I play video games.
  
  Sure, big-budget and high-profile releases are great, but sometimes it just feels like everything 
 has gone too far. Innovation is good, but sometimes it's nice to have a game off to the side that 
 almost makes you feel like a kid again. TrackMania Sunrise is an arcade game if I've ever seen 
 one. It has the frenetic, fast pace that shooting fans like myself crave, while having the simplicity 
 and elegance of a high-profile racing game, with the arcade elements that make it so unique. I 
 haven't seen an arcade racer stick so true to the genre and come out so right in many, many years. 
 There is no flashy AI, engrossing storyline, or particular point to this game other than to simply 
 have fun, which is what video games are all about.
  
  It's surprising how minute of an amount of penetration Sunrise has in the United States. French 
 developer Nadeo has turned out a true gem, one that I don't think should be missed by any long 
 time gamer, or new gamers alike. And for the retail price of $30? Sunrise is better than a lot 
 of major title releases, and costs much less. What more could you ask for?
  
  Now, on to the game. Creating tracks is a breeze, and is loads of fun. You can spend hours upon 
 hours making tracks and creating all sorts of crazy jumps and puzzles. Your tracks can be shared 
 online, and there's already an extreme wealth of puzzles online as it is. Multiplayer is quick, 
 addicting, and engaging. It's particularly unique for a racer because you don't actually race. 
 You have an allotted amount of time to do the same circuit as many times as you like, aiming for 
 a lower time each run. The person with the lowest run at the end of the match wins. There are other 
 game modes, but this is definitely the one I have, and will spend the most time on.
  
  Surprisingly, GameSpot's official review gives a rather poor graphics score, which really surprises 
 me. Back when I purchased Sunrise in June, it had some of the best graphics out there, or so I 
 thought. The water effects are great, the cars look awesome, and the foliage can sometimes look 
 fake, but can also look extremely good. With full screen motion blur (Which mind you, brought my 
 GeForce 6800 GT to its knees) , it shows something rarely seen. I've noticed that basically all 
 of the good looking Xbox 360 titles use motion blur to add a little extra quality to the game. 
 This game has that, and came out over 7 months ago. The video engine is rather flexible for this 
 being relatively dated. Only recently have widescreen monitors become more common, but this has 
 supported widescreen from day one. I can't tell if it's true widescreen, but it looks extremely 
 good on my widescreen monitor. For those of you gaming on high-definition televisions, widescreen 
 is a must. I have yet to play the game on a large HDTV, but playing on just my 20.1" LCD is awe 
 inspiring enough.
  
  The audio is rather standard, but it's really hard for any game, particularly a racing game, to 
 go above and beyond. It fits the gold standard of supporting EAX, and I had 5.1 channels pumping 
 through my Sound Blaster Audigy 2. The audio configuration setting allows up to 7.1.
  
  One thing you should have before you consider playing is a controller/gamepad with ANALOG control 
 sticks. It's frustrating to play this game with the directional pad. Playing with a D-Pad on a 
 controller is the same story as playing with the directional keyboard buttons. This game is truly 
 designed for an analog controller. You need a wide range of control, and that's what an analog 
 stick offers. I can barely stomach playing using the directional buttons. I play with a Logitech 
 Dual-Action Gamepad. My model has a few calibration problems with the left stick which posed a 
 problem at first, but in the game options you can increase the dead zone, which fixed my problem 
 quite effectively.
  
  This game is bargain bin gold, and nothing less. Nadeo has really cooked themselves up a whopper, 
 even if sales don't reflect it. I highly recommend this game to anyone. It's an enjoying, and rewarding 
 experience, and the multiplayer is practically endless. With it's fast pace and crazy track design, 
 this game is something even the hardened shooter veteran can enjoy. It's nice to take a break from 
 all of the major genres and remember what it was like to be a kid, popping quarter after quarter 
 into the Pizza Hut arcade machines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  Trackmania: Sunrise is one of the best racing games on the market: and it is an extremely long 
 game. It isn't one of those dinky racing games that you would get just because it looks cool, this 
 one looks cool and... IS cool. The gameplay is awesome with the gravity - defying stunts, and the 
 best feature is that you get to design your own track with the track editor. Want to know if you're 
 on track to beat you last time? There is a "ghost" car next to you that is you from your best time. 
 Keep ahead of that and you're golden. And the cool thing is - every car is a "ghost" car. No car 
 can ram you into a wall or anything; you just go right through each other. Now you would say that's 
 unrealistic? Look at the gameplay and reconsider your answer. I recommend this game for anyone 
 looking for a good racing/ car game or just for a cool game - 9.0/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielepeca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  This game is simply too amazing to be described in a few words. The experience of speed, the incredible 
 stunts, the majestic landscapes are something you have to eperience for yourself. Here it goes, 
 anyway.
  There are three environments in the game, island, coast and bay. The first one is the most instantly 
 rewarding, with incredibly fast cars that handle better than a dream. Here everything is about 
 impossible (literally) speed, jumps, stunts, amazingly complicated tracks, colorful techno-festive 
 scenarios. The challenge is to make it fast, of course, or to actually make it using the least 
 possible number of respawns (that's called platform, for a reason) . Bay is a slightly different 
 scenario, with SUV-style cars pretty difficult to control and more technical tracks. Island is 
 a wonderful mediterranean-style environment in which you got a sporster car, supposedly more realistic 
 driving and anyway completely different handling from the other two, the most technical, for sure. 
 
  TMS is very easy to learn but takes time to master, I guess. There is a huge number of challenges, 
 organized in campaigns, and for each one you receive a rating bronze/silver/gold. Bronze is normally 
 extremely easy to achieve (I normally get it the first time and my driving sucks) . Silver takes 
 some time but it's still doable. Gold is really hard, as it 's supposed to be. 
  Replay value is very high, due to the number of official and community campaigns, not to mention 
 the ones you can cook up yourself.
  There is an important part of the game, the editing of tracks, campaigns and cars that can also 
 keep you busy for the longest time, and a community that's very much alive to exchange TMS stuff.
 
  If you are into racing games, play this game. If you're not, play it all the same. You'll have 
 fun !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7e5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game is so great and is a very good game from digital jesters. Sunrise creates a whole new 
 graphics capability and the multiplayer is immense. I am no good at creating the maps but with 
 the right skill and help from people you can cerate awesome maps, with the help of the tm-community 
 you will fit in straight away!
  
  With the Extreme package that has already come out thanks to 400 people signing up to the official 
 forum, you can download extreme from here: http://www. noos. fr/animation/focus/trackmania/TmsExtreme_FromSunrise_Setup. exe
 
  although i must warn you have to have Trackmania Sunrise to play.
  Watch out for the ultra fast red boosters (0-800mph in a second is UNBELIEVABLE!) . Well i can rally 
 on for much more but i shall let you buy this game and enjoy the awesomeness of it, let it suck 
 you in!
  
  im also known as 7e4 in this game so i would be happy to meet anyone online who bought and thoroughly 
 enjoyed this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opticon12000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:00 am PT
Review:  I dont need to write too much for this, it is just a rele good game with exelent multiplayer capabillitys. 
 I recommed this to any racing fans. The gameplay does grow on you when you start creating tracks 
 and adding your own unique style to things. There is also a fair bit to download for it and wit 
 hthe new extreeme pack comming out for it soon (for free) it will rock evern more. So go buy it 
 and il see you online! :D Read more about this game in the gamespot trackmania section to just 
 make sure that your gonna love this game.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calkaimainer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  An Average Racing Game: Race Around a Speed way umpteenth times and try to come first.
  This Racing Game: Point to Point in the fastest time possible while doing outrageous stunts, Try 
 to get around a track without having to restart at a checkpoint and more.
  Now that doesn't even half describe the game, well, maybe 3/4 of the game, but not all of it.
 
  
  There's the point to point race with no other cars, except a ghost time for whatever medal is next, 
 so for the first time you play that level, you'll be racing a ghost Bronze Medal car, well actually, 
 you''ll be racing about 7 or so, maybe 5, and the top three are usually the medal cars.
  
  You can paint your car with heaps of Stickers and Paints. And the grandaddy of all this, a Track 
 Editor, not to mention the various other modes I haven't described yet.
  
  So help and promote is very Under-Rated game, by buying it, and recommending it to your friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  The original TrackMania barely made it across the Atlantic ocean with its release only last year. 
 Growing by leaps and bounds from its predecessor, TrackMania Sunrise is the next big thing in arcade 
 racing. Hell, its the next big thing in all of racing. All you hillbillies come back from Daytona... 
 oh, I forgot. Hillbillies dont have computers, do they?
  TrackMania Sunrise may not give you the feeling of driving along the coast down Highway 1 in your 
 2005 Mustang convertible, but youll get the feeling that youre speeding at insane speeds through 
 tunnels, over bridges and across insane jumps that only someone with a skaters brains might attempt 
 in real life.
  Not only is TrackMania Sunrise an incredible arcade racing experience, its an easy feat to grasp 
 the in-game level editor and spurt out a few **** maps of your own. Like big jumps? No problem. 
 Like fast cars? Duh. You can make anything from simple loops to insane stunt courses, all with 
 the press of a few buttons.
  Your adrenaline keeps pumping as you dodge in and out, up and down, beating the other racers by 
 a hairs width past each checkpoint. It feels even better when you make your own map and beat your 
 friends by a couple minutes each time through!
  If you havent heard of TrackMania yet, put down your PS2 controller, come out of the Stone Age, 
 and come into the light of the Sunrise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfspeedr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  The first time i played trackmania was 4 years ago maybe. I played the first trackmania demo and 
 i loved it, i used to play it very times, really, very very times, it was viciant... 2 years later 
 i found that they would make a new trackmania (trackmania sunrise) so, i got the demo, i registed 
 into many fan sites, oh, i went crazy with that game. I hope they make a new trackmania cuz, this 
 one is awsome. I have no words for it... Its like... love at the first time :D lol
  Its a good game for those ppl who love speed, adrenaline, acrobatic cars, crashes and things like 
 that :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colt527
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Over View:
  TrackMania Sunrise is a beautiful game, both in the sence of graphics and gameplay. Sunrise's truely 
 innovative game play really shows the essance of what makes video games fun. Video games have a 
 great appeal because they let you do things that are impossible or something you just wouldnt do 
 in real life (like drive a super car 400mph and jump it off half-pipes) . Sunrise captures this 
 appeal with a truely original concept (expanded apon the original) and responsive gameplay.
  
  Sunrise can be classified as an arcade racer. It's certainly not a simulation game (You will 
 not find any GT4 in here) . When it tries to, it does a very good job at this. The controls on the 
 supercar and the 4x4 are ultra responsive and easy enough to pick up. There is a science to the 
 racing though, it will take a long time and a fair amount of skill to get good at this game. There 
 are certain turn strategies, such as for the supercar, you need to skid through your turns keeping 
 to the outside as much as possible. The races can offer a fair degree of challenge on the silver 
 (pilot) setting and you will not find yourself breasing through the competition. The platform games 
 are a great addition and really a lot of fun.
  
  The gameplay is not flawless and you will find a few querks here and there that are at times extremely 
 frustrating. My biggest complaint is the fact that the coast cars are EXTREMLY unresponsive. This 
 is Sunrise's attempt at pleasing the simulation cround, and it really does not fit the rest of 
 the games atmosphere. I am a big fan of GT4 and pretty decent at it and I was having a hard time 
 with the tracks. The problem might be that I'm using the keyboard to control the car, and when 
 you break, you instantly lock up the tires making any attempt at turning useless. The best way 
 to take a turn, is to let off the gas, and roll through the turn trying as hard as possible not 
 to loose traction.
  
  The 4x4 has its flaws, where it is extremly bouncy and VERY easy to flip (let that be a warning 
 to you SUV drivers) . If you do not land a jump on all 4 tires be prepared for a rough time, trying 
 to readjust. The street lights and the other scenery on the side of the road will also give u some 
 frustration. Its hard enough trying to land on a narrow road after jumping 400 yards, but having 
 streetlights on the side that protrude into the road offer some extreme frustration when you think 
 you finnally landed the jump and hit a steet light and flip. These flaws are minor in the entire 
 scope of the game though, and you will find a great sence of accomplishment when you conquer a 
 track.
  
  The graphics are stunning, with a decently powerful video card it seems to be the best car graphics 
 ive ever seen in a PC racing game. All the reflections are there, the shadows, dynamic lighting 
 with the headlights, motion blur, and other post proccess effects (including something that resembles 
 HDR) and the water looks amazing. Everything is rendered with a stunning level of detail that will 
 leave you in awe as you fly through the air or watch the replay.
  
  The multiplayer and community option adds almost infinite replay value for this game. With the 
 easy to use track editor and the quick DL times of multiplayer maps, there seem to be an endless 
 amount of tracks to play. Granted it is hard to find a server in the US, playing across a ocean 
 is no problem. The game does not rely on the accurate modeling of where the other cars are (because 
 you dont collide with them) , and its more about the time it takes you to complete a track. It can 
 best be summarized as multiplayer timetrial, which is a lot more fun than it sounds.
  
  Overall, this is a great game, and should not be overlooked. Its at a great price point (I got 
 it at $20) and have already played it more than the $20 dollars spent on DoD: Source. Be sure to 
 pick this one up, the next time you are in a store.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnhancedVGA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 29, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  No Game has ever allowed so much freedom, while boasting good graphics [the water effects are brilliant] , 
 and THE highest replay value of any game I have ever played. Sunrise is namely a racing game, but 
 the main focus on the game is creating tracks. At least, for me it is. You race on the games championships 
 and various cups to earn coppers, which are then used as currency to create tracks. Track creating 
 is definetly where this game shines, and it shines bright. The editor is fairly straight forward, 
 but a tad tricky upon first use, but amazingly powerful. However, as time wears on, and you familiarize 
 yourself, you can actually get quite efficient. As a tip, keyboard shortcuts are the order of the 
 day, as using the mouse to continuously click the rotate piece button, or zoom in. The game uses 
 a seemingly simple block system, where all of the pieces us up a block, or two, or three. By placing 
 the blocks at various heights and position, they will actually conform to each other to create 
 smooth tracks, with the aid of a "clip" system. Each block type uses its own unique clip. Example: 
 all road pieces in the "Island" environment use large black clips, and the big concrete quarter 
 pipes and vertical ramp pieces that can be used to make killer loops and stunts, have a blue clip. 
 Adapters are used connect multiple types of track pieces across different terrains.
  On the actual "driving" front, the three environments all have a unique vehicle. The Island and 
 Bay cars are sporty and fast, highly manoeuvrable, and able to do some pretty crazy things. However, 
 the Coast car stands out. It is slower, and turns comparatively bad. However, it is intended to 
 be a more realistic and challenging experience. After a while, it actually gets fun to drive, and 
 it has some really cool track pieces that seem totally whacked at first, but upon further inspection, 
 it becomes apparent that this wonderfully complex system is the result of an amazing amount of 
 hard work and coordination on the developers part. That hard work and dedication is seen many more 
 places within the game aside the track editor. So much of this games mechanics seem as though 
 it would have been a developers nightmare to tweak and perfect. A few prime examples are the skin 
 painter, and Media Tracker.
  Media Tracker: The Media tracker is a tool integrated into the track editor that allows in game 
 effects like custom camera angles for certain jumps, or text to appear on the screen that might 
 give hints to the track, or comments to the driver, or even sound effects!
  Skin Painter: The skin painter is used to apply decals and paint to any car at whim. It is highly 
 versatile and really sweet. Also, the skin painter can paint custom or imported meshes for any 
 shape or design of car you want.
  As far as the single player chalenges go, they are quite easy at first, but get hard, fast. Although 
 fun, they can be unforgivingly hard, and I have yet to complete all the races, and I have owned 
 the game for three months as of the review.
  Multi-player wise, eight guys can race online and over a local network. However, being burdened 
 with dial-up, I havent been privileged with trying it. Dial-up however, does not stop online track 
 sharing. The official track site makes it easy and very fast to download tons of cool tracks. The 
 amazing size and complexity of the tracks is quite contrasted to their file size, which averages 
 between 8-12kb. Yes that says 8 (eight) -12 (twelve) Kilobytes. Kilobytes, not megabytes folks. That 
 means that with a ~3.5kbps transfer rate that I have, its done in 2-3 seconds. My guess is that 
 the block system is the secret to the small files.
  I must, however, address one issue. Compatibility. The minimum system requirements are a joke. 
 Pentium 3 (or the like) 500Mhz, 128mb Ram, 16Mb video card are the "minimum". Not a chance. Ony 
 my Amd Athlon Xp 2.14Ghz with 512 Mb Ram, and a 256Mb Geforce 5700Le video card, it runs at medium 
 graphics with the occasional frame drop. My machine cant even touch the High graphic setting, or 
 the Very high setting. As far as this game goes, I recomend at least twice the minimum requirement.
 
  All in all, TM Sunrise is an amazing piece of work. Nadeo gets a thumbs up for their meticulous 
 work. Wether you are into racing or not, as long as you like a challenge, this game is for you. 
 I personally have spent innumerable hours designing tracks. Good graphics, okay sound, and a super 
 high replay value combined with infinite creativity make this game worthy of any gamer. Only one 
 issue: Wheres the Xbox version? Xbox live and split screen multiplayer would be rad. :-) 9.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2005 10:44 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me describe to you my experience with racing games (although I wouldn't clasify 
 this as a racing game, more of a stunt game) : I don't like them. I've played Gran Turismo 2, 3, 
 Midnight Club 2, NFSU, and I haven't enjoyed any of them. And yet, TrackMania is possibly the most 
 fun I've had with a game in recent years.
  
  Gameplay: TrackMania's genius is not in its complexity, it is not in hours spent adjusting every 
 part of your vehicle, it is about pick up and play gaming. This is not to say there is no customization 
 involved, after all, there are 3 vehicles in the game, each of which can be colored, covered with 
 decals, and customized with words, for as much detail as your heart desires.
  
  Trackmania utilizes a total of 6 keys on your computer: the directional buttons, the Enter or "Return" 
 key (takes you back to the most recent checkpoints) , and the "Delete" key, which restarts the race 
 or platform. It is because of this control layout that the game is so easy to get into. Right from 
 the start, one can simply start the game, and begin to get used to the insane stunts that await 
 them. 
  
  Trackmania features a total of 3 different cars, each suited for the environs that they race in. 
 One is a speedster, it looks a lot like a ferrari, and its handling is incredibly smooth. This 
 car is used for courses all about insane speed and long jumps. Then there's the SUV, which is fairly 
 easy to roll over (so you don't have to restart) , has good turning, but swings about like a bucking 
 bronto. FInally, there is a roadster type car, which I really have nothing good to say about it, 
 it skids insanely, and often is so frustrating you want to scream insults out loud at it for being 
 so worthless. 
  
  Then there are the actual courses. There are 4 different types: Race, Platform, Puzzle, and Crazy. 
 Races are self explanatory- they are races. A few of these do feature insane stunts, my favorite 
 one being "Antigrav", which I shant spoil for you, but let the name of that course just sink in. 
 Platforms are my favorite type of course- they involve using whatever vehicle they provide to jump, 
 slide, loop the loop, corkscrew, and fall all over the place to complete the course. I don't even 
 know how to accurately describe everything you do in a platform course, some involve jumping from 
 platform to platform, others involve you leaping massive distances, others involve you looping 
 around and around, and some involve everything. These are incredibly, insanely fun, but often insanely 
 difficult. It is often you will find yourself hurling curses at the computer screen, and wanting 
 to open your disc drive to snap the CD in half. Some of the courses are so sadistic it will take 
 you hours to get past them, but it is all so much fun, it's so addicting you can't stop. Then there 
 are puzzle courses, which give you a limited number of track pieces, with which you must build 
 a course to get to the finish line in the correct tim. Finally "Crazy" courses are, well crazy. 
 You race against 16 other cars to the finish line, trying to beat a certain number to get a medal.
 
  
  As if that is not enough, you can also play online, or design your own courses from hundreds and 
 hundreds of pieces. The sheer amount of playability will keep you going for hours and hours.
  
  Finally a last word about the gameplay: there is no car damage, and the cars you race against 
 are ghost cars, you pass through them. While some might see this as a detriment, it truly makes 
 it more fair. If there was car damage, the platform courses would be impossible, and if the other 
 cars could hit you, you would careen all over the course so much it would be unfair.
  
  Graphics: Graphically Trackmania is really impressive for a lower budget game, the sky is always 
 breathtaking, and the feeling you get from a long jump is awesome. Adrenaline rush is always occuring, 
 and the speeds you can reach give you nice blurring after a while.
  
  Sound: The music ranges from good to horrid, and the vehicle sounds are unimpressive, but there 
 is a satisfying crunch if you crash, even if there is no damage.
  
  Value: Well, tons of courses, you can build your own, play for hundreds of hours. There ya go.
 
  
  Tilt: Simply put, TrackMania is the most fun game I've found that involves automobiles in any way. 
 The stunts are awesome, the races are fast, and the feel is incredible. A superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neiltc13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Trackmania Sunrise is at heart an arcade racer, and it is clear that the developers worked hard 
 to keep the game within the bounds that this genre will allow. There's very little simulation here 
 - crazy jumps and loops you just won't find in other racers. Oversteer is somethng you'll get used 
 to in this game, but that isn't a bad thing. The cars in here handle how any 'toy racer' should, 
 and this is complimented by the huge variety of tracks available.
  
  While all of the tracks in the game are set across just a few settings (such as a tropical paradise) , 
 the variety offered by each is unsurpassed. All seem to be made by the level designers using the 
 same track building tool as is available in every copy of the game. This means that each maintains 
 a 'home made' feeling to it, and this also means that the settings become familiar.
  
  A clear strength of the game is the level of customisation it offers. Alongside the map editor 
 (which for most users may be too complex) there is a detailed car customisation option. It's the 
 only option like this I have ever come across on PC, and compared to the fiddly nature of those 
 in games like Forza Motorsport on Xbox, it is the best I have ever used. It's quite easy to get 
 exactly the look you want for your car, and after five minutes using the editor all functions will 
 be second nature.
  
  Trackmania comes into its own when taken online. After a brief signup, a wealth of multiplayer 
 games are available to jump right into. Perhaps the best feature is the custom tracks - all of 
 the hosts are able to use their own tracks they've made or those downloaded from other players. 
 Of course, clients connecting have the map automatically download so they can play, and this doesn't 
 affect the load times. The online play is very fluid, and the racing gametypes are well suited 
 to the multiplayer.
  
  However, the grass isn't always so green online - there are a couple of very irritating problems 
 which may put players off before they can even join a game. The server browser is undoubtedly unique, 
 but in a bad way. The game categorises all games by the country they are hosted in, and then subcategorises 
 them by the nearest "big city" to the host. When browsing countries or cities, there is no indication 
 of how many players there are in each game, so finding a suitable matchup can often be difficult. 
 A simple list server view (as is common to multiplayer shooters like UT2004 and Counter-Strike) 
 would make the online experience much more enjoyable.
  
  Once a suitable game is found, there is also a serious lag problem with the gameplay. It often 
 feels like players in the game are not competing directly against each other, as the gametypes 
 are more rally like than competitions. While all cars are shown on the track, collisions are not 
 included and the sole aim is to complete the track using the least number of respawns or in the 
 lowest possible time.
  
  If you're able to discount the awkward server browser and lag issues playing online, Trackmania 
 is a solid racer which offers a lot to fans of the genre. Given the new bargain pricepoint offered 
 by many retailers (I picked my copy up for just 7.99) , Trackmania Sunrise is a must-have for anyone's 
 collection. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
