-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TrackMania United
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/trackmaniaunited/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addictive racing and platform modes of play.
 Amazing online support with loads of opponents and hundreds of tracks to download.
 Sharp visuals and fast frame rates.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Puzzle mode is dull and out of place.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 816 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ascaron Entertainment GmbH
Developer: Nadeo
Genre: Racing
Date:     Nov 17, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Speedy craziness and a great online community make TrackMania United a blast. 

  Slot car fantasies come to life in TrackMania United, the latest addition to the zaniest, most 
 addictive arcade racing franchise to ever hit the PC. French developer Nadeo may stick a little 
 too close to the original TrackMania and its sequel TrackMania Sunrise, but the concepts introduced 
 in those games have been refined to near-perfection here. Dozens of insanely catchy tracks, fantastic 
 online support, and a few new gameplay hooks will have you craving the next race the second you 
 finish the last one.  

  If you decide to download this game from Steam (the only place it's available in the US) , be aware 
 that this a racing-game throwback -- not the usual hardcore sim with a capital "S" that you tend 
 to get on the PC. Ripping around and having a blast is the point here, not running telemetry until 
 you can blow the doors off everyone at Daytona. Vehicle types here come with loose physics and 
 a slidey feel more fitting of toy cars than of real hunks of metal and plastic. Cars even bounce 
 when they fall from great heights, whether they hit pavement or water when they come down. Tracks 
 are even more fantastic, typically featuring insane jumps, hoops hovering in midair, snowboard-style 
 half-pipes, precipices high above desert canyons, and tropical-island highways that come to abrupt 
 dead ends. And if you can think of a design even nuttier, you can make it yourself with the powerful, 
 easy-to-use track editor.  

            Up, up, and away.      

  All of this speedy craziness is experienced in three modes of play. Race is the most down-to-earth 
 option. Like in Sunrise, you run time trials alone or against gold, silver, and bronze pace cars. 
 However, opponents are just ghost cars to push you to better times, as you can't collide with them. 
 Races take place in seven different track categories that unlock as you collect a requisite number 
 of gold and silver finishes. Categories offer different scenery and racing styles. Stadium, for 
 example, sees you guiding formula one-style cars around racetracks in concrete domes, while Desert 
 features trucks on dirt roads. Rally boasts rally cars on grass in windmill-laden pastoral Europe, 
 and Snow takes you to the mountains on ATVs.  

  Repetition is a bit of an issue when racing, despite the dozens and dozens of tracks included in 
 the game. Each map type repeats the same scenic elements, only varying the time of day and adding 
 glitz like red sunsets and neon nights. Still, you don't spend enough time on any one track to 
 get bored. Tracks range from 10-second drags in the opening stages to slightly more winding treks 
 that take a minute or two to complete. Also, the challenge is strong enough that you can find yourself 
 running a race a couple-dozen times in a row to try to catch the perfect performance of the gold 
 car. Just the slightest mistake puts you in second place, so don't underestimate the toughness 
 of what looks to be a shiny, happy arcade game.  

  Racing can also be taken online. TrackMania United boasts an awesome online community in both Europe 
 and North America, which lets you hook up with a race day or night. Lag is a slight problem at 
 times, although typically only when loading and starting races. Once you get going, everything 
 smoothes out. Nadeo keeps online leaderboards for different tracks, and also allows you to check 
 your times against others by running official races in the solo mode. So if the basic gameplay 
 doesn't keep you playing, trying to hit the top of the charts likely will. There seem to be thousands 
 of different tracks available over the Net as well, testimony to the game's European fan base and 
 the usability of the editor. These tracks can be downloaded and installed on the fly, although 
 you need to purchase them in solo gaming with coppers earned from activities like posting good 
 official race times.  

  But while races and the challenge of besting online times will hook you, platform mode will keep 
 you coming back for more. This fiendishly addictive game (a revamped take on Sunrise's ramps tracks) 
 challenges you to simply make it from start to finish without hitting a checkpoint restart too 
 many times, but that's easier said than done when you have to deal with jumps that don't line up, 
 holes that drop you into watery graves, tunnels that whip you around like a pinball, and outrageous 
 one-after-the-other leaps to floating platforms suspended in midair. These tracks beautifully balance 
 learning with driving skill. Even after you've run through a track a few times and memorized its 
 pitfalls, funky driving is still required in order to stay on the road. This means a lot of trial 
 and error... along with a lot of laughing as you continuously miss turns and cinematically sail 
 off ramps to plummet hundreds of feet into the drink in front of gorgeous sunsets. Swearing alternates 
 with the laughter, though, as getting a gold medal requires perfection, and perfection is gamepad-throwingly 
 hard to come by.  

  Compared to the above, the puzzle mode of play is a big letdown. As in Sunrise, this option sees 
 you building tracks from a top-down perspective. It's an interesting concept, though it seems as 
 out of place with the other two modes as pizza does with rice, and solutions rarely seem logical. 
 As the other options are such pure fun, puzzle really isn't worth much of your time.  

           Water hazards are about as common on a TrackMania United track as they are on a golf course. 

  But while puzzle makes you question what the developers were thinking, the visuals make you ask 
 how the heck they managed to make a game look this good and run this fast. Frame rates fly on even 
 a low-end machine, and tracks load in seconds (restarts are instantaneous) , even though the appearance 
 of the game hasn't been compromised at all. Tracks are designed around postcard vistas like tropical 
 beaches, historic countrysides, and snowy cliffs. Big jumps often trigger the camera switching 
 to a panoramic view of the action, further emphasizing the attractiveness of the backdrops and 
 adding a  Fall Guy  feel. In-game advertising is the only sore point. When you're logged in online, 
 the scenery is marred by billboards. It's not like tracks are clogged with signage, though, and 
 the ads are region-specific (in Canada, for instance, you get billboards for Rogers and those irritating 
 Bell Canada beavers) , so you might see something of interest. Still, having to endure commercials 
 in a retail game is every bit as galling as having to sit through ads in movie theaters.  

  Audio quality almost makes you forget about the annoying sales pitches, at least. Atmospheric effects 
 are dialed way down for what should be an over-the-top arcade game with lots of squeals and smashes, 
 although the selection of great tunes on the soundtrack mitigates this minor issue. Each song matches 
 its setting, so you get a nifty country honky-tonk in desert races, a scratchy hip-hop beat in 
 the city, and so on.  

  Overall, TrackMania United has a dreamy, fantasy vibe that could fulfill a kid's slot-car dream. 
 Veterans of the previous two games in the series might find it too much of a been-there, done-that 
 sequel, but it's perfect for anyone who appreciates speed, imaginative track design, and a definitively 
 offbeat take on running cars around in circles.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pilipili51
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Do not play Trackmania if you are interested in real physics or damage modelling.
  
  Heck, you can't even hit the other cars.
  
  However, the game is nicely done and there is a 
 thriving community that keeps posting new tracks and other great stuff.
  
  If you are new to the trackmania series, than you must know that the main challenge here is to 
 beat the clock . (Although the platform and puzzle modes are also interesting) .
  
  By downloading and patching through United Forever you can access all the user made creations and 
 new stunt mode.
  
  Long time players may recall the Stunt Car Driver in the Commodore Amiga, that mixed rollercoaster 
 with a driving game with incredible success. 
  
  The same applies here, its just plain fun and well executed. 
  
  Graphics are good and sound 
 is ok. The ladder system in the multiplayer is very well done, so that each week you have new tracks 
 and files to download.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I race a fair bit online. I race the proper race games, mainly Simbin releases, all the time. I 
 like my realism in my race games. This went out the window when I started playing TMU about 6 months 
 ago. I dont care that this game is absolute **** There is no way a car can do corkscrews or wallrides, 
 but it just seems to work in TMU. Its a great racer with some really great depth. The physics arent 
 going to win any awards, but the diversity of the tracks and the whole "whoa" factor really makes 
 up for it. The feeling of nailing that really hard track, that you just keep stuffing up, is really 
 quite unique. It has great online features, with every race being ranked. It also, with the Forever 
 expansion, puts Country vs Country, for that little extra spice. The user created tracks make this 
 game what it is. The creativity of some of the authors is really quite amasing. Some of the user 
 created tracks can be a little frustrating, but as a whole, the online community is top notch. 
 It is easy to find people, or servers to race on, and the tracks are generally a lot of fun to 
 play on. Overall, the TMU series, with the Forever Expansion, has some great ideas and its executes 
 them well. The driving is not real, and i dosent try to be, it is just plain fun. Its is very addictive, 
 and when you do nail that corner and have an "Angel" run, nothing else in this genre comes close. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  If you've played the previous Trackmania games then United, as indicated by the name, is basically 
 a combination of the previous games. The original Trackmania, Nations and Sunrise. All the car 
 types and all the locations are here, but there are many new tracks included. Nations has a new 
 set of dirt blocks to go along with the sky topping speed blocks. All the cars control a little 
 differently from each other, and the locales are diverse enough to keep the interest up. The car 
 physics aren't realistic, there is no collision in multiplayer, there are no damage models. This 
 is pure racing, you race against a clock and against others.
  
  Competition was really emphasised in Nations, countries versus countries was the main aim, but 
 also individual ranking, based on your multiplayer races. United takes this further, and puts the 
 entirety of the solo maps into a world ladder system. You can play offline, set a training time, 
 and get a medal. But when you have practiced enough you can choose to enter official mode, to submit 
 your time to the ladder system. Skill points are given based on your relative level compared with 
 your time against others, these points are used to rank you. Coppers (in game currency) are given 
 for beating the official gold, silver and bronze times on the standard tracks. The first time you 
 race officially you do so without charge, however from then on your are charged coppers to submit 
 a time. You should gain enough coppers to retry officially several included tracks over and over 
 many times. But should you run out you can wait until the next day, as you are given free coppers 
 each day just for logging in. What this does is make the solo aspect of the game competitive. You 
 aren't playing directly with others, you have no time restrictions, you can just set an official 
 time at your leisure and watch as your rank climbs.
  
  You can test out your creative skills and make some tracks of your own, presented in a quite intuitive 
 3D format you set about laying blocks of track, you can upload these tracks and have people all 
 over the world playing them. By uploading them you can gain more coppers to buy some other tracks 
 or to try to set better times and then increase your rank further. The idea is to keep the cycle 
 of content, keep people making tracks for coppers, and keep tracks being made for people to play. 
 You can download these track, and they will cost you some more coppers, and then you can race on 
 them any time you wish. The system seems to work well and encourages players and mappers alike 
 to participate. Many of the user tracks are also very good, they range in difficulty, but a little 
 voting system seems to keep the standard fairly good. The best feature of this game is just the 
 huge numbers of tracks at your disposal, near infinite amount of tracks, and how they are all add 
 to the experience of just fun racing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nather45
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all Trackmania United is an awesome game. Its good variaty and arcade fell make it great 
 to drive. It will probably never get old with its new online features and manialinks. Manialiks 
 alows you to buy and sell things like tracks cars and avatars! This all revolves around the money 
 system in the game called coppers. YOu get coppers buy racing good times or just logging on. Overall 
 TMU is a great game. EVEn though it doesnt have a stunt campain race platform and puzzle are great 
 modes. It is beutifuly crafted and will keep you coming back for more! It might get old after a 
 while but if you take a break you always want more!
  -Nather 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kendu10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  As i said this game really rocks.
  There is lot of things about game in online.
  There is Manialink system where u can post ur track cars and etc.
  There is 7 envirnoments and 
 7 different cars but u can download lot of cars to game too. And u can download lot of MOD-s too 
 this game.
  I say its best Trackmania series ever made.
  This game is really best of the best of Trackmania series.
  And this game really rocks thats 
 why i give 10/10.
  I have played a lot of this game and i am in my country somewhere is 5 place or smthng like this.
 
  Thats good to play in online because there will be never boring, all the time new tracks. In every 
 server. You can make yourself too tracks and upload them to TMX. U can download too other people 
 tracks. And give them awards and comment them. There is nothing more to say so it rocks and thats 
 all keep going and make this game better ;D
  And forget to say one thing, there is project forever where people can play in TMn with TMU players 
 in Stadium envirnoment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Trackmania United is mainly a race game, unlike other race games this game contains insane tracks 
 which actually take skills to complete, the steering is about the same as any other game, except 
 that the small facts that u can go 999km/h and fly between the clouds.
  
  Its not realistic, its not true to the real world, but it does let u compete on some insane maps.
 
  Those of u who remember rollcage and loved it are gonna LOVE trackmania united
  
  compared to the other trackmania theres not much difference imho, but its still a great game.
 
  
  the few things that this game lag:
  the ability to drive against ur buddies on a track while being colidable. instead of this ure just 
 driving thru eachother like u were ghosts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Son23
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Trackmania: United (TMU) is the only puzzle/racing game on the market besides its predecessor's, 
 making it one of the most original and refreshing games to be released for quite some time.
  
  Like the originals, United uses what was good in the previous games, but expands on it to make 
 a fantastic original game, while providing the same type of addictive fun gameplay. It comprises 
 of 4 separate modes: Race Puzzle Platform and Crazy, each with their own appeals.-
  
  Race mode is all about beating the clock as best you can, to win copper  the type of point 
 system adopted in TMU  which determines how elaborate the construction of your tracks are, (but 
 well get to the editor functions later) . Platform is about getting through a tricky course, with 
 loads of jumps. The aim is to do this with the least amount of restarts. Crazy is a small course, 
 in which you have to beat a different CPU controlled car each time. And Puzzle mode involves building 
 a track with limited pieces and then racing the track to try and beat a set time to unlock the 
 rest the next track: the perfect mix of puzzle solving and fun.
  
  Not only are there 4 different modes, but also 7 different track environments; Island, Bay, Coast 
 (from TM Sunrise) Snow, Desert, Rally (From The Original Game) and Stadium which is new . All of 
 which have different cars and different feels to each location. Every car can be customized and 
 requires practice and the learning of different driving styles is required. To master them is challenging, 
 but rewarding.
  
  All this is excellent; however where the game shines is in the editing. Although a little confusing 
 at first, it is most accessible and you can make a wide variety of tracks, all of which you can 
 share over the internet. Ive never played a game with an editing system this advanced, or with 
 as many functions as most standard movie editors that you can also access at home on your own PC. 
 This opens up a whole new area of gaming experience, and Im sure well see many other game developers 
 adopting similar capabilities for their driving games.
  
  You can build underground; on hills; over water and in the air. Another first is the ability to 
 direct your own intro and outro movie for the race, adding to an element of the game that was already 
 rich  longevity. With the editing mode you can record your racing performances and become the 
 director of a race you have completed. Ghost editing and skin editing  which is making alterations 
 to the way the appearance of the cars. There are also plenty of downloadable skins, to satisfy 
 every taste. If that isnt enough you also have an unlimited amount of tracks with hundreds available 
 on the internet that you are able to download in just a few quick clicks of the mouse. The sites 
 are updated daily, and I assure you that youll find it difficult to keep up with whats on offer. 
 Another plus is that each track is very small in size  8-10 kbs, so its more than accessible, 
 even for those under-privileged dial-up users or if you are watching your cap.
  
  The only flaws about this game are that it becomes very frustrating. You often have to try several 
 times to complete set tasks within the game, but a saving grace is the short length of each track. 
 It doesnt sting that much. It could take forever to get a gold medal and trophies on every track. 
 But there is more than enough motivation, as this unlocks all the single player tracks within the 
 game allowing hours and hours worth of multiplayer fun as well. Although there is no split screen 
 action, which for a racing game is always disappointing. Taking it in turns on the same PC, or 
 online play, are the multiplayer options on offer.
  
  However, I dont harp on the few flaws: with unlimited tracks, more cars than youll ever need, 
 online play, original gameplay and no other competition insight for the genre on the market, all 
 for just $50 (Australian) , how can you go wrong?
  
  If you have played the previous games its not an essential upgrade but still well worth picking 
 up.
  
  Positives:  Addictive and Challenging
   Original
   Cheap
  
  Negatives:  Very frustrating  An at first, awkward track editor
   No split screen racing
 
  
  Websites available for downloading tracks and skins and other in game features.
   nations. tm-exchange. com/
   
   www. tm. njimko. de/index. html
 
   www. trackmaniagame. com
   www. trackmania-carpark. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgf01
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Trackmania represents a new game type. It was invented by Nadeo and it will mark the Videogames 
 Story forever. Its a racing game, but its not about cars; its about tracks.
  
  Game defies you to race several kinds of tracks with extreme shapes in four main game modes: Race 
 (on circuits or courses) , Platform (which challenges you to run extreme courses without falling) , 
 Puzzle (that allows you to build and modify a track to race it quickly) and Stunt (a kind of 
 Tony Hawk with cars) . All, through a pure and opened gameplay which requires only four keys (the 
 directions) .
  
  In Trackmania United you can play with 7 cars, each one with its own gameplay. Youll be able to 
 choose instable cars of Original, open driving cars of Sunrise and grip driving formula of Nations.
 
  
  Excellent interaction between car and track, opened gameplay and great track shapes make each stage 
 a different game, which can be incredibly challenging and fun.
  
  There are 200 stages in this game and more than 150.000 to download (including stages of previous 
 TM versions) . This is possible due to Track Editor. Its the best editor ever made, because it 
 allows you to build everything that exists in the game! Then you can reproduce and improve existent 
 tracks or build a completely new track. In lot of downloadable stages you will find genial courses 
 that can surpass Nadeos high level.
  
  Track Editor is not the only games editor. There are other editors like Replay Editor and Skin 
 Editor. Game becomes very customizable, spurring your creativity.
  
  The 7 environments in the game are composed of: 3 diversified locations around the globe (Desert, 
 Snow and Rally) , 3 beautiful landscapes of paradisiacal coast (Bay, Coast and Island) and the fantastic 
 Stadium. The last one is extremely well designed and has a huge amount of blocks. These features 
 allied to Stadiums challenge spirit make this environment so extraordinary.
  
  In this game, beautiful environments are accompanied by great graphics quality (What could be better?) .
 
  Sounds are quite good but they are under level of remainder game. Music is well fitted.
  
  The online interface is huge. There are many and great game modes. Coopers (TM currency that is 
 obtained by different ways) will help you to explore Trackmania world. You can download thousands 
 of tracks, hundreds of cars and skins, etc.
  
  This game is masterful and its probably the best pc game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Basicly racing at fast speeds and over comming tramendue obsticles bit it realys stands 
 out in the way the stages can get made with flips and loops and making a track thats beyond your 
 imagination its easy with edit mode and you can make greats tracks and if you life them so much 
 you ecan even share them with thr world by posting them or playing on one of the hundreads of servers 
 out tere. you can also get or make car skins any way you want but maiing cars is very hard and 
 it may take you off it (9)
  
  GRAPHICS: One of the best parts about Track Mania is how you can make it run on almost any computer 
 due to the fact that you can dumb down the graphics if you have an old PC but if you have a high 
 end PC bring on the fast frame rates and sick moition blur. There are very detailed lighting effects 
 all around outting shadows on complex mode makes every thing have its perfect shadows whether its 
 behing coverd of going across a wall. The water effects are frantastic one of the best iv seen since 
 Roller Coaster 3 and putting on water demorty makes every thing refelect perfectly. The only downside 
 is that some scenery looks undetailed and pixelated but most stuff looks fine (9)
  
  SOUND: All sounds are there from cars to birds to water it all seems in place but. at the start menu 
 if you are making a car in paint you will hear the same repiditve song every 2 minutes with it's 
 anoying repetive song may anoy you to the fact that you dont want to paint a car (8)
  
  VALUE: It's jamed pack with stages and scenery to use and costom stage editing and the great Online 
 features and the single player is just as online multiplayer (10)
  
  OVERALL: Track Mania United is a great game in it's way no other racer has gameplay and eidting 
 quit like this so this could be a new generation in racing games. so its a great fun game its worth 
 you time and money is you love stuns and speed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zargon48
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games Ive played in a while!, its got the two-things a great game must-have-&gt;1. easy 
 to Learn, but hard to master! 2. you dont want to stop playing-it!
  
  Plus it has Tons of game-modes, an editor, Fantastic Multiplayer!, so the Replay-value is Limitless!, 
 and runs good on Most video-cards, and its a Georgeous-game!. I enjoyed-it soo-much, I went-out 
 and got TM-sunrise 
  for my other computer [found a copy at Gamestop, for 10$,, soo I could practice my driving offline! 
 [and sunrise has a FREE-addon!, which adds a ton of new-stuff for FREE]
  TMU just has all the fun-stuff I enjoy in a game-&gt; driving, puzzles, an editor,
  great multiplayer, 
 and no-bugs out-of-box!
  
  Please dont dont listen to the bad-posts , and treat yourself to one
  of the most Underrated-games 
 of the year, and get any of the TM-titles,
  and enjoy your new-found adventure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justcool007b
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Im up for almost any game.
  The game must be playable, must have purpose or motivation in game to make want to play, and must 
 be entertaining.
  Trackmania United just sucks
  I dont care what the reviewers of gamespot says or the stone cold fans.
  This game is only good 
 to the select few people that can put up with it.
  The game series has alot of potential to be a blockbuster everyones herd of game but this game 
 just doesnt have much to it.
  The game itself isnt very played. Yeah you can drive around and do jumps but after you crash, crash 
 get stuck in a wall, crash, fly meaninglessly in wrong direction cause the game doesnt let you 
 see where you need to go. Half the time different camera views happen when you dont want them to 
 and itll screw you up. Not to mention the lack or options in the game. Hardly anything about the 
 game you can change. No car custonise expect the lame paint feature. No different things to make 
 you car different. The different types of cars in the game give it variety but all the cars in 
 the game seem to just suck. One minute the car will drive up a 85 degree cliff. Next minute you 
 can not drive up a criff that 15 degrees! You are forced to memorise the stupid tracks and drive 
 perfectly just to finish a race without ebarassment. Im not even worried about online, or the community, 
 or any online features. The game itself sucks. Dont Rent. Dont Buy. Download illegally off internet.... but 
 youll still uninstall it because you will get fustrated, bored, and feel like you wasting your 
 time cause all you get to do is unluck new stupid tracks! What a motivation to play so more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonjmp
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  We love this game in the office because we can get in, race, and then get back to work. The puzzle 
 modes are also good after work when you can spend more time playing. We have also found that track 
 building is one of our favorite features. I dont like the in game advertising for a game I paid 
 for, but it is not intrusive.
  
  Also the ranking systems by world, country, and states are awesome, all the folks who claim the 
 game is so easy, i expect are on the top of all the rankings?
  
  Check out the player made videos on Youtube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdfireTrilogy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Trackmania, Overall this game is quite superb in what it attempts to do and is very satisfying. 
 The single player modes while very fun and addictive only encompass around 12-13 hours of play 
 and thus are wanting in the replayability factor. Where this game really shines is in the Online 
 department. You can customize your cars and even download new ones for free that have been player 
 created, all high quality cars. Also as the review states there are well over 5-6 thousand maps 
 with around 2 thousand of them being GREAT maps. This is great because at any one time while playing 
 online a new map can jump up and require your attention. Now about the custom maps, they are INSANE, 
 basically if you have played counter-strike 1.6 and have seen how varied and unique some maps have 
 become the exact same applies to TMU. So many things have been done by mapmakers that the devs 
 never thought imaginable and so some really crazy stuff that you never would've thought imaginable 
 pops up into the game. Overall this game has INFINITE replayability if you are playing online, 
 which is free forever; but if one is thinking of getting this for single player only thing twice. 
 In terms of visuals this game looks and runs AMAZING, the number of options for graphics is staggering 
 allowing it to run smooth on almost any machine given its running XP or above and isn't 6 years 
 old. Also on a side note if you want to get a feel for how online play works or just dont feel 
 like paying they have also released a free version called Track Mania United which has an insane 
 amount of online support from mapmakers and is played even more than TMU because of the fact that 
 the game is 100% free. Check that out if you are ever wondering if this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regnumekal
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  TrackMania United is a game that you can play with your friends and have fun, but only for a short 
 time. The fact is that after one hour of playing you get really bored: you do the same thing over 
 and over again, only with different cars and on different tracks. Graphics are not good at all, 
 you see the track, some buildings in the background, simple sprites, some plants for decoration 
 and that's about it with whole environment, even these aspects are not well detailed. The cars 
 look good in certain points of view and also are very different from each other. Each car has its 
 own advantages and disadvantages, some may like the fact that you have to totally change your style 
 of driving from one car to another, but I don't.
  
  In the Single-Player you are offered 3 modes of playing: Race, Puzzle and Platform. In Race mode 
 you simply race to occupy one of the three place, to advance in difficulty and areas of playing 
 like Desert, Bay, Coast, Snow, and others. Puzzle is for editing a circuit and playing in the same 
 time, actually not worth it if you took the game for racing. And Platform is the same Race mode, 
 only you have to think harder how to get from a platform to another. Other boring feature is that 
 you cannot interact with the cars you're competing with, only see them in phantom mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exportforce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Trackmania United as it says unites the 2 other Games in one.
  If you know Trackmania, you'll just love the new Layout of anything.
  The whole game is now outlined 
 to be a pure onlinegame, you can play it offline as well, but only if you're connected to the internet, 
 you'll be able to set up online (In-Game called official ) Top-Scores. Though the game is out in 
 Europe for several months now it's not that easy to break the highs.
  
  When you start your account you may specify where you're from and the more detailed you get with 
 your location the more you get the chance to race against the records of people you might know.
 
  
  You can even set up servers, maybe set them up for your state or just for your city, it's up to 
 you.
  
  The game at the moment runs on 7 different types of races: Stadium, Icelands, Bay and more. The 
 next one is, you can create up to 6 Tracks in a so called Slot to upload them direcly to the TM: U 
 servers, where others can download them.
  
  The main new feature in TM: U are the Mania Codes wich are just plain XML.
  Everything you click 
 is a Mania Link. You can even set up your own Mania Links and earn the Track Mania United Currency 
 Coppers .
  
  Coppers are earned in following ways:
  &curren; Earning Gold, Silver, Copper in Official Races
  &curren; Just having the game gets you 
 about 60 I think a day
  &curren; Registering TM Original and TM: S CD-Keys ears you 10 or 20 Coppers per day
  &curren; 
 Do your own Mania Link-Page and sell your Tracks and Skins for the Cars
  &curren; Win contests done by Nadeo
  
  The Coppers are needed to buy Tracks and Skins on Mania 
 Link-Pages and needed if you retry an official race.
  
  Also you can, thats what Trackmania makes what it is, create your own tracks on all 6 coursetypes 
 and even there anyone can do an official time, so TM: U can't get boring.
  
  As you can see, Track Mania United offers absolute anything you could need in an fast and extremly 
 superb looking game.
  
  All in all is Trackmania worth every little cent you're spending.
  It looks absolute great and 
 drives very very smoothly. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
