-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TrackMania
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/trackmania/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 331 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Developer: Nadeo
Genre: Racing
Date:     Jul 8, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
TrackMania's earnest simplicity and pure addictiveness shine through over its few rough spots, providing 
 a wholly enjoyable game with plenty of lasting value and charm. 

  The brand of simplified, highly customizable driving game that Enlight Software and developer Nadeo's 
 TrackMania aims to be hasn't really seen much attention since the days of the legendary PC game 
 Stunts. Though there have been some games of similar concept -- that being the concept of providing 
 players with the means to create wild and wacky tracks of their own twisted design -- it has been 
 a long, long time since any game of this type has really stood out. Thankfully, TrackMania puts 
 an end to this prolonged drought. The game has been out in Europe for a while now, and since its 
 European release, it has drawn quite a following overseas. After you play the game for yourself, 
 it isn't hard to see why. Its earnest simplicity and pure addictiveness shine through over its 
 few presentational and control rough spots, providing a wholly enjoyable game with plenty of lasting 
 value and charm.  

          In TrackMania, the courses are as crazy as you make them.     

  In TrackMania, simplicity 
 is the theme of the day. TrackMania has only two primary single-player modes. Race mode is a progression 
 through the game's three unique race worlds -- a picturesque countryside, a barren desert, and a 
 frigid, snowcapped landscape, respectively -- trying to beat each specific racetrack provided in 
 a certain amount of time. The other mode, puzzle mode, is a bit more unique. In each level, you 
 are provided a start point, an end point, and a specific number of customizable road pieces. Whether 
 they are ramps, standard roads, or other types of set pieces, you have to use them to build a path 
 from point A to point B. Once that's done, you race your created path and try to beat the allotted 
 timetable. While race mode is pretty straightforward -- and, admittedly, isn't all that interesting -- puzzle 
 mode is quite a cool feature. Even though not all the puzzles are terribly hard, there are enough 
 brain teasers here to keep you entertained for quite a while. Of course, the real purpose of this 
 mode is to earn credits that you can use in the game's track editor -- which is, of course, the reason 
 to own this game.  

  TrackMania's track editor is rife with options. Once you've picked from one of the three race worlds, 
 you can create almost limitless possibilities for tracks. Want a 360-degree loop to go into a jump 
 over a rock wall onto a high-up road that takes you into a tunnel that leads to one of several 
 different paths -- only one of which actually gets you to the finish line? You can do it. Though 
 the actual variety of set pieces and road types isn't humongous, the ways in which you can use 
 what is provided are near limitless, as can be seen by some of the more creative tracks already 
 provided in the game. The interface is rather austere in design, simply giving you point-and-click 
 access to each type of piece, as well as the ability to rotate pieces, move the camera to a different 
 angle, and so on and so forth. All told, the track editor is pretty much worth the price of admission 
 by itself, though it isn't the only thing the game has going for it.  

  TrackMania's other big draw is its multiplayer component. On a LAN or over the Internet, you can 
 participate in multiplayer races for up to 10 players. There are three distinct multiplayer modes 
 in the game, including round, team, and time attack. While each mode has differing rules and designs, 
 they all still focus around the basic concept of completing a course in the fastest amount of time. 
 You can race on premade tracks or race using your own tracks. The online performance in the game 
 is quite solid, though lag is readily apparent on some of the servers we found ourselves on, leading 
 to a lot of cars jumping and teleporting all over the track. However, on the servers we found without 
 much lag, this problem was reduced to almost nil. The other issue with the multiplayer modes isn't 
 so much an issue as it is just a design choice. There is no collision between cars in the game 
 (both in the single- and multiplayer modes) , so essentially you're just racing against collision-free 
 ghost cars at all times. Since the game is based on timed races, however, this isn't a very big 
 deal at all. Overall, the online play is great, and it adds another bonus to the game's otherwise 
 solid package.  

  While it's easy to heap praise on TrackMania, the game isn't without its caveats. The game's driving 
 mechanics heavily lean toward the realm of arcade-style driving. This is in no way a bad thing, 
 but the way in which the cars handle can be more frustrating than enjoyable at times. Essentially, 
 you have one type of car for each race world -- though there are a multitude of skins available for 
 each car type. The countryside level, for instance, features more rally-inspired cars, whereas 
 the desert level features more muscle-bound hot rods. You'll definitely notice a difference between 
 how each car type handles, though all three types can be rather hard to deal with in certain situations. 

  Basically, all of the cars are super powerslide-friendly, and they tend to take turns and the slightest 
 bumps in one direction a little too much to heart, leading to generally unwieldy controls. It certainly 
 isn't impossible to get used to the car controls, but were there a bit more in the way of crash 
 physics or damage modeling in the game, the wacky controls might have been a bit more satisfying. 
 As it is, all you can really do is roll your car and send it flying off ledges or jumps, but the 
 end result is rarely all that thrilling. None of this is to imply that the driving is devoid of 
 fun; quite the contrary. It's just that the driving mechanics aren't as well put together as the 
 other components of the game, which gives it a bit of lackluster feel by comparison.  

          The game isn't exactly a graphical showpiece, but its addictive nature and deep editor 
 mode more than make up for any presentational woes.     

  Presentation-wise, TrackMania doesn't have a whole lot going on. The car models are simplistic 
 and small, and the track designs and set pieces are similarly minimal, using fairly basic textures 
 and not pushing much in the way of polygons. However, this isn't really so much a knock against 
 the game's graphics, as it is just a simple fact. Technically, the game holds a steady frame rate 
 (thanks partially to the game's minimal graphics card requirements) and doesn't really have any 
 bugs or glitches to speak of. The same theme of unimpressive-but-functional goes for the game's 
 sound design. You get one basic, looping song per race world, and a marginally catchy menu theme 
 song for music; the sound effects don't really go beyond basic engine sounds and occasional bumps 
 and crashes. Again, it all works just fine, but none of it will really stand out while you're playing. 

  At its $30 price tag, TrackMania is completely worth it if you have any interest in PC driving 
 games or ever liked miniature cars as a kid. Sure, the driving mechanics aren't perfect, and it 
 isn't much to look at, but on the whole, this is a great game with plenty of depth and lasting 
 appeal. And with Nadeo already having released an additional program that lets you import custom 
 online avatars and custom car skins into the game, it seems as though TrackMania could potentially 
 find itself with a solid fan community (in North America as well as Europe) and plenty of downloadable 
 goodies in the future. But even without the promise of future content, TrackMania is a rock-solid 
 out-of-the-box retail product, so if you have any sort of interest or affection toward this type 
 of racer, it's completely worthwhile.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is REALLY fun. if you have never played it before, its only like 10 bucks, so if you 
 see it somewhere, get it. the racing action of it is insane. i love that there are 3 different 
 kinds of terrain, each with different environments. I also love making stuff, and the level editor 
 is flawless. I have made some insne tracks on this. really this game is just fun, pick it up if 
 you ever see it. the only flaw with this game though, is its multiplayer. It's really hard to find 
 a server, and it just is kinda flawed. though if you ever do get on a server, its fun. really though, 
 its only 10 bucks so go out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Im not one to pitch into the systems debate. I do observe from a distance and admire the passion, 
 the belief and sometimes the invective that is delivered by those so stoically promoting their 
 favourite gaming platform. Ysee, I have a PC and a PS2, but there is normally a clear line of 
 demarcation as to what is played on what. The PC is for the shooters, RTS, simulations and large 
 world type of games, whilst the PS2 is mainly for arcade sports games and arcade racing games. 
 At least that was until I picked up a copy of Trackmania.
  
  Trackmania is a deceptively simple yet incredibly addictive racer. Whilst it does lean more towards 
 arcade driving over realism, it has the attributes of an absorbing game. It comes with a couple 
 of suitably challenging single player modes, an online component, a power up downloadable addition 
 from the internet and then all the custom tracks that the committed online community has developed. 
 It does lead to hours of entertainment which always stays on the right side of the challenging 
 / frustrating line-in-the-sand. And all the better is that it can be played with the keyboard without 
 too much difficulty.
  
  The graphics are quite simplistic. The three main environments (an arid desert where road racing 
 occurs, a fertile tableland for rally racing and a ice/snow filled environment for a mixture of 
 track and slide racing) , are identifiable but quite simplistic indeed. There is some variety in 
 the environments to keep these from humming in one chord. The cars (three different ones again) 
 are also simple and the track make-up is suitably varied with jumps, ramps, roadblocks and spiralled 
 tunnels resulting in some nifty 360 degree driving. This game is not going to stretch the limits 
 of your PC. However, because of this the graphics will always glide across the screen without a 
 hitch in frame rates. The upgrade pack increases the graphical quality a little bit (with some 
 flashier cars and minor changes in environment) but in the end, this is a very basic looking racing 
 game.
  
  The sound is minimal and probably only just effective. The car sounds are limited to the roar of 
 the engine and the sounds of collisions, braking or power sliding and the music includes a catchy 
 theme tune and a looped tune for each environment. Environmental effects are minimal. More work 
 could have by done on this segment of the game, no doubt about that.
  
  However, its the gameplay is where Trackmania bets the house and it pays off just fine. There 
 is a fine line between enjoyable and frustrating when the primary objective of a game is to complete 
 a stage in a set time, and especially when one error will usually mean failure and restart. But 
 Trackmania gets this right. Firstly, tracks (with the exception of the last three) are not overly 
 long, meaning that multiple attempts are not a strain on the memory. Its very easy to restart 
 if you do make a meal of it (i. e. no reload) and usually mistakes lead to either spectacular or 
 humourous crashes which will have you laughing rather than cursing. Further, even when you have 
 achieved the minimum time to progress, the game has enough of a pull factor to make you want to 
 go for gold and achieve the highest level of completion.
  
  Whilst the single player mode is a racing game, its basically the player against the clock. 
 You have a ghost car, but otherwise its a lonely environment. However, the clock is always a great 
 competitor as you look for angles, jumps and short-cuts to shave the time down to gold medal levels. 
 The puzzle mode is a unique and interesting diversion. You have your start and finish and a selection 
 of track pieces to build your route. Some of these are quick tricky to complete, but its a good 
 diversion between levels of the racing game.
  
  The driving mechanics are not prefect but work. This is not a precision driving game (perhaps in 
 the mould of GT Racer or other simulations) and that will turn off the enthusiasts of such. It 
 also doesnt have the Hollywood storyline and worlds of the Need for Speed franchise which will 
 probably not be to the liking of others as well. Trackmania almost borders on arcade, a point that 
 becomes more emphasised when you are faced with hazards such as ice-sliding, multiple loops, ridiculously 
 insane jumps and other such hazards. However, there are some genuine physics with each of the vehicles 
 and whilst there are not hard to operate  each has its own driving style that needs to be mastered. 
 If you turn too sharply or lean into corners, you will lose control, even a slight slide or break 
 will result in the loss of speed and the ghost car whizzing by at pace, making it difficult to 
 catch. The rally driving is very particular and you will need perfect braking and steering to secure 
 the gold medal.
  
  The game has a good feel about it. Missing a jump will result in hitting a cliff-face head on and 
 then a triple somersault down to Earth. If you do not correctly negotiate a curved, elevated corner 
 the car may go hurtling through the air. The game also acknowledges such errors with signature 
 crashes and stunts. There are some real wicked hazards and jumps and there is satisfaction at a 
 clean run through a track where youve nailed every corner and perfected every jump.
  
  Ultimately the gameplay is sharp, quick and very entertaining. While replaying a track over a dozen 
 times to get a gold medal may sound frustrating to some, its never dead time. Seeing the gold 
 medals is an achievement and if you add the multiplayer component there is plenty here to keep 
 most gamers happy.
  
  I purchased Trackmania for $AUD7.50 on the Replay label in Australia. No arguments that this is 
 value for money. Even at full price you are getting bang for your back. I put a good dozen or so 
 hours into the single player mode, which included racking up gold medals in most tracks and completing 
 most of the puzzle mode. I didnt complete the last two tacks of the single player  it was too 
 good for me. And for those who want to keep going, there is also all the online content to sink 
 your teeth into.
  
  Trackmania is an enjoyable PC racer. Its the first in a series from Nadeo which has led to the 
 franchise gaining a well deserved reputation as a seriously insane racer and the establishment 
 strong online community. Its a game that can be played in a few minutes but takes hours to perfectly 
 master. Its looks and sounds basic but feels and plays just fine. If you like your racing games 
 (or perhaps even if you dont) this comes recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Walk right on past this dismal effort at a racing game. This game may appeal to 4 year olds as 
 racing feels like pushing a matchbox car around a toy track. 
  When i first picked this game up it looked interesting, Build your own race track it says and do 
 wild stunts well i thought that sounds cool but this thinking was short lived this game ends up 
 to be crapy and as for downloading and chossing a car well you can download cars but there is no 
 option to change cars in solo game mode which i thought was a dissapointment. 
  Graphics are poor and the best part of this game was looking at downloaded cars in profile that 
 you couldn't use in the game.
  Sound is even worse! sounds like some granny gone wild on an organ she found in mothballs.
  Now 
 the biggist downfall of this game is not being able to change camera views no driver seat view 
 only one bad camera angle that becomes irritible fast. 
  All in all this game is crap i found it in the bargain bin and it was returned to the bin for a 
 full refund this game is DuD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightning318
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  I found that this game was great fun from as soon as i installed it. The first few maps in single 
 player are very easy but this very quickly changes and you will soon get on to maps which take 
 you a few trys to get a good time. It is always funny to see what sort of stunts you can make in 
 your own maps. When you finaly get bored with the single player and making some of your own maps 
 you can just go on the internet and get some maps that other people have made. There are thousands 
 out there and this can be fun to challenge your self to complete a map. Then there is the internet 
 play, it is very fun to race against other people on maps you have never seen before and see who 
 can set the fastest time. All in all this game will stay fun for a long time and as there is always 
 new maps being made you can never run out of maps to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritual64
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  I bought this poor mans version of a racing game and was throughly disapointed. While a 6 year 
 old might find it fun I found it childish and lacking. Give me Any of the Need for Speed series 
 or any of the Midnight Club series heck even Burnout leaves this so far in the dust it ain't funny. 
 Sure I'm not comparing it to the right type of games but hell if I'd known it was this childish 
 I would never have bought it. My recommendation is don't buy it not even for a wet day unless you 
 have a 6 or 7 year old who is bored to tears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  What is TrackMania? TrackMania is a simple arcade driving madness, where you can make your own 
 cars, own tracks, play with many online friends, use many mods, play lots of game modes, download 
 thousands and thousands of free tracks, and have a lot of fun. All this by a quite unknown french 
 developer, Nadeo...
  
  Fist of all, let's say one thing: this game is EXTREMELY ADDICTIVE. Believe me, I played it over 
 a year, made hundreds of tracks, and I still play it sometimes. Now, let's pass to a more technical 
 review.
  
  The features of the game are: single player with race mode (race against the clock on official 
 tracks) , puzzle (create the fastest way with limited track parts) , survival [only on Power Up! 
 and later versions] (race lots of tracks, and never finish last) , and stunts [only on Original 
 and later versions] (do your best stunts. Also, multiplayer madness with the before mentioned stunts, 
 rounds play, and time attack. Also, a skin editor, a media tracker for adding effects to your tracks, 
 a skin editor, a replay editor, a ghost editor, an easy moddability, and 3 environments to race 
 on. And yes, online there are lots of quality and free tracks.
  
  As for the gameplay, I have nothing to say. It's good as is it. It has no collisions, and that 
 could sound bad: well, after you play it some day, you'll see why there isn't, so I don't count 
 that as a bad point. The car handlings are pure arcade-ish, but easy to start with, and still hard 
 to master. No wonder there are many competitions on racing too, not only track-editing...
  
  As for the graphics, the game isn't outstanding. The look isn't bad, but don't expect much: 
 by the way, on the newest expansion pack, Original, the graphics were slightly improved, so I give 
 an 8, instead of 7.
  
  As for the sound, the game isn't anything special: the musics are hard to remember, even if for 
 some the menu music could sound annoying. Car sounds are OK too.
  
  As for value - well, a game that lasts this long is well worth the full-price. But Nadeo made a 
 miracle: released this game at 30$!! You may even find it for less - so what are you waiting for? 
 Go and buy this absolute masterpiece now! Because behind a simple look, hides a huge game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDSPORTS0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  A lot of racing games nowadays are always following the same path and are beginning to feel like 
 they're all the same. Well for people who want a difference in this, look no further.
  
  When I first played a demo of TrackMania, I though it was just a mediocre game at heart, but I 
 decided to get the full game, and I immediately changed my mind about this. TrackMania has so much 
 potential and so much variety that it just keeps on coming. The main thing that differs from most 
 other things is the track editor. This is one of the first racing games that gives you the ability 
 to exactly recreate the real tracks (if you wanted to) and even do better. The variety of track 
 pieces is extremely high and will have you going for ages, probably more than the actual racing.
 
  
  As for the racing, it starts off fairly dull, but this quickly picks up within the first few levels 
 as you begin to see the potential this game has. There are 3 level types to choose from, and each 
 has a unique variety to them that you quickly notice, mainly in the track design.
  
  The car choice is extremely small (one car type per area, each with several paint jobs) , and the 
 only preferred one I think is the muscle car (found in the desert) . They all have similar attributes, 
 so there really is no preference unless you take the looks in to account.
  
  Another bad point is its firewall compatibility. It is not compatible with any known firewalls, 
 so you need to switch it off to be able to host games and join them. But this is only minor, still.
 
  
  Overall, it isnt the best driving game in the world, but it is one of the best. This is a great 
 game that I would like to see a sequel to (Scratch that, there already is one!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdanz32
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are alright, but the gameplay makes up for it. The multiplayer is alot of fun, as 
 you race on tracks that are made up from users around the world. You can make any kind of track 
 possible, so it is amazing to see what some people think of. In both the singe and mutliplayer, 
 it is easy to play for hours as you try to cut down seconds off your time, all to get the gold 
 medals. It is alot of fun, and a game in its own class. The sequel, Trackmania Sunrise, is cool 
 too. Pick both of these up, and you will be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 8, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  Trackmania is a hard game to generalise to a singular genre. Surely it is a racing game, but it 
 is so much more than that. You will find elements of a number of different strategy titles packed 
 into this bargain game that provides wholesome fun at a very friendly price. Released in Europe 
 before it's debut in the West (an unusual set of circumstances, but each to their own) Trackmania 
 became somewhat of an underground hit - a game that came out of nowhere and stunned everyone with 
 it's imminent playability. Although Circuit Racing is par for course - and you will find yourself 
 ferrying for the conveted first place - Trackmania is far from just racing. It is so much more.
 
  
  Developer Nadeo has tipped it's hat to the legendary PC title Stunts in creating Trackmania. Essentially, 
 the game, as it's title suggests, is more about it's tracks, than it's cars. This means that while 
 you can race against computer foes, as well as other's online, the real core of the game lies within 
 it's simplistic and easy to use Editor - allowing you to create, from scratch, exemplary racing 
 tracks - and test them on the fly. It's a simplistic approach - but it works well in the game's 
 favour.
  
  The other Career based mode is known as Race Mode. In it, you progress from easy to harder based 
 tracks. You are not given a choice of car for your racing, but there are three different environments 
 to traverse, from Southern Mexican Desert, English Countryside, and Swedish (or Nordish) Snowscapes. 
 All tracks have been designed using the exact same tools the Editor provides, so, if given the 
 time and patience, you can recreate them. 
  
  Race Mode doesn't have you racing against other racers, in fact, you are racing against a Ghost 
 timer, a preset car which you can beat in order to beat the record. There is no bashing cars off 
 the road here, which works well, as many tracks will have you high in the air and without barriers. 
 It means the competition is firmly on your shoulders, and you cannot blame an A. I if you fall, 
 it will all be about your own skill. This is also the case in the game's multiplayer, so again, 
 it comes down to you, the player.
  
  Puzzle Mode is something different altogether. It's a mix between the straightforward Editor and 
 Race Modes. It gives you a set amount of track pieces in order to finish a track from start to 
 finish in as quick a time as possible, and then allowing you to race it. It's a fun inclusion, 
 and there are some very hard tracks to complete - it can get frustrating, especially at those harder 
 levels.
  
  However, the real purpose of the Puzzle Mode means that you can use it to earn Coppers, the game's 
 currency. Coppers allow you to purchase track pieces, which are organised by their skill. So something 
 like a loop would cost more than a narrow stretch of tarmac - and as well, you have to earn the 
 right to use these pieces. It's a good sense of progression, but don't worry - you can still create 
 decent tracks right from the beginning, even if you never play Puzzle Mode. Race Mode also slightly 
 contributes to your Copper haul, but the vast majority comes from your skills in Puzzle Mode. Having 
 to use lateral thinking in a racing game is not the norm, but then, this is no ordinary racer.
 
  
  The design of the Editor is straightforward - there is no need for a training excercise of any 
 kind, and Trackmania doesn't ship with one either. While the amount of pieces seem small, and in 
 hindsight, are, the options available and the ways in which they can be positioned can lead to 
 some very daringly different tracks. Technically, you could emulate your favorite Rollercoaster, 
 but add something completely strange, like jumps over different tracks. While the Editor is definately 
 the main drawcard to Trackmania - there are other things worth playing for, especially it's easy 
 to get into online Multiplayer.
  
  You can easily play over a LAN connection, or online, with up to 10 racers. Much like Race Mode, 
 you are playing against Ghost Racers so the online comes up to how well you learn the tracks in 
 the quick time allotted in beating them. You may set up a bunch of your own tracks and host a match 
 if you wish, or use many of the pre-made tracks. There is no skimping on the quality - as each 
 has their own feel and obstacles.
  
  However, Trackmania does not come without it's problems. The racing has a very arcade feel, so 
 cars tend to slide a little to often. Learning tactics on how to drift and braking properly can 
 be a little taxing on the player, but once you get it - it will feel like second knowledge. Also, 
 as a game based mainly on it's tracks, there are no licensed cars or events - which may be shocking 
 to some, but the gameplay and content otherwise make up. While there are no licensed cars, each 
 of the three environments use three different car types, so there are differences between handling 
 when you race in the Countryside, as opposed to the Desert stages, for example. It will all become 
 easy given time, however.
  
  Graphically, Trackmania is competent, though not all the inspiring. The stages feel bland and simplistic 
 - and while there can be a fair bit going on in multiplayer, it would have been better if the physics 
 were a bit more realistic. Falling off ledges can be funny, but the rolls and smashes do not come. 
 It would have been better if crash damage had been implemented. The frame rates hold up well in 
 response to what's going on, and low video card requirements does not mean the game lacks detail 
 - just not the kind of interactivity you would normally expect from a racing title these days.
 
  
  However, as previously stated, this is not your average racing game and has a fun, pick up and 
 play feel and appeal - and those who would get the most out of this game should not be too concerned 
 with the game's simplistic graphical style. Sound is another issue altogether though, as it is 
 a looped main theme that gets old very fast. While both the music and sound is competent, it never 
 really stands out - so this may be best played in short patches or with an MP3 going in the background.
 
  
  Overall, Trackmania is an incredibly fun title which will rely heavily on the gaming community 
 to spread the word on this game which has come out of left field and plays like a dream. While 
 the content out of the box is more than enough to keep you playing happily, like The Sims, the 
 promise of captivating downloads will mean this is a game that will always have something fresh 
 to offer. If you are tired with the same old racing games - Trackmania is well worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zilor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  There are two things that make Trackmania: Building Tracks and Racing Tracks.
  
  That is it, though some how it has managed to become one of my favorite games, it reminds me of 
 the old slot car race tracks where you would rip to fast around a turn and lose your tiny plastic 
 Corvette under the fridge or scare the hell out of your cat when a micro sized muscle car careened 
 into its ass.
  
  The stunts, the racing, the speed, the puzzle course, the raw fun of driving a puzzle is just fantastic, 
 the huge jumps and amazing course designs are just perfect and offer hours upon hours of fun.
 
  
  An when you beat all the tracks and puzzles spend all those hard earned points to make your own 
 thrilling tracks, the stuff you can manage to create is insane, you can do some very twisted things 
 that offer up awesome challenges but just are so cool to do it makes the difficulty worth it.
 
  
  Great game, buy it if you have the chance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kung_Fu_Koala
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:25 am PT
Review:  With a gaming world jam-packed with high production values, its both surprising and refreshing 
 to see a game like TrackMania take the medium back to its innermost core; one of simplicity and 
 challenge. TrackManias claim to fame is its simple and addictive editor that allows you to piece 
 together different track building blocks to make your very own course, but its not just a one-trick 
 pony; a highly challenging single-player mode requires you to be creative and crafty in its puzzle 
 mode and just plain fast in its racing mode. Though TrackManias budget-title roots subject it 
 to a poor audio and visual presentation and the game has some faults, anyone looking for an elegantly 
 simple puzzle game will definitely find a lot to like about TrackMania.
  
  As aforementioned, TrackManias editor is its most attractive feature. After choosing from either 
 a Tibet-inspired snow environment, a dry desert area, or a plain full of lush greenery, you are 
 issued a plethora of different pieces, some of which remain the same in all the environments (albeit 
 changed in aesthetic to suit the surroundings) , and some that are completely unique to a single 
 setting. The track editor is quite simple; you click on a piece and press down the spacebar to 
 lay it down onto the map, and if you want many of the same pieces in sequence, you simply hold 
 down space and start dragging the pieces around. You can manipulate the height of your track via 
 ramps and slopes and can add tons of fantastical pieces like full-pipes that let you drive upside-down 
 or on the side, loops, speed boost pads that seriously pick up any slack you may have made, and 
 so on. You can use either the mouse or the keyboard to build your track, and this is, unfortunately, 
 one of TrackManias flaws.
  
  All the functions that are necessary for the fabrication of a track, be it raising or lowering 
 the height of a track piece, selecting different classes of pieces (which are grouped according 
 to their properties) , rotating the camera and the like, but some functions are clearly suited to 
 one or the other, which can makes things a bit of a juggling act. For example, clicking the arrow 
 buttons with the mouse is supposed to rotate the camera in the desired direction, but it will oftentimes 
 simply not respond to your command. So then the hunt is on to search for the keyboards camera 
 rotation function. This can be vice versa depending on what youre trying to do, and it results 
 in a control scheme thats unconventional but can be adjusted to over time. 
  
  Another and slightly more severe problem is the lack of an undo button. You see, if you are handling 
 a piece thats really big and happen to use an erase function, it will delete all of the pieces 
 in the way in an attempt to fit that piece in. With the lack of the undo feature, however, you 
 will be forced to rebuild that part of the track, which can be easier said than done if youve 
 built a lot around it and numerous obstacles obfuscate your view. This really isnt as bad as it 
 sounds, since a problem like the example above will rarely become reality, but when it does, youll 
 wish that an undo function was added to this game before release.
  
  At any rate, your tracks will be far from impressive at the games outset, since the amount of 
 coppers (the in-game currency) you have to build any given track is limited to three-thousand, 
 and that doesnt buy you much; for example, a standard tile of road thats roughly the size of 
 a car in length will set you back about forty coppers. This is where the games single-player mode 
 steps in to give you solace.
  
  The games single-player experience is three-fold, split up into race, puzzle, and survival, 
 the most enjoyable of which is certainly the puzzle mode. In it, you are given the challenge of 
 completing a course using a select variety and quantity of pieces and then racing it to try and 
 beat the target time. Being crafty is the name of the game here; one course has a very long, winding 
 sequence of roads and a very fast target time. If you use your brain, though, youll discover that 
 the end of the course is just behind you, several stories down, without any sort of obstacle in 
 the way. So, instead of driving all the way through the course, you can simply back up, drop down, 
 and finish in a lean couple of seconds. Others can get a lot more complicated than that; a later-on 
 course has you trying to drive up a ramp with a speed booster that points toward you and pushes 
 you back to the start. Luckily, a speed booster pad adorns your path at the start, though it doesnt 
 have quite enough kick. Using your limited road piece, you must build a circular track next to 
 the speed booster so that you can keep looping around to it to pick up speed. Then, you can race 
 up the hill and, a split second after hitting the reverse speed boost, slide one eighty so that 
 the force, will drive you upward toward the finish line. Challenging? Yes. Frustrating? Occasionally. 
 But the cleverness of TrackManias puzzle mode helps you forget about such things. Every challenge 
 you complete will earn you coppers to use in the construction of your tracks to whatever environment 
 type the challenge was on.
  
  Race mode is, in loyalty to its name, a series of races. On second thought, race may not be the 
 right word, since you are up against a sole ghost competitor who, in addition to being transparent, 
 simply represents the target time you need to complete. In essence, this mode is essentially the 
 time trial portion of the puzzle mode isolated. Some of the tracks have a unique twist to them 
 that makes deciphering them a moderate challenge, the ease of which your can controls and the lack 
 of any sort of physics engine makes the race mode a breeze, and consequently, the easiest way to 
 earn coppers for your favorite environment.
  
  Lastly, Survival mode has you compete in a series of races, which you cannot lose. No restarts 
 are allowed here, though you will automatically respawn at the last race checkpoint (if the course 
 has one) if you meet your demise. This mode is thoroughly challenging, since the courses are designed 
 in such a way that the slightest mistake will send you careening of the side of the track and most 
 likely your doom. However, this mode tends to have a negative challenge associated with it; losing 
 a survival series wont have you coming back and trying again, eager to learn from your mistakes; 
 instead, youll most likely just become frustrated and switch to the games better two single-player 
 modes.
  
  TrackMania has no real multiplayer modes, but it does have a community thats nothing short of 
 incredible; the game has a small but devoted group of fans who are constantly making insane tracks 
 and uploading them onto the official website, making them freely available to you. As if there 
 wasnt enough value in the games offline modes, you can attain hundreds of quality tracks, free 
 of charge. You of course have the same the power, as well as the ability to rate and review tracks.
 
  
  The only place where TrackMania really falters is its presentation; since it is, in fact, a budget 
 title, the visuals and the audio in particular just dont cut it when placed side by side with 
 other PC (or console) games. The games built-it-yourself mentality doesnt lend itself well to 
 quality visuals, since you get a flat plain to have lots of building space. However, if you give 
 your track enough attention, it can look quite good; each setting comes with natural objects (be 
 they trees, cacti, or rock formations) that you can place to give your track a nicer look, and 
 you can even build mountains that, aside from adding to the look of your track, can be used to 
 house underground sections of your creation. Still, more could have been done in the way of visual 
 effects and overall look of the game. Audio-wise, the game is spectacularly average; the low quality 
 midi-music is tinny and irritating, and all of the engine revs and screechy skids sound pretty 
 bland. 
  
  Though the presentation is certainly less than optimal (or even less than just plain good) , thats 
 really not what TrackMania is about; its about being able to build your own masterpiece of a track. 
 Its about finally beating one of those I cant believe I didnt get that sooner! types of challenges. 
 Most of all though, TrackMania is about simplicity, and if you can look past the games flaws and 
 can accept a game you wont be able to lose yourself in for hours on end, TrackMania will fit the 
 bill.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpaisley24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2004 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Simply stated, this game is pure, simple fun. Who would have thought that the use of only 5 keys 
 during the game could be so much fun (4 arrow keys to drive and Enter to start over) . 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10  Several modes to choose from: race, puzzle, survival, and online. They are all 
 great fun in their own right. I really enjoy puzzle  it makes you think a little bit between the 
 mindless 5 button races (but mindless racing is great in this game, dont get me wrong!) . Online 
 racing is fun too, if just to check out the crazy tracks that users have come up with. The only 
 negative of gameplay is the fact that there is no collision or damage modeling between cars. You 
 can drive through everyone. The good part of this is that it means lag has no effect on your racing. 
 I join European servers all the time, and its still good fun. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10  Nothing mindblowing here, but it certainly serves the purpose, and runs smooth 
 as silk too (even at 1600x1200 on my 9600XT) . 
  
  SOUND: 7/10  I kind of enjoy the quirky menu music, but the music during the game does get a little 
 repetitive. Just put a CD on in the background, and youre good to go. 
  
  VALUE: 9/10  I paid $27 for this game, and I can see myself spending many many hours on it  especially 
 if you take the time to start creating your own tracks. 
  
  TILT: 10/10  theres something about this game that is just so much fun to play, and I dont know 
 what it is. Its fairly simple, but the tracks are so cool, its just a blast. I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone looking for a non-realistic racing game thats just pure fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
