-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trade Empires
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/tradeempires/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.0, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 28 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Frog City Software
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 17, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Trade Empires lays out a broad and varied economic world that's initially interesting to explore, 
 but over time, this doesn't justify all the effort the game demands. 

 Many strategy games incorporate trade as one of the central challenges for the player to overcome 
 in building an empire. But perhaps none re-creates the art of buying low and selling high in such 
 detail as Trade Empires. The game puts you in charge of a merchant family with the straightforward 
 goal of growing as wealthy as possible in a variety of scenarios that cover a vast reach of history, 
 from the first civilizations of the Mesopotamian and Indus river valleys to medieval China and 
 industrialized Britain. The single-minded focus and historical scope promise great depth and variety, 
 but Trade Empires asks a lot of the player without providing much payoff. The limited management 
 interface, slow pacing, and subpar computer competition make the busywork of running a merchant 
 house an unfulfilling task.           Trade Empires spans thousands of years of mercantilist history. 
    

  Trade Empires is built on a tradition of conquest-driven empire games, but it strips the model 
 down to its economic core. The game's developer, Frog City, previously created the Imperialism 
 games, which strongly tie the military rise of European powers to mercantilism. Trade Empires does 
 away with political borders and military operations. Now profit is both a means and an end. But 
 your itinerant merchants aren't just piggybacking on natural economic growth. The trade routes 
 you and your competitors create shape the ancient world. Markets with plentiful food and luxuries 
 will encourage the local population to grow from nothing into bustling cities in the course of 
 decades.   

  The game's scenarios depict times of great opportunity, when shifts in markets and commodity demands 
 create an environment that might allow a successful trader to become a merchant prince. In most 
 cases, it's entirely your responsibility to build the infrastructure required for trade. New trading 
 posts and cities must be placed near scattered natural resources and then connected with roads 
 or sea and river ports. You'll build an economy around the manageable number of commodities (like 
 flax, silk, and iron) , luxuries (like incense, copper urns, and cigars) , and military goods (like 
 copper arrows, bronze swords, and gunpowder) that are picked for each episode. Most of the trade 
 goods require at least one refining step, and the most lucrative require two. This often means 
 transporting raw materials from their source to a market with a production building that can refine 
 and combine the necessary resources before delivering the final products to their destination. 
 In addition to hauling goods around, you can build and run the production centers -- which vary from 
 simple one-resource craftsmen, such as carpenters who just require wood, to luxury-producing artisans, 
 like jewelers who can combine either refined silver ingots with pearls or gold ingots with lapis. 
           Regardless of the setting, the object is to make lots of money.    

  To supplement the demand created by the city dwellings that automatically pop up and demand basic 
 goods, you can purchase demand buildings that make the luxury trade more lucrative. In some cases, 
 the best approach to really expanding your wealth is to build small markets just containing palaces, 
 ziggurats, and the like to add volume to the luxury trade without burdening your merchants with 
 demand for less-remunerative items like food. The range of products available will naturally depend 
 on the time period, but as an episode progresses, you'll be able to buy technological advances 
 that allow for new products, buildings, and means of transportation. As with infrastructure construction, 
 technology is immediately available once purchased. Only trade and economic development require 
 the real-time game clock to run.   

  The real work starts when you've laid down the infrastructure for your business. The central tension 
 in Trade Empire's economy is between the need to oversupply new markets to keep prices low for 
 city growth and the overall goal of creating enough demand for goods to drive the price up and 
 pad profits. Your merchants are the driving economic force, as they run through preset trade routes, 
 buying and selling on spot market prices. A surplus of goods in the market drives prices down over 
 time, and a shortage brings prices up. Each scenario is divided up into a handful of square regions 
 that are abstractly connected by land and sea routes. Often, an essential resource is located in 
 only one or two of the regions, so far-flung colonies must be established to bring these goods 
 back. The map doesn't have a zoom feature that lets you get a look at everything at once, but there 
 is a regional overlay map that's useful for spotting resources and planning your strategy. With 
 such large distances to move goods across, it can be quite a challenge to turn a profit, even if 
 merchants are meeting demands and encouraging growth.    

 Trade Empires makes you keep a constant watch on price fluctuations, as your merchants will follow 
 your preset orders to the letter, just as gladly dumping products for a loss as selling them at 
 a premium. However, the game doesn't give you centralized tools for either monitoring markets' 
 demands or measuring the success of trade routes. For a game focused on financial management, it's 
 astounding that there are no graphs of any kind at your disposal. There are only two simple counters 
 for gauging your success: the amount of gold currently in your treasury and each merchant's lifetime 
 earnings or losses. Fortunately, you can reset the merchant counters periodically, since it's otherwise 
 impossible to tell if a long-profitable route has turned into a money-losing endeavor.         
   Sometimes you'll have to refine your goods to make luxury items.    

  It's a good thing that Trade Empires' economic model presents a decent challenge, because your 
 own high scores are the best source of competition. The episodes are balanced so there's just enough 
 time (usually several centuries) to develop a solid economy and then watch the money come in. There's 
 a limit of 30 merchants, a number that isn't hard to reach after setting up some distant colonies, 
 so it's a good idea to make sure each one counts. With transportation advances, it's possible to 
 improve the efficiency of trade routes considerably over the course of an episode, but this does 
 require combing through each one and redesigning those that are inefficient. Even with many routes, 
 the interface isn't confusing, but it does require a lot of clicking through pull-down menus.  

  Victory in the game's various scenarios amounts to racking up a high score. That is, if you're 
 hoping for varied scenario objectives, then you'll be disappointed. In fact, the game's victory 
 conditions screen is really just a summary of how any given scenario is scripted to unfold as new 
 technologies become available. It doesn't help that the artificial intelligence for competing merchant 
 families seems faulty or at least not very engaging. In several episodes against the AI, the competition 
 quickly ran out of funds to buy goods for trade and subsequently spent the rest of the time doing 
 nothing, its merchants holed up in towns. It would have been better if the AI traders just declared 
 bankruptcy and let new competitors take their place. The only combat in the game is handled through 
 abstract encounters -- bandits and buccaneers will occasionally stop a merchant crossing between 
 regions. As insurance, you need to hire various guard types to prevent losing your cargo and having 
 to ransom your merchant, but this is one of the least involving of your management duties.     
       The computer doesn't do a good job taking care of its business.    

  The game's 2D graphics are well rendered, but the visual style is somewhat bland and sparse despite 
 the welcome diversity in graphics for structures built in different regions and time periods. When 
 you change regions within an episode, you might notice that palaces and dwellings look different, 
 and there's also a short bit of music themed for the local culture. This is the only music in the 
 game, and the rest of the game's audio comprises a few limited sound effects. At least the clink 
 of money exchanging hands is well represented. You'll hear it often.   

  Trade Empires blends elements from management games like Railroad Tycoon II and empire games like 
 Imperialism II, but in stripping away all real competition and generalizing an economic system 
 for 4,000 years of human civilization, the game loses the specificity and dramatic conflict that 
 make such games so addicting. The lack of detailed economic graphs also means you don't get the 
 satisfaction of being able to see how you've progressed over time. While there are plenty of episodes 
 to keep you busy, the play style is functionally uniform, and unless high score rankings mean something 
 to you, there's little intrinsic replay value to the scenarios. Trade Empires lays out a broad 
 and varied economic world that's initially interesting to explore, but over time, this doesn't 
 justify all the effort the game demands.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  The marketing team at Eidos did an excellent job with the box cover, the screen shots and the description 
 of the game. However the game is exactly what is advertised nothing more, this I think is the downfall 
 of this game. The plan is simple you have resources lying around, now make money to buy more items 
 to make even more money. The main problem is your given a set time to finish in any of the numerous 
 scenarios which is adequate but once the time is up or the goal complete there is no reason to 
 continue playing. Setting the trade routes can be repetitive and frustrating. The option are not 
 very well thought out and requires some practice. The graphics are nothing special, sounds effects 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxthirteen
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:58 am PT
Review:  We all love the lure of being a simulated millionare, owning kingdoms, raising cities, and battleing 
 each other for economic power. Trade Empires offer all this.. but just doesn't present it. 
  Even from the start you have a hard time staying interested, everything is usually the same from 
 city to city. You play a merchant king hiring different merchants to run routes of different supplies 
 to different cities, depending on their needs.. sounded like a fun concept, but i just couldnt 
 find any of the game concept fun. I lose interest quickly as the supply and demand system became 
 not only annoying, but seemingly unbalanced. I gave my best effort to put a good amount of time 
 into the game to give it a chance, but ended up just becoming painfully bored. The graphics are 
 very lacking, and sound is just worth turning off. After gaining a huge number of routes and trading 
 posts I lost track of what I was doing and what was gowing where, but it didnt seem to matter because 
 i kept gaining money anyway not matter what.. all i had to do is just leave the game running and 
 walk away and I won. What the hell? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
