-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trainz Railroad Simulator 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/trainz2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 23, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 6.8, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 175 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Oteeva
Developer: Auran
Genre: Train Sim
Date:     Nov 2, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Trainz 2004 could have used more polish and improvement in some areas, but overall it's a welcome 
 addition to the growing Trainz franchise. 

  When Trainz was released in 2002, it was a hit among railroad enthusiasts. Half simulation and 
 half creativity tool, Trainz let you build the virtual railroads of your dreams with a very user-friendly 
 set of editing tools. Then you could ride the rails across your newly created routes or those created 
 by other fans. For all of Trainz's strengths, the program was limited in many ways. The focus tended 
 to be more on simulating model railroading than simulating real-world railroading, at least until 
 ambitious fans learned how to push the program's boundaries. There was no easy way to simulate 
 real railroad operations; trackside industries didn't actually produce anything; and there were 
 no steam engines, among other flaws. With Trainz Railroad Simulator 2004, fans can start checking 
 items off of their Trainz wish lists. This new version incorporates features from patches to the 
 original Trainz while adding major new features, like steam engines and dynamic railroad industries. 
 Trainz 2004 could have used more polish and improvement in some areas, but overall it's a welcome 
 addition to the growing Trainz franchise.  

          Stoking the fire on one of the new steam locomotives.     

  As far as the basics go, 
 Trainz 2004 is quite like its predecessor, which is definitely a good thing. It's a modular system 
 with a few basic components. The Surveyor module lets you create railroad routes, replete with 
 detailed scenery and operating switches and signals. The Driver module lets you drive across the 
 routes. The Railyard module lets you view all your cars and engines. In Railyard, you see that 
 developer Auran has addressed one of the biggest flaws of the original Trainz. Now you get steam 
 engines -- and some glorious ones at that. Along with diesel and electric engines from all over the 
 world (not to mention many kinds of railroad cars) , Trainz 2004 includes steam locomotives like 
 the famed Flying Scotsman and the massive Union Pacific Big Boy. Some relative obscurities, like 
 an Italian engine from the 1920s, make appearances too.  

  While the new steam locomotives are a cause for rejoicing, you only get a small handful of them. 
 Then again, what you don't find in the game, you should be able to find online soon enough. Auran's 
 "Download Station" hosts over 15,000 free user-created locomotives, routes, scenery objects, and 
 other items for the various Trainz programs, with new items appearing all the time. (Many items 
 created and properly configured for the original Trainz should work with the 2004 version, too.) 

  Trainz 2004's Driver module offers many of the same basic features as before. Here you drive trains 
 by using a simple model railroad-style controller or more complex controls and physics that are 
 modeled after the real thing. You can view the action from multiple angles: a 360-degree interior 
 cab view, dramatic tracking shots, a dynamic external view linked to specific engines or cars, 
 and now -- prayers have been answered -- a true free-roaming view that lets you skip all across a route. 
 Along with the trackside views, a map mode lets you watch and control the overall action from on 
 high, though it can sometimes be hard to read the small station and industry labels easily.  

 
          Coal pours into hopper cars at an interactive mine.     

  While many of the fundamentals still apply in Trainz 2004, there are some major differences in 
 the Driver mode. In the past, you set up a Driver session by selecting a route, then creating and 
 placing trains on it, choosing the weather, and so forth, all from within the Driver module. It 
 was easy and straightforward. Now you have to choose from ready-made sessions where everything 
 is preset for you. Otherwise, you have to go into the Surveyor module, place trains, add or edit 
 a series of little rule scripts, and then save it all as a new session before playing. This makes 
 things more time-consuming and complicated than before, so the new system might be a turn-off to 
 casual players who just want to throw a train together, set the weather, and ride the rails with 
 ease.  

  Still, sessions can now offer something that makes Trainz 2004 far superior to its predecessor 
 in one regard. Now, certain interactive industries create waybills detailing their commodity requirements, 
 and it's up to you to keep all the industries working by shipping goods to and fro. For example, 
 with one train you'll pick up fuel at a refinery and unload it at a mine. Meanwhile, another train 
 will pick up coal from the mine and drop it off at a power plant, which, in turn, keeps other industries 
 running. There's no support for interactive passenger service yet, though Auran says a free patch 
 with these features should be out in the near future.     

  Depending on how a session has been set up, you might get AI drivers that you can assign to trains. 
 You can then actually issue strings of orders from a branching menu system. For example, you can 
 tell an AI driver to pick up certain commodities at certain industries. This system is straightforward 
 and works pretty well. AI trains seem to avoid each other and execute their duties competently, 
 although you might need to step in to some degree, depending on the number of trains and the complexity 
 of the layout. If you want, you can always take over for an AI driver, and you can control a train 
 directly too. You can also save your sessions to pick up where you left off.  

          You can now issue orders to AI drivers     

  The sessions are relatively open-ended, 
 but you also get nine scripted, focused scenarios (a feature introduced in a patch to the original 
 Trainz) that score you on how well you complete specific goals. These play out on a number of interesting 
 routes and might require you to keep to a tight schedule as you test new safety equipment, for 
 example. While these scenarios can be fun, it's a shame more of them aren't included. You can create 
 your own scenarios, but here Trainz 2004 derails. Creating layouts with all the included buildings, 
 bridges, and so forth is easy enough, but to move beyond that to create truly custom content, like 
 a new scenario or a new locomotive, you'll likely have to master a detailed scripting language 
 or a third-party 3D modeling and paint program.  

  Along with Railyard and Driver, the Surveyor layout-creation module boasts some new features. For 
 example, you now place "consists" (engines and groups of cars) on a route directly from this module 
 as part of session creation, and you can set commodity input/output levels for certain industries. 
 Overall, Surveyor remains a wonderfully user-friendly tool that lets you quickly shape terrain, 
 color it, lay track, place buildings and other scenery, and more. You should be able to hammer 
 out a small, nice-looking layout in a few hours. With more time and effort, you can create a huge 
 railroad empire with about as much detail as you want. Trainz 2004 offers dozens of new scenery 
 items to fire your imagination, too.  

  The scenes you create can be a bit disappointing visually, though. If ever a game's presentation 
 earned the "mixed bag" clich, Trainz 2004 is it. The graphics show little significant improvement 
 over the original Trainz, which means they still look very pleasant -- to be sure -- but they also 
 seem dated. Lighting is bland, and shadows look unconvincing. Some textures look simplistic or 
 downright ugly. A few new features, like animated water,  do  enhance the game, though. In fact, 
 new animations are one of the best features of Trainz 2004. Industries now come to life with coal 
 pouring down from mine chutes into hopper cars, forklifts moving logs at a sawmill, and more. Sadly, 
 the interface that once looked so clean, attractive, and professional now looks a bit clumsy or 
 ugly in places, such as the slightly pixelated new main control interface of the Driver module. 
 There doesn't seem to have been any real attempt made to meld all the new interface elements with 
 the old ones, in terms of look and feel, so it can almost seem like you're playing two games at 
 once.  

          Impressive vistas abound, even if the graphics don't always do them justice.     

  
 The audio is detailed and fairly convincing. Not only will you hear sounds like hissing brakes 
 or couplers clanking as slack is taken out of trains when they get under way, but you'll also hear 
 birds twittering in the woods or the warning "beep beep beep" of a dump truck that's backing up 
 at a mine. On the other hand, some sound files end with too obvious a cutoff or suffer from static 
 clicks. Furthermore, it's odd to always hear AI drivers speaking to you over the radio in English, 
 even if the route is supposed to be set in the Alps.  

  Trainz 2004 could use improvement and added polish in other areas as well. You only get a brief 
 printed manual and no printed list of keyboard commands, so you'll need to turn to a bunch of PDF 
 manuals for most of your information. The game is also marred by long load times. Along with suffering 
 from a number of bugs and typos, the program crashed our computer during installation. You also 
 have to wonder why no online capability is included. It would have been great fun to run simulated 
 operations with multiple players handling different trains and dispatching to mimic the sorts of 
 sessions you can find at model railroad clubs. Still, the new features in Trainz Railroad Simulator 
 2004 are most welcome and make it a more realistic sim, in addition to making it more like a game. 
 With the original Trainz, some people said, "Well, that's nice, but what are you supposed to do 
 when you're done riding in circles?" Now these people have an answer: You can create a route, enjoy 
 riding around on it, and with the new interactive industries and AI drivers, you can really make 
 the train  do  something.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Trainz.
  
  Basically a train simulator that allows you to participate in complex scenarios based on passenger 
 services or complex industrial operations. You can also create good scenarios with then inbuilt, 
 eays-to-use editor; or go for more complex script writing.
  
  If you like trains and railways, then this is like the ulitmate model trainset, and can give you 
 hours of fun. You can create anything you want with it, such as historical routes, or your favourite 
 branch line, then drive authentic trains along these routes. Good physics simulation means that 
 driving a train is not as easy as it sounds. It takes time to build up speed and time to stop. 
 Sharp curves in the track can cause derailment if you're going to fast, and if you don't brake 
 early enough then you can easily overshoot a red signal. It takes time to master each train, weight 
 and the number of carriages being the determining factors. The controls of the engines are quite 
 accurate, although the controls of the steam engines slightly dumbed down, and are not as comprehensive 
 as those found in Microsoft Train Simulator. But it is a very good simulator in the truest sense, 
 and therefore even has training value. 
  
  The simulator does not have any multiplayer functionality, but I don't think this is a problem 
 since trains operate to strict programmes and schedules, with little room for creative interaction. 
 The best part of the game, in terms of gameplay, are the scenarios, which allow you to participate 
 in pre-programmed mission-like operations, such as operating a short route in a busy period. There 
 are only a few of these scenarios, and the sim could definitely have benefited from more.
  
  It has to be said that graphics are not one of this games strengths. They were only average 
 when the game was released back in 2004, and now, in 2006, they look dated. In particular the textures 
 are wishy-washy and the water effects are weak.
  
  Sound is better. The engine sound is good, and there is a good variety of 3D sound sources in the 
 game. I like the noise the wheels make on the tracks when the train is turning. It sounds very 
 authentic. 
  
  In terms of value, it's worth getting if you're a train or simulator enthusiast, but otherwise 
 you might find it gets boring quite quickly. If it had pretty graphics to look at, it might have 
 had addtional value; but as it is now it can seem a bit pointless to the non-enthusiast. 
  
  One of the things that I don't like about this game is the way the game contols the user in 
 the downloading and uploading of add-ons. Messing around with add-ons can be great fun, but this 
 game forces you to download and upload content to Auran's website, and will not allow you to download 
 more 100MB per month without paying. I think this sucks big time. A single scenario, with all the 
 dependant files, is likely to be over 100MB; therefore you cannot download it unless you subscribe. 
 The lack of scenarios in the original game mean that you're likely to want to download more quite 
 soon, which means paying for it, which to me feels like I'm paying Auran for someone's freeware. 
 The problem with this is that too many games are charging these days. Look at Warcraft. Four or 
 five of these subscriptions (Gamespot included) and you're suddenly parting with a lot of cash 
 per month, which means your limited as to what games you can play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
