-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trainz
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/trainz/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Auran
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Feb 10, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've ever been captivated by the romance of the rails or have perhaps thought of dabbling in 
 model railroading, Trainz could easily make an enthusiastic convert of you. 

 It's a strange, postmodern world. First, there were railroads. Then there were model railroads that 
 simulated them. Now with Trainz, we have a simulation of a simulation. Trainz actually models model 
 railroading. As odd as that may sound at first, it really makes good sense. As any model railroader 
 will tell you, some of the biggest challenges of the hobby are finding the time, money, and space 
 to build a big model railroad layout. Unlike creating model cars or planes, model railroading usually 
 entails building big, minutely detailed, fully functioning models. With Trainz, you can create 
 the virtual model railroad of your dreams, easily expressing your creativity and indulging your 
 imagination.           It's fun and easy to build your own model railroad using Trainz.    

  Trainz is a modular system that ships with three components: My Collection, Surveyor, and Driver. 
 These modules let you examine your collected engines and rolling stock (railroad cars) , create 
 railroad layouts, and drive trains across them. Trainz developer Auran (the Australian developer 
 responsible for the great 1997 real-time strategy game Dark Reign) plans to release expansion modules 
 that will let you simulate complex switching and dispatching operations or handle the financial 
 end of running your railroad. Auran also plans to release various locomotive and rolling stock 
 packs to add to your collection. You can already download a number of free engines and structures 
 created by either Auran or fans using 3D modeling programs, one of which is included with Trainz. 
   

  Regardless of what Auran might deliver in the future, the core Trainz package offers loads of features 
 that will have any rail fan or model railroader really excited. The My Collection module lets you 
 view all your engines and rolling stock, and the game ships with dozens of them. You can sort them 
 by country of origin or railroad company, as well as view real-world background information on 
 each engine or car. For rolling stock, you'll get boxcars, refrigerator cars, hoppers, a variety 
 of passenger cars, and more. Engines include the F7 and SD40-2 diesels of North America, the Class 
 340 of Spain's Renfe line, and Sweden's Rc4 electric, among others. Sadly, you don't get any steam 
 engines, which will surely disappoint the countless rail fans who love the "golden age of steam." 
           There's a wide variety of authentic train types available.    

  When you're done admiring your collection, you can head out onto the rails in the Driver module. 
 First, you'll assemble your train by simply dragging and dropping engines and cars from a list 
 to a little window at the bottom of the screen in the order you like. Then you choose the weather 
 (cloudy, rainy, snowy, and so on) and how often it can change. You can also set the time of day 
 and choose a time compression factor, if any. You can also decide whether or not trains can derail. 
 Then you choose starting positions for your trains from a number of preset locations on the game's 
 three sample layouts set in North America, Britain, and Australia. All the layouts are interesting, 
 but it would have been better if the game had included more.   

  When you're ready to go, you can drive your trains using a model-railroad-style DCC controller 
 with a knob to control direction and speed, or you can use realistic engine controls and physics, 
 more like a simulator. Navigating the layouts is fairly trouble-free thanks to a track map and 
 easily changed track switches. Coupling and uncoupling cars is a simple point-and-click affair, 
 but since the game doesn't offer any scenarios, you'll have to rely wholly on your imagination 
 in planning your operations.    

 You can watch the action from multiple camera views, including one inside the engine cab. The camera 
 is very easy to zoom and pan, though it's unfortunate that you can't position it anywhere you want -- you 
 have to rely on preset layout-specific positions or follow the train directly. It would have been 
 nice to get a truly free bird's-eye view.           You can operate your train from the inside 
 or from the outside.    

  Unlike in Microsoft's Train Simulator, which realistically re-creates huge stretches of track to 
 scale, the distances between points of interest tend to be compressed in Trainz, much like in a 
 real model railroad. Just as soon as you leave a town, you're likely to pass a towering grain elevator 
 or cross a bridge over a rocky gorge with a stream winding far below. In Trainz, there's always 
 something engaging to see.   

  Trainz's graphics beautifully bring the layouts to life. The engines are nicely detailed, with 
 working headlights and exhaust billowing in the breeze, though not all of the cab interiors properly 
 match the exteriors. The trackside scenery is also impressive, with varied buildings, working track 
 signals, and moving automobiles. (If you look closely, you'll see one that looks suspiciously like 
 the A-Team's van.) The dynamic weather is impressive, too, with lightning flickering across dark, 
 distant clouds during a storm. It's odd, though, that while selecting "heavy snow" will indeed 
 make snowflakes float down, the ground and rooftops will remain clear.   

  To complement the graphics, the game wisely features realistic sound effects, as opposed to those 
 based on little model trains. Again, there are lots of neat details to discover, like a banjo playing 
 inside a little rustic cabin.   

  When creating your own model railroading scenes, you'll turn to the superb Surveyor module. Thanks 
 to a wonderfully clear and intuitive interface, you can start creating a layout in no time. You'll 
 hardly even need the manual, though it's a fairly good one. You can quickly morph terrain before 
 your eyes, alter ground textures, and preview the layout with different weather and lighting. You 
 can set down office blocks, bakeries, roundhouses with turntables, groups of people, horses, trackside 
 signs, and just about anything else you can think of.           The scenery is rich with visual 
 and aural detail.    

  Laying track is equally simple, though you're currently limited to standard gauge track. Between 
 that and the lack of steam engines, there's presently no way to create, say, a classic Colorado 
 or Maine narrow-gauge line out of the box. You're also currently limited to textures and objects 
 geared toward layouts set in Australia, Britain, and North America. To re-create other regions 
 realistically, you might have to wait until more appropriate textures and objects are released 
 or create your own. Another problem with the Surveyor module is that the default choice in the 
 "quit" dialogue box is to exit  without  saving your layout, which makes it too easy to lose an 
 hour's worth of work.   

  That's really a fairly minor quibble, considering Trainz's many great strengths. By letting you 
 so easily create so much, Trainz is one of those programs you can return to again and again. Since 
 it's currently more a construction program than a simulator or game, imagination is required, but 
 that's a good thing. If you're already an ardent model railroader or rail fan, you owe it to yourself 
 to give Trainz a try. If you've ever been at least slightly captivated by the romance of the rails 
 or have perhaps thought of dabbling in model railroading, Trainz could easily make an enthusiastic 
 convert of you.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Blakewiz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much to offer. Not only does it allow you to drive the train it also lets you 
 build your own routes, run a train yard, paint your own trains and much more. It has varying amounts 
 of realism from model train to just like the real thing. There are lots of routes to chose from 
 plus the build your own route is a nice addition. The actual scenarios are very interactive and 
 fun once you get the hang of them. It gets more of that 'human' feel than Microsoft Train Simulator. 
 Anyways, if your looking for a great train game get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiecutter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2004 1:56 pm PT
Review:  For a genre that you assume would be suffering from overcrowding, the train driver simulation scene 
 has been underwelming to say the least. Microsoft did their bit with the Microsoft Train Simulator, 
 which featured realistic engines, scenery and real world tracks. Auran's answer, Trainz, cuts back 
 on the real world tracks and the detail but beats its more fancied opponent on the ground simply 
 by being more fun to play.
  
  The game features three different "worlds", America, Great Britian and Australia. None of these 
 networks are based off real world settings, but are still well detailed and expansive. There's 
 a large selection of engines and carriages available as well, with a great deal of the world's 
 finest on show. The detail of these engines and carriages goes to show Auran's commitment to the 
 cause, and trainspotters will delight in every detailed coupling and accurate colour scheme. One 
 noticable absentee however is Queensland Rail's Tilt Train, which, when you consider that most 
 of the other Australian train services are represented, is a bit sad. 
  
  The controls are an interesting package; They can be as impossibly complex or mind-numbingly easy 
 as you want them to be, from a set of complex start up and take off procedures to merely just hitting 
 the "go forwards" button. Younger players will appriciate the simpler controls while the hardcore 
 sim fan will appriciate the more complex system.
  
  If the game has a fault, it's that the game might be a little too simplicistic. The graphics, presentation, 
 and scenery are all fine, but they can be a little sparse and samey, and it's one area that MTS 
 beat it hands down. Also, with only three major track systems in game, it won't be long before 
 you have your fill of the tracks on offer, and wonder where the next track will come from. Luckily, 
 there is a steady community out there that can provide custom tracks as well as engines, carriages 
 and scenery. 
  
  Like MTS, there is a scenario mode available. And like MTS's scenario mode, most of the scenarios 
 play out much the same way - Drive the train without breaking the rules, stop at all the stations, 
 drive in varible conditions and so forth. While admittedly, there's not much you can do in this 
 regard with a train simulator, it would have been nice to see a bit of variation in the missions. 
 Having said that, it's fun, hard work, but probably unsuited to younger players who may like driving 
 around the tracks at high speed better.
  
  There are some problems with the track editor, too. Overall it's fun to play around with but far 
 too often you'll find yourself building tracks that are too dangerous for the trains to drive on. 
 Building tracks of any real substance or realism also requires a great deal of patience. Don't 
 expect to be able to construct your local train network in an afternoon session, or with any great 
 precision. In spite of its problems though, the track editor is still much better than the one 
 provided by Microsoft for MTS.
  
  Sonically, the game is everything you'd expect it to be. There's nothing spectactular here, but 
 nothing completely outragious either, which is just as good.
  
  It should be noted that the version reviewed here is the budget release of Trainz which features 
 the Scenarios mentioned in the review. Readers should also note that an updated version of Trainz 
 was released in 2004.
  
  Those looking for a more realistic experience might be advised to seek out Microsft Train Simulator. 
 However, if all you want to do is play Train Driver and storm about the make-believe countryside 
 in the Orient Express, then Trainz is the better option.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kane13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2004 12:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first laid eyes upon trains, I thought, What a dumb game." Boy, was I wrong. Even If you 
 know nothing about trains, you will like this. Everything about it is superb. There are four modes. 
 Driver, colletion and seanerios. In collection, you can look at the trains you have, in Driver, 
 you can take control of a train and just drive it around. In searnerio, tou can start a campign 
 in trains, Everything about it is awesome, and I would recomend it to anyone. Even if you hate 
 trains, go pick this up, because it is truly superb!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
