-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Treasure Planet: Battle at Procyon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/treasureplanetbattleap/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 48 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive
Developer: Barking Dog
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Treasure Planet may not be the next Homeworld, but it's short and sweet -- just not very deep. 
 

 In the past, computer games based on Disney movies have usually been little more than children's 
 games designed to quickly cash in on the success of the films themselves, without offering much 
 value for serious gamers. But somewhere along the way, Disney Interactive decided that games based 
 on Disney licenses should appeal to more than just 10-year-olds. And so, the most recent Disney-based 
 game actually offers more than previous lightweight Disney games. In fact, Treasure Planet: Battle 
 at Procyon, based on the Disney animated motion picture  Treasure Planet , is indeed a "real" game 
 from Barking Dog Studios, the same developer that created Homeworld: Cataclysm. It's a natural 
 fit, because the movie is an adventure set in space. And while the style of Treasure Planet favors 
 18th-century space galleons over the futuristic spaceships of Homeworld, the backdrop is still 
 the same: vast seas of black space, swirling nebulae, and treacherous asteroid archipelagos. And 
 the general idea is the same as well: Take control of space ships and blast away at enemy vessels 
 until you save the universe from the clutches of evil.           In Treasure Planet, you play as 
 Jim Hawkins, the hero from the movie and a captain in the Imperial Navy.    

  Treasure Planet actually takes place five years after the events in the movie. You play as the 
 main character from the film, Jim Hawkins, who has finally realized his lifelong dream of joining 
 the Imperial Navy. You begin the game on the day of Jim's final exams at the naval academy. If 
 he can complete the final exercise, he becomes a full-fledged lieutenant in Her Majesty's Service. 
 Just in time too, because the galaxy is undergoing some important changes that require a more vigilant 
 and dedicated navy than ever before. The Terran Empire is on the cusp of a peace treaty with the 
 Procyon Empire, but space pirates have made space travel dangerous for both of these former enemies. 
 So, young Lieutenant Hawkins is thrust into action as soon as his training ends, and he begins 
 his career hunting pirates and keeping the peace.   

  However, a few missions into the 12-mission single-player campaign you soon discover that a menace 
 greater than pirates is threatening the galaxy. Mysterious alien ships called Ironclads, which 
 look like industrial, steel-plated submarines, have been ravaging Procyon space, and as a gesture 
 of solidarity, the Terran Queen has sent her navy to help battle this Ironclad menace. Meanwhile, 
 coincidentally, a Procyon fleet is en route to the heart of Terran territory to finalize the peace 
 treaty. That conveniently leaves Jim pretty much alone in Terran space to battle pirates, as well 
 as to extend a cautious welcome to the suspicious Procyon visitors and also to investigate alarming 
 rumors that Ironclads have secretly penetrated the heartland of the Terran homeworlds. The game's 
 story is simple and has predictable plot twists. You find out eventually that friends aren't really 
 friends and enemies aren't really enemies. But at first, everything is fairly straightforward, 
 and you merrily gun down pirate ships and ironclads with your cannons, lasers, and torpedoes.  
          Although set in outer space, Treasure Planet's ships are galleons, complete with sails 
 and cannons.    

  Like the movie, Treasure Planet has an unusual setting -- one that combines 18th-century European 
 battleships with spaceships and futuristic weaponry. Rockets and lasers sit alongside cannons and 
 sails on galleons, sloops, and men-of-war. In fact, Treasure Planet plays more like a sea-ship 
 simulator than a space game; it isn't another Homeworld. The action takes place on a 2D plane, 
 and you can't even rotate the camera up and down along the Z-axis to get views of the underbellies 
 or roofs of ships. Instead of planets, you sail alongside islands that float in the void. You'll 
 even see schools of alien fish and space whales swim by your fleet. In fact, if you swapped out 
 Treasure Planet's black space for blue water, you'd have a naval game -- but the space setting is 
 charming and consistent enough to suspend your disbelief, as long as you keep in mind that the 
 game is based on a cartoon movie.    

 Treasure Planet's gameplay is very straightforward and simple, especially because the game's battles 
 are in 2D rather than in 3D as they were in Homeworld. Moreover, the space vessels look and act 
 like sea ships, so they're easy to understand and intuitive to control. The tutorial does a great 
 job of teaching you the basic controls and will have you navigating the campaign missions with 
 aplomb. Once in a mission, you just point and click to move or to shoot at enemy ships. There is 
 a minor role-playing aspect to this very story-driven game, which features in-engine cutscenes, 
 in-mission dialogue, and post-mission debriefings. As you progress through the campaign, you will 
 rise in rank, end up controlling several ships (you begin by controlling only one) , and gain better 
 and larger ships. You can also sometimes assign new crew members and weapons to your existing ships 
 during the beginning of certain missions.           The game's 12-mission campaign has simple, 
 straightforward objectives. You'll fight pirates, then mysterious Ironclads, and perhaps even the 
 Procyons themselves.    

  Unfortunately, Treasure Planet is perhaps too simple, at least for serious game players. And although 
 it can be fun, it isn't terribly challenging and doesn't offer the depth of other space strategy 
 games like Starfleet Command III or Homeworld. There just isn't much to do except maneuver around 
 your target and shoot. For instance, the game gives you the option to board an enemy ship, but 
 it's actually impossible to do in practice, because Treasure Planet doesn't have the necessary 
 helm controls to help you match your speed with your target, unless you destroy the enemy ship's 
 sails, which renders it useless, anyway. You also have only limited access to the crew and weapon 
 upgrade screen, so the game doesn't offer any in-depth ship customization. This makes sense considering 
 that Disney's audience is the casual gamer; perhaps Disney Interactive figured that detailed ship 
 customization and greater controls might detract from Treasure Planet's simplified gameplay, which 
 is very consistent and very easy to understand.   

  Treasure Planet also has multiplayer support so that you can play against other players in LAN 
 or Internet games. It also has open ship skirmishes and scripted scenarios. But because Treasure 
 Planet's gameplay isn't all that deep, there really isn't much to hold your attention after you 
 finish the single-player campaign. Then again, Treasure Planet's graphics are quite good and feature 
 progressive ship damage so that you can easily tell how damaged ships are and what weapons they 
 have. And the game's explosions are impressive and feature lots of debris, gouts of flame, and 
 lighting effects. The characters in the game aren't voiced by the actual movie actors, which might 
 be jarring for fans of the film, but Treasure Planet's voice acting and sound effects are certainly 
 adequate.           Although you start with one ship, as you rise in rank, you'll command more 
 vessels.    

  For those who enjoyed the movie, Treasure Planet: Battle at Procyon lets you continue adventuring 
 in the unique setting of the  Treasure Planet  motion picture with Jim Hawkins in a mostly entertaining 
 fashion. Even serious strategy fans will find it to be a nice diversion. Treasure Planet may not 
 be the next Homeworld, but it's short and sweet -- just not very deep.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Treasure Planet: Battle at Procyon is the most relaxing game I have ever played and is a must buy. 
 Sound: Now they did a fantastic job on the sound it's made just right. Music: Now this is the best 
 part the Music it's just such a relaxing rhythm I could listen to it all day and not get tired 
 of it. Gameplay: I love the accessibility of the controls because it's so easy to control the ship 
 like some games I play I can't even get the ship to move but not this game this is the best game 
 of the century. Character's: The characters are well plotted but I noticed a few errors, now why 
 does Captain Hawkins have to raise his voice very loud when he's speaking on the intercom? The 
 Procyon's look like something that was pulled out of a fairytale book but thats okay. I have been 
 playing this game everyday sense I got it and I'm glad I did. I love the combat and the graphics 
 are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sphericaleclips
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is not the best game I've played, it's slow and laborious. Sorry Disney but this really is 
 not a winner for me. The game play is interesting and on-line playing with your mates helps over 
 come the slowness of play. But this is not one I would recommend. Time flew whilst learning the 
 game but I just got board really quick and gave the game away as I think it was expensive for what 
 it was. The detail on the ships was good when you got in clos and personal. I also like beaing 
 able to gain victory points and being able to impove ships and crew. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
