-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trespasser
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/trespasser/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.9
Critic Score: 5.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 277 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamworks Interactive
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Trespasser is a frustrating game, filled with boring gameplay and annoying bugs. 

 Trespasser is the most frustrating game I have ever played. Of all the games I have ever reviewed, 
 this one has been the most disappointing. Of all the games I have played, this is the one I am 
 most adamant about never wanting to play again. I don't want to sound mean-spirited, but all gamers 
 should know that Trespasser is a frustrating game, filled with boring gameplay and annoying bugs. 
 It is not fun. It is monotonous and tedious to the point of nausea.  

 The basic premise is that you are a young woman whose plane has crashed on Site B, the second island 
 from Jurassic Park, where dinosaurs still roam free. Your character, Anne, now has to roam across 
 the island looking for some way of getting off the island or at least contacting some help. Thus 
 begins your journey through eight levels of jungle and the occasional dinosaur.  

 Trespasser boasts a realistic and powerful physics-based engine. Knock a barrel over and it will 
 roll and tumble according to the direction and strength of your push. But the designers went overboard 
 with the physics. Everything is governed meticulously by the physics engine, and that complicates 
 even the simplest puzzles needlessly. Even the most basic puzzles, such as stacking boxes to get 
 from low to high ground, take more than a fair share of minutes to complete, as you have to be 
 careful not to touch a box the wrong way lest you topple your carefully constructed box staircase. 
 If you do end up inadvertently messing up your puzzle in progress, you will have to spend even 
 more time rearranging all the boxes. Pretty soon, a puzzle that should only take half a minute 
 has absorbed five minutes of your time. Now multiply that by the ridiculous number of box-stacking 
 puzzles, and you arrive at hours of tedious box pushing and pulling. In many instances, you will 
 wish that Dreamworks had abstracted portions of the game's physics.  

 The action in the game is no less aggravating. There are too many tedious tasks, and there aren't 
 any fun things to do. Exploration is a huge bother because you run so damn slow in this game. Because 
 the levels are expansive jungles and valleys, walking from one area to the next will take way too 
 much time. Although, if Dreamworks sped up the running to a bearable gait, it would simply take 
 less time to figure out the game's true nature: It is nothing but an uneventful and needless hike 
 through a barren landscape. And if you do bother to wander around the levels, you'll find much 
 of nothing. Just more jungle, with nothing to really hold your attention.  

 What about the dinosaurs, which, aside from the torturous physics, are this game's other claim to 
 fame? There are hardly any, and the ones you see are few and far between. Along your prompted path 
 (the half-constructed monorail system) , you might run into one or two brachiosaurs or a stegosaur 
 on occasion. As for challenging and hostile adversaries, you will run into raptors one at a time 
 during different parts of a level. The curious thing is, John Hammond tells you that raptors are 
 pack hunters, so why for almost the entire first half of the game do you only see one raptor at 
 a time? (For that matter, why, when they die, no matter where or how you shot them, do they always 
 lie down in that same position?) And didn't Sam Neil's character in Jurassic Park, in reference 
 to the hadrosaurs and brachiosaurs in Jurassic Park, say, "They do travel in herds"? He certainly 
 did, so why is it that you see one lone hadrosaur at a time and at best two brachiosaurs? It's 
 ridiculous. I think the early claims were for a living ecosystem, but this ecosystem barely qualifies 
 as populated.  

 Another annoyance is that these dinosaurs don't act independently. One benefit of the Trespasser 
 engine is a range of sight that lets you peer far into the distance. Unfortunately, it also allowed 
 me to see that the brachiosaurs off in the distance didn't start moving until I got closer. It 
 was like they were waiting for their cue to start acting. So much for sitting on tree branches 
 to see this world come to life. And even when I did see dinosaurs interacting, it was in a disappointing 
 fashion. I lured a raptor to a stegosaur, hoping to see some gory, tail-slapping action, only to 
 witness the stegosaur try to bite the oncoming raptor. At least that's what I assume the stegosaur 
 did, because it tried to poke its assailant with its snout. Everybody knows that a stegosaur would 
 defend itself with its wickedly spiked tail... everybody, it seems, except the stegosaur.  

 The list goes on. There are numerous collision detection bugs. Dinosaurs crashed into each other, 
 boxes got pushed through walls, a brachiosaur impaled itself on a few trees. Many times I walked 
 into an area to see the resident dinosaur fall 50 feet from the sky or jump up that same distance, 
 turn around, and then crash back to the ground.  

 The voice acting is lackluster. Minnie Driver (as the main character, Anne) can't even muster up 
 an ounce of excitement when she sees a dinosaur for the first time (guess it's an everyday occurrence 
 for her) , and Hammond's and Anne's voice-overs sometimes make no sense. One time, at a waterfall, 
 Anne started talking about sleeping at a bus stop and eating vending machine food. What that had 
 to do with her stay on Site B, I don't know. It was as perplexing as the rest of this game.  

 
 You still want to hear more? Well, the arm looks ridiculous, and you can get it to bend in sickening 
 ways that no human would be able to bear. It's also absolutely ludicrous the lengths the designers 
 force you to go through to pick up an object. Yes, it's realistic, but it sure as hell isn't fun 
 having to jut out your hand at every object and then hit two keys while maneuvering your arm to 
 the precise point to pick it up. Half the time, I ended up pushing the object around like some 
 drooling idiot instead of picking it up. And why couldn't Anne have scrounged for a backpack at 
 the crash site so she could carry more than two items? Better yet, why don't your two items carry 
 over from level to level, even though it is supposed to be a seamless level transition? You see 
 what I mean? This game is just too frustrating, too boring, too tedious, too enamored of its vaunted 
 physics engine. It's a good engine, if you don't consider the bugs, but it doesn't amount to much 
 of a game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: christheman1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  When the game was created it must have been groundbreaking but when I played it not too long ago 
 I just laughed. Don't get me wrong, I loved every minute of it. The guns are kewl, the settings 
 are awesome and there is lots to do. It was not a walk in the park though. I started to play it 
 once around 2000 and I got stuck about 5 minutes in. I just could not get past this one part. I 
 tried it again a few years later and by the grace of John Hammond, and a little luck, I finished 
 the game.
  Some parts of the game just made me laugh. The dinosaurs, they were kewl until you shot them and 
 they walked around like they were drunk. They also jumped around and bumped into everything. Some 
 you just could not kill. In a town on the water I used up all of my weapon's amo on a T-rex and 
 he still came after me. I ran onto a pier and the T-rex fell off and became stuck on the beach 
 as I fled. The weapons were almost impossible to aim and add a recoil in there and you have major 
 problems. Finally, the idea of actually using your player's hand to pick up an item drove me insane. 
 I think I spent 65% of the game picking stuff up and holding it in a certain position so that I 
 could see and maneuver.
  Besides my gripes I thought it was fun. I was able to fulfill my lifelong dream of killing dinosaurs, 
 and as a girl too. Awesome!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flashks
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Mr. Chin, your an idiot! although I'm 9 years late with this critic.... your still an idiot. You 
 just have to play it with heart, like a real gamer, with no expectations. I'm not saying what you 
 said isn't true, it's just that you haven't seen the good parts, i hope you opened your eyes in 
 the last years. No offence!
  From my point of view it's was a great game for the year it was released! I played it, enjoyed 
 it, and sincerely I still remember the thrills I had - being alone in the jungle with, sometimes, 
 just a rock in my hand, trying to figure where to go by not being eaten! Sure the dyno's are a 
 little bit block headed, but we all had win 98 (5) In what other game can you explore such a wide, 
 dense jungle? sustained by such a good physical engine?? till 98? 
  (As you could have seen, if you had the interest, more gamers enjoyed the game - not all.... but 
 keep in mind it's not a game addressed to all!)
  Just a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmillen202
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot of potential but also some bugs. Some of them are worked out with the full 
 patch. If you liked The Lost World movie, you should like the atmosphere of the game. It really 
 bridges the gap and makes you feel like you are there at the inGen sites. The textures and some 
 of the terrain and settings are expansive and are really well done. One valley in particular really 
 brought that point home. The inGen town was also incredible and searching for supplies was realistic. 
 There are a lot of dilapidated buildings and vehicles. The sounds are good and the dramatic music 
 plays when it should - another showing of it's movie roots. Now for the not so good. I hated this 
 game when I first got it because of the controls. But because I'm stubborn and did not like wasting 
 money, after 2 days, I got used to them and could not stop playing. You can actually bend the characters 
 wrist and rotate her arm. Which, like I said is useful once it becomes second nature. This means 
 you actually have to use aiming sights on the guns to aim them (no cross hairs here - not real) . 
 If you are more of a run-n-gun'er then, you might not like it. I prefer the realism although this 
 game is actually harder than real-life. The reasons being because you have no left arm that can 
 be use, can only carry 2 things at a time, cannot carry clips, and must discard your weapons when 
 empty. The character also runs slower than I would expect in real life. Another realism factor 
 is the absence of a heads up display. The only meter is a heart tattoo on the characters chest 
 for health. For ammo the characters voice will tell you how many bullets the gun feels like it 
 has... about 3 , about half , almost gone , etc. As far as difficulty, I would give it extra artificial 
 difficulty because of the controls but it was not as bad in my opinion as Tomb Raider (that game 
 drove me batty with all of the jumping must get just right moves) . The stacking boxes puzzles do 
 get old. It was hard the first time I played though and took me about 3 days to finish after getting 
 used to the controls. I did play it again 3 years later and the controls came right back to me 
 and I finished it in one day while at work;) I was still amazed by the graphics and level design. 
 For more info check out Trescom. org 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Cool7272
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  Although the box stacking did get a little annoying I did have a lot of fun with the dinosaurs 
 and the physics engine. There were many exciting instances where a raptor was charging me and I 
 was quickly running out of ammo only to end up throwing rocks at it. Another time I was unloading 
 my uzi when a raptor headbutted my hand, knocking the gun from it and then ate me. This may not 
 sound fun to mist people but for me it was an experience I will take with for the rest of my life. 
 I would recomment for anybody looking for ridiculous fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeBentley
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Despites its not totally undeserved reputation as a horrible game, dedicated players should be 
 able to find a lot of potential, and a lot more enjoyment then the game usually gets credit for, 
 out of Trespasser.
  
  In a time when even the most technologically advanced First Person Shooters were narrow corridor 
 crawls, Trespasser gave us vast, wide open areas. It was one of the first games to use bump mapping 
 and specular lightening. It would not be until games like Far Cry running years later on vastly 
 superior hardware that we would see wide up spaces like this. Even now the game doesn't look horrible. 
 Problem was it came out months, perhaps even years before there was computers powerful enough to 
 run it at a reasonable rate. On the hardware of the time, Trespasser chugged along at a crawl.
 
  
  In a time when practically all games were depending totally dependent on either weak computer A. I. 
 or stiff, predictable scripted sequences, Trespasser was one of the first games to attempt to get 
 its characters to actually think. The dinosaurs in Trespasser got hungry, go thirsty, protected 
 their terroritory from both your character and other dinosaurs. Again while a terrific idea that 
 was poorly executed, as the dinosaurs often simply refused to do anything or walk around in circles.
 
  
  Trespasser sound was very solid as well, with sound effects created on the fly instead of simply 
 being canned sound fx. Trespasser's Real Time Foley system has never been attempted since.
  
  And Trespasser's physics engine, although horribly buggy, would not be equaled until The Source 
 Engine brought real physics back to first person shooters almost a decade later.
  
  The control scheme, although innovative, was what really ruined Trespasser. Even the simplest of 
 tasks almost impossible to accomplish.
  
  But it is amazing how many features we now take for granted in games first appeared in Trespasser. 
 Anne, the game's heroine, can only carry two guns at a time just like Halo, her weapons are not 
 static points in space but actual physical models that move with her body just like the recent 
 Call of Duty titles. Long before Ghost Recon the game featured licensed weapons. The lack of a 
 HUD is also a very modern idea.
  
  As it was released in 1998 Trespasser was so broken it was all but unplayable. Now on current generation 
 hardware with the retail patch, or some of the wonderful mods from the TresCom community, there 
 is a lot of enjoyment in the game. It's still horribly quirky, but at times a hint of what a great 
 game and a great engine Trespasser could of easily been will show through.
  
  Bottom line, Trespasser was a bunch of wonderful, even revolutionary ideas that simply didn't work. 
 The game was ambitious, but rushed, under budgeted, and way ahead of its time. Its almost like 
 playing a very early Beta version of a great game, and given the stories I've heard about Trespasser's 
 budget cuts and rushed deadline that might not be too far from the truth.
  
  Had even a few of the features worked as promised the game would of been great, and had all of 
 them worked it would of been legendary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doonbuggy17
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  This game was dissapointing but if it was remade with better graphics physics andglitchesfixed 
 it could be an extremly fun game that could make jurassic park more memorable. IT could be a great 
 game in history if only it was given to the right developer and had people that realy wanted to 
 make it good. It has the ability to be a great game i love the narrative and the story was ok but 
 could be upgraded. All in all i think that they should remake this game and try to fix it then 
 it would be realy cool i think. Maybe im psycho but I think that it could be a great game if someone 
 tried to make it great. So remake it plz i would be happy then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razzle-Dazzle
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I've only played the demo so I can't make a very accurate review, but have an idea with what to 
 expect. The graphics seem really good for a '98 game, with projection shadowing, nice textures, 
 and really neat water ripple textures that bounce around a body of water for a while until it dies 
 down. The demo didn't have audio for some reason, so I just trusted Gamespot's judgement and gave 
 it a 6, though I've heard people say it's awesome :) . The distance at which a 3D object is rendered 
 is too close, but I believe that can be increased in the full version. The player runs WAY too 
 slow, but I'll bet some editing/modding can easily fix that ;) . The "arm" control isn't as bad 
 as people have told me, but it gets strange sometimes, editing/modding might be able to correct 
 alot of flaws it has. I'd be nice if the arm would move freely around the screen once a gun/stick/whatever 
 is picked up so the left mouse button is free to fire or attack. I've also heard the levels are 
 very linear, but can't give my opinion because the demo is set in an enclosed arena. All in all 
 I'd say this is a rough game but with some tweaking should be pretty damn good :D. It's already 
 revolutionary the way it is, like I heard someone say: I'd rather have developers try ambitious 
 projects like this, instead of pumping out generic, uninspired crap they do constantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmenneverdie
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Trespasser is a great game, Sure the arm system is anoying but theres nothing you can do about it. 
 its got some great textures. You could hide out in a building connered by a raptor waiting for it 
 to come so you can blast it. This is kind of like a jurrsick park mix of dino cryssis. Gamespot has 
 this game all wrong most likely cause they played it on a weak pc back when it came out.
  
  Overall the game is pretty cool. Buy a copy if you can. they should really put the game over the 
 net for free but i don't know why they have not. its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeet
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  
  I was 14 when this title was released. As a fan of the Jurassic Park movies and books, this game 
 really lit my fire. I could not wait to get my hands on it when it was released. Here was a game 
 that offered a realistic surival experience on Site B! However, as I remember from the time long 
 ago, the game required a super computer just to get a decent frame rate. Based on reviews of the 
 time, even the top-of-the-line gaming systems were not enough for this game. 
  
  On top of that, the game seemed to have been rushed into release. (Probably to capitilize on the 
 recent success of Jurassic Park 2) . The game had way too many bugs and crashes. No patch was ever 
 released. The gameplay was linear and got boring real fast. 
  
  The game is billed as a digital sequel to The Lost World. Interestingly enough, the third Jurassic 
 Park film of 2001 centered on characters having to survive on their wits on Site B as well. In 
 Trespasser, the lone female character finds herself washed up on Site B. Apparently her left arm 
 was lost, since we never see it and seems to be missing. 
  
  Trespasser boasts of a new physics engine which enables everything in the gaming environment to 
 interact with other objects. It clearly is more interactive and advanced than other standard first-person 
 shooters, but there is not much more to it than being able to push and pick up a few extra things 
 here and there. 
  
  There are some nice things about the game. The music is fine, there are some voicovers by actros 
 from the Jurassic Park films, and there are some moments of genuine tension while you are struggling 
 to kill off dinosaurs attacking you. But this game is a dissapointment. For 1998 standards, it 
 is an interesting game but way too flawed. 
  
  I guess now that most computers would not have a problem with this game, I think it deserves a 
 second chance. With Steven Spielberg stating that he wants to direct Jurassic Park IV next year, 
 I think it is time for the ultimate Jurassic Park game to be relased. Mutliplayer is a must. Imagine 
 being a dinosaur or human!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game is quite a mess.
  
  Terrible graphics, dated sound, boring puzzles, awfull gameplay...
  
  Yet... I was absolutely 
 stunned with its physics engine. I didn't even know there was such a thing back in '98. You can 
 do all sort of stuff with almost every object you see. I feel that this game could of been a revolutionary 
 classic, but so much was left undone.
  
  Weapons are extremely varied and you can also use many objects as a weapon. For example, once I 
 was standing on a cliff and down below there were at least four raptors, didnt nearly have the 
 ammo to take them all down. So I saw these big boulders near the edge, and I thought, hmmm what 
 if? That's right, you can actually push the rocks down the cliff and according to a realistic physics 
 engine, they can hit the raptors and kill them or injure them badly.
  
  And this is only one of hundreds of examples of what the engine can do.
  
  Unfortunately that's 
 about it on the pros of this game, all the rest feels almost as if the game shipped unfinished. 
 There some more interesting details here and there, but not enough to make it a really wortwhile 
 or memorable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oppergriezel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  An interesting game, full of bugs yet wonderfully ahead of its time, While its glitches and bugs 
 are amongst the most hilarious in gaming history there is still so much inventive design left to 
 forgive this wonderfully flawed dinosaur adventure and look at its true nature.
  
  even today this game is still wortg giving a try, especially considering the time from wich it 
 sprang (1998) . The discovery of a game so full of new tricks and the grief of knowing how much 
 it was overlooked . 
  
  Everyone that loves gaming should give this game one more try if only to see how inovative (yes, 
 inovative) it truly is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilikeitalot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Trespasser was one of the most challenging and innovative games I've played. The whole review that 
 was written here does not comply to what I have experienced back then at all. Okay, there were 
 some bugs and the arm could bend in superhuman ways, but it was just challenging. If you want a 
 game to be as realistic as real-life, then why don't you just go outside and throw sticks at dangerous 
 bugs.
  
  The physics were pretty cool, and we had to wait for a lot of years to see these kind of physics 
 in games again. It was so cool to try to distract the dino's. Throw a stick away and you could 
 succeed in making them curious and try to find it. In the meanwhile you could take a sprint to 
 a safer area.
  
  I remember in the first level, I was camping underneath a trailer when suddenly two raptors bumped 
 into it and the trailer started rolling down hill right on top of me. Those were the days man.
 
  
  Remember the tattoo on her breast? I was kinda young back then and really enjoyed it! rofl.
  
 
  Anyway, play it. You'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloppyfalstaff
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  One of the first real physics based game made ,with a great HUD system.
  looking at your own breasts to see your health was awesome.
  Also the counting of the bullets 
 in your gun is great.
  Ranging from full, half full to 987654321 empty.
  You could actual play a basket bal game run under t-rex's 
  make dino limp if you shot them in 
 the leg etc.
  
  This game was full of new and exciting idea's
  Some worked other did not.
  
  You could turn your own wrist , that was a little confusing.
 
  Psychics for that time where great you could stack stuff and shoot it down again.
  
  I played this game when it came out and replayed after 2 years 
  It is still one of the greatest 
 games ever made. 
  I was sad that the game didn't get the attention it deserved
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbt10
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  I don't know what the problem is... i actually thought Trespasser was pretty good. It's graphics 
 might not be up to snuff, but it's a PC game made quite a few years ago. the so called "boring" 
 puzzles wern't actually all that boring at all, I thought they were small but realistic ways to 
 make the game more interesting than just a woman running around with a gun shooting dinosaurs. 
 
  The difficulty was a bit rough, but i think the places where the game became tough were fun. places 
 where you're stuck and must find different routes to trick the dinosaurs so you can pick up the 
 weapon and kill it just in time. 
  Not only was gameplay interesting, but the story line drew me in as well. i enjoyed the fact that 
 you are on a plane which crashes on the island and you slowly figure out where you are as you go. 
 the way it all unravels is very cool.
  the only big problem i found was the ending. (I played the game so long ago so forgive me if i'm 
 wrong) i felt it ended too suddenly. the grand finale wasn't as grand as it could have been, but 
 all-in-all, i enjoyed this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  Set several years after Jurassic Park: The Lost World, the game puts you in the role of a plane 
 crash survivor stranded on the dinosaur-infested island from the film. It is the player's job to 
 survive long enough to get off the island. 
  
  Sounds great? 
  
  Well it is. Straight off the bat is the presentation, with the intro sequence narrated by none 
 other than Richard Attenborough playing John Hammond; the creator of Jurassic Park. You are then 
 introduced to Anne, played by Minnie Driver, who is the unfortunate tourist that crash lands off 
 the coast of Isla Sorna. Now, compared to modern standards this game looks pretty primitive, however 
 it still has a lot to offer. Bumping the resolution up 1280x960 and putting the view distance up 
 makes a huge difference. The island has a lot of detail, the engine even uses specular bump mapping 
 on the dinosaurs skin. Orchids can be found amongst the undergrowth, old unwanted pictures in abandoned 
 houses, the rusting shells of hunting jeeps and huge skeletons. Little things like the way Hammond 
 and Anne talk to you about their personal feelings, hopes and dreams makes them real. Exploring 
 the hollow shell that used to be the science team village and the abandoned labs full of derelict 
 equipment is eerie and unsettling. These little details make the game so involving. They really 
 put a lot of time and effort into this game. It deserves so much more that people realise. The 
 feeling of isolation is very strong, only likable to Terminator Future Shock and System Shock. 
 The game world feels coherent and solid which makes it such a joy to explore, which is what this 
 game is really about, and messing up raptors with a shotgun.
  
  Yes, there are plenty of raptors on the island, and they generally mess you up. They are well animated, 
 this goes for all of the dinos. In the early parts of the game youll only meet one or two at a 
 time and have a habit of sneaking about, scaring the crap out of you, then eating you. However 
 in the later stages you have to take on up to 4 or 5 sometimes and its hard work. Then there is 
 the T-Rexs. This is 2006, and they were very impressive, I cant imagine what going up against 
 one of these beasts must have been like in 1998. Best to let them come into contact with herbivores 
 to kill and feed, which can work in your favour as long as they dont notice you shuffling off. 
 The herbivores unfortunately dont crop up in the game as much I would have liked, but considering 
 this game is pre T&L its not surprising that the dino count is kept low in most areas. 
  
  Which brings me to the next and probably most important part of Trespasser. I take it youve all 
 played Half-Life 2? Think the physics were amazing and ground breaking? Love the smart little puzzles 
 involving your environment? Well, Trespasser did it first. Trespasser has a full physics engine; 
 everything has weight, material, and is effected by gravity. Want to pile up some boxes to get 
 up a broken staircase? Sure go ahead. Need to get on top of a hut on stilts? Shoot out the supports. 
 Raptor coming for your ass, got no guns? Grab a stick and smack him one, may not do much good but 
 its worth a shot. 
  
  Combat and interaction is the strangest aspect of Trespasser. You dont just run over weapons to 
 pick them up, you actually have an arm. Yes, an arm, which you can control fully. To pick up a 
 weapon, you extend your arm then grab it, then move your arm until youve lined up the sights. 
 Which looks comical at first, seeing this arm sticking you in front of you, but you get used to 
 it. The weapons actually are models so if you get close to object and hit them too hard with your 
 gun, you may drop it. It really adds to the immersion. For example, you are lining up a shot on 
 a dino at long range, you really have to be steady and line it up properly, which makes the kill 
 all the more satisfying. Heck you can stick your MP5K to the side gangsta style and mess the raptors 
 up close and personal or just grab a big metal hammer and smash their skulls in. Combat in Trespasser 
 is much slower than we are used to these days, but nothing is more terrifying than when a raptor 
 gets so close that it whacks you guns out of your hands. You are franticly trying to pick it up 
 again as big nasty jaws bite your butt. You can only hold 2 weapons at a time, and there is no 
 reloading, so you have to make every shot count. It also makes searching your surroundings for 
 weapons a constant pass time, which is a little strange considering the games realistic styling, 
 you would think youd have a bag for extra ammo. However, I can see why they didnt do this as 
 a bag would require an inventory system, breaking the immersion. Which is why there is no HUD. 
 You have to listen to Minnie count out the rounds left in the gun she is holding. Want to see how 
 much health you have left? Look down and check out the tattoo on the impressive rack Anne is packing. 
 
  
  Dont get me wrong this game has its faults. The physics engine has its problems and the level 
 and dinosaur design are limited by the technology of the time. The major failing of Trespasser 
 is that its sights were aimed so high. To create a true living breathing world full of creatures 
 with their own agendas and life cycles is only now in 2006, becoming achievable. Despite its failings, 
 Trespasser is a good game and will be enjoyed by the gamer that can explore and indulge in a finely 
 crafted atmosphere, as well as for its technological achievements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  When is a truely brilliant Jurassic Park game going to be released. The biggest tragedy in gaming 
 is that no developer has ever used the license to make a survival horror game. It's the most obvious 
 thing to do ever!
  
  Anyway, Trespasser is a very poor game. The puzzles are badly designed, the levels are too linear, 
 there's too many glitches and there's some truely terrible 1st person platforming. This said though 
 the game does have a strange charm but that alone doesn't make it worthy, even as a budget purchase. 
 This could have been so so much more, but it fails horribly in comparison to the original Jurassic 
 Park game on the Sega Genesis, which unlike this, was a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was really ambitious in that it used a physics engine that made the environments as real 
 as possible, so that you can interact with things. This game, no matter how bad, has to be given 
 credit for that and later games learned from Trespasser's mistakes. It deals with the Jurassic 
 Park movies, something everyone can relate to, and it's an environment where the potential for 
 fun is credible. You crash land on this island that's called Site B, and it's still full of dinos 
 not yet killed. Don't know why the government let them live, but for whatever reason (probably 
 PETA whined over it) you're stuck there and have to find a way off before you're killed. The physics 
 engine sounded really cool and at times it is, but it soon becomes an annoyance. The character 
 is weak and clumsy. You drop stuff in unexpected ways, it's like your arm is made of playdough. 
 You can look down at your breasts and see your health meter, but no GUI. You walk very slow across 
 maps like those in Farcry... very frustrating. You can only carry 1 gun at a time, and no ammo belt 
 or anything of the kind. When you've got that gun in your hand moving across the ground, be careful 
 of everything because anything can knock that gun out of your hand - playdough arms like I said. 
 The puzzles range from easy to hard, but even the easy ones are a challenge since you're so fragile 
 with everything. The dinos have good camo and you may not see them until they're coming at you. 
 This one could've been a classic but was too much of a chore to play, requires lots of patience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkCoyote
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I first baught this game a while ago after searching for jurassic park games. Im a big fan of the 
 Series and its games, ( no matter how terrible they are to some ) .
  
  I found this game at first to be boring, the dinosaurs moved in perculiar ways, acted aggressive 
 and looked like giant pixel blocks when not moving or hovering, the only upside was they sounded 
 real. This was a disappointment, after the hype they gave it on the release. 
  
  Some levels are seemingly pointless, frustrating to navigate and the charector is a woman, no offence 
 (being one) and looked a bit, over rated, as well as making stupid sounds when she gets hurt and 
 can't jump very far, has a annoying to control arm, which you swing and she almost drops what she's 
 carrying, ie; weapons. I suppose this is trying to add to realism of the game, but annoying when 
 your trying to distract a T-Rex from killing you and it walks into you, dropping the gun or hitting 
 it.. or some other reason and end up running frantically for your life.
  
  The puzzles are, i must say, annoying! never seen so many stupid, and irrelevant puzzles, one level 
 has you attempting to climb a mountain with some monals on, with things flying at you and rocks 
 falling, you have to navigate that without getting killed. I also remember the mundane task ot 
 retrieving an white disc and key from Hammonds office, trying to jump atop a load of, stupidly 
 placed boxes to get up the broken stairs and finding that key thing under a rock in the garden 
 when you realised you need it now your upstairs. 
  
  The Graphics are.. ok, sketchy and patchy at times looking older than most games of its time, the 
 dinosaurs look real. The Enviornments, the tree's appear pixelated untill you get closer, the rooms 
 and buildinds have the same basic colour schemes and layouts. Some of the elements are to give 
 it more of that, abandoned feel and works with the overall game theme. But sometimes i wondered, 
 what is that there? Such as random white boxes with guns in, or some dead body.
  
  The Dinosaurs, are a mixed AI, sometimes a Raptor will ignore you and pester some close prey, or 
 fend off an rival Carnivore. Or they will watch you from afar, appearing curious and whilst your 
 watching them another can sneak up behind you. The Raptors are the most feared of Dinosaurs, alongside 
 the T-Rex for their pack-hunting plus side. The T-Rex is a crazy, pmsing Carnivore that gos crazy 
 if you shoot it, dont believe the 'It will not notice you if you stay still' because it does. And 
 it will keep on chasing you untill you either, kill it, it gets dristracted by another Rex/Dinosaur/Prey, 
 cant find you (must run pretty fast and be very good at hiding) or just somehow gets confused. 
 Their reactions vary, if you hit a Raptor with a plank of wood, it will be stunned or go crazy, 
 hit a T-Rex in the same fashion and sometimes it wont even notice. You can, although cause a T-Rex 
 or Raptor to back away if you harm them enough and give them a wide birth.
  
  Overall, the game is fun, being a fan but i can see the flaws and its a shame, since there are 
 not many decent Dinosaur games out there ( Id know i collect and play them! ) . There are a small 
 group of people who are working on improving the Graphics engine and overall game design. This 
 game can evolve, if given the chance.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiderFreak
Rating: 2.3
Date: May 16, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  OK, first and foremost, this game sucks. Now, onto the review.
  
  Graphics: Just plain bad. The textures are horrible. There is absolutely nothing really good about 
 the graphics.
  
  Gameplay: This is the best (And worst) aspect of the game. When you first start the game, the physics 
 related puzzles seem like fun. They aren't TOO fristrating at first, and you kind of enjoy the 
 game. It all seems well and good until about 10-20 minutes into the game you reach a puzzle that 
 starts the insanely frustrating series of puzzles that span the rest of the game. And, as if the 
 next hundred puzzles weren't enough, they throw in a lot of raptors for you to fight. I don't understand 
 what the other two reviewers are talking about. When I played, it seemed like there was at least 
 two raptors for every one puzzle. Later on you'll meet more difficult, more dangerous dinosaurs 
 like the T-Rex, though those are very few and very far between (Ussually) . So while you're running 
 through the jungle, killing raptors and trying to make the faulty physics system work so you can 
 just finish this moster of a game, you learn that what seemed a fun game in the beginning is truly 
 a sickening "game" (Though I would hardly call this a game. It feels more like having a knife shoved 
 in your eye) . The only "fun" part is the shooting aspect. It can be fun to fight a bunch of extremely 
 stupid raptors... For a while. Then it just gets tedious.
  
  Sound: Terrible. There is absolutely NO excitment in ANYONE'S voice. Ever. The guns sound generic. 
 Nothing good here.
  
  If you value your time and sanity, don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:00 am PT
Review:  Trespasser is a terrible game. There, that's out of the way. But 'terrible' isn't meant to imply 
 that there's nothing redeeming about the game - in fact, it is playable (albeit barely) and in 
 some places is so bad it's often hilariously funny. So if you can deal with a bit of frustration 
 you might even find yourself enjoying the game for a brief while - it just won't be a result of 
 the designers pulling off their vision successfully.
  
  The game dumps you on an island - plane crash - and pits you against a half-dozen dinosaurs and 
 a whole bunch of boxes. You play as some chick whose name I forget, but it's not as if it ultimately 
 matters, or that the plot (what plot?) actually goes anywhere. Your goal in the game is to proceed 
 through the island and avoid death.
  
  In an attempt to increase immersiveness, there is no HUD or any indication of your status whatsoever, 
 other than a magical tattoo on your character's left breast (you can stare down her cleavage by 
 aiming the camera at the ground) that displays your health. You interact with the environment with 
 your right arm only, presumably because her left was severed in the crash. And in a testament to 
 unique (but stupid) game design, you can twist and pivot the arm in several points in order to 
 grab or pull objects, but doing so usually results in some disturbingly unnatural bending, as you 
 can basically turn her arm completely around while moving her hand in such a way that the wrist 
 appears broken. Ouch.
  
  The graphics are unremarkable but get the job done, ditto for the sound effects and Minnie Driver's 
 voiceovers. With the mentioned unwieldy controls, it's extremely difficult to get even the most 
 basic things done. Want to pick up a gun? You'll have to extend your arm and manage to get it near 
 the gun to pick it up. As for aiming - well, good luck.
  
  The game's most touted feature was its physics system, and that's largely what causes so much amusement 
 (and frustration) . Nearly everything has a weight and material type value. Throw a wooden box into 
 the water, for example, and it will float. Rocks sink. A beam balanced on an object may swing like 
 a teeter-totter briefly before sitting still. Then again, it may also strangely jump into the air 
 and fall to the ground, or get stuck in another object for no reason. The game forces you to stack 
 boxes into a staircase on a few occasions, but place the boxes slightly off-center and they'll 
 slowly slide off. Miss your jump by a hair and you may knock a box off, resulting in them all mysteriously 
 tumbling over and you having to painstakingly recreate the staircase and expand your cursing vocabulary.
 
  
  However, you can also smash things with rebar, throw basketballs around, break chairs, stack a 
 bunch of objects and throw rocks at them for target practice, or whatever. You could even beat 
 a velociraptor to death with rebar if you wished. And speaking of the dinosaurs, they're so rare 
 it's almost not worth mentioning. You may come across one or two raptors per level (and a couple 
 of other benign dinosaurs that don't really care if you fire a shotgun blast into their butt) but 
 that's it. And the only real challenge in killing them is aiming whatever weapon you managed to 
 find. You're best off to simply wait until they get close, and then fire point-blank and hope the 
 dinosaur's head gnawing at your bosom doesn't cause your arm to bend off in a strange direction. 
 As well, when you do kill a raptor it folds up into itself and lies prone on the ground, no matter 
 how you kill it (or from what direction) . The physics engine stretches to your being able to bounce 
 its head around when dead, but apparently it was too tricky to merge the physics with dinosaurs 
 dying.
  
  Trespasser could probably just be described as an exercise in frustration. Someone had some grand 
 hopes for the game but they were apparently too much to pull off, because Trespasser stinks. It's 
 mildly amusing for an hour or so as you explore (and exploit) the physics system, but beyond that 
 you might as well attempt to contort your arm like your character can in-game. It would hurt less 
 than actually playing Trespasser. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
