-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trevor Chan's Restaurant Empire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/trevorchansrestaurantempire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 11, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.4, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 241 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Mar 26, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite a few shortcomings in its interface and its presentation, Restaurant Empire provides a deep 
 and enjoyable experience for fans of management simulations. 

  The popular Food Network show  Iron Chef  has been a cult hit in the United States for years, offering 
 viewers entertaining cooking battles between some of the world's top chefs. So it's no surprise 
 that the developers at Enlight have incorporated some aspects from that show into their restaurant 
 management game, Restaurant Empire. But the game is much more than a cheap attempt to capitalize 
 on the popularity of the show. The game's lead designer, Trevor Chan, is responsible for acclaimed 
 strategy games like Capitalism II, and his expertise is apparent in Restaurant Empire, a game that, 
 despite a slightly flawed interface and presentation, provides an enjoyable and deep strategy experience. 

          Recipes can be adjusted by adding better ingredients.     

  Restaurant Empire comes with two gameplay modes: a sandbox mode and an 18-scenario campaign that 
 follows the adventures of a young chef, Armand LeBoeuf, who has just graduated from cooking school. 
 Armand begins the game managing a restaurant formerly run by his uncle Michel, also an expert chef, 
 and he sets out to expand his operation to include several restaurants in three cities (Paris, 
 Rome, and Los Angeles) . The story involves Armand's fledgling operation going up against the might 
 of an international food conglomerate called Omnifood.  

  The gameplay may seem complicated at first, since it offers an almost dizzying array of options 
 for building, decorating, and running your restaurants. Fortunately, you're coached by the game's 
 extensive tutorial, which, over the course of the campaign's first few scenarios, walks you through 
 almost every available option in the game, offering tips on how to gain new customers and how to 
 best satisfy your current clientele.  

  Almost every imaginable aspect of running a restaurant is simulated in Restaurant Empire. You'll 
 need to hire general staff for each restaurant, like servers, captains, kitchen porters, and, of 
 course, chefs. Each chef in the game has different levels of skill in different areas, such as 
 appetizers, main courses, and soups. This expertise is further subdivided into three categories 
 of food -- French, Italian, and American. The restaurants need to be set up with dining sets, lighting, 
 and appropriate decor, and it's also possible to add and move kitchen appliances around to achieve 
 maximum efficiency.  

  Much of the game's strategy revolves around food. Each dish in your menu consists of several ingredients, 
 each with a specific cost and price. It's possible to adjust the quality of each ingredient to 
 drive the cost of a dish up or down (which also causes the dish's quality to go up or down) . As 
 your chefs practice making certain dishes, they'll gain more skill points in that particular category 
 of cuisine and the specific dish, which also affects the overall quality of the food. It's even 
 possible to assign a specific chef in the kitchen to be the only one to prepare certain dishes, 
 in order to make him or her improve at certain recipes more quickly. Over time, as you learn which 
 dishes your customers prefer, it's easy to add or remove them from your menu or adjust their prices 
 to maximize profit margins.  

  Certain special customers in the restaurant will have access to specific high-quality ingredients, 
 which you can purchase and add to your recipes to make them better. Other customers will offer 
 to sell you new recipes, information on how to better prepare dishes (which increases preparation 
 skill) , or information on secret ingredients that you can add to your dishes to make them better. 
 And every so often, it's possible to enter local cooking contests, which will net you bonus money, 
 new recipes, and prestige for your chef and his or her dishes if you can win them. The prestige 
 of winning these  Iron Chef -style cooking contests also increases the popularity of your restaurants. 

  Aside from the quality of your food, your restaurant's rating is also directly affected by the 
 comfort level and attractiveness of the decor, the quality of service, and the appearance of your 
 restaurant from the outside. You can upgrade the furniture in your restaurants for better comfort, 
 increase the skill of your staff with monthly training, and pay money to renovate the exterior 
 for better scores in that aspect.  

  Perhaps the most challenging aspect of the game is setting up your restaurant so the staff can 
 deliver dishes as quickly and efficiently as possible to customers. You'll find yourself constantly 
 moving tables around the restaurant and adjusting the position of stoves, dishwashers, and dumbwaiters 
 in the kitchen to maximize efficiency. Unfortunately, there's no easy way to anticipate bottlenecks 
 in the operation, so you must watch your staff and the way they move about in your restaurants 
 to determine how to become more efficient. It probably would have been easier to manage your staff 
 if Restaurant Empire had let you assign specific servers to specific tables, for instance.  

          Winning cooking contests will net you bonus money, new recipes, and prestige.     

 
  Aside from a few flaws, the game's interface is adequate. You can actually access every function 
 using only your mouse, though if you wish to have complete and instantaneous control over the game, 
 you can access most of the important charts and interface items using keyboard shortcuts. However, 
 later on in the game, you'll have to build and manage multiple restaurants, but you'll have to 
 fill and configure each of your new establishments' bathrooms and kitchens manually. The game would 
 definitely have benefited from some sort of templating feature that would let you drag and drop 
 pre-made bathrooms, kitchens, and other areas into new restaurants.  

  Restaurant Empire's graphics are pretty good for a game of this sort. You can zoom in and out and 
 rotate the view to any convenient angle. The food in the recipe screens is actually rendered pretty 
 nicely, but the game's graphics falter a bit in the adventure modes, such as in the kitchen stadiums 
 during the cooking contests. The characters look blocky and are animated stiffly; nevertheless, 
 Restaurant Empire's fully 3D graphics are better than what you'll find in most management games. 
 The game's sound effects are adequate, including, as you might expect, plenty of eating noises 
 and chatter from your customers. Some voice acting is included in the adventure modes when you're 
 interacting with NPCs, but for the most part the game's dialogue and information appears only in 
 subtitles at the bottom of the screen. The music tracks in the game fade in and out at strange 
 times and sometimes sound as if they were lifted straight out of a 1970s adult film.  

  At times, Restaurant Empire can be frustrating, but careful observation of your restaurant operation 
 usually yields an obvious solution. It takes some time to learn about all the options in the game, 
 but the well-designed and extensive tutorial should bring even beginners up to speed in a reasonable 
 amount of time. Restaurant Empire should appeal to fans of the  Iron Chef  television show or other 
 cooking shows on cable television, and, despite a few shortcomings in its interface and its presentation, 
 it also provides a deep and enjoyable experience for fans of management simulations.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ab_neo_007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a game every manager should play........... when I started this game I thought it would 
 be like any other tycoon game but it really requires some skills to go on......... the campaign 
 mode has some interesting chapters and the story of a young chef who has just passed out......... he 
 goes to his uncle michael lebouf who had a restaurant of his own a few years back and wants to 
 reopen it......... the first few chapters are easy and the customer problems are not much of a big 
 deal........ but as you go on you need to take care of customer satisfaction and your daily profit 
 which depends much on the customers. The goals meant for completion are neither too tough nor too 
 easy..... you need to check certain basic things which would ensure goal completion......... There 
 is also a Don Corleone who provides you with your second restaurant!!! There are also certain other 
 aspects like the amount you spend for training your staff and advertisement which increases the 
 awareness of customers.......... you can also enlist the suppliers and select various suppliers 
 depending on your need.......... thats all I gotta say about the rest you need to find out when 
 you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  I bought this game as part of a three for 15 deal at GAME a couple of years ago, I wanted two 
 games (which I believe was Diablo and Still Life) and the missus wanted this one. She only played 
 it for about an hour before putting it away, never to be played again until now.
  
  Gameplay
  
  At first everything looks rather daunting and confusing, and you'd be right in 
 thinking that. There's a lot to learn about this game and the instruction manual is essentially 
 useless, so diving straight in to the sandbox mode isn't a good idea at first. However the developers 
 encourage you to start with the campaign mode and the tutorial, which turns out to be a Godsend. 
 The tutorial teaches you everything you need to know as you progress through the core part of the 
 game - a story with 18 tutorials which essentially involve meeting certain criteria to move on 
 to the next scenario, making a certain amount of money, serving a certain amount of customers and 
 so on. Even when you've learned everything you need to know Restaurant Empire is still is difficult 
 game to get to grips with even early in the game, I'm personally struggling on the sixth scenario 
 and it's only set to get harder.
  
  Graphics
  
  The game is approaching five years old now but the graphics still aren't particularly brilliant. 
 They do enough to keep you visually satisfied but certain aspects are a little rough around the 
 edges, particularly with the character models.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound and music featured in Restaurant Empire are a mixed bag. On the one hand the usual sound 
 effects you hear in a restaurant from cooking sounds to the sound of customers eating are fine, 
 but the music only kicks in at random intervals and doesn't really fit the mood of a classy restaurant. 
 Another review mentions that the tracks seem to be directly taken from a pornographic film, and 
 that's the best way to describe what you hear.
  
  Value
  
  As I mentioned I picked this game up for about 8 as part of a deal, and upon browsing various 
 websites you can buy it now for about 5 which is a great price to pay for this game. Sure, it's 
 not perfect by any means but there's more than enough about this game to keep you happy and warrant 
 whatever you might pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoove_77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game yesterday and it was worth the $10.49 that i spent on it at best buy. I 
 am really into the Culinary arts career field and I would love to open my own restaurant within 
 the first 5-6 years of work in the field. I played the demo and it intrigued me. So I waited and 
 when it came out i bought it and installed in on my computer. it starts off slow at first but after 
 the first three scenarios it starts to pick up and becomes really fun. I'm past the 5th scenarios 
 and I still have 13 scenarios to go. It really captivates the restaurant business very well and 
 I would recommend this game to any of my culinary classmates. It even has the dish names of the 
 three cuisines in the game. Amazing!!!! Buy this game you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  When you start the game you might have no idea what to do. Don't worry as long as you start with 
 the campaign with starts with a tutorial. I did the tutorial but when I was through that I thaught: 
 I think I can start a restaurant of my own in sandbox. Not, why? Because I didn't had the slightest 
 idea how you get a bathroom in my restaurant. I read the manual and I new how. However I kept on 
 with the campaign and in one of those levels I found out that the game has a tutorial of how to 
 place a bath room... Anyway it is a fun game and you haven't lived if you haven't played this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyb2006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  The Restaurant Empire game is something uniquely different. The idea of running your own restaurant 
 is a good idea, and it made for a great game! There are a wide array of different choices for most 
 things. You select from 30 pre-made chefs, only 1 of which is a female. If there's a future sequel 
 or expansions, more lady chefs would be nice. Also, you get to customize your restaurant, by choosing 
 from either French, Italian, or American. If you choose American, you have a choice between Seafood, 
 Steakhouse, or Music Club. Also, you can customize your company color, starting money, and the 
 name. There are also 3 cities to choose from; Los Angeles, Rome, and Paris.
  
  Once you have chosen everything, you get a big, empty restaurant to experiment with. You place 
 your kitchen and bathrooms in, customizing them with cooking appliances, stoves, dumbwaiters, toilets, 
 and sinks. There are a variety of different themed tables to choose from for your restaurant, as 
 well as creative wall hangings and statues. For example, in your Italian restaurant, you may place 
 a fountain, whereas your Seafood restaurant offers things like mounted fish and sealife. You customize 
 the carpet/floor, the seating arrangement, and hire/train your staff members. Also, you add your 
 favorite dishes to your restaurant menu, serving a wide variety of soups, salaads, appetizers, 
 and more! It's a fabulous game and is very fun to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Restaurant Empire is a very very very very very fun game I remember playing this game for two and 
 a half hours and that is how fun this game is. I just wish they would have added a automated video 
 cooking lesson with Wolfgang Puck himself teaching in the video. Wolfgang Puck is my #1 favorite 
 celebrity cook in the whole world I was impressed when he went on celebrity cooking Showdown it 
 was a week long event on the NBC network it is just to bad it didn't air a whole year. Restaurant 
 Empire has a superb storyboard, and superb array of graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haris82
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  When i saw the cover of this game i just had to have it. I love sim games of all kinds and have 
 played them for a long time. Pizza tycoon was one of my favorite old games and that was what i 
 was expecting here but with better graphics and more advanced game-play. Sadly better graphics 
 was the only thing i got here. Game-play lacks allot of interface features and gameplay features 
 as well. Allot of things like repricing or buying new better goods have to be done manually which 
 turns the game in to massive click fest which isnt that fun. Other negative thing about this game 
 is lack of making your own recipes in game. Really clumsy controls on top of all that.
  
  This game could have been fun if there was an addon that added tons more features and interface 
 improvements, like raise all prices at once and always buy best goods and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Restaurant Empire was fun and entertaining. The pros were that it had a decent story line, and 
 fun little side challenges. The cons were that you were forced down a certain direction in order 
 for the game to continue... I think it would have been a lot more entertaining had I been able 
 to continue on with the game no matter which options I chose. I like more open-ended freeplaying 
 games and so this was extremely limiting, in my opinion. Also, I think that the game needed to 
 be more easily customizable, like furniture, recipes, people, etc.
  
  Graphics were good for the time-frame in which they were created. It looked a lot like, in fact 
 almost identical to, The Sims. The customers in the game was only a small selection of identities, 
 so often the entire restaurant was filled with the same person 10-20 times over!
  
  Supposedly there was a way to download and customize some people and furniture, but this was glitchy 
 and problematic, so it was completely unusable. When I did it, I had heads on people that looked 
 like distorted graphics and in order to get rid of them, I had to reinstall the game. Also, some 
 of the downloads actually caused gameplay issues and fatal errors.
  
  Sound could have been better. The kitchen sounds were okay, but the music was beyond awful.
  
 
  But overall, the game was fun and I did complete it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxmikechief
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning maybe you wouldnt like it, but with the time, its the perfect choice for a sim 
 game.
  Maybe not so famous, but you will enjoy it.
  In few years will be a not discovered classic.
  I havent played it in 3 months and i cant belive 
 that, because is fascinating the form how you control, the competitions and its total original 
 game.
  Sorry for the bad english.
  The graphics arent great, just ok for the time, but with games like B&W2 it get short.
  The 
 gameplay is good, not perfect compared with actual games, but you enjoy the game, also many people 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordofinsight
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you load this game you become immersed in the atmospheric world of restaurant entrepreneur. 
 Excellent tutorials to the many features in this game leave you tweaking for that extra bit of 
 perfection. A definate game plan is need otherwise as the game develops and your empire expands 
 it becomes difficult to manage and control. Specialization of chefs to one country of cooking is 
 paramount to develop your business,
  
  Very easy to get into but as the game progresses a lot more grey matter is required, which is ideal 
 for the more serious detailed management gamer like myself. 
  
  Great value for money, many hours of gameplay available and good fun. make the right decisions 
 and you get the rewards make mistakes, try to expand too fast and your reputation can be destroyed. 
 The decisions on how are up to you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pygmalion95
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2004 12:26 am PT
Review:  Restaurant Empire is a great game for the serious fans of management sims. I really enjoyed the 
 game play, especially the nuances of the menu and recipe management. I also really liked the competitions. 
 Where this game lost me was in the personnel management once you acquired more restaurants. I fond 
 the management of the chefs and staff tiresome, and the moving back and forth from restaurant to 
 restaurant a bit confusing. For individuals with a bit of a concentration problem, you will easily 
 tire of this game. All and all, Restaurant Empire is and good game worth picking up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
