-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tribes 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tribes2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  5, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 800 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Dynamix
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 28, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tribes 2 isn't easy to master, and it won't play well on every gaming PC, but when you're up and 
 running it's a tremendous amount of fun. 

 When Starsiege: Tribes came out at the very end of 1998, it was the first of its kind: a retail 
 first-person shooter designed specifically for multiplayer competition. The intervening years have 
 seen other popular action games focused primarily on multiplayer competition, but none have had 
 the same emphasis on teamplay in large, wide-open areas, with plenty of players participating in 
 each match. Not until Tribes 2. Experienced Tribes players will find that the sequel makes relatively 
 few changes to the successful core mechanics of the original but that it features substantially 
 improved graphics, even larger network games, and more items, vehicles, and equipment to use in 
 battle. For those new to the series, Tribes 2 also offers extensive offline training options. Unfortunately, 
 a number of technical problems in the initial retail release have dampened some players' enthusiasm 
 for what is otherwise an outstanding multiplayer action game.           The environments in Tribes 
 2 are bigger than ever.    

 Tribes 2 inherits its sci-fi setting from Dynamix's series of mech games, including Earthsiege and 
 Starsiege. Much of what distinguishes Tribes 2's style from that of other first-person shooters 
 stems from this background, including the distinctively large outdoor settings in the game, and 
 also the focus on high-tech equipment such as jump jets and mobile armor suits. Most of the contextual 
 story built up in the earlier games has since fallen away, along with the "Starsiege" surname, 
 since most players came to refer to the original simply as "Tribes" anyway. But the context of 
 Tribes 2 still lends some coherence to the in-game taunts and the mix of harsh environments that 
 will become your playground. You have the choice of three classes of mobile armor suits to wear 
 in battle -- the light scout, medium assault, and heavy juggernaut -- and they differ in mobility and 
 arsenal. All the classes have a lot of equipment choices and can carry three to five weapons, plus 
 grenades, mines, and a special equipment pack all at once. The inventory system has been significantly 
 streamlined in the new game, so you can set up equipment presets that go into effect when you use 
 a base inventory station anytime during a match.   

  Tribes 2's different style extends to its pacing, which is somewhat slower and more deliberate 
 than what you'd find in some other popular shooters such as Unreal Tournament and Counter-Strike. 
 The first thing you'll notice in comparison is the effect that the jetpack has on combat. The jetpack 
 gives you limited upward or directional thrust, and though it takes a while to learn how to combine 
 this with ordinary ground movement, the combination is potent, so players in light and medium suits 
 move very quickly over rough terrain. Players jetting through the air are quite difficult to hit 
 with the game's slow projectile weapons, so combat between aerial players often focuses on trying 
 to lead an opponent's landing to deliver explosive splash damage. The game's direct attack weapons 
 make it possible to fell a flying opponent, and the new heat-seeking missile launcher adds an additional 
 threat that's hard to shake once it locks on. The net effect of the game's mobile armors suits 
 and jetpacks is to make combat less decisive and less deadly in wide-open outdoor terrain, while 
 the explosive heavy weapons and turret defenses tend to keep indoor brawls vicious and short. But 
 there's room for you to play various niche roles, such as when you're equipped with the cloaking 
 pack and the game's new melee weapon, the shocklance -- a combination that can be used to sneak up 
 on enemies inside their own base for a fatal backstab.   

  The game's designers have made it easier to "ski" in Tribes 2, a technique discovered in the original 
 game that let you move very quickly over hillsides by jumping repeatedly while running along the 
 surface. Now you merely hold down the jump key to maintain flight momentum when you touch the ground. 
 Skiing has been balanced to more strongly define the mobility distinction between the player classes 
 and ensure that heavy suits aren't as fast on the slopes as they were in the first game. Tribes 
 2's maps are generally quite large, so heavy suits now have to rely much more on vehicles to go 
 on the offensive and travel to the enemy base. This is key, because most of the action occurs in 
 and around the map's bases and towers, where the objectives for the team games -- like the eminently 
 popular capture-the-flag mode -- can be heavily defended, requiring heavy-suited players to break 
 through the enemy lines.           A number of new vehicles add even more depth and tactics to 
 the game.    

 The game offers a lot more than just deathmatch and capture-the-flag game modes. The free-for-all 
 variations derived from popular Starsiege: Tribes mods are good for games with fewer players and 
 make the most of Tribes 2's map style. Rabbit is a single-flag game where the player who carries 
 the flag is "it." There's often a terrific scrimmage as other players try to grab the flag and 
 make a run back to their bases. Hunters is reminiscent of the headhunter mods for other multiplayer 
 games. As players die, they drop flags that can be collected for points at a central location. 
 The real scramble happens when someone who's gathered a lot of flags is fragged, an event that's 
 greeted with a jubilant "Yard sale!" voice-over as opponents gather to fight over the remains. 
   

  However, it's with the large team games that Tribes 2 is really impressive. The scale of these 
 games is unmatched; there will often be 40 to 60 (or even more) players on a single server. The 
 game's network code is quite good and supports these numbers well on servers with sufficient dedicated 
 bandwidth, but some warping does occur in games containing many more than 60 players. The larger 
 maps easily accommodate this many players and generally feature vehicle pads so that a portion 
 of each team spends its time in the game's six vehicles.    

 There are many roles you can fill during a game of Tribes 2: these include sniping, setting up defenses, 
 and going on runs in the three-man bomber to destroy enemy structures and turrets. It's easy enough 
 to switch roles to do whatever needs to be done to help the team, so casual matches without explicit 
 team planning can still be quite enjoyable. The game's command map makes the chaos of the battlefield 
 a little easier to understand. It shows the status of teammates, base facilities, and the team 
 sensor network that ties into each player's HUD. While the command interface is cumbersome, it 
 does give you a fairly effective system for suggesting what team tasks need to be accomplished. 
           Each of the three types of armor has its own distinct advantages.    

 While having vehicles in smaller games, those with fewer than 20 people, can dilute the action, 
 overall they add an extra dimension to the combat in Tribes 2. There are three ground vehicles 
 and three air vehicles, divided among scout, assault, and support craft. Half of these (the larger 
 ones) let two or more players jump on board, which can require some coordination around a map's 
 vehicle pad. However, the tank and bomber craft require such particular cooperation between the 
 pilot and gunner that it can be very frustrating to pair up with someone who's less experienced. 
 Additionally, the larger vehicles are sluggish and can be fairly difficult to control, and you 
 may even find that the nose of the larger ground vehicles will occasionally pitch up or down unrealistically 
 on rough but relatively level terrain, seemingly due to problems with the game's physics. It's 
 also frustrating that a mere brush with a tree at low speeds can inflict inordinate damage to the 
 most imposing hovertank.   

  To make it easier to talk to other players in between games and organize teams, Tribes 2 has a 
 number of online community features built right into the game. The active Starsiege: Tribes community 
 is a strong point in favor of Tribes 2, and right from the start there have been hundreds of game 
 servers to choose from. In fact, high loads on the central authentication and community servers 
 since the release of Tribes 2 have made it impossible for Dynamix to run all the community services, 
 but the game finder, news, and chat functions are up and working. The other features, like pages 
 for team and player information as well as integrated e-mail and Web browsing, were working in 
 the beta tests but have been temporarily disabled until the servers can be upgraded.   

  Tribes 2 is primarily an online game, but it does include more solo options than its predecessor. 
 It includes five tutorials to ease the learning curve and introduce new players to the game's unique 
 movement, numerous items, and command options. Many of the maps can also be played against computer-controlled 
 bot opponents, which can help you get used to the game before jumping online. The bots aren't really 
 capable enough to make offline games very interesting, and though they do manage to carry out team 
 functions, like setting up basic defenses and executing flag runs, they aren't particularly good 
 at it. They also seem to stand in place more often than you'd expect.           The tactical overview 
 can help coordinate assaults.    

 The most obvious difference between Tribes and Tribes 2 is the new graphics engine in the sequel, 
 which was completely reworked to take advantage of hardware acceleration and more powerful PCs. 
 If you do have a high-end system, the game looks good. On the maps that aren't fogged in by design, 
 the visible horizon is distant and sharp. The explosions are suitably impressive, and there are 
 some nice effects like footsteps on snow maps and variable precipitation. A fractal system also 
 produces smoothly varying terrain textures that have a surprising amount of detail up close. However, 
 as a result of these effects and the game's large environments, many mainstream systems play the 
 game sluggishly unless many of the effects are turned off and textures are turned down. At these 
 lower levels of detail, the game doesn't look particularly good at all, even compared to the original 
 Tribes. To play the game well, we'd recommend a system with at least a 600MHz Pentium III and a 
 GeForce or Radeon graphics card. As ambitious shooters tend to, the Tribes 2 engine has room to 
 grow as faster systems become more common. For example, one of the systems we tried the game on, 
 a Pentium 4 1.5GHz with GeForce2 Ultra, had no trouble maintaining a very smooth frame rate at 
 1024x768 with maximum detail turned on.   

  A lot of effort obviously went into rounding out the game, but it still has some rough edges. The 
 game's sound is quite polished, including many prerecorded voice taunts that you can use in-game 
 by selecting them from a series of quick chat menus. Tribes 2 includes a custom soundtrack -- an 
 unsurprising mix of electronica and guitar that you'll probably turn down before long. But the 
 game's biggest shortcoming is that it released with several significant technical problems, which 
 Dynamix is progressively addressing in frequent patches. The game runs without problems on many 
 systems, but some players have had difficulty getting it to work at all.   

  Tribes 2 is an ambitious follow-up to the game that single-handedly led the charge of multiplayer-only 
 action games into retail. The deep teamplay that you can find in large matches is incredibly addicting 
 and offers some interesting opportunities to cobble together team strategies. The game takes advantage 
 of skills developed in twitch shooters like Quake, but its slower pacing requires a more deliberate 
 and diverse range of tactics. In the end, this will help give Tribes 2 tremendous longevity, especially 
 considering that the original Tribes still rivals both Unreal Tournament and Quake III Arena as 
 one of the most played multiplayer action games. Tribes 2 isn't easy to master, and it won't play 
 well on every gaming PC, but when you're up and running it's a tremendous amount of fun.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wizard90
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Tribes 2 was probably the best online game of its day by far, obviously this review is comming 
 many years after its release probably like 7-8 infact. Lots of new, maybe even better games may 
 have come out since that top it, like BF2 or Halo 3 or whatever but its still worth a play just 
 because of the sheer awesomeness.
  
  And aulthough small there are still a few active servers.
  
  Game looks nasty by todays standards 
 and is way outdated but I juse loved the game so much I felt like I had to make a review, even 
 if no one is likely to read it.
  It was the first major game of its kind and I feel like all open combat based games draw inspiration 
 from it.
  Not to mention the ability the community had to mod the game in all manner of ways and the easy 
 to use ingame map editor, mods like Construction just completely changed the dynamic of the game 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Since Tribes 2 is an online game, an easy to use interface is needed to interact with available 
 games and other players. This is an important feature of the game. With the community browser, 
 you can scan for available games, chat with other players, create a clan, enter a forum, and check 
 your e-mail. Everything you need in Tribes 2 is right at your fingertips, and it makes entering 
 a contest that much easier. The game also automatically checks for updates whenever you login for 
 Internet play. If need be, you can engage the bots in offline LAN games. Unfortunately, the bots 
 cannot play on most of the levels included in the game, which is a shame, as the repetition of 
 bot levels comes all to often. The bots come with varying skill level, so they can challenge even 
 the most experienced Tribes player.
  
  Each of the maps is specialized for one of the game types in Tribes 2: bounty, capture and hold, 
 capture the flag, deathmatch, hunters, team hunters, rabbit, and siege. About 90% of the servers 
 will be playing capture the flag, which is a shame, since some of the other game modes are actually 
 quite fun. We all know capture the flag and deathmatch, and most of the other modes of play are 
 just slight variations on these two themes. In bounty, you chase after only one other player at 
 a time. Capture and Hold is the same as Domination in Unreal Tournament, where you try to control 
 several points around the map. In hunters, every time someone is killed, they drop a flag, and 
 you return these flags to a common location called a Nexus: it's a combination of deathmatch and 
 capture the flag. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is an interesting array of innovations, which result in an unmatched gaming experience. 
 The basics of movement within the Tribes 2 universe is the same as most first person shooters, 
 with one ed change: the jetpack. You can use the jetpack to fly through the air, albeit for short 
 periods of time, and this adds a very interesting twist to the usual formula of team based play. 
 The use of packs is also an important aspect of play: you can don yourself with repair packs, shield 
 packs, and even deployable turrets. Couple this with mines and grenades, and you have yourself 
 an interesting game. The weapons are also a very good collection of situation-based firepower. 
 Each weapon has its own specific place and time for the most effective use, and knowing which one 
 to choose is half the puzzle in Tribes 2. You can arm yourself with chainguns, mortars, laser rifles, 
 missle launchers, spinfusors, and plasma rifles. There are three levels of armor, and each comes 
 with a tradeoff: the more armor you have, the slower you can move. And, only certain levels are 
 armor are allowed to carry certain weapons. This stresses the importance of communication and team 
 play in Tribes 2, as a band of similar fighters will never win a game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGOmen
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  (Note: Jurassic Park for the SNES had both 3rd and 1st person shooting for those who don't remember 
 it or weren't around) .
  
  Tribes 2 might be a perfectly fun and entertaining game for those who weren't devout followers 
 of the original, but if you were...
  
  Welcome to Starsiege Tribes Version 1.17 ... That's right, it's not even freakin' close 1.25 much 
 less an entirely different version of itself.
  
  I've been playing Starsiege Tribes since 1998, and heck, I still play it today (even have it in 
 the lobby as I'm writing) . But this poor excuse of a sequel finally plagued my mind after all these 
 years when I stumbled upon it while looking for the CD case of the Diablo II expansion: the Lord 
 of the Destruction. To be honest, I don't know why none of the people I've talked to haven't written 
 a review on this game, maybe they just want to forget about it, as the past reviews seem to have 
 been lost and those of us who get painful reminders of it look on the boards to get a few laughs, 
 but are shocked by the scores they see; though, this intrigued me, and I set about going to their 
 website that was on the back of the game case (though, surprise surprise, they don't even have 
 mention that Tribes 2 has ever existed, or at least not an obvious trail which leads to it on the 
 offical site) .
  
  Deciding to give it another chance I installed it on my computer and played it for several hours, 
 both on the poor excuse of a single player training missions (I say thing as back then it was advertised 
 as having a single player campaign, even though people will say OMG, it's just for training noob! 
 ) . The controls were inferior to the first, the weapons graphics were horrendous to the point I 
 wanted to poke, and the terrain was, what a surprise, much less graphical than even the first tribes. 
 It was barren, with no attempts to even give the terrain any diversity such as the lobs of painted 
 grass the first had upon the soil.
  
  Sure, it had a few trees here and there, badly animated water (though, I suppose I won't fault 
 it considering it's age) , and the actual characters looked like large stick figures rather than 
 human beings as they did in the first game.
  
  This is all with everything on max settings, 16x Ano, Max Resolution, bloom , and whole nine yards. 
 Playing the demo of Time Shift on all max settings may have made me slightly more biased, but I 
 recall these emotions of me being ripped off by sequel of a great game in the past as well.
  
  This has got the be the absolute worst sequel in the history of any great game; Starsiege tribes 
 offered very little new that wasn't present or vastly irrelevent that the first did not offer in 
 spades. In addition, with the original Starsiege Tribes, of which I gave a 9.5, you are now able 
 to download it free and play it with a hundred times more people as you will with the crappier 
 version of Tribes 2; gee, I wonder why it has so much more people?
  
  The fact that it's free may be a reason that it's around a hundred times more, but even before 
 it was downloadable it still had a vast amount of more players due to the fact that it was simply 
 much better in every way. The Disc thrower looks like a dog swallowed and spitted it up, the blaster 
 animations look like huge orange basketballs that merely deflect off of the poorly animated surfaces 
 up close, the starting controls are inferior until meddled with, and the actual look of the armors 
 looks like it was made by a student just learning how to duplicate something that was perfectly 
 fine to begin with.
  
  Now, StarSiege Tribes: Vengeance is a game that is worthy of being a Tribes Successor in my opinion, 
 and is a thousand times better than this pile of crap that was just a huge waste of money when 
 I bought it the first day that it came out. I honestly tried to like this game, but always ended 
 up going back to the original Starsiege Tribes like many of the people I've spoken with about this 
 game; though, our opinions aren't necessarily the same of other people, and if you enjoyed this 
 game then more power to you an all that.
  
  Though, if you've downloaded the original tribes and see this for sale somewhere, just pass it 
 up and go for Vengeance if you must get another Tribes game, it's how Tribes 2 should have been 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drew191hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Well the game is really fun and really i kinda took a break from all the computer stuff and forgot 
 my tribes 2 password and account stuff but hey i kno it happends, there might be a patch now or 
 something like that but wat ever from wat i remember this game was a fast paced and sometimes you 
 get massively pwned to the point were your smashing your keybourd like that german kid (speaking 
 of that german kid ,o kno wheres the escape key yah im not a racist but really do all kids act 
 like that in german 0_0) well anyway you dont have 2 agree with me but that is my opinion in fact 
 you can do anything you want i dont even really pay attention to forums but that is a whole different 
 story....
  
  great multiplayer hard difficulty addictive and takes a while to learn wat to do and when but after 
 a while you hope your internet connection does not ever cut off for the next year -_-... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Tribes 2 built upon the idea of tribes 1 and has a slew of features that tribes players are accustomed 
 to yet these features are just now arriving in current games and being heralded as amazing and 
 revolutionary advances. 
  
  Tribes has always had easy access to in game voice commands, team/global chat, command map access 
 and functionality, large outdoor multiplayer maps, great vehicle integration, different classes, 
 customizable character load outs with hotkey presets, numerous user created  
 and many fully functional gameplay modes right out of the box. 
  
  64-120+ multiplayer? tribes has had this since 1998, yet people releasing games even now talk about 
 how they are going to support 32-64 player games online. wow, amazing, it should be a given you 
 are doing this... do something impressive like a couple hundred per battle and this might be worth 
 mentioning in your promo materials.
  
  What's more: you get a jetpack, adding a whole different axis of play to the game. This is what 
 makes tribes the fantastic game it is. this unfortunately is also one of the curses of the tribes 
 games... as trying to learn how to play effectively online with a jetpack is beyond the skillset 
 or patience of many of the quake/doom/bf crowd. If people would take a couple hours to get the 
 hang of using the jetpack and skiing then they would find their online experience much more enjoyable.
 
  
  So what prevents tribes from having a decent amount of players online?:
  1. difficulty, many just give up before really giving the game a chance. (this does not mean I 
 want it nerfed in any way whatsoever, just a statement of fact)
  
  2. the population for tribes2 and unfortunately for tribes 1 to a large extent is just not there, 
 which is not encouraging for those just logging on. Therefore new players have less incentive now 
 to stay online with tribes 1 and 2.
  3. and in the case of tribes 2, the developer seems to have been on a mission to jack the game 
 around, currently the game won't launch and gets stuck in an authentication screen, therefore not 
 allowing players to access the in game browser. Instead of releasing a simple patch to eliminate 
 this part of the game launch, the issue is left hanging since Dynamix went buh bye.
  -There is an easy work around to this, but it has no doubt deterred a number of people from logging 
 in and playing tribes2. One way to fix this if you are having issues logging in to tribes 2 is 
 to right click on your tribes 2 online shortcut, select properties, and in the target field paste 
 this:  online
  -or if you have your tribes2 in a different folder just add the final part to the end: -online 
 
  
  -Tribes 2 is one of my all time favorites and still one of the best games around (albeit with no 
 population) , and I still log on once a week or so hoping to find a full or even semi-full pub which 
 is sadly never available.
  
  When I am talking about tribes I mean tribes 1 and tribes 2, not the abomination known as Tribes 
 Vengeance which was so abysmal all support for the game was dropped before a single patch was released, 
 and prior to the game even being out a year.
  
  If you can manage to find a full pub, nothing beats having 60-120 people on a server with tanks 
 and fighters fighting it out, while troopers jet in for flag caps and various unfortunates get 
 blown into fragments by bombers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkvolture
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, burned about three or four years on it. If you love games like BF1 or 2 this 
 game is a classic and a great deal if you can find it. i have seased to play this game how ever 
 its memories will always stay in my head as i year for some thing to be made just like it. But 
 it looks like that will never happen. If you feel like Bombing the hell out of some thing you can 
 hop into a vehicle such as a tank or a bomber. and just bombard the enemy but your going to want 
 to look out for the more you fire the more energy you use. and that takes away from shields. Feel 
 like attacking some one gather a group of fighters with a transport and drive it right to the door 
 of there base. you will distroy the enamys automative turrits and they are quite life like, and 
 highly accurate. while in the air avoid giveing off a heat signiture or missles will lock onto 
 you if that happens and your in a veh i hope your fast, or you can dodge it.
  
  If not bail out and hope your intime. with the three armers each with there own Possitives and 
 negatives this game rocks. jugernots, with there heavey wepions are good for assalting bases, but 
 slow. if your really good you can go out into the middle of no where and wait for scott armers 
 to come and they will. you are a target that is easy prey for them out in the open. if your a scot 
 you can use any veh. be an assasin or sniper, or your own bread of attacker. Medium armer is sweet. 
 its sort of a mixs of scot and jugernot armer. So it enables you to do stuff inbetween. This game 
 feels more like a warzone and less like a game. how ever outher mods keep you interested every 
 time. Dont feel like fighting why not build? yes there is building and its mad cool. there are 
 outher mods. two this game is amazeing but sadly is dieing slowly.
  Writen by dark volture 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Tribes 2 is, in my opinion, just about the longest lasting FPS and multiplayer game in existence. 
 I've played it for years, and even in competition with new games like Battlefield 2, Tribes 2 still 
 has something of an edge, in it's own right. Nowadays, the graphics are quite dated, but it doesn't 
 detract at all from the great feeling you get when you manage to frag an enemy in midair with the 
 spinfusor.
  
  The mecahnics of the Tribes series are unrivaled in the multiplayer FPS arena. Nowhere else have 
 jetpacks, turrets and inventory stations provided such a perfect mix of action and strategy in 
 a game to date. The commander view was revolutionary, and even games like Battlefield 2 that advertise 
 a strategic ""commander mode" as a major game element don't come close to the flexibility and full-featuredness 
 of the Tribes 2 commander map.
  
  With unique modes like "Rabbit" and "Hunters" in addition to a slew of other multiplayer modes, 
 Tribes 2 has more replayability than any other FPS of it's kind (except UT2004, but there are just 
 so many modders who love that game) .
  
  Before you can say that you're a true FPS player, or even any bit of a hardcore gamer, you've got 
 to have a serious appreciation for Tribes 2, because it is indeed a timeless classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  I bought Tribes 2 because I played Tribes I and I have to say that I have spent the years enjoying 
 this game to the hilt. It is one of the best multiplayer games of all time. From the server list 
 UI to mods that are, were, available for this revolutionary game, Tribes 2 rocked. Never before, 
 and I fear never again, will we see a game as enjoyable and as addictive as the Tribes series. 
 From the huge maps, incredably addictive game play, to the tactics and strategies one needs to 
 develop to play this game and get the max enjoyment out of it, Tribes 2 was perfect. If you don't 
 get the game, no worries, it was an aquired taste that once liked grew on you to no end. I really 
 cannot help but feel a great sense of loss over the slow demise of this game and its franchise. 
 To the developers, those guys at dynamix, all I can say is thank you so very much for having made 
 two of the most addicitive and enjoyable games of all time. When I die I want to be buied with 
 my Tribes I and Tribes 2 cd's. That is how much I enjoyed these games and the time I invested in 
 playing them. As one of the last men standing after the battle has ended, I will testify to the 
 value of this game and Tribes I to the day I die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  Tribes.. Heroism... honor.. courage. I probably had my best gaming time with tribes ever. The only 
 game able to reach an almost similar importance in every day life of my school-age maybe was counter-strike 
 beta 5.7 during a 4 week holiday being home alone. But only almost. o. O
  
  *Sigh*.. Man you have to treat tribes well, or it will make you eat some really disgusting dirt. 
 (Like a GF)
  It was fantastic being able to perform sniperkills over a distance of about 
  5-600m with a horribly low visibility distance and average FPS of about 19 to 30 FPS. (My Reverse 
 Sniper Script, to Release for a shot, instead of pressing was awesome. - Similar to the TFC Sniper.)
 
  Although sniping becomes so easy and devastating pretty fast if you are a skilled and fast aimer. 
 So i soon switched to other playstyles: 
  Cloaking around in the enemy base, bashing the generators causing panical chaos and confusion.
 
  Or simply flying around Equipped with Chaingun, Grenadelauncher and the old but reliable Disclauncher 
 smashing enemy faces to rock-solid mountain sledges after multiple Mid-Air hits.
  
  "Woooohoooo! Is that the best you can do?!"
  
  "Yes!"
  "Yes!"
  "Yes!
  
  Yes. The vehicle 
 physics were bugged and killed you often if you didnt know exactly how to fly by the enemy flag. 
 But the game was still awesome.
  
  The best part about this game was probably, that for a Mid-Air Disc hit with both Parties moving 
 in the air horizontally, you absolutely need to aim forward for about 3 or 4 centimetres to make 
 it happen. Generally there was no way a noob could Finish you consecutively because you really 
 need Experience and Skills for this game. (Unlike Trendy Games like Counter-Strike etc.)
  This is also the reason why people playing crap games like Delta-Force 1+2 to DF: Extreme really 
 stick to it. (Like a mate of mine.) Because its simply a brutal intimidation for your adversaries. 
 ;) Muahahaha.
  
  The mods for Tribes 2 were absolutely GREAT! too. Team Rabbit 2 for instance. A Soccer-Like Mod 
 with Styles, Moves, Combos etc. (Very hard to manage too.)
  
  And last but not least. LAK-Rabbit! WOW! My all-time Favorite Considering FPS Freakage.
  
  
 Depending on your weapon, distance, angle and speed you get specially calculated points for Mid-Air 
 Hits against the Flagcarrier (Or your "Followers") .
  
  What a fast-paced Modification. Its an awesome feeling flying around with about 12 Enemies all 
 closely to your Tail with, Grenades, Discs and every possible Arsenal flying by your "Camera". 
 Phew! "Man why is my heart pounding so hard.. how the f4ck should i be able to aim like this?!"
 
  
  No Online Multiplayer FPS will ever beat the Feeling when you hear your Co-Players Cheer after 
 you hit the Flagcarrier flying at a height of 350m about 800m meters away from you with a MID (!!!) -AIR (!!!!!) 
 Disc!!!!!
  
  Believe me the Screenshots of a 1-2 pixel big enemy in far distance looked awesome. And i even 
 had it on a Demo-Recording. Sadly those Harddiscs are Corrupted, but maybe i will achieve to get 
 that Data back in place some day.
  
  This game is a blast.
  
  Period.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane_F
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, Gameplay, Gameplay. This is what this game turned out to be the biggest factor in my 
 score. Lets do a little history lesson shall we? On we go...
  
  I was an original Beta Tester for the game (If you own the game or have the game now, you can find 
 me under the credits as "Shane F". There is more to my last name of course.) Anyway, when I was 
 first introduced into the game via Tribes 1, I had a hard time playing it. Over time I developed 
 a skill which was needed to play the game perfectly. That was "skiing". Skiing comes back into 
 play in Tribes 2. When I first got the beta CD, rushing upstrais to my dorm room missing a class 
 in the process, I installed and played all day. From day 1 the game had major gameplay problems. 
 The game became so buggy that it wasn't playable at all. The beta was stopped and the game was 
 worked on and a second group of beta testers known as "Meta" players took the beta testing on. 
 I was not on this group, but I did still have a way to know what was going on behind the scene's.
 
  
  As the game to the release date (waiting outside of EB) , I was getting anxious and more anxious 
 bound to get the game going before anyone else. (My account is still active to this day.) As I 
 jumped into the game, the game was finally playable to a level where I thought that this could 
 work. Over time I had tons of fun and stuff, but in the end it again got tough to play, like the 
 early days of Tribes 1.
  
  After numbers patches and upgrades of the original game, the game finally got to be perfect to 
 a place where I had fun. Looking back know, I know how this is, the game was alright for the time 
 and it is still 'Revolutionary' to this day, but many more games released later, this game is know 
 old.
  
  As you can see from my breakdown, the highest marks where in the 9s after all, I did spend $500 
 to buy a really nice card for this game to play and run right. Bit that cost. Sound, SHAZBOT!, 
 and my overall tilt is good. But the money and the time I spent playing it..... not worth the value.
 
  
  Out of the Tribes franchise, which have been haunted by Dynamix's sell-off, Serria stopping patches, 
 interacting with the community where game quality went down, and the easy exploiting of the game 
 code brittled tthrough this game. It might be the "Game of the Year" worthy, but I bet someone 
 paid them off.
  
  Oh, by the way, my Tribes 2 name is ^BuGs^.
  
  Overall...
  Pro: Great game 
  Con: Corporation got in the way of a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  They didn't stray too far from the original's game play, but there was nothing wrong with it to 
 begin with. 
  Like the first one everyone is divided into 2 teams. The goal is to capture the enemy's flag and 
 return it to your flag to gain a point. There are 8 game play modes in all, including ''CTF'' (the 
 most common game mode) , ''Siege'' (one team attacks, one team defends) , ''Rabbit'' (like playing 
 tag with guns) , and standard deathmatch (which nobody plays) . 
  You can also play a Lan game by yourself and battle with up to 16 bots. The bot AI is average- 
 and you're restricted to only a few maps, why? I'm guessing they didn't take the time to program 
 the bots to battle on the other 75% of the maps. 
  
  All the old guns return with some tweaks and new looks. Joining them are the shocklance and the 
 missle launcher. The shocklance is an electrical prod like device that requires you to get right 
 up to your victom. If you hit them in the back it's usually an instant kill to any armor class. 
 Use the shocklance with a cloaking pack and you can go play a spy role, backstabbing enemies and 
 destroying base structures undetected. 
  
  My personal favorite feature is the new vehicles: 
  -Shrike- A fast attack scout plane with dual 
 lasers. Used as an air-to-air response, or as light ground support. 
  -Beowolf-An awesome looking hover tank. A seat for the driver, and another seat for the gunner. 
 The gunner can switch between the tanks machine guns or main cannon. 
  -Jericho-slow but sturdy, this 4 wheeled vehicle is a mobile inventory station. When deployed it 
 also sets up a sensor jammer and missle turret for self defense. 
  -Wildcat-A very fast hover cycle with no weapons. Can only be used by light armor. 
  -Thundersword 
 Bomber-You guessed it, a bomber. Carries 3 people, a pilot, a tailgunner, and a bombardier. The 
 tailgunner's job is to shoot down enemy's in pursuit, and also release flares to confuse missles. 
 The bombardier controls a rotating turret, and also the bomb payload. 
  -Havoc-A 6 man transport. Carries up to 4 Juggernaut armors, a tailgunner, and a pilot. 
  
 
  The Command menu returns again, this time it has a lot more versatility. The command menu gives 
 you a map of the battlefield with markers of buildings and players. It's suppose to be used by 
 the ''team leader'' to command everyone in an RTS style. But It's just another teamplay feature 
 that collects dust (alot like the targeting-laser/mortar combo that nobody ever used in tribes 1) , 
 and when some newbie does try to use it people just ignore their commands. 
  The vehicles were really aimed toward promoting teamplay as well, and they sound good on paper, 
 but don't work out in practice. Unfortunately it's hard enough to find someone to be a gunner for 
 your beowolf. But it's even more futile trying to pull together a crew for your Thundersword bomber. 
 And good luck getting anyone to jump into your Havoc transport. That would have to be the one flaw 
 in the gameplay of tribes... but it's really not a game design fault, the problem is you just can't 
 force 15 strangers to organize themself's and work as a cordinated team. 
  
  Don't be fooled by the 7 score... The graphics are awesome. The textures and weapon models are 
 all very good. The enviroments are huge, complete with trees, rivers, and other eye candy. A great 
 improvement over tribes 1's bland levels. In fact, the graphics are all around top notch- But unfortunately 
 you'll probably never see them. Tribes 2 is a huge resource cruncher. My 500 mhz PIII, 128 RAM, 
 voodoo 5 5500 machine grinded to an unplayable mess even in single player mode. playing on a Lan 
 is usually ok when I have the graphics at half. But I have to play with most the graphics turned 
 all the way down to play online (I'm 56k, which doesn't help much) . I'm not the only one that has 
 this problem either, you'll need a computer with a hell of a lot of horsepower to pull this game 
 off with full graphics. 
  If you see Tribes 2 in a store and have a 56k... just keep on walking by. Anything less than a 
 DSL or Cable would be pointless considering the unplayable lag you get on 56k. You may notice on 
 the Tribes 2 box there is one requirement missing- It doesnt tell you the required modem type. 
 They couldn't list DSL as required because a lot of people are still on 56k, and they can't say 
 56k is required because they can't make promises they can't keep. 
  
  Cool box, cool intro, nice manual, decent tutorial (still not good enough for the difficult gameplay 
 of tribes) , and easy to use interface. You'll be able to join into games easy and fast. 
  
  The music is tight, as always. But dynamix is trying to milk this cash cow a little farther by 
 selling a Tribes 2 soundtrack that includes 5 whole tracks from T2. That's a cheap move considering 
 Tribes 1 let you listen to the music off the game CD itself. The weapons and vehicles sounds are 
 all as well done as the music. The voices however aren't as good as the first ones, especially 
 the annoying bot voice. 
  
  Endless multiplayer fun. Hundreds of servers, and a creative mod community will make this game 
 last a long time. 
  
  It's basically tribes 1 with a lot of cool new features and a HUGE makeover in graphics. It keeps 
 everything that made tribes great and improves on it. But beware the ''minimum required specs'' 
 on the box. If you don't have at least 128 RAM, 400 mhz, DSL or better, and a 3rd generation 3d 
 card (Voodoo 4 or 5, or geforce 2 [geforce is best] ) then you might want to settle for the first 
 tribes (Or wait for a tribes 2 demo to come out, and see then if your system can handle it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone502
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm walking around a store and i see a value priced game on the shelves. It's only 10 bucks so 
 I decide to buy it. Little did I know i was buying what i now consider one of the gretest games 
 ever. It installs quick even on my computer. When its done I started toying around with the single 
 player missions. THe single player aspect of this game is praticaly nothing. The campaign is just 
 a tutorial. I later figured out you can make the single player mission better by using the Editor. 
 
  
  Then I started playing online. It took no time to connect even though there were a thousand or 
 so people playing. I join my first game and right of the bat made a friend. The game has a buddylist 
 for keeping track of friends. It also has "Tribes" or clans to join. The whole game was centered 
 around team work and community which brings me to my next point.
  
  One of the best parts of the game was the modding. There were servers running games with completly 
 new weapons, vehicles, packs, and armors. There was even constrution mods where you could build 
 almost anything you wanted. The community was filled with skins, maps, weapon, vehicle, armor, 
 and pack codes.
  
  The graphics aren't very good but the gameplay and easy controls make up for it. All you really 
 need to know control wise was that W was forward, S was back, A and D were strafe, and that the 
 mouse looked, shot, and jetpacked.
  
  I didn't notice sound much and can't go back and check it becuase it doesn't work for me anymore 
 but it was probably average.
  
  All in all I am really sad that such a great game is now gone and never to be resurrected.
  
 
  (I know this is really bad but it's my first try.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fougera
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Tribes 2 is possibly the best FPS I have played for PC yet. I bought Vengeance, but it just didn't 
 match up to Tribes 2. The fun of playing for hours on end without even noticing the time fly by 
 was just amazing. I was dissapointed when I couldn't find the game anywhere here in the United 
 States, but i was able to find the game in New Zealand. Tribes has pretty good graphics for when 
 it was made, so it was easy to run it on my older PC, and it has a file size of about 650 Mbs. 
 Overall, great game and I recommend to anyone who likes a shoot 'em up game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morpheyous
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  amazing game, let me tell you, ive been playing this game for years and years, it does not get 
 the publicity it deserves and its certainly not a game for everyone, it caters more to the harcore 
 player who is willing to put the time in to master its weapons and armors and packs and vehicles 
 and jetpacks and all the other things that this game is made off
  
  also the netcode is perfect, sometimes my internet gets really bad and i can barely surf the internet, 
 but t2 still runs silky smooth, its amazing
  
  the gameplay is at first confusing and not fun, but trust me, if you stick to it and learn how 
 everything works you will then realize how amazing this game is, AMAZING, every time i play online 
 i see somting cool new and intiresting happening, becasue the game has so much depth there are 
 hundreds and hunderds of things that can do, and you can think up new ways to do things and really 
 outsmart your enemy
  
  the weapons seems pretty well balanced, some people think some weapons are kinda cheap but overall 
 they are quite well designed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smaqaho
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2004 1:57 am PT
Review:  Tribes 2 is by far the best online competitive shooter I have ever played. There are simply too 
 many amazing elements to mention in one review, so I will not even get to half of the things that 
 make this game great to play online. 
  
  The thing that really makes this game fun is its ability to offer you an endless amount of possibilities 
 of gameplay. The main type of play is Capture the flag. In most other games, you would choose to 
 either capture the flag, or defend your flag. In Tribes 2, there is so much more in CTF than just 
 the flags and they DO matter in order to get that flag back home safely. There are massive bases 
 that contain generators that you can attack or defend. There are turrets in the field that can 
 utilize or even put more turrets in the field to help defend you base/flag. There are 6 vehicle 
 types that further strategy and fun, and make it easier to travel on those real large maps. Add 
 to all of this, the selection of so many types of great weapons that you can choose to use in your 
 loadout. Add to this, packs that further augment your character's role in helping your team win. 
 Add to this, 3 different armor types along with 5 different grenade types. And then add to all 
 of this, so many different kinds of maps that contain things like seneors, sub-bases, insane ski 
 routes, and so much more. 
  
  I have vaguely described just a little bit of the things in Tribes 2, but do not have the time 
 nor the patience to really type EVERYTHING out that is in this game. It is so much fun and so open 
 ended that I have played it for the last three and a half years and am still liking every minute 
 of it whether in a public server or in a competitive match. Best online shooter of all time is 
 simply and understatement for this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erandel
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2004 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Tribes 2 contains an interesting, if not easy to understand initially, mix of strategy, first person 
 shooting and some minor RPG elements for those who want to truely get behind thier clan and cheer 
 people on.
  
  The game which is online only - there is an offline mode but its more for training purposes - pits 
 you into the battle as a member of a guild intent on taking over a territory which has attracted 
 another tribe who doing the same that you are and hopefully leaving you gunned down and humiliated.
 
  
  To make sure that you win you will need to plan your character and make use of weapon stations, 
 flying and land vehicles as well as different types of armour, guns and mobile turrets.
  
  To play successfully you have to play as a team and this is where the fun begins - will you be 
 the main tank heavy armour character or will you let other people do the fighting for you and remain 
 in support?
  
  The game has a large variety of maps and landscapes to fight accross, all requiring different tactics 
 and plans to make sure you succeed. With new maps and plugins the value of the game is extended 
 further, making combat fast and furious. The sound is pitched well with some good music on various 
 maps.
  
  Generally a very well balanced game, today it looks slightly dated and could put some people off. 
 It is also very possible to be stuck with a side that does not want to play properly. This should 
 not stop you from getting stuck into a gem of a game that deserves a chance to be played.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
