-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tribes: Vengeance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tribesvengeance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,272 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Irrational Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 12, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tribes: Vengeance effectively captures the spirit of the original game, and adds a surprisingly 
 good single-player campaign to a deep and addictive multiplayer component. 

  The original Starsiege Tribes was a landmark game for the first-person shooter genre. Combining 
 huge maps, deep team-based multiplayer mechanics, jetpacks, and drivable vehicles, Dynamix' imaginative 
 game laid the groundwork for the design of many of today's most popular multiplayer shooters, including 
 the Battlefield games and Unreal Tournament 2004. The sequel, Tribes 2, was hampered by serious 
 bugs upon launch and it disappointed many players in the Tribes community. Although the game was 
 patched later and modded to a great degree by third parties, the damage was already done, and Dynamix 
 was disbanded shortly thereafter. The development of the next Tribes game on the PC was then handed 
 over to Irrational Games, best known for developing another classic first-person game, System Shock 
 2. The good news for Tribes fans is that Irrational's stewardship over the Tribes license is a 
 resounding success. Tribes: Vengeance effectively captures the spirit of the original game, and 
 adds a surprisingly good single-player campaign to a deep and addictive multiplayer component. 

          The inclusion of a single-player campaign is new to the Tribes franchise, and turns out 
 to be a solid part of Tribes: Vengeance.     

  The inclusion of a story-based, single-player campaign is new to the Tribes series. Though the 
 documentation of the original games included a good deal of futuristic backstory describing the 
 different factions, the games themselves were strictly multiplayer affairs, with no real story 
 development occurring in-game. The story of Tribes: Vengeance centers on two generations of imperial 
 princesses, Victoria and her daughter Julia. The game's missions are structured so that you are 
 shifted back and forth through time, and you play the missions through the viewpoints of a number 
 of different characters aside from the imperial royalty, including two brothers in the Phoenix 
 tribe and a mysterious cybrid assassin. Along the way you'll learn about the conflict between the 
 imperials and a couple of the tribes (the Blood Eagles also play a big role in the plot) , uncover 
 a vile conspiracy, and discover a dark secret harbored by Victoria. The plot twists end up being 
 fairly predictable, but you'll still feel compelled to play through the campaign, thanks to some 
 solid mission design.  

  Longtime first-person shooter fans won't find many design aspects in the campaign of Tribes: Vengeance 
 that they haven't seen before. There are plenty of scripted sequences and multistage missions, 
 for example. But the variety of environments and mission types should keep most players interested. 
 There are, of course, massive outdoor landscapes, which you can explore easily using jetpacks, 
 which are a hallmark of the Tribes games. The campaign also has plenty of indoor levels to explore, 
 such as an imperial palace and a massive underground base. The variety in the campaign extends 
 over to the mission design. One mission has you playing as an adolescent Julia, forced to defend 
 yourself when the imperial palace is under attack by tribes. You'll have to evade at the outset, 
 as little Julia can't carry weapons, but eventually you'll be able to climb into a fighter craft 
 and turn the tables on the invaders. Another level has you playing as a cybrid assassin stalking 
 a vast map dotted with Phoenix tribe installations. You'll knock these out as a one-man wrecking 
 crew before infiltrating the underground areas of the base.  

          Jetpacking is an important aspect of Tribes: Vengeance -- wouldn't be Tribes without it. 
     

  The interiors of many levels are designed to take special advantage of Tribes' nuances, specifically 
 the jetpack. You'll find a lot of multitiered rooms, which will test your jetpacking proficiency, 
 as well as rooms with rounded-off floors, which can be used for "skiing" -- another Tribes convention 
 where you can combine the momentum gained by gravity and the properties of your frictionless boots 
 to launch yourself into the air with tremendous velocity. So while the overarching design of the 
 missions isn't totally original, the special nuances that were worked into the level and mission 
 design give the single-player aspect of the game a truly Tribes-like feel, and keep it from feeling 
 generic. On the whole, Tribes: Vengeance's campaign is quite good, and it should keep most players 
 busy for about 10 to 12 hours. Newcomers to the franchise will also find it a useful tutorial for 
 multiplayer, as you're introduced to all the different weapons, armor types, and vehicles, as well 
 as various game types throughout the campaign.  

  While the single-player campaign is more than competent, the multiplayer aspect of Tribes: Vengeance 
 is still the primary selling point of the game. It features a good amount of content out of the 
 box, as well as a refined implementation of the tried-and-true mechanics that made 1999's Tribes 
 game a hit. Maps support up to 32 human players, though it's a bit unfortunate that there's no 
 option to play with or against computer-controlled bots. The base game type of Tribes: Vengeance, 
 as in previous Tribes games, is capture the flag. Each of two teams has control of a complex base. 
 Bases include sensor arrays, stationary turrets, inventory stations (for respawned players to pick 
 up different armor and weapons) , vehicle-spawning stations, and generators to power all these items. 
 Successful teams have to manage not only offense and defense with regard to the flags, but also 
 make sure that all base equipment is in good working order. This turns out to be an intense and 
 interesting endeavor in Tribes: Vengeance.     

  It's possible, for example, to cripple the other team by destroying their generator, which would 
 knock out all their equipment. At any given moment in a Tribes match, dozens of players are working 
 on a variety of different tasks, such as base defense, repairs, driving a vehicle, or capturing 
 the other team's flag. Fragging the other team members is purely incidental to these other important 
 tasks. Adding to the mayhem are the jetpacks that each player is equipped with. Though many of 
 the game's 15 multiplayer maps are quite large, players who are good at jetpacking and skiing can 
 traverse the largest map in but a few heartbeats, even faster than if they were in a vehicle.  
 

          Though there aren't a ton of maps in Tribes: Vengeance's multiplayer, many of them are 
 quite large -- but still easy to to traverse with jetpacks.     

  It's worth noting that some simplifications have been made to the formula in Tribes: Vengeance 
 compared to the previous games in the series. Vehicles, for instance, are no longer selected and 
 purchased from consoles. Instead, they spawn periodically from vehicle pads. However, the minor 
 tweaks don't significantly change or detract from a proven and addictive multiplayer gameplay design. 

  Aside from capture the flag, four other multiplayer modes are available, including ball, where 
 each team scores by capturing and throwing a ball into a guarded goal, and rabbit, which is flag 
 keep-away. Fuel is arguably the most interesting mode, where each team must venture into the field 
 and collect fuel canisters for deposit at their base. Each team death subtracts one unit from the 
 team depot, and the first team to a specified unit count wins.  

  Irrational has tweaked the arsenal of weapons in Tribes: Vengeance compared to previous games. 
 The trusty mortar, chaingun, grenade launcher, and spinfusor (a disc launcher much like a standard 
 first-person shooter rocket launcher) are still present and should be familiar to Tribes veterans. 
 But there are a couple of brand-new weapons and updates to previous weapons. The rocket pod is 
 a gun that fires off six spiraling rockets that have limited tracking ability -- stay aimed on a 
 big vehicle or cluster of enemies and the rockets will home in on that spot. A new grappling hook 
 adds plenty of new tricks. Players can latch onto friendly vehicles and catch a ride, while the 
 underground cavern map provides opportunity to sling your way quickly across terrain like Spider-Man. 
 The sniper rifle has been tweaked a bit, requiring not just energy from your jet pack, but separate 
 ammunition as well. This keeps would-be snipers from sniping out in the field forever without resupply. 
 What hasn't been changed is the overall balance between weapons. Every gun has its purpose, and 
 they all have a satisfying feel when used.  

  The hierarchy of armors -- light, medium, and heavy -- remains pretty much the same. As you'd expect, 
 light armor allows you the fastest movement and the least protection, while heavy armor offers 
 very slow movement but additional defense and ammunition for your guns. Certain weapons are also 
 restricted by ammo type, such as the sniper rifle only being available for light armor. There are 
 also only four vehicles in Tribes: Vengeance. On the ground there's a fast buggy that serves as 
 a mobile inventory station, and a jump tank, which has a big cannon, a machine gun, and limited 
 jump-jet capability. In the air, there's a one-man fighter craft that maneuvers much like a helicopter, 
 while a three-man assault ship is also available, with side-mounted cannons and powerful bombs. 
 Like most of the weapons, these vehicles each are interesting and useful in certain contexts, but 
 do not seem overpowering.  

          You'll play a variety of characters in the single-player campaign, which is quite good 
 in its own right and serves as a decent introduction to multiplayer.     

  The presentation in Tribes: Vengeance is excellent. Powered by a modified Unreal engine, player 
 and vehicle models offer a ton of detail, and weapon models in hand look extremely intricate, with 
 many moving parts. Explosions look and sound very satisfying, particularly because of a physics 
 engine that scatters numerous parts when firing wildly inside of a room. There are also some nice 
 rag-doll effects when you kill enemy players with a large explosion. The vast terrain you see in 
 certain maps looks great, and it is realistically detailed with foliage, rolling hills, and other 
 landscape features. From high points, you'll also be able to see for quite a ways, although the 
 draw distances don't quite rival Far Cry's. Cutscenes are done in-engine, and while the character 
 faces have a claylike look, everything animates smoothly, and the voice acting is surprisingly 
 decent overall.  

  By combining a good single-player campaign with a multiplayer component that effectively captures 
 everything that made the original Tribes a classic, Irrational Games has succeeded in creating 
 a shooter that offers something for every first-person shooter fan to enjoy. The spirit of the 
 franchise remains intact in Tribes: Vengeance, from the thrilling speed of jetpacking and skiing 
 to the depth of the team-based action in multiplayer. The game's excellent presentation is merely 
 the icing on the cake for a game that excels in just about every aspect.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Tribes has been reborn from the ashes. Not long after the release of Tribes 2 back in 2001, series 
 creator Dynamix was shut down, and the future of the series was in doubt. Tribes has been resurrected 
 at the hands of Irrational Games, who've deftly recaptured the basic feel of the first two Tribes 
 games while streamlining the series' classic gameplay. Tribes: Vengeance may lack some of the complexity 
 and depth that helped make Starsiege Tribes and Tribes 2 so good, but make no mistake, it's still 
 an engaging team shooter. Tribes is also a solo shooter for the first time: Vengeance includes 
 a full single-player campaign, and a very good one at that. Irrational has also taken Tribes to 
 a whole new level visually and introduced new game modes, weapons, vehicles, and maps. Tribes: 
 Vengeance isn't all that it could have been, but more often than not it's still an exciting game.
 
  
  One thing that immediately sets Tribes: Vengeance apart from its predecessors is the inclusion 
 of a full single-player campaign. It's filled with the characters, plot twists, cutscenes, and 
 scripted events that you'd expect from any good single-player shooter, and it serves double-duty 
 as an extended tutorial. The irony is that such help isn't as vital now as it was in the previous, 
 more complex games.
  
  The story follows the intertwined fates of a royal family and the proud outcast tribesmen who give 
 the series its name. It's a tale of love and vengeance, closed minds and opened eyes. It may seem 
 a bit clichd and juvenile at times, but it stays interesting by letting you play as various main 
 characters -- even a villain -- at different points in the timeline. It's also nice to see the 
 Tribes universe used to good effect instead of being employed solely as empty window dressing, 
 as in the first two games.
  
  The single-player campaign offers tons of exciting action in varied settings. You'll fight indoors 
 and out, man turrets, pilot vehicles, defend a base, confront a jumping puzzle or two, crawl through 
 vents (well, we didn't need that) , and more. Unfortunately, the missions are hurt by horribly long 
 load times and some bugs and balance issues. The missions can seem a bit old-fashioned, too, but 
 in the positive sense of relying on proven ideas and finely polishing them instead of trying to 
 be novel for the sake of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchiha-zero
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  The game Grows on You Its simply magnefusent it is the best tribes game ever made .....
  
  -campaing mode : feuters a dramateic story with a noy very happy end.
  
  -Multiplayer mode 
 : play a bunch of game mods in fantastic maps + downloadble maps !
  
  Tribes: Vengeance (sometimes called T: V or Tribes 3) is a sci-fi first-person shooter (FPS) computer 
 game of the Tribes video game series. It was developed by Irrational Games and released by Sierra 
 Entertainment (part of Vivendi Universal) in October 2004. It was built on enhanced version of 
 the Unreal Engine 2/2.5, which Irrational Games called the Vengeance engine. In addition to its 
 multiplayer network maps, Vengeance includes a complete single-player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace1177
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I got this game expecting it to be a huge improvement from Tribes 2 but it was a let down. Tribes 
 2 had many fun tools you could use on the battlefield let alone the multi-player was great. All 
 this game has is a horrible campaign and a multi-player that I hate. While the graphics are a lot 
 better the game play is lacking. They took out tons of the packs I used to enjoy and took out any 
 kind of turrent that in Tribes 2 you could place to protect key points in the game... let alone 
 the vehicles are not as good as they were in Tribes 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenoXV
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 28, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is pretty fun. When I 1st got the game i was expecting more than what i was getting. 
 I saw the videos and like all videos, the video doesn't always explain how fun a game can be. But 
 anyways after seeing the video i bought the game and played the game for about a month. The game 
 was fun trust me but the players in the game being able to rap the taunts was getting really getting 
 annoying. I mean repeatably hearing the stupid taunts over and over was really really annoying. 
 Yea you do have to move alot more than you do in Halo but the look and feel in this game is not 
 as good as Halo. The sounds of the weapons could have been better. They were good but they just 
 sounded not as good as what you would hear in Halo. The guns and the game play just didn't have 
 the fluid thrill that you get from Halo. I mean in Halo you had guns with some sub woofing bass 
 like the rocket launcher or when someone gets throw in the air from a grenade it looks realistic 
 as heck in Halo. In Tribes vengeance it just doesn't feel like Halo. Actually be honest i don't 
 see many games like Halo. Im still trying to find one. But this game is fun for a month, but when 
 someone raps the taunts and the ignore feature doesn't work and the gameplay is always the same 
 thing. And that reminds me the vehicles in Tribes Vengeance look and sound like crap compared to 
 the Halo vehicles. The textures of the game just didn't look as realistic or exciting as Halo. 
 Idk could be me but i mean Halo has had some good quality behind it. Its small stuff that makes 
 a game perfect and Halo has it. I have tried many times to try to enjoy this game and i just can 
 not kill anyone. I mean by the top i fire, they are behind me. Takes about 30 shots to kill a bouncing 
 lamer with a jetpack that never dies.... Atleast in halo not everyone has a jetpack. And if they 
 do have a jetpack it doesn't last long. In tribes vengeance ull spend hours trying to connect the 
 dots and pray to god you time your shots just right because in a 0.0000000001 sec you could miss 
 and have to chase him down. and for some reason he likes to run just to annoy you. oh did i mention 
 that about every game you'll play you'll hear raping of taunts till the game ends? theres no way 
 to mute it. i think this game would be better if the targets weren't so hard to hit and not everyone 
 had a jetpack. i mean if u can get use to it, good for you but i tell you now, you'll walk out 
 with a headache because you spent your time lookin in every direction trying to find the sucker! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swift18
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Dude DUHHHHHH no one plays online any more it came out 3 years ago. So think of it this way. When 
 it came out you had Doom aand Farcry and this game was up there with them. With Great fights and 
 Awsome Online at the time. You where never bored i used to stay up untell 5 or 6 in the morning 
 playing online and if you got bored with a server there was 100 more. This game gets a 10 in my 
 book because even tho Doom and such was out it held its own still. This games is the best of the 
 whole series and i hope they make another one soon i want more for sure. And on the consoles too. 
 And as of yet i have not found one game that is so fun and so awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocalypseth6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is nice. The single-player has a good storyline that's surprisingly good. For me, all 
 the fun is in the multiplayer. It's hard to get into at first, but once you get in, it sticks to 
 you. You'll keep playing just a few more minutes . What makes the multiplayer addicting is the 
 fact that no 2 matches feel the same. I swear there will be some moments that are unforgetable. 
 It's pretty fun. This is the first game where I played multiplayer. There aren't too many people 
 online though, There's about 50-100 people.
  
  Gameplay: Fast-paced action that will give you a adrenaline rush. The only problem is that some 
 weapons (like the chaingun) are pretty weak compared to the other weapons. There are also some multiplayer 
 glitches.
  
  Graphics: At high settings, the textures are excellent, especially the armor. The special effects, 
 like the burner, are nice to look at. The environments are nice too. The faces look kind of like 
 shiny clay, though. It's weird.
  
  Sound: The sounds effects are great. The music is ok. The voice acting is great, except for the 
 death screams, which sounds held back. Seti's voice acting is kind of weird. It's scary in a different 
 way.
  
  Value: I got this game for $20, which is worth every penny. Now this game is like $5. It's a very 
 good deal. You should get it.
  
  Tilt: I though this was a very good game overall. It's worth buying.
  
  Difficulty and Learning 
 Curve: It takes a while to get used to the controls. Learning is pretty easy. Mastering the game 
 is hard. But you learn as you go.
  
  For those of you who do not want to get this game because there are not enough people online, you 
 are not solving the problem. The more people who get this game, the more online players there will 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goodguy28
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm not usually critical about a game, But Tribes Vengance is an exception. Though the only tribes 
 game i have played is Areial Assault for the Ps2, i got this thinking id get an even better game. 
 well, the Visuals are beautiful, though i really don't care too much about graphics and Sound (which 
 is also superb) , and the Single Player Portion of the game is a very fun and at some points addicting 
 storyline. Although I would have liked a few more levels with soldiers fighting by your side, it 
 was entertaining blasting those tribals with a grenade and watching them fly off (with a full ragdoll 
 physics effect) by yourself.
  
  The Game manual claims that this game's Multiplayer is a major team-oriented experiance. the problem? 
 HARDLY ANYONE PLAYS IT. When i Load the server list i get a whopping 5 SERVERS, 3 with onmly like 
 3 or 4 people in it. and the few with more in it are ftainted with but one strategy: Mortar Spamming. 
 Basically, the whole team grabs Heavy Armor and a Mortar Launcher, then rushes to the other base 
 and starts spawnkilling. Thats all it is, a race to see who can get to Spawn killing first. then 
 the idiots flame you when you start complaining, with such slurs as U are a Noob, learn some skill, 
 loser! . and when you finally get out of your base (alive) and get their flag adn hide with it while 
 you wait for yours to be returned, the other guys will yell at you YOU NOOB! YOUR TURTLEING!! 
 
  
  basically, what they implie is that you can spawnkill as much as you lke, as long as you don't 
 get their flag and hide in a smart, safe place. whats worse, is that you can NOT play a single 
 player match against bots, so you have to try to learn everything in multiplayer... if you can spawn 
 without being mortared....
  
  I'd recommend this game to those who want a fun, Story-driven single-player experiance. as far 
 as the multiplayer goes... stay clear... unless you like to listen to the braying of bragging noobs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themyth01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequel to Tribes 2 and Starseige Tribes. The game plays differently than any other 
 game ever made thanks to the unique weapons and jetpack physics the game features. You can fly 
 for limited time using jetpacks and most of the action is based on the skies. The primary weapons 
 is a disc projectile type weapon. The game not only relies on shooting accuracy and good aim but 
 also on your ability to control your jetpack and ski. Skiing in Tribes allows you to use the momentum 
 from sliding down hills and gain enormous speed plus combining that speed with the jet pack and 
 you can fly throughout the map faster than any vehicle, it also makes for intense battles as the 
 projectiles the weapons shoot will sometimes be just slightly faster than the speed you're moving, 
 so you'll have to 'lead' your shot, that is shoot according to the speed your target is moving 
 and the speed of the weapon projectile shoot 2-4 seconds ahead of the character. This game requires 
 a lot of skill, and I mean a lot, there are so many things to do with grenades, weapons, jetpacks 
 and combinations thereof that talented players can easily be told apart from inexperienced players. 
 The graphics are really good, there are a few maps made by the community that enhance the value 
 of this quite a bit. This is definately worth trying if you have a half decent PC and some free 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is awome! the third of the tribes games. Tribes vengance hase awsome graffix and sound. 
 the game play is fanaminal and you need to develop some serious skill, if your a Ghost Recon kidn 
 of FPS player this game is Too fast, but perfact for the high pased game player. the only cons 
 i have is its recent decline in popularity, COMMON PEOPLE WE NEED MORE PEOPLE ONLINE!!!
  
  i sugjest this game for only $19.99 its the BEST!!
  
  dont think this game is like tribes two, 
 which sucked i know* but hey this one rocks!!!! its faster paced then the origonal which i did 
 not think was possable Well this proved me wrong! its faster then fast and the new skiing ability 
 is the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFWorm
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Vengeance is such an innovative game, but it's no secret that certain issues kept the game from 
 flourishing. TV has similar map layouts as Tribes 2, but they actually cater to players movements. 
 No more are there problems with climbing steep mountain after mountain. Now there are excellent 
 war fields with adapted game-play. The Skiing technology is no longer a skipping movement, but 
 an actual gliding action as if the player is sliding on ice, giving greater flying distance with 
 the valleys and grooves within the hills slinging players back into the air.
  
  Another difference between T2 and TV is that Vengeance has a single player mission, which is quite 
 challenging. Tribes 2 has a short training story, but is easily finished within an hour. TVs single 
 player mode is involving and gives a descriptive image of what the different tribes are like instead 
 of just a label as the previous games of the series offered. The only problem is that the story 
 has some odd levels where the player is without a weapon and is a child. Unquestionably, nobody 
 wants to play a little girl running around helplessly. Gamers who partake in these games do so 
 to blow stuff up- not run away like a n00b! It may help the drama, but fps games are not about 
 the drama, now are they? Aside from that major problem, the single player missions are very well 
 laid out challenging levels that are always engaging with little to no monotony.
  
  Weapons are effective and innovative to a point. There is a nice selection and the equipment stations 
 are still handy to equip a player quickly and to their playing ability. Also, the vehicles are 
 nicely upgraded. The vehicular control is much more intuitive and great maneuverability. Yet, compared 
 to the more recent multiplayer games like Unreal Tournament 2004 and Battlefield 2, TV just does 
 not compete when it comes to vehicles and weapons. Let me say that this is the downfall of TV; 
 it was a good game competing against awesome games. Due to this fact that draws people away from 
 Tribes Vengeance and towards the other amazing games, TV could not survive the commercial realm.
 
  
  If you do have the chance to play this quality game, do so. Dont let the other awesome games shadow 
 TV from being considered part of your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Well, what can you say about TV!!?? If you have a half price books or something similar in your 
 area it usually sells for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaidersR2Nice4U
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  this game is the worst first person shooter i've ever played. it is very hard and takes a long 
 time to get the game controls just right. it gets really boring really fast and it is the most 
 glitchiest game i have ever played. even when your computer is top notch, it glitches like crazy. 
 multiplayer is terrible, it people are impossible to kill. you have to shoot them in the head about 
 10 times for them to die. the maps are ok, there big and have good senery, but thats all thats 
 good in this game. the one player has a terrible and stupid story line which makes the game worse. 
 the jet pack thing is so dumb and it makes the people even more impossible to kill. a word of advice, 
 dont buy this game, its not worth $20, its not even worth $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up for $4.99 at a used game store a little while back, and can see why it was 
 priced so low. This game has some really noticeable problems. One, while they did add a story mode, 
 they made it probably one of the worst ones I've ever played. Two, this game is lacking some of 
 the features from previous Tribal games. And three, every single voiceover in the game were terrible. 
 Its 32-player online multiplayer was fun to play, but not really something to shout about. I don't 
 think they should have added a campaign mode to the series, and should have stuck with the old 
 stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SavageJedi03
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  The addition of the single player campaign really added a nice touch to the franchise, and the 
 story it involved was pretty decent, if not something taken straight from Quinton Tarrentino's 
 book. To be honest, the single player was the only thing that Vengeance had going for it.
  
  Starting with the good, the graphics are pretty well up-to-date. Gameplay was still very fast 
 paced, run over here get plastered over there, change into heavy armor Oh no there's a mortar shell... 
 Pretty much all the stuff you'd expect from Tribes was present and accounted for.
  
  Then, I went skiiing. Skiiing, the MOST integral part of Tribes hands-down, is completely and totally 
 busted in Vengeance. I like the little animation and the flashy-looking bling on the soles of the 
 boots, but you dont have the amount of control as you did in the previous Tribes games. In fact, 
 you have very little at all. Your skiing is solely dependant upon your angle of decent and the 
 curvature of the terrain. I felt like a golf ball that was putted on an uneven green. Trying to 
 ski at an angle down a hill is almost futile, you cant turn into the hill to keep your trajectory 
 somewhat straight.
  
  That hurt the game an unimaginable amount in my honest opinion. If you make an error in your judgement 
 about a hill in Tribes or Tribes 2, you can adjust, in Vengeance, you're stuck between a rock and 
 someone's spinfusor.
  
  Another damaging aspect is the grappling hook. I was defending a flag and I see someone coming 
 in at a steep angle to take it, I set my spinfusor to kill and shoot right when I figured he'd 
 land, and with my experience in the two previous games, I was pretty sure of my shot. I shoot, 
 and he's not there. Why? He grappled a nearby ledge, swung around like a monkey, grabbed the flag, 
 grappled again and gained an extreme amount of speed. He was gone, there was no point to give chase. 
 He captured the flag a few seconds later. When I saw that, I dropped from the server and left with 
 my head hung low. Why would anyone need a grappling hook when everyone has a jetpack anyway? 
 
  
  Mines are now a pack? There were more advanced flying vehicles before the Scout in Tribes? There 
 were so many small aspects that just shouldnt have been changed other than these that it all adds 
 up to one very sharp blade crossing the throat of what is called Tribes : Vengeance.
  
  While I admit these things just take some getting used to, the fact is, if its not broke, dont 
 fix it. Tribes was an extremely good game. There are still hundreds of servers online for the original 
 Tribes, and also for Tribes 2. 
  
  To be honest, I think the fact that someone other than Dynamix made Vengeance is what hurt it the 
 most. Everyone has their own sentiment on how much better the game would be if this were added 
 or this were taken away or nerfed. As sad as it is, its reality. I would truely like to see a company 
 take another shot at Tribes, because being as big a game as it was, its a crime to let it die like 
 this.
  
  If you've never played Tribes or Tribes 2, you may just enjoy this game, and probably have no idea 
 what I'm talking about. As for those that have, I know VERY few who've gone on to play Vengeance 
 regularly. Its almost a completely different game, foreign to us elder Tribals.
  
  Its a crying shame to be so pumped up for this game, and to have been let down so harshly by it. 
 It just wasnt worth the purchase. I'm glad I waited so long to get it, so the money wasted wasnt 
 too much. I know I speak terribly of this game, and that there are many out there who would disagree 
 with me whole-heartedly, but the fact is that they should have just advanced what there was, and 
 not taken away anything. On top of that, they shouldnt have tried to make a more advanced game 
 a prequal to the very first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkvolture
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Tribes 2, dont get this game, unlike tribes 2 the combat is much diffrent then its 
 previus one. Unlike the last one this one has no assassin class. It lacks the ability to just jump 
 in a vehicle and fly away instead you press a buttuon to jump in. there are no flying shrikes or 
 bombers, instead theres a machine that looks like a boxs. the only thing that was good about air 
 vehicles in tribes vengence is the new gunship, its ability to land and actually stay in the spot 
 you land it in. Tribes tryes to be futuristic but at the same time there is a limit. new weps include 
 A lazer Sword that replaces the shocklance an awsome wepion from tribes two. Cloaking packs are 
 now obsolete in this game. snipers now use bullets. all thogh that sounds good, snipeing in tribes 
 was a skill and the energy recharge was some thing that gave snipeing its disadvantige as well 
 as advantige. Grapling hocks are brand new and sweet adition. If it was on tribes two it would 
 require more skill to lach onto an enamy shrike or even an allied one. Missle lock capability is 
 not good in this game. and its clan sector is pitifull.
  
  There are no real new mods pepole enjoyed, such as construction, warzone and much more. althogh 
 i cannot dennie the graphics to be unbeliveable the game play makes it feel like more of a reguler 
 game then a battle field where you need to place things set up a deffence and protecte vital parts 
 of your base from being distroyed. One thing that is absent is genorators, or large bases. As most 
 of you know if your genorator got taken out your invintory stoped working till some one repaired 
 it. a very sweet aspect of tribes two. becouse the air vehicles lack, and donot act like jets, 
 but more like Helocopters theres no significant air battles. which is depressing. 
  If you are a veterin of tribes this is not the game for you, i could only hope that siria Restores 
 the tribes rep for the veterins who have played it in the past becouse right now, all of them are 
 leaveing and im told tribes 2 is dead. Suffict to say i know there not moveing to tribes vengence 
 most of them leave and move on to outher games, i would sure like to speek to the developer to 
 ask him what was he thinking. I suppose theres a wish in it self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silentman66546
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  This is what i was hopping for from Tribes they had such a great story and background and all they 
 had to do was give it a single player campaign. The campaign never fully gives away the ending 
 but keeps you guessing until the very last moment. It is difficult enough to be a challenge but 
 not impossible. Some mission seem like the enemies will never stop and then you die. but if you 
 use the quick save and work through suddenly your done. I had to wait to get this game and it is 
 now priced perfectly. I loved this game and i hope there a more made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lagamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Tribes Vengeance is the newest installment in the high flying jet pack using series. In this game 
 there are many changes over Tribes 1 and 2. First of all the developer and publishr have changed 
 to VU Games and Irrational Games, there is a new engine being used, the Unreal engine, and many 
 other gameplay tweaks and an added singleplayer.
  
  First let me start off with the singleplayer. If you dont really want to go online and play with 
 other people then the singleplayer is perfect for you. You play through the storyline as 6 character 
 s, like an imperial princess, a meber of the phoinex tribe, and an assassin.
  
  The gameplay in this game is differnt because now they have taken out using the jump button and 
 instead have added in more jetpack and a ski button. What the skiing does is allows you to reach 
 very high speeds by skiing down hills and other things. Other than that it still has some of the 
 same mechanics that the other games had. You fly around and try to kill each other but never stay 
 on the ground or you will die.
  
  In Tribes Vengeance they have also limited the weapons down to 11 and the game is most focused 
 around the Spinfusor which shoots disks. It takes much skill to use but after you play for awhile 
 you will get the hang of it. Also a couple of new weapons added in are the Grappler and Rocket 
 Pod. The grappler allows you to grapple on to objects and thing which allows you to change direction 
 very quickly and helps you to gain alot of speed and the Rocket Pod is the new version of the rocket 
 launcher. Instead of heat seeking which is really east to kill people with you now get to control 
 the rockets once they come out of the gun and if you get good with it you can kill people very 
 easily.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are a big step up from the old Garage Games Engine. It is now The Unreal 
 engine. The character models and seneary are nicely detailed and the armour look cool and futeristic. 
 The vehicles are nicely detailed but there could be a little more put into it. The only problem 
 with have the Unreal enigine for this game is that it is almost impossible to mob which were huge 
 strong points of the other games.
  
  Sound:
  I would say for this game that the sounds are good. The voiceover are nice and the taunts are fun 
 to do and funny to listen to. All the weapons make a differnt noise such as the sound mortars make 
 or a machingun like sound. The hit register in this game makes a little beep noise so you know 
 if youve hit the person or not. Sometimes when you swich weapons really fast then shoot then there 
 is no noise that comes out.
  
  Value: 
  This games singleplayer isnt really that replayable unless you want to play on a higher difficulty. 
 If not then there is multiplayer which has new gametypes, maps, and has up to 32 players at a time. 
 Most of the problems with this game come from bugs though. Since release they have only released 
 one patch and are never going to make another one. Although that may sound sad, there are dedicated 
 people from the community, which isnt that big, who have made maps, modded the game a little bit, 
 and are trying to release a patch that might fix some thing.
  
  All and all if you love faced-paced high-flying action then this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Tribes Vengence is a good game in its own right, but it is not TRIBES. The game plays more like 
 Unreal with spinfusers (Very nice looking spinfusers mind you) and jet packs.
  
  This game is one of the best looking games I have ever played, but the game play is way to focused 
 on spawn and die rapid shoot fests rather than the TRIBES established age old tactics and strategy 
 method of game play.
  
  The single player game is a very cool addition and it alone justifies the expense of buying this 
 game. The Muliplayer aspect of this game is best summed up by the number of players on line playing 
 it.... very low.
  
  Cheating is rampant, as it is in Unreal, and Serrie stopped supporting the game three months after 
 it was released. Again a true testimate to the how much this game was viewed by TRIBES players 
 as not TRIBES. Sierra lied to us and misled us. This cannot be denied. They allowed the TRIBES 
 francise to be convoluted into this game with open arms. Despite the beta tester warnings and the 
 many upon many advisory posts by members on the old Tribes forums at Sierra, they went ahead and 
 did what they did and not only did they hurt the players, they ruined the game.
  
  Tribes Vengence is not TRIBES. It is something like TRIBES, but it is not TRIBES. It is a fun game, 
 but nothing like the fun that one can still get with TRIBES, and TRIBES II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukeshaver
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Tribes V. is just a great step up from one of my favorite ps2 games Tribes A. A. and from Tribes 
 2. There are new vehicles that i have wanted them to put in, such as the tank and the rover. You 
 cant go wrong on this game, unless you can't play online. On the downside of this game, they took 
 out some useful stuff, such as some of the guns (even though i like a few of the new ones) . I hope 
 they make a new one for the ps3 with tons of vehicles and planes. Also more guns and packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excall
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Tribes vengeance is on my list of the best games of all time. I set my heading to masterpiece, 
 and that is what I truly believe that this game is. the one major drawback right now is the fact 
 that vu withdrew the multiplayer support.
  
  One thing that I really want to touch on is the single player campaign. Irrational gave this game 
 one of the most compelling, immersive, and emotionally moving storylines of any game I have ever 
 played. I really became attached to the characters and was moved by the bittersweet ending that 
 the game presented. Combine all of this with the multiplayer tribes that we all know and love and 
 throw a vibrant color scheme into the amazing Unreal engine and you have a winner. Just don't try 
 to run it on an old computer :) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lerkov
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Tribes Vengeance is a beautiful game, especially for multiplayer, though the campaign mode is also 
 quite interesting. A well thought out storyline and interesting introductions to the game allow 
 the player to learn the game from the perspective of a princess who needs to learn how to fight 
 to stay alive. Then there are two storylines; one in the present and one in the future. This gives 
 the gamer the advantage of learning abilities in the past and then putting them to use in the future 
 storyline. 
  As in previous Tribes games, the flying aspect sets Tribes apart from other first person shooters. 
 Players must take the whole world around them into consideration when entering an area of battle. 
 An enemy can be above or below, left or right of you. It also takes great skill to hit the enemy 
 in the air, then it is also amazing to be able to change direction in the air to avoid taking hits. 
 
  Skiing is also very original and i must say; quite fun! Gaining height will allow you to go down 
 faster when you fall, then if you hit a steep slope correctly, you wont lose life, and you can 
 ski at topspeed over land towards a target. Maintaining speed will reduce your chances of being 
 hit and you can reach your objective faster; but you gotta watch out for obstacles or you'll lose 
 life!
  Flying and skiing is amazing, especially when you combine the two. But drawbacks are that the game 
 doesnt come with many skins, and only a small variety of weapons amongst which we can find a grapling 
 hook... Why use a grappling hook when you got a jetpack? 
  Its a great game anyway, vehicles are also awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:52 am PT
Review:  Like a car show hoochy girl, Tribes: Vengeance is beautiful, but totally shallow.
  
  Let's start with the single-player campaign. There are three factions (the Phoenix, Blood Eagles 
 and Imperials) at war with each other for... no particular reason. This doesn't exactly offer you 
 a compelling reason to play. Seriously, who cares about these characters? Like MechWarrior, the 
 fiction of this universe is puerile gibberish.
  
  Friends and enemy alike dress like gay Japanese Saturday morning cartoon caricatures (why no pink 
 faction?) , and every time they hit you with a rocket, you're flung across a lifeless arena like 
 a hockey puck. Boom! Slap shot! This becomes annoying, fast.
  
  The graphics are a wonderful sight to behold. Unfortunately, the colorful art design, realistic 
 metallic textures and subtle reflective water are rendered in service to virtually empty, repetitive 
 maps. For example, in one mission you have to destroy three power nodes spread across a landscape. 
 Each base and power node is identical in every way, making the whole process needlessly redundant. 
 Rather than a living world, buildings placed in each level feel more like barren playground structures 
 after all the kids have gone home. Small details to root them in reality simply don't exist.
  
  The mission design is usually bland, but in a few instances, it descends into hair-pulling 
 frustration. Note to designers: Timed gameplay against overwhelming odds isn't fun. I had to reference 
 a cheat online to skip the arbitrary, pointless Trials mission because it just wasn't worth the 
 trouble.
  
  Technical problems appear, too. Stupidly long loading times never fail to aggravate, and after 
 shutting down the game, it proceeds to rape your computer for five minutes. What the hell is it 
 doing? Scanning my hard drive for banking information and credit card accounts?
  
  Okay, single-player sucks. So what about that vaunted Tribes multiplayer? Well, variations on CTF 
 and deathmatch aren't even worth describing. It also offers no bots for offline practice, and almost 
 no one is active online. Tribes: Vengeance simply doesn't give you a reason to stop playing Unreal 
 Tournament 2004.
  
  Now buyable from the bargain bin, Tribes: Vengeance isn't even worth its discount price. This game 
 is a waste of time.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cordell27
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This review is for Tribes Vengeance. I know it came out a while ago, but I love it and I thought 
 I would tell the non-believers out there just how great it is. 
  Tribes Vengeance is a first-person shooter for the PC. Akin to the Unreal Series (ironically this 
 game is also unreal powered) it is predominately tournament based. For those of you who recall 
 the original Tribes this has all that was great about the original but with new flare and a new 
 campaign mode to boot! I dont think there has been a campaign mode (or anything even vaguely similar) 
 since the original Starsiege, its nice to be able to play the storyline again. In the story mode 
 you are put in the shoes of two generations of imperial princesses, Victoria and her daughter Julia. 
 You switch generations several times throughout the story mode, and it brings real depth to the 
 storyline. As for other gameplay issues, well its flawless. Well, almost flawless. At times with 
 the jumpjets it can be tedious hopping from ledge to ledge on some maps. All your favorite weapons 
 from the original return, maybe a few short I havent checked. The spinfusor still rocks, if not 
 more. There is a visible change in the weapon when your our of ammo, so even if you dont pay attention 
 to your ammo bar youll know when you need to get a refill, as well they now have an energy blade 
 for you to fight close combat with as well as a flamethrower and shield boomerang thing. The three 
 types of armor return as well, light, medium, and heavy, medium is still the best (in my opinion) 
 though, but each class is limited by the weapons they can use, heavy can use them all where as 
 light can use very little.
  The graphics in this game are superb with minor glitches. Nothing too big, every once and a while 
 you get a small bit of lag or something, but my graphics card is an older one so it might just 
 be my computer. The colors are sharp and crisp. The images are detailed but not too detailed, detailed 
 enough to be extremely smooth looking. Its almost eerily smooth. Effects like explosions and the 
 like are well managed and not too extravagant or played down. Characters are very lifelike, the 
 eyes are what astound me, Ive never seen eyes that good for a long time in a video game. 
  If I were to have one gripe it would be about the sound, its good but the voices of the princesses 
 can be really annoying at times. Other than that voiceover is great, so is sound effects. The bad 
 guys yell out corny phrases as per most first person shooters, but unlike in Halo this is not at 
 all humorous or entertaining, just plain corny. Its great on sound surround, just great. But watch 
 the volume there seems to be huge sound leaps some times. But thats usual Ive gotten to live 
 with it. 
  Multiplayer is probably the highlight of this series though, and that still goes strong in this 
 game. Im not a big multiplayer fan myself (save for the first two tribes) so I really dont have 
 a lot to say about this bit of the game. Its multiplayer tribes, it really doesnt change. And 
 it probably never will, but hey thats a good thing right?
  Overall a very sound game, and considering you can pick it up for $20-30 its a screaming deal. 
 Pick it up if at all possible, scratch that. Go find it now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nnc_skull
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is pathetic, it doesn't hold to the previous Tribes games. In fact, instead of improving 
 the gameplay and becoming more advanced, it seems like Sierra has gone back to the stone age with 
 this title. Many of the dedicated Tribes players were dissapointed with this game. The Single player 
 campaigns may be amusing for the X amount of time you spend on it, but the multiplayer is what 
 people are really after. The only things they kept that kept the game good was the spinfuser and 
 some of the original weapons. Using the Sniper Rifle is completely different than the previous 
 games. The lack of customizble packs is also a let down. What made the other Tribes titles interesting 
 was the fact that you could create almost endless combinations with what kind of grenades you want, 
 what kind of pack you want and what guns you could carry. The selection of guns also dimished with 
 this newer title. This game is a disgrace to its predecessor, if this game was so great, why do 
 people continue playing Tribes 2, or quit all together. The maximum number of players i have seen 
 at one time is maybe 500. Overall this game was pitiful and held no water to what it was amped 
 up to be. But i agree that the graphics were good, and the physics were better than the previous. 
 Though, the characters were a little to much cartoonish for my taste. The sound effects exceeded 
 what i expected and have dealt with comparing to other games, good sounds for the firing of guns 
 and the explosions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvsqvc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Amazing gameplay and good graphics. The game kept me intent for about 2 years. One of the best 
 multiplayer games i've ever played. The story mode also keeps you interested for about 2 weeks 
 to a month. Never to dark, so you can always see what your doing. You can can change from first 
 person to thired person view. A nice arsonal of wepons, armors, and vehicles. Tons of different 
 mutiplayer levels and game types. Play as a member of three different armys, the imperials, the 
 phenix, and the blood egals. All in all this game is truly amazing. I would play this game any 
 day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2005 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The jump-jet mechanics seemed like a big improvement over previous games. It's the single biggest 
 thing that makes Tribes unique, and the simple controls and jumping puzzles that didn't push the 
 limits of your jet reserves were a welcome change.
  
  Graphics were on par with current generation games, and the music and voice acting did the job.
 
  
  The story mode was a great addition. The story was engaging with characters who were believable 
 and you could care about. The "pulp-fiction" style non-linear story telling worked really well 
 for the game, too, raising lots of questions and revealing the answers slowly and thoroughly.
 
  
  While I don't find this as addictive as, say, Halo, it's still a solid game and worth your time 
 if you're a shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qead
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 4, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start out by saying that this will NOT be a fair review, I will not review this game 
 as if tribes 2 didnt exist, I am a tribes 2 fan and therefore I will review this game as such. 
 Tribes Vengeance, in my opinion is not a worthy sequel, the biggest problem for me would be that 
 the maps are way too small, I think someone here already pointed out you can ski across the map 
 in around 20 seconds, well its true. The vehicles are the second biggest letdown, there are less 
 then in tribes 2, and all of them failed to impress me, especially sense the I used to love jumping 
 into a transport ship with 7 other players, but no more. They do have a buggy that serves as a 
 mobile spawn point, but can only be entered by two people at once. On top of all this, there arent 
 many people that play, the biggest sever I was in had only 20 people. Dont get me wrong though, 
 just because it doesnt live up to its predecessor doesnt mean its a bad game. The graphics are 
 rather good, and the game uses the tested and true havoc physics engine, it can be very satisfying 
 to blast some poor sucker with you spinfuser in midair and watch ragdoll effects kick in wile his 
 jetpack is still active. Jetting and skiing is still pretty much the same, they wouldnt dare screw 
 around with that (thank god) . Now, on to the single player campaign, I was quite pleased to find 
 that they were adding a single player aspect, and I gotta say it turned out pretty well. Most of 
 the time youll be jetting around blasting tons of lesser foes. I was surprised that a game that 
 focuses so much on teamwork would have you alone most of the time, but this isnt a bad thing, 
 It can be very enjoyable to take over a base single handedly. The storyline isnt too shabby either. 
 To be honest, I enjoyed playing single player more then multiplayer. I bought this game for a grand 
 total of 15$, its worth that much just for the single player campaign if nothing else. If I was 
 asked to sum this game up in a few words I would say: Its still tribes. only smaller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1427814179
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  Tribes: Vengeance is set in the distant future, when an Empire struggles with keeping its Empire 
 safe from warring tribes. There are three main factions in the game, of which players will be able 
 to play with in both the single and multiplayer components of the game, the Imperials, the Phoenix, 
 and the Blood Eagles. 
  
  In Tribes, players must utilize the unique movement system of the game in order to be successful. 
 Each player in Tribes is equipped with a jetpack and frictionless boots. Strictly by itself, the 
 jetpack is quite self-explanatory. By pressing the right mouse button, the jetpack is activated, 
 which will send players flying in the air in a desired direction. Activating the jetpack will deplete 
 a rechargeable energy bar. The frictionless boots add more depth to Tribes, and they are the primary 
 reason behind the fun of the game. Pressing space bar will turn on the frictionless boots, and 
 players enter a drift mode that is directly influenced by velocity. Initial speed can be gained 
 by flying with the jetpack, and then falling on a smooth declining surface. Once the player has 
 reached the ground, the frictionless boots can be activated, which will increase the speed of the 
 player. This motion is called skiing, and it is truly Tribes most innovative feature. By combining 
 these two pieces of equipment, players can move faster than any vehicle. It is very exhilarating 
 to fly up a large hill and then ski down the other side.
  
  Because of the ability to move at such high speeds, the weapons in the game must be used with precision 
 and a hefty amount of leading in order to hit enemies. The default weapon in the game is the Spinfusor, 
 a futuristic rocket launcher that shoots blue discs. It works just like a rocket launcher in most 
 FPSs, in that it causes splash damage. The Spinfusor is the best kill weapon in the game, as it 
 deals a good amount of damage and is fairly easy to use. The Spinfusor is most effective against 
 players on the ground or players near a wall. When an enemy is in the air, it is nearly impossible 
 to use the Spinfusor. There are many other weapons in the game, and they all have specific situations 
 for use.
  
  The key to success in Tribes is to be able to conserve as much jet energy as possible. Staying 
 on the ground attracts enemies, as it is very easy to use the Spinfusor to kill someone who is 
 not in the air. But pressing the jet button constantly is not a good alternative either. Because 
 skiing requires no energy, it can be used in conjunction with the jetpack in order to achieve maximum 
 efficiency.
  
  The game features an all-new single player campaign. Though it adds a good tutorial to the game, 
 an acceptable story, and exciting mission goals, it does have a few shortcomings that ultimately 
 classify Tribes: Vengeance as primarily a multiplayer game. The campaign is comprised of about 
 twenty linear levels, starring multiple characters from the Imperial faction and the Phoenix faction. 
 It should take players about 10 hours to complete on the normal difficulty mode, and it doesnt 
 have high replay value.
  
  The multiplayer is the only reason to get Tribes: Vengeance. It features a few modes, battles up 
 to 32 players, and about 15 unique maps. The main mode in Tribes is Capture the Flag, and it is 
 essentially the same CTF as in other FPSs. CTF in Tribes does take into account the features that 
 are unique to the game. The flag stands are usually placed in areas that only players jetting can 
 reach, and this adds a certain level of skill involved with stealing the flag and capping it.
 
  
  The most effective way for a player to get many caps in a game is to memorize the best skiing routes 
 in a map. If a capper is efficient, it is possible to steal a flag and cap it in under 20 seconds.
 
  
  There are three different weight settings in Tribes: Vengeance. Medium is the default, average 
 weight setting that is relatively fast and strong. Heavy is the slowest weight setting but has 
 a lot of hit points. Light is the most complex weight setting, it is very quick and agile, but 
 has the fewest hit points. Cappers usually use the light setting in order to have the maximum speed. 
 Each weight setting has one unique weapon. Teams should have a mix of all three classes, in order 
 to have each setting complement the other two.
  
  Tribes: Vengeance may not have a particularly good single player campaign or unique weapon mechanics, 
 but it does add a level of innovation that separates it from any FPS. The ability to move at lightning 
 quick speeds never gets old. Tribes: Vengeance is a game that should be given a chance before being 
 looked over.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2005 12:18 am PT
Review:  I never really got into tribes 2, i wasn't very good and neither was my pc. I knew it was a good 
 game and did enjoy it for a brief period. 
  
  Tribes Vengeance brings to life some of the things that were truely missing from Tribes 2:
  A 
 single player campain and more balance. 
  
  Firstly the single player campain not only gets you ready for Tribes; 'showing you the ropes', 
 it has a gripping and intriging story line. With belivable characters and a interwoven plot. 
 
  
  Online it's now much easier to get to grips with, 'quick to get the hang of, takes a while to master'; 
 is a phase i'd use. Your not gonna feel like a prat when you play, you'll manage to actually be 
 of some help even if you are a bit weak at online FPS. 
  
  The graphics (which will differ depending on your equipment) are fantastic, a wonder to behold. 
 Big zones that take time to cross, sometimes 10 mins if you walk.
  
  Yes the game does change online, other players can be a bit meh or blah but what online game doesn't 
 have this problem? You just got to find a place you like and stick with it.
  
  Over all an enjoyable game online AND offline. With varying levels of skill on both sides of your 
 modem, for everyone and anyone. 
  
  Go buy it, and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Tribes: Vengeance had the misfortune of being a great shooter that came out in the middle of 
 a flood of great shooters. This quality title was lost amongst UT2K4, Half-Life 2, Painkiller, 
 Doom 3, and Far Cry. If you overlooked this game, then go back and check it out, because this is 
 one that you dont want to miss. Vengeance has huge open environments, fast-paced combat, excellent 
 physics, nice graphics, and some very unique combat mechanics. The single-player campaign provides 
 a decent story and a quality experience that is better than most other games of the genre. Games 
 like Tribes: Vengeance are the reason why we own a PC.
  
  Tribes: Vengeance can be a very hard game to get into at first. Truly playing games in all three 
 dimensions at such a fast pace and with such powerful weapons takes a lot of learning. With most 
 games, you are stuck on a certain plane, and most weapons just launch bullets. This typically encourages 
 you to use cover and move slowly. With Tribes: Vengeance, you have the entire level at your disposal, 
 from top to bottom, and most of the weapons do some kind of splash damage. As a result, you can 
 never stand still, or youll be killed. Its very difficult to nail somebody with a shot in midair, 
 so you frequently need to land one where they land and knock them out with splash damage. Jumping 
 and skiing mechanics add an element of speed and skill to the series that distinguishes it from 
 its brethren. Firefights have a unique feel to them that no other first person shooter has. Timing 
 a blast that connects with a guys feet perfectly as he lands is immensely satisfying. 
  
  The physics engine for Tribes: Vengeance is underappreciated and is superb in its own way. Rag 
 doll effects are amplified by all of the explosive weapons in the game. The first time that you 
 blow somebody away and you watch his body fly and roll 100 feet down a hill, its a very satisfying 
 experience. The physics for flying and skiing are very well-refined, and this is why the jet pack 
 is such an excellent tool. Gravity and momentum feel very realistic once you get used to them. 
 
  
  The games numerous massive outdoor levels are truly the highlight of the game. They are delightfully 
 spacious and open-ended. Usually, you are given a few objectives, like destroy three generators, 
 and you are free to approach them however you want. The levels often showcase the jet packs by 
 placing your objectives hundreds of feet in the air. Your jet pack has enough power to leap over 
 mountains, if you want to avoid the roads. Sometimes you get a vehicle to use, although the vehicles 
 arent as big of a factor as they could have been. Given how much space there is, and how deep 
 combat tactics can be, the games AI is remarkably good at responding to you once they see you. 
 The games bosses are very good at leading you with shots, and they will provide you with a stiff 
 challenge. The games indoor areas arent as unforgettable as the outdoor areas, but there are 
 still some good ones. The indoor areas feature lots of platforms and big cavernous spaces, which 
 seems to be built for your jet pack.
  
  Tribes: Vengeance is a nice-looking game, although it doesnt quite match up with Half-Life 2 or 
 Painkiller. The weapon models and characters look great, although the environments are a little 
 sparse. Also, the indoor areas tend to repeat a lot of the same patterns and objects, and their 
 look is mostly forgettable.
  
  The audio for Vengeance is good, but not great. The tecno soundtrack has a couple of good tracks, 
 but most of it is pretty generic. The weapons sound kind of underpowered for what they can do. 
 The voice acting is decent, although its a little bit melodramatic at times.
  
  The single-player campaign for Tribes: Vengeance has a decent story, and it is told in an interesting 
 way. The ending is too predictable though. After all is said and done though, the campaign is very 
 good when compared to the rest of the first person shooter genre. There are a handful of levels 
 in the game which feel a bit contrived, like they are a training session for the multiplayer component, 
 but that doesnt affect how much fun they are. I finished the campaign in about 12 hours. The length 
 isnt bad, but given the shortage of good single-player campaigns out there right now, it would 
 have been nice to have more. 
  
  Its too bad that this game came out when it did, and not 10 months earlier. Tribes: Vengeance 
 was buried by a flood of excellent games. If you played and enjoyed all of those games, then now 
 is a good time to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connordude64
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  Well, I got this game for X-mas and I started playing it and it was so cool. Did I say I was a 
 huge Tribes Vengeance fan. I think this take some time to get used to the controls. Some of the 
 fans say that you can't jump, guess what! You're wrong! When you right-click you automacially jump 
 and jet! Try it with Victoria's first level when you don't have the jets on. I recommend that you 
 turn subtitles on and you can see what you missed and misunderstood. The single player is cool 
 but kinda hard. The Multiplayer is very, very fun! It requires teamwork, cooperative work and supporting 
 other players. 
  
  There are five deployables on some level. They are Turrets: used for protecting powers soucre. 
 And used for traps. Mines: used for traps also. Most player deploy them near their flag. Repairer: 
 used to repair players. Hint: deploy them near important objectives. inventory Deployable: a portable 
 inventory when you go to the inventory menu and when you are in your current amour u can't choose 
 other amours but u can choose weapons. Finally there's Calapult: sure u have been on calapults 
 before but u can deploy them to boost your flags. Hint: deploy them near enemy bases and when a 
 friendly player gets the flag he/she can use the calapult for a boost. 
  
  There are three kinds of amour. Light: very fast but have low health. most used for flags capture. 
 they can use 1 weapon that other amour cannot use. that's sniper. Medium: fast and used for both 
 defensive and offensive. can use sheilds, not much of a weapon though but it can reflect fires. 
 Last Heavy: very strong but is slow it can use mortar: a very POWERFUL weapon that destroys deployables. 
 
  
  Then there's vehicles. there are four of them. let me start with the in the air vehicles. There's 
 fighter pod: used buy light and mediums. have 2 small rockets. Assault ship: very powerful: can 
 carry three players. all amours can use them. it has, well anti-everything guns on it side that 
 the 2 crewman can use. and it has a "heavy generade launcher" used by pilot. then there's land 
 vehicles. Rover: can have 2 players. it carrys a inventory station on it back. there's anti-everything 
 used by a crewman. Tank: powerful, carrys 2 players. The 2st player can use the chaingun on the 
 top of the tank.
  
  there's weapons. Energy blade: every amour has one used for close combat. Spinfusor Disc launcher: 
 this is a weapon u definately want to master, used by all amours. Chaingun: deadly at close range, 
 used by all amours. Blaster Shotgun: a shot used by energy, do i need to say more?, btw used by 
 all amours. Grenade launcher: u know it, used by all amours. Grappler: a weapon that u can use 
 to go arcoss long ridges most used in map named cavern, used by all amours. Burner: a flamethrower 
 but u shoot can it goes on in medium range, used by all amours. Rocket Pod Launcher (RPL) : a weapons 
 used for destroying vehicle. guided manully, shoots 6 pods at a time, used by all amours.
  Da jackal Sniper Rifle: you read this in the amour section but the smmo is based on bullets and 
 energy. Bucker aka Shield: you read this in the amour section you can guide it, it blocks damages, 
 Repels enemy =, Returns when thrown. Mortar launcher: you read this in the amour section. it's 
 very powerful can it bounces.
  
  there's pack. the packs is used by all amour classes. there's energy pack: Passive Improved energy 
 recharge, Active: Speed Boost. Shield Pack: Passive: Slightly reduces all damage received, Active: 
 significantly reduces damage received for a short time. Repair Pack: Passive: Slowly repairs player 
 health, Active: Repaors all friendly objects in a radius around u. finally there's speed pack: 
 Passive: Faster run speed, Active: Faster weapon reload.
  
  other items: hand grenades it's used for throwing a nade. use it to flush out enemy whenever possible. 
 Medipack: when u kill a player it drops a medipack. use it to restore health
  
  Level (work in Progess) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ala_carcuss
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2004 12:09 am PT
Review:  WOW!! What an awesome surprise....
  
  I have to admit I was a bit sceptical about this game when it first came out. Looking at the screenshots 
 and reading some previews and reviews, it just sounded to me like a "poor man's" UT2004. But after 
 playing and finishing most of the major release titles this year, I was looking for something new 
 so I eventually decided to give T. V. a go.
  
  Now, after just finishing the single player campaign and dabbling in the multiplayer, all I can 
 say is.... WOW!!! I could just kick myself for not trying this earlier. This game is fantastic. 
 Everything about it feels just right, from the graphics and physics to the very unique combat system.
 
  
  I keep hearing in reviews and forums about the average single player campaign and frankly I just 
 don't understand that. I found the single player campaign one of the best FPS experiences I've 
 had all year (and yes I've finished HL2, Halo 2 & Doom 3) . The story is great. I loved the way 
 it shifted focus among several different characters and time frames. Some people have described 
 it as confusing but it all made perfect sense to me. While you're playing the SP campaign and becoming 
 involved in the story and characters and just having a WOW of a time, you remain blissfully unaware 
 that you're actually being trained for the upcoming multiplayer experience. This would have to 
 go down in history as the best (12-15 hour) tutorial level ever created!! Compare this to UT2004, 
 where the single player is just multiplayer with bots! (just bloody boring) .
  
  I'm just now getting into multiplayer and am a little dismayed at the small number of on-line players 
 at the moment. However the few MP games I've had so far have been an absolute blast!! Come on people, 
 get involved.... this is one of the best on-line experiences you'll ever have.
  
  Look, I'm going to say this even though I know itll attract the scorn of the UT2004 community, 
 but I've been playing UT2004 for about 7 months and it's great, but I honestly believe T. V. is 
 better. It's more balanced, more tactical and the combat system is second to none. You'll just 
 love the Arial jet-packing and skiing, there's simply nothing else like it. So if you love UT2004 
 then this will just blow your mind!! Come on all you UT fanboys, you'll be as pleasantly surprised 
 as I was. Get this game you will not regret it. 
  
  This is the first time I've felt compelled to write a user review but Tribes: Vengeance has just 
 impressed the hell outta me. Definitely one of the best FPS experiences I've ever had in both single 
 and multiplayer and one of my nominations for "Game Of The Year"!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2004 1:30 am PT
Review:  Now this is a great game!!! I'm only reviewing the single player game as I only have dial-up. This 
 includes all the things that I like best in a FPS. There is a story that you uncover in the process 
 of playing the game. You play different people at different times of their lives, the past and 
 present, and through this you discover the story. There is also a fair amount of mobility issues, 
 where you use jet packs to jump/fly and special boots that alow you to "ski" when you land. This 
 is just plain enjoyable learning and perfecting your skill moving your character through multiple 
 environments. There is also the occasional vehicle to drive about, blasting the Blood Eagles! There 
 are multiple weapons and armor to use and lots of opponents to shoot! What more can you want in 
 a game??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2004 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Tribes installment to date. Not only do you get the online play that you 
 have come to expect from a Tribes game. You also get a complete single player game as well. I am 
 not talking about a 1942 type single player game, not even a UT 2004 single player. This is a full 
 blown rock you socks single player experience. That is why I said it is a wonderful surprise. The 
 single player portion alone is worth buying the game. Tribes has always had a story line that you 
 could read about, but never truly experience until now.
  
  I have been waiting for HL2 to make it's way to store shelves for awhile now and was looking for 
 a game to just tide me over until then. I had purchased Tribes 2 when it came out a few years ago 
 and didnt care for it to much. So needless to say I was a little reluctant to purchase Tribes 
 Vengeance thinking it might be more of the same old thing. I am sure glad that I went ahead and 
 made the buy. Tribes Vengeance comes with a lot of substance offering the game player hours of 
 excellent game play. There is not much that I have found wrong with the game. There are a few minor 
 graphic bugs mostly with the water or sewage not matching up as they should. Also I had some trouble 
 with the 3D sound and had to turn that off. Lastly I have had one crash to the desktop when I hit 
 the quick save button. All of these issues are minor and can be fixed with a patch. Trust me the 
 good out ways the bad by far.
  
  I don't think you will find much new in the game that has not been done already. What you will 
 find, you do not get bored with the same old run and gun routine that most games like this offer. 
 The authors of the game keep you moving from place to place playing as different character keeping 
 the boredom at a low level. You will play as many different characters learning what they can do 
 and their backgrounds as you make your way through the game. At one point in the game you will 
 even play as a young child, and they make it work into the game play seamlessly.
  
  I can not say enough good things about this game. Do yourself a favor go get it and have yourself 
 a wonderful skiing, jet packing and shooting good time!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2004 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Tribes is back and it is better than ever. It is built with the Unreal 2 engine and looks great. 
 This time around Tribes comes packed with a real story driven single player campaign and the game 
 is worth the price of admission for the single player alone. The multi-player is a unique style 
 that offers something different for gamers that are looking for a breath of fresh air. Simply put 
 there is no FPS out there that has such a great single player and multi-player game in one package.
 
  
  Graphics: Built with the Unreal 2 engine Tribes V looks just as good if not a little bit better 
 than UT2004. That means it looks incredible. Not as nice looking as Doom 3 or Far Cry but one of 
 the best looking FPS's out there. The environments are huge and detailed. Character models look 
 great and are very detailed. Weapon and vehicle models were done very well and are crisp looking. 
 It has many special effects that utilize Direct X 9. Tribes Vengeance is a great looking game.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is done well from voice over to weapon sounds. The music in single player is great 
 and the ambient music throughout the game is done very well. Weapon sounds are futuristic sounding 
 and unique for all weapons. The voice over in single player is professionally done. Irrational 
 Games did a great job as expected from them.
  
  Gameplay: Single player now isnt just practice modes against bots they put in a long and story 
 driven campaign. It is done suprisingly well. You follow the story of the Imperial family and thier 
 struggle against tribal outcasts. You will play with many different characters and in many different 
 eras throughout the game. The single player is done so well that if this was the only part of the 
 game it would still be worth the $50. Besides having a great story and being 15 - 20 hours long 
 it is great for beginer players new to the Tribes series. It will teach you everything you need 
 to know from jetpack flying, skiing and vehicle controls. There are even some arena matches thrown 
 into the story to get you familiar with some of the multi=player modes. So, when you are finished 
 with the single player campaign you will be well prepared and comfortable with jumping into the 
 multi-player online against real people.
  
  The multi-player is something different than most gamers are used to. The main difference is jetpacks 
 which allows you to fly around the arenas and maps. It is not unlimited so you can't just constantly 
 fly. Your jetpack needs to recharge once it is depleted. It fills quickly so you won't be waiting 
 a long time but it is just there so you can't just constantly fly around. Another interesting technique 
 to the game is skiing. You are equiped with special boots that allow you to ski down slopes on 
 any type of surface. It is a lot of fun you can be going upwards of 100 mph down a hill skiing 
 then hit your jetpack at the bottom of the slope and go flying 100 feet in the air the whole time 
 shooting your enemies. It is really something different and a whole lot of fun to do. Jetpack flying 
 and skiing really adds a whole new dimension to online FPS's.
  
  There are many modes of play including variations of Deathmatch and Capture the Flag. There are 
 team based games with objectives and there are different vehicles at your disposal which are also 
 very fun to use. The multi-player is done very well and it is something different that should build 
 a nice niche community with tons of mods and user created maps coming soon.
  
  You really can't go wrong with Tribes Vengeance it has everything you want from a great and long 
 single player campaign and never ending modes to play online. Flying around and skiing while fragging 
 can be very addictive. Irrational did a great job with Tribes Vengeance, very polished and incredibly 
 fun game. Any FPS fan should check it out for its single player and multi-player campaigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2004 2:44 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the original Tribes, and Tribes 2. Knowing how good the concept of the Tribes 
 games is, not only were my expectations for this game met, but they were exceeded. The concept 
 of the Tribes games is of course amazing, I mean who doesn't want to play Capture the Flag in the 
 future with jetpacks? With the advancements in video game technology the Tribes series has only 
 gotten better, and Tribes: Vengeance is no exception to this rule. This game is absolutely amazing. 
 If you have any interest in FPSs or online games, pick this game up, or at least download the demo. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 10, totally amazing, doesn't get old
  Graphics: Could be better, but very good for an online game
  Sound: Very solid no real flaws, 
 just nothing to flashy is all.
  Value: Replay value is through the roof for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 11, 2004 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The Tribes license has been in hiatus for a while now, but Irrational Games has released a new 
 game under its name after two and a half years of development. Is this game worthy of such a legacy 
 founded by the game, which innovations are now virtually adopted by many other modern shooters? 
 Read on to find out.
  
  I have not played any of the previous Tribes games. Of course, that was before I downloaded freely 
 distributed Starsiege: Tribes available from Gamespot to see what possible difference the game 
 has to offer in the saturated FPS genre. Aside from being refreshingly rooted in sci-fi elements 
 (looked like what Planetside would've looked six years ago) , the game featured an amazing amount 
 of depth from how one has to purchase items from dispensers, how the vehicles are driven in first 
 person perspective, how the jetpacks have this incredible amount of learning curve, and more. I 
 realized that the game had successfully implemented many of the features that are to be embraced 
 many years later by other developers in trying to bring something different to the FPS genre.
 
  
  For Tribes: Vengeance, there is no such advantage since almost every FPS released incorporates 
 some elements introduced by its forefather, whether it be vehicles, expansive terrain, multiplayer-exclusive 
 gameplay. Irrational Games had to really emphasize the strengths of the series and add something 
 new to the conventional mix of gameplay to make the game stand out. And in my opinion, they just 
 did that, in terms of adding a solid single-player component, tweaking the gameplay so as to appeal 
 to newcomers as well as veterans of the series, and still retaining the conventions of the license 
 that many gamers hold dear.
  
  The main gameplay element evolves primarily around the jetpack, which lets you fly and opens another 
 dimension of movement. Amazingly, the physics of it seems as accurate as what one would expect 
 from flying with a back mounted levitation device. Furthermore, one is able to ski for some stretch 
 of time, with greater velocity, more if the landing is at 45 degrees to the slope of the ground. 
 Then you can launch yourself further on your way up the other slope! It is rather unfortunate that 
 one cannot change directions while skiing though. One of the cool touches are when a player dies 
 in the air, his jetpack still operates for some time, bouncing the lifeless body realistically 
 along the ground, skipping and skidding with afterburners of the jetpack drawing a red spiral across 
 the sky. Cool stuff. 
  
  There are three main classes to choose from, from light armour to heavy armour, with corresponding 
 batch of weapons (one exclusive weapon in each class) and packs that comprise the whole load out 
 one can select as part of their 'profile'. Each class serves its defined role, although that may 
 not be apparent at first. Certain class thrives in certain tasks, and the highest level of definition 
 for the tasks is either offensive or defensive. Every player can find that one role that he or 
 she prefers above all else. 
  
  The weapons are adopted from the previous series as well as new additions. They seem well balanced 
 and accompanied with impressive sound effects. Some of the multiplayer favourites are spinfusor, 
 an equivalent of single volley rocket launcher, chain gun, which provides with continuous fire 
 but heats up, and grenade launcher, complete with bouncing grenades. The packs consist of repair 
 pack, shield pack, energy pack, and speed pack, with obvious bonuses more suited to one particular 
 armour type than the other, but could mean the difference between life and death. In multiplayer, 
 there are also deployable turrets, deployable stations, and other amenities to lend the game a 
 bit of tactical depth. 
  
  There are four vehicles in the game, two ground bound and two airborne units. They take some time 
 getting used to, especially for ground units that display a bit of exaggerated physics. However 
 if they are used properly, they would be force to be reckon with. One of the ground units also 
 serve as a mobile spawn point, making its role very important in situations where support is needed 
 on the far side of the map from the permanent spawn point.
  
  The multiplayer game can get considerably fast, and sometimes for newcomers it can be quite confusing, 
 never mind daunting, with trying to manoeuvre with jetpack alone. That is where the single player 
 comes in. It is essentially an extended tutorial session, and with moves to learn and weapons to 
 familiarize in this rather complex game, it seems only reasonable that the tutorial should have 
 been accordingly planned and extensive. Irrational Games hit right on the mark by not only providing 
 an intuitive tutorial content, but wrapping it up nicely with an interesting story with a vast 
 cast of characters that are developed nicely along with good references to the whole Tribes universe. 
 
  
  The story centers on not one, but several characters involved, many of which you take control and 
 learn to familiarize yourself with subtle differences attributed to each. It sometimes can get 
 disorientating as it jumps back and forth chronologically, but the developer should be lauded in 
 making one of the most elaborate and entertaining tutorial component ever seen in a genre where 
 'jumping into the foray' without any guide has been the norm for many gamers turned off by mundane 
 excuse of tutorial.
  
  There are a few problems with multiplayer. First, many complain of the fact that the spawn point 
 can be easily overwhelmed with no protection offered for the respawned. Second, there are some 
 sentiments that the maps are rather too small and with judicious amount of skiing and flying one 
 would be able to traverse the entire length of the map under ten seconds, decreasing the usefulness 
 of the vehicles. And there are only eleven maps or so, which are paltry compared to other multiplayer 
 bound shooters and can potentially decrease its value in the long run were it not for the modders 
 and the community support (of which, fortunately, is quite strong) . Lastly, there are not enough 
 people playing the game, yet. Come on guys, stop playing the demo and join players online with 
 retail. :D
  
  Graphics are brought by what is a modified Unreal Tournament engine, and it is quite superb in 
 rendering expansive stretches of land and detailed foliages in many maps. Overall, the graphics 
 presented in the game are quite pleasant, with pixel shader 2.0 supported and bump mapping enabled. 
 The design for the updated player models is rather nice, with different models exclusive to each 
 faction involved in the game (Phoenix, Blood Eagle, Imperial as I recall) . However, they are nothing 
 that people haven't seen before in other sci-fi shows and various anime series. It is quite amusing 
 to note that the game is run best with ATi hardware; looks like that all Vivendi Universal games 
 would have that moniker from now on.
  
  The engine can be quite scaleable, as my low end machine (1.4 GHz with Radeon 9500 pro) can run 
 the game with few slowdowns at 800x600 with medium settings. Many people attest to the increased 
 memory, around one gigabyte of them, could prove to be a big difference in loading times and even 
 performance. Be sure to turn on the fog distance setting to high, though, since it is imperative 
 to field a good viewing distance as the action can evolve from quite large distances.
  
  Sound is quite good also. It does not get in the way of what is happening on screen, but sometimes 
 in single player one can sense the impending danger due to the dynamic change cues that the soundtrack 
 undergoes from its more ambient version. Cool stuff. The voice acting isn't too bad, but they tend 
 to veer into abetting already stereotypical characters defined by headstrong princess character, 
 all-around good compassionate guy, aloof noble, etc. The weapon sounds are good, and you would 
 know you are in for the world of hurt when you hear that high shrieking mortar sounds coming your 
 way courtesy of well implemented 3D surround sound.
  
  As for value, the single player would take you anywhere between 15 to 20 hours. The multiplayer 
 consists of different game types, some more interesting variations including Fuel, where the goal 
 is to gather fuel rods to be collected to each team's depot, Ball, which provides a ball and a 
 goal to throw the ball into for scoring, and Rabbit, the goal that involves keeping away a flag. 
 The only drawback is the limited amount of maps as previously mentioned, and the number of people 
 rather reluctant to try out these game types aside from the tried and true Capture the Flag. I 
 think as time goes, more community released maps would tailor to each game types and that more 
 people would be willing to try the kind of entertainment that each mode offers.
  
  All in all, Tribes: Vengeance, is a game that has no glaring fault in any of the areas that it 
 touches upon. It has a solid single player, equally fun multiplayer, with a lot of room to grow 
 and still capturing the quintessential freedom of movement that is the hallmark of the Tribes series. 
 Irrational Games tightened up the gameplay and reached a good balance between high strung action 
 fest and a need for a coordinated teamwork to be truly successful at the game. The learning curve 
 of the game may be a bit higher than other conventional shooters, but if the part of the fun playing 
 the game is definitely learning its various quirks and features, how couldn't one help but not 
 be impressed? 
  
  One more thing: don't be fooled by rather boring box cover.
  
  *update (March 30, 2005) : VUG has ceased all support of the game as of March 23, 2005. The patch 
 that was slated to be released including addition of maps and punkbuster support was cancelled. 
 I've adjusted the scoring of the game to reflect my genuine disappointment in this recent turn 
 of events. The rather abysmal sales figure (NPD data tracks 43,000 units only moved) could've figured 
 into this decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rene
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2004 5:09 am PT
Review:  It grows on you - the more you play it the better it gets. I have been a T2 player for a long time. 
 I have not played T2 ever since I got played the Demo for TV. Irrational did a good job is creating 
 good external environments. 
  
  The good players can do a lot of amazing things with the grappler - All the weapons are very well 
 balanced. Yes - It is less compllcated than T2 but requires skill to be good at it. All in all 
 I am happy with it. Trust me just give a chance it will grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectlaser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2004 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for any first-person shooter fan, a fan of Tribes or just a newcomer to the 
 Tribes universe. The graphics are great on a good videocard but on my videocard, an extremely date 
 GeForce 4 MX420, the graphics aren't so hot. Gameplay is amazing, though, with gameplay so fast 
 it will make you say "WOW" and the jetpacks make everything even faster. The sound is of professional 
 quality. You can hear the wind when a spinfuzor disc flies past your head nearly hitting you, you 
 can hear the flames from a burner burn the grass and you can hear the explosions of a rocket pod 
 with incredible quality. This is a great game to get while you wait for games such as Half-Life 
 2. If you're more into realism then get Counter-Strike: Source (Also an amazing game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrot3chnic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 9, 2004 2:44 am PT
Review:  To start off, I'd like to say that I wasn't expecting Irrational Games to deliver a Tribes 1 or 
 Tribes 2 with better graphics, and I don't believe that was the plan from their end anyway. You 
 have to keep this in mind when playing. I've had some great times with both T1 and T2, and I wish 
 them farewell.
  
  I didn't look forward to the single player as much as I did the revered multiplayer. Most miss 
 the fact that Tribes 1 laid the foundation for most of the team-oriented shooters that followed 
 it. Tribes 2 tried to go to a new level with the idea of "team combat on an epic scale." They got 
 a lot of mixed feelings from the T1 crowd, and the buggy release didn't help at all. Regardless, 
 T2 managed to develop a community of its own and ever since there's been tension between the T1 
 and T2 crowds.
  
  I think T: V might be on it's way to developing this same problem since IG really streamlined the 
 game to make it quicker in hopes of attracting more of the run n gun gamers ( q3, ut, etc ) . It's 
 a little early to tell if they succeeded, but in my opinion they did. The game retains a Tribes 
 feel. It is on a smaller scale, but it's still very much there. I've seen a lot of disappointment 
 from people that think strategy is no longer a factor, and I disagree strongly. It's a new game, 
 and you can't expect all the tactics and methods of T1 and T2 to transfer over flawlessly. I find 
 it funny how any pro-massive scale ( ala T2 ) players I've seen complain, can't acknowledge the 
 fact that action and strategy CAN co-exist in a game. That said, I think the T: V multiplayer is 
 a breath of fresh air for this series.
  
  The classic weapons like the Mortar, Disc Launcher, Grenade Launcher, and Sniper rifle are back 
 with some new friends like the Grappler, Buckler, and Rocket Pod. The classics still feel like 
 classics, and the new weapons add some new twists to the game, the grappler specifically. It can 
 become fairly abusive in some respects, but I'm sure Irrational will balance it out as it's playtested.
 
  
  The skiing has been revamped, in that you no longer jump while falling down a hillside. Instead 
 you enter a frictionless slide in which you gain momentum and like expected, launch yourself off 
 the incoming incline. I find that it works very well. If you know what you're doing, you can reach 
 speeds of up to and beyond 300km/h. With time and experience, I'm sure certain players will continue 
 to push this number higher and higher.
  
  The new maps are beautifully done, really taking advantage of the graphics technology to produce 
 some stunning settings in both the multiplayer and single player missions. As far as the gameplay 
 goes, all the maps have potential, but only time will tell. As competitive play heats up, I'm sure 
 we'll start seeing certain maps rise above others. From pubbing, I can't say I dislike any of them, 
 but Highlands is probably my favorite.
  
  There are four, somewhat new, vehicles.
  
  The Fighter basically acts like a helicopter with an arsenal of rockets. It's very maneuverable, 
 moderately fast, and the weakest of the four. If you know how to ski effectively, you will have 
 no problems outrunning it.
  
  The Rover is like an off-road vehicle that functions as a mobile spawn point, with an inventory 
 station in the back. So players can spawn and equip themselves wherever the Rover might be at the 
 time you spawn. It has a seat for the driver and a gunner armed with a mounted cannon. It drives 
 at a fair speed, but also has two boosters in the back, so you can really haul ass when you need 
 to.
  
  The Assault Ship is just that, an assault ship. The pilot is able to drop bombs while flying, plus 
 there are two cannons on each side that two of your friends can jump in and cause some chaos. It's 
 not fast, but can be very deadly when fully manned by three people.
  
  And finally we come to the Jump Tank. Like you'd expect, the driver controls the main cannon that 
 packs a powerful punch. There's also a second seat for a gunner that controls a mounted chaingun. 
 It's a tough and slow vehicle, but has boosters in the back that allow it to catch some air for 
 a short time.
  
  I'm not big on vehicles. I enjoy player-to-player combat a lot more. They can be useful at times, 
 but again, I'll leave it to someone else. Overall, the multiplayer keeps the traditional Tribes 
 feel that I think new players will enjoy, along with some new additions that veterans will have 
 to master. It's not Tribes 1, it's not Tribes 2; It's Tribes Vengeance.
  
  
  I haven't completed the single player yet, but I've gotten far enough. I was very skeptical when 
 it was announced. Turns out Irrational did a damn good job. I dig the story, especially the way 
 Irrational has decided to tell it with the jumps to and from different time periods and characters. 
 Sometimes the dialogue gets a little cheesy, but overall the voice acting and scripting was great. 
 The game sounds are satisfactory, but could've been a lot better. However, this in no way retracts 
 from the excellent experience both the single and multiplayer provide.
  
  I'd suggest you grab it, even if you don't enjoy any multiplayer games. The story of Julia and 
 the Empire is well worth the buy, but the multiplayer is still the heart of Tribes. It's not like 
 any out there, and I'd encourage anyone to give it a fair shot. Although I'd recommend playing 
 the single player first, since it's a nice training course if you've never played the previous 
 titles.
  
  Enjoy the Tribes experience, you won't find one like it anywhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyoxSinfar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 8, 2004 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the bad. Besides the lack of ammo with the sniper rifle the weapons seemed good 
 to me. It seems like they took out alot of the more technical stuff of the game. They reduced the 
 number of packs to 4 and you must now wait for vehicles and deployables to spawn. My biggest quam 
 is defense, an attacking heavy can remove any mines/turrets in 1 mortar round and cause huge amounts 
 of havoc. The base is extremely hard to defend, while attacking is really easy.
  
  But the good. One thing you need to realize is people are comparing it too much to the old ones. 
 If this game was the first one, and you never heard of the name before what would you think? I 
 think it would be a GREAT game! I was caught alittle off gaurd by some of the changes, but its 
 nothing I can't live with. THe single player is fun (I enjoyed flying a fighter while playing an 
 8 year old girl, and also mowing down the enemy as her) , and I love the cutscenes. I am REALLY 
 curious to see how it ends. The game definitly can be difficult for those of you who want it to 
 be. I am not sure that the way deployables and vehicles spawn is the team forcing thing they thought 
 it would be. A group wouldn't wait for a vehicle. 
  
  Its the same thing I feel when I play Halo. Halo wasn't anything new, we have all killed zombies 
 and aliens before. We have driven vehicles and fired rocket launchers. What Halo was is a game 
 that looked and most importantly FELT right in your hands. You sort of became one with the game 
 without effort. It grabbed at you, the same could be said with Tribes: Vengeance. I have been extremely 
 frustrated with it in multplayer, but I am drawn even now to play.
  
  If you want it broken down to the basic feel of multiplayer, here it is: Its no longer war, its 
 a skirmish. I always felt in 1 and 2 as if I was fighting for the planet, now it seems more like 
 2 sides finding eachother and starting a battle, with no big stake in the land.
  
  I just turned down my reviewer's tilt, the reason is because though I enjoy it as a new game, no 
 surprise since its new people, they didn't do much in the way of preparing us for the big changes. 
 Not a big complaint but that mixed with excessively difficult defense made me take it down 1 little 
 more notch. 
  
  Who would want this game? Well any hardcore Tribes fan of course. If you enjoyed PlanetSide but 
 found it 1. lopsided or 2. too time consuming, you might wanna check it out. Anyone looking for 
 not quite realistic damage but not everything explodes and you blow up too (between unreal and 
 America's Army/Ghost Recon damage structure) . One could say it resembled halo... though tribes 
 did come first :) Last, (but by no means are these the only people, just the ones I think have 
 the best chance of loving it) , those participating in LAN or Clan battles. Teamwork will be optimized 
 and with teamspeak (teamspeak. org) your clan can work with microphones too. Of course people looking 
 for a fast paced action game will like it, seems to me like they sped up all the armors (much to 
 all snipers shagrin) so combat is frequent and can get intense.
  
  ... yeah I don't know the meaning of the word organizational writing. nor do I know if that is a 
 word...
  
  Non-review sidenote: Who the heck builds a base that is a literal 10 second walk from the enemy 
 base? :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2004 3:01 am PT
Review:  Tribes Vengeance is a sequel, being preceded by Tribes 2, and the original Starsiege: Tribes. Most 
 sequels get penalized for staying the same. Tribes 2 got penalized for doing somewhere different. 
 Thus Tribes: Vengeance is almost a throwback to the original Tribes game.
  
  But wow it looks so much better! The Unreal engine is beautiful with its ample metallic sheens, 
 foliage, and poly-rich environments. You may not think it looks better than Doom 3, but... how good 
 would Doom3 look if the lights were on? When I'm standing in a pitch black closet, I can't complain 
 about the decor.
  
  Most players today are more familiar with Battlefield 1942. Pretty much everything that makes that 
 game fun was pioneered by Tribes: Wide open battlefields. Seamless indoor/outdoor fighting. And 
 of course, vehicles. They started with the first Tribes, got bigger and more central in Tribes 
 2, and return in Tribes Vengeance... although this time, it's not the only game in town that does 
 them. Nor does it do them the best. It still gets the job done with some very nice vehicles that 
 look like they might have been prototype designs for the movie Aliens.
  
  Now for a quick breakdown on new and old stuff:
  - Vehicles are now spawned instead of summoned 
 on demand
  - There is a grapple gun
  - Maps now have impenetrable play boundaries, which you cannot pass
  - Skiing is a much more 
 refined experience
  - some changes in the weapons
  
  The vehicle spawning does not create a bad camping problem, as the vehicles are not overly powerful. 
 The enemy can be at your doorstep without a vehicle in moments, so waiting for a vehicle is just 
 as quick or quicker way to die than rushing into the battle.
  
  The grapple gun is what really differentiates this game from older Tribes games. In great Tribes 
 tradition, this is a gun that will respond very well to nuanced use. Expect to see people do amazing 
 maneuvers with it. Both on purpose and by accident.
  
  Some things you won't find:
  - built in community features
  - the large sense of scale from Tribes2 is gone; it's more Tribes1-like 
 now
  - the targeting laser
  
  The built-in community will not be missed. It was an interesting experiment that turned out to 
 be a cumbersome interface that did not compete nor sit well with communities that already existed 
 on fan sites. The sense of scale is disappointing, but it's replaced with something just as good 
 if not better: a fast-paced, in your face team battle. The missing targeting laser, on the other 
 hand, is a travesty, and penalizes the game a half of a point.
  
  In the end, I don't want to blab too much, yet I can't say enough. There's a lot to this game, 
 and if you don't see it, give it another look. Maybe watch some other players. The jetpack and 
 weapon physics to this game put it on a whole different level than the typical shooter. There is 
 a lot to learn, the curve for getting proficient at this game is much steeper than most, but the 
 rewards pay off even more handsomely. 
  
  Fortunately, Tribes Vengeance also marks the first time the series has offered a fun way to actually 
 learn how to play it... and that would be the excellent single player campaign, with its fun and 
 excellent missions (although slightly less than excellent cut-scene body-movement articulation) . 
 That's fun stuff, and it really goes a long way to introducing Tribes newbies to the controls and 
 how to play -- but in a fun action packed way. There are no pedantic tutorials here.. This is the 
 second (maybe third time) that single player was promised, but the first time it was actually delivered. 
 We are blessed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FishStix2001
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 7, 2004 1:22 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is amazing, the graphics are superb, the single player is well thougt out, and the 
 sounds are so realistic that you practically feel like you are THERE.
  The learning curve is imense, that what kept me playing T1 for 6 years. Every weapon is completely 
 different and used for a unique function. Every weapon takes an amazing amount of time to master, 
 however they are all intuitave. 
  To top that, there's a jetpack. Using the jetpack is nearly as important as weapons, as you dodge 
 enemies attacks and speed across the ground using an ability called "skiing" where you become frictionless 
 and use mountains combined with gravity and achieve amazing speeds. No game has matched the feeling 
 of exileration that comes when you are in a high speed duel, leading with your disk launcher just 
 right (while tossing hand grenades) to mid air them to their death's. 
  On top of all that, you are not only capturing the flag, you have many many more objectives. To 
 kill the enemy is SECONDARY to maintaining your base, deploying turrets, inventory stations, and 
 mines, defending your flag, manning turrets, manning vehicles, destroying their base, and capturing 
 the enemy flag. The amount of team orientation has never been replicated in any game ever, 
  AND ON TOP OF THAT: you choose from light, medium, or heavy armor depending on whether your inventory 
 stations are in good condition and what position you want to play.
  
  It is truly a unique and amazing game. All the aspects are there. I highly recomend this game to 
 all gamers, especailly those who find the traditionaly FPS interesting. 
  
  This game will blow your mind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20040275989219420994058427177713-white_rabbit027
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 6, 2004 11:25 pm PT
Review:  the base behind this game is pretty good w/ the dock stations and stuff like that but the gameplay's 
 just not there. its very slow paced and the fact that you can only carry three weapons is a little 
 lame. some of the annoying prep you have to do just to play does get quite annoying also. The sounds 
 are extremely grating and annoying at times with the announcer (which i turned off) and the repepitive 
 jumping/grunt sounds. Weapon sounds were OK. graphics are not the greatest but there OK. i dont 
 see how this game can fun off the same unreal engine but the graphics are soo much worse. the main 
 menu graphics with the occasional strange character floating by look like it came out of an old 
 N64 game and does get very annoying after a while, but luckily you dont stay on that screen for 
 too long. overall i dont really see wut all the hype about this game was. with its mediocre plot, 
 ok graphics, and repepitive sounds nd effects, i dont think this game is worth the dough. 
  
  Peace ouT 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
