-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Triple Play Baseball
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tripleplaybaseball/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 5.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 47 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date:     Mar 4, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game turns the single most challenging action in sports into child's play. 

 It's very appropriate that the first words you hear when you begin playing Triple Play Baseball 
 are, "That ball's outta here!" After all, it's the latest installment in an action-packed sports 
 series that's always emphasized home-run excitement over meticulous stat crunching. And perhaps 
 with good reason: America didn't go crazy over the national pastime in the summer of '98 because 
 Greg Maddux led the Majors with a 2.22 ERA. Anyone who witnessed the media frenzy focused on the 
 race to catch Roger Maris could hardly blame EA Sports for trying to cash in on the long-ball heroics 
 of Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa.           Pete Harnisch bears down for the Cincinnati Reds    

 
 But you can blame EA Sports for taking this to an extreme. Offense has completely consumed the 
 Triple Play Baseball series, to the point that the current edition isn't so much a computer representation 
 of baseball as a rough simulation of hitting a ball with a stick. Every other aspect of the real 
 sport has also been dumbed down to the point of irrelevance. Pitching, baserunning, fielding, and 
 those all-important managerial moves mean nothing as long as you have good hand-eye coordination. 
 Gameplay has devolved to a simple button-pushing exercise.   

  All of this would be at least partly excusable if playing the game itself were enjoyable. It isn't, 
 and the main reason is overkill. Every Triple Play contest features a minimum of three dozen hits. 
 This turns nine innings into an hour-long marathon that will try the patience of even the most 
 dedicated player. Regardless of whether you're playing on the rookie, pro, or all-star difficulty 
 settings, hits are so easy to come by that you'll rack up two or three per inning. Your final box 
 score almost always reads like something out of a slo-pitch beer league. Home runs and hard shots 
 to the gap are such routine events that they've been robbed of their natural drama and excitement. 
           Al Leiter and the Mets celebrate a win    

 Needless to say, this is the result of a thoroughly unrealistic pitching/batting model. The game 
 turns the single most challenging action in sports into child's play. Hitting against computer 
 pitching is ridiculously easy because you can get the end of your bat on anything this side of 
 a pitchout. You can make solid contact on everything from balls thrown outside in the dirt to balls 
 thrown inside at your head. Just time the swing right, and you're golden. This is simplified even 
 more by the fact that computer pitchers refuse to "work" batters. Instead of trying to keep the 
 hitter off-balance with a variety of pitch types, locations, and speeds, the computer-controlled 
 hurler will often keep to the center of the plate. Swing early and often in Triple Play Baseball, 
 and you can turn Rico Brogna into Ted Williams.   

  Pitching against the computer is similarly handicapped in that you can't fool your opponent into 
 swinging at bad pitches. Switching speeds, mixing up fastballs and junk, and just generally moving 
 the ball around are meaningless since the computer won't take the bait on pitches out of the strike 
 zone (on difficulty levels above rookie) . If you attempt to mess with the digital batter's mind 
 the way that a flesh-and-blood pitcher would, you'll be rewarded by constantly falling behind in 
 the count and then surrendering long singles or mammoth dingers into the bleachers. The only way 
 to deal with this is by giving the computer exactly what it doesn't expect -- grooved pitches in 
 the middle of the plate at the start of every at bat. Our most successful games came as a result 
 of simply gunning fastballs down the pipe for nine full innings.    

 Other problems contribute to making Triple Play Baseball such a tiresome experience. Extra base 
 hits are nearly impossible to come by because every outfielder is equipped with racehorse legs 
 and a cannon arm. Fielders can fire the ball around at real-life velocities that apparently approach 
 200mph, meaning that gappers to the wall remain singles. There's nothing quite as jarring for a 
 baseball fan than to witness speedy Alex Rodriguez slap the ball 380 feet to left center and still 
 be thrown out at second by five feet. The ball is thrown so fast in Triple Play Baseball that you 
 can almost go around the horn on infield grounders and still get the runner at first. If nothing 
 else, the game is very forgiving if you accidentally throw to the wrong base.           A-Rod steps 
 into the box    

 Computer-controlled first and third basemen often wander off their bags at key moments, killing 
 sure double plays. This occasionally happens even if the fielder in question was part of the play 
 originally. First basemen sometimes throw to second to get the lead runner and then walk well off 
 the bag for the return toss, almost like they'd lost track of the number of outs. However, such 
 glitches affect your fielding in turn, as the game often activates the wrong player (a second baseman 
 on a ball hit near the shortstop, for example) to handle a ground ball. And last but not least, 
 hits down the line still sporadically curve the wrong way. This holdover bug from previous Triple 
 Plays continues to violate the laws of physics by curling balls in, rather than out.   

  What further heightens the sense of disappointment you'll have for Triple Play Baseball's gameplay 
 is a full feature set indicating that it at least could have been the ultimate arcade baseball 
 game. Triple Play Baseball is certainly the most comprehensive game in the history of this series, 
 complete with all the bells and whistles demanded by arcade sports fans. Along with single-game, 
 playoff, and season modes of play (including a multiseason franchise option) , the big league challenge 
 home-run derby is back with all 12 major-league participants. Season players who win the World 
 Series go on to compete in a World Tournament featuring national all-star teams that can later 
 be used in regular games. Points accumulated by racking up impressive season stats can be used 
 to buy new fantasy home stadiums, including one on a beach and even one in space. Special rewards 
 are unlocked in nearly every game, and this grants you humorous bonuses like "big head" or "big 
 ball" play.           Save your pennies and play home games in orbit    

 EA Sports didn't skimp on the production values. Player models look and move much like their real-world 
 counterparts. Stars such as Randy Johnson, Nomar Garciaparra, and Kevin Brown have even had their 
 signature moves fully motion captured. Scripted animations bring more of each game to life. Close-ups 
 reveal player celebrations at the end of victories and arguments with umpires over close calls. 
 The audio is similarly outstanding: You'll hear a variety of realistic ballpark sound effects from 
 the crack of the bat to the shouts of hotdog vendors out in the stands. However, the play-by-play 
 and color commentary isn't nearly as satisfying. Jim Hughson and Buck Martinez (presumably in his 
 curtain call with the series, as he's now the manager of the Toronto Blue Jays) are back to fill 
 the broadcast booth with more inanities than ever. Hughson is practically monosyllabic, and he'll 
 go some innings saying little more than, "Fowwwulll!" when appropriate. Martinez's observations 
 often have nothing to do with the play and are so generalized that players are referred to as, 
 "That guy."   

  Still, attractive visuals and impressive features aren't enough to disguise that the core problem 
 with Triple Play Baseball is that it's not about baseball. Any sense of Major League authenticity 
 has been jettisoned because of the strange misconception in the design that those interested in 
 buying such a game don't actually like the sport it represents. Furthermore, the designers have 
 made these changes in such a ham-handed way that the meandering end result has been rendered nearly 
 unplayable, especially for those who dislike baseball's deliberate pacing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -The unlockables make the game interesting and fun.
  -Extreme home run derby can be fun.
  
  The Bad:
  -Poor sound.
  -Poor visuals.
  -Poor 
 feedback on the mound. Pitches aren't very distinctive and hard to judge.
  -Awkward pitching controls. Why exactly do I control the ball AFTER I've thrown it?
  -Ridiculously 
 stupid advertisements. I dare not give examples.
  -The game in general is just flat-out unrealistic.
  
  This is most definitely the last game 
 any MLB fan wants to buy. If the poor presentation doesn't depress you, the below average gameplay 
 will. It's hard to tell why EA put so little effort into the PC version, as opposed to its console 
 counterparts. Regardless, gamers will regret trying this game.
  
  Score based off of old rating system:
  Gameplay: 5
  Graphics: 5
  Sound: 5
  Value: 6
  
 Tilt: 4
  
  Overall Score: 5.0 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
