-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tron 2.0
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tron20/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 27, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 8.4, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,045 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Buena Vista Interactive
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Aug 26, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its great look and some exciting moments, Tron 2.0 is a fairly conventional and uneven shooter. 
 

  The 1982 film  Tron  may not hold up by today's standards, but it was a revelation for anyone who 
 grew up during the video game boom of the early '80s. The movie was filled with vivid computer-generated 
 graphics, and it put the lead character first in a real arcade and then in neon-lit cyberspace, 
 where anthropomorphic "programs" faced off in video-game-style challenges. For young gamers, at 
 the time, watching  Tron  was like dying and going to cinematic heaven.  Tron  gave birth to some 
 fun games back in the day, and now Monolith brings you Tron 2.0 for the PC. Like the film, Tron 
 2.0 treads a fine line between cool and corny, and, also like the film, it often stumbles into 
 the latter. Like the movie, the game also boasts a unique visual style. However, despite its great 
 look and some exciting moments, Tron 2.0 is a fairly conventional and uneven shooter.  

          Our hero in the real world.     

  Tron 2.0 picks up where the film left off. After 
 years of research, programmer Alan Bradley has finally managed to re-create the technology needed 
 to digitize humans and send them into and out of the digital/virtual world. A big, bad corporate 
 rival, Future Control Industries (or fCon) is after Bradley's research and is about to take over 
 his company. When Bradley's AI creation, Ma3a, comes under attack and Bradley suddenly disappears, 
 his son Jet must save the day. After Jet is conveniently digitized, it's off to the races in a 
 thematic and visual retread of the film: Basically, red security programs menace Jet, lots of deadly 
 discs get thrown about, a sexy female program helps our hero escape from the light cycle grid, 
 and so on.  

  While staying true to the film, Monolith has ably fleshed out the world of Tron with new allies 
 and enemies. Things are a little more complex than in the movie since there are multiple enemy 
 factions to deal with now. You'll face off against the Intrusion Countermeasure Programs, or ICPs, 
 who are like the red guards of the film. These ICPs aren't particularly bright or deadly, but they 
 usually have numbers on their side. They're under the command of the militant program "Kernel". 
 You'll also have to deal with finders, little sentinels that float around high-security areas and 
 blast you with energy bolts.  

  Along with these security programs, you'll also have to face a whole other faction of enemies. 
 They are led by the malevolent Thorne, who secretly sold the digitization technology to rival fCon 
 and now acts as head of security for Bradley's company. To prove that the technology actually worked, 
 he tried to digitize himself into the virtual world, but things went awry; he ended up corrupting 
 his data and turning mad. Now a blight of data corruption cascades through the computer world, 
 giving rise to enemies like the Z-lots and rector scripts.  

  In addition to these corrupted programs, you'll run into game bots, the programs you face in light 
 cycle competitions for the amusement of other programs. More ominous are the resources hogs, pudgy 
 enemies who try to co-opt other programs for their own ends. Then there are the mysterious data 
 wraiths, who are digitized human hackers doing fCon's corporate dirty work from the inside.  

 
  While all these enemies sound diverse and interesting on paper, they leave something to be desired 
 in practice. That's because, at heart, Tron 2.0 is a standard run-and-gun shooter with a neon patina. 
 These strange-sounding digital enemies aren't really strange but turn out to be generic cannon 
 fodder. They might engage in idle banter or cry out for help, but otherwise they pretty much just 
 run around and shoot at you.  

          Data corruption is just one of the problems you'll face.     

  At the same time, you 
 pretty much just run around and shoot at them in very conventional firefights. The famous glowing, 
 Frisbee-style disc weapon from the movie reappears in a slightly different guise, but it's one 
 of the game's surprising letdowns. It flies and returns to your hands so quickly that it feels 
 more like some fancy machine gun than a specialized, graceful weapon. You can very slightly control 
 the disc in-flight, and you can more or less block with it, but there's just nothing exciting about 
 it and not much finesse required to use it.  

  In addition to the disc, you also pick up a few other basic weapons during your adventures, but 
 these are equally ordinary at heart. There's a glowing assault rifle, a glowing rod for close combat 
 and sneak attacks, and a glowing ball that acts as a grenade. (Everything glows in Tron 2.0.) Then 
 there are specialized variants like a sniper rifle, which features a really neat animation when 
 you break it out, yet it works just like any shooter's sniper rifle.  

  Ultimately, the weapons and enemies are basically the same things shooter fans have seen many times 
 over. It doesn't help that the story and characters are forgettable and the dialogue is awkwardly 
 juvenile, with weak humor that mostly falls flat. This is very surprising, given the sharp writing 
 Monolith is known for. Once you look past the unique visual style of the game, you quickly see 
 that many of the levels are bland and linear. You run across a bridge to get to point X to push 
 a button. You hunt for some keys, push some more buttons, meet a forgettable female ally, only 
 minimally interact with the world, and only, occasionally, talk with characters at certain selected 
 junctures. ("Talking" here means listening to some preset dialogue.)     

  Still, the levels are nicely crafted for what they are and provide a fair amount of action, though 
 the combat is usually bland -- a major problem for a shooter. Some memorable moments do enliven things. 
 For instance, when a system-wide reformat, in the form of a moving wall of red energy, threatens 
 to erase you, things perk up. Think of the  Star Wars  trash compactor scene but on a much grander 
 scale. There's also an exciting shootout on a huge transport ship filled with innocent passengers. 
 The whole ending sequence is wonderfully paced and filled with wild and unexpected visuals.  

 
          Shooter crates, Tron style.     

  Just when things get interesting, though, the game typically gives you another forgettable level, 
 or it sabotages itself with unimaginatively implemented shooter clichs. You're forced to 
 protect a helpless ally from hordes of onrushing enemies. You must fight through nonsensical, prosaic 
 boss battles. You have to work through tedious and arbitrary jumping puzzles that require a bunch 
 of retries. These sorts of things can work if they're given a fresh twist, but that's just not 
 the case here.  

  While the gameplay is mostly generic shooter fare at heart, everything has been given a fresh name. 
 In Tron 2.0, ordinary shooter objects, enemies, and concepts get names inspired by the world of 
 computer programming. A key is now a "permission," an exit is a "data stream," and a power-up is 
 a "subroutine."  

  The game features light RPG elements, so instead of leveling up, you "upgrade" your character by 
 completing missions and picking up "build notes" that are scattered about the gameworld. Instead 
 of reaching character level two, for instance, you upgrade to version 2.0.0 and get to distribute 
 extra stat points to a handful of abilities like "transfer_rate" (how fast you can pick up keys, 
 power-ups, and the like) . As the game progresses, you find, keep, and then upgrade a variety of 
 subroutine power-ups. When installed, these grant you special abilities, like added damage, quieter 
 movement, or higher jumping. You only get a limited number of free "memory blocks," so you need 
 to decide which subroutines to install at any given time.  

  This whole management aspect of the game adds a welcome bit of strategizing, but it's also where 
 all the computerese moves from being a clever movie tie-in to being potentially frustrating. Figuring 
 out what all these power-ups are and how to manipulate them can be confusing at first because of 
 the cognitive dissonance caused by all the usual shooter terms being switched into Tron-speak. 
 On the bright side, the actual interface for using them is clear once you get the hang of it.  
 

  Along with Tron 2.0's story-based campaign, you get a separate light cycle game mode. (You also 
 ride the cycles a number of times in the campaign.) Here you compete in a series of battles against 
 AI opponents in different arenas. For anyone who's seen the film, the cycle racing works just the 
 way you'd expect, with some additions like power-ups, an advanced super cycle, zones that affect 
 your speed as you travel over them, and so forth. If you're unfamiliar with the film, think of 
 the omnipresent Snake game found on cell phones for an analogy. The cycles make 90-degree turns. 
 They can speed up or slow down but can never stop, and each of them leaves a long, receding trail. 
 If you hit a wall, your own trail, or someone else's trail, you lose. So, at high speeds, you try 
 to block in your opponents while avoiding the same fate. The light cycle racing is moderately amusing, 
 with enough variations to keep it interesting for a while. Unfortunately, it lacks the cinematic 
 drama and adrenaline-pumping thrills of the cycle sequence in the film.  

  You can also race the light cycles against friends, but you'll need a LAN to do it. Internet multiplayer 
 is limited to a disc combat mode, akin to what you see in the film and the old Discs of Tron arcade 
 game. Unfortunately, we were unable to connect to servers to test it. The manual mentions a patch 
 that might address this issue, but it hasn't been released yet. We assume the patch will fix this 
 problem in short order.  

          The visuals do a great job of capturing the look of the film.     

  More than anything, 
 the Tron film was famed for its then-cutting-edge, computer-generated visuals and trademark neon 
 glow. That's one thing Tron 2.0 nails beautifully. It's all here: the stark, blocky geometric structures 
 outlined in brilliant blues and reds and yellows, the paper-thin trails of the light cycles, and 
 the pulsating diamond-like bytes and bits that occasionally talk to you. As far as copying the 
 film's look and feel, Monolith's artists got it all right. They did have some help from legendary 
 visual conceptualist Syd Mead, who worked on the film and helped design the super cycle for the 
 game. Still, with a few very impressive exceptions, all the blocky, glowing rooms blur together 
 once the neon novelty wears off.  

  Tron 2.0's audio also fares pretty well overall. Despite having a few well-known actors on board, 
 like Bruce Boxleitner from the film, most of the voice-overs sound generic. In fact, Jet sounds 
 way too much like a gee-whiz Saturday morning cartoon character to take seriously. On the other 
 hand, springy footsteps, derezzing enemies, light cycle engine whines, and weapon effects are all 
 well-done and will be familiar to fans of the film. The music effectively reworks some of the themes 
 from Wendy Carlos' original movie score in a nice homage.  

  Like the original film, Tron 2.0 has an unusual visual style, though this time it's merely a copy -- albeit 
 a very good one -- of what was once so fresh and original. The gameplay concepts tie into the film 
 nicely, too, so hardcore fans of the movie should enjoy it as a nostalgic trip. On the other hand, 
 Tron 2.0 suffers from too many generic and uninspired sections and dull combat. The multiplayer 
 issues are also cause for real concern, though we assume they'll be fixed soon enough. Despite 
 such faults, Tron 2.0 nevertheless does have some real strengths that help make it a solid, if 
 ultimately unexceptional, shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: solartiger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I feel kinda biased, as I really liked the movie when it came out a century ago (oh wait...1982!) ... so 
 I knew what to expect (unlike previous reviewers that seemed surprised that it was a "Sim Frisbee") . 
 Monolith (R. I. P.) was always a great developer and the graphics are not like anything you've ever 
 seen before (keeping faithful to the original Tron but updated to newer sensibilities) .
  The storyline doesn't seem that hard to follow, even though a lot of computer jargon is used, it 
 fits this game. When this title came out, you really needed a GeForce Ti 400+ to get the great 
 glowing scenes/effects but now... you know your card can handle it... The only reason my review is 
 not higher is because of those dang jumping puzzles!!! Like past reviews, the jump/save/jump/save 
 play (during certain areas) can be very annoying... but the overall look/ soundtrack/tension/excitement 
 envoked makes this game special. Very original in design but get ready for those inumerable saves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidflash2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Tron 2.0 is a good game with lots of action. It can be hard in places unless you use god mode. 
 The equipment leveling system is very good though can be confusing at first . The good amount of 
 levels and bosses is good , the puzzles are alright. Overall the characters are good and realistic 
 the graphics clean and simple. The anemies are are rather dumb, but they are strong because of their 
 weapons. The territory os relitively easy to navigate. The places where you have to jump from place 
 to place can get annoying because you fall and have to start over. the main characters: Jet, ateenage 
 punk who is computer genius who gets a dose of reality (well sort of) : Flin, no longer a somple game 
 designer. He now owns a computer company on the virge of a takeover by anothe company: and Ma3a the 
 computer that holds the key to entering the digital world: last but not least Mercury, a kick butt 
 cyber babe who has some good skills and an attitude. This is a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philaso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  My brother and I still continue to quote lines from the original film (we also await the time in 
 the future when Nvidia releases the 10,000 GT card and someone has the bells to revamp Robocop) . 
 If you didn't play your first games on a Commodore or a Kaypro, you might not get this game. They 
 did update the terminology quite extensively, and even got two of the main actors to lend their 
 voice talents. Apparently Jeff Bridges was too big for this which is disappointing. Even a slight 
 cameo would have made this game a "perfect". The score is tremendous because it was composed by 
 the original composer Walter (now "Wendy") Carlos. Many may remember him from the Excorsist theme, 
 Tubular Bells. The weaving and tying together of the film with the game were quite impressive. 
 The graphics aren't amazing, but they do capture the warped mood of the movie, only it's an "updated" 
 warped mood, which is refreshing. I wasn't expecting the original movie, but I was hoping they 
 would evolve the game correctly, which they did. It was like playing a well made sequel, and I 
 think that was the intent of the publishers, so, mission accomplished. Two thumbs up here. I would 
 have liked to have played as a recognizer though... sigh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those rare games that takes a movie franchise and turns it into a good gaming experience. 
 I saw the original Tron movie back in the 1980s and really liked it. This game captures the spirit 
 and look of the film. However, because it sticks pretty closely to the conventions of the first-person 
 shooter (FTS) genre (i. e., run-and-gun fighting, silly jumping tricks, unending searches for health 
 packs, etc.) , the gameplay itself does not distinguish it from the crowd of FPS games out there. 
 Only the movie tie-in makes it worth playing in my opinion. Thus, gamers who never saw (or liked) 
 the movie may not appreciate how faithful this game is to the film, or care.
  
  Gameplay: As stated above, the typical FPS game. Controls (AWSD, mouse, etc.) are fairly standard 
 and easy to learn. Both the discs and light cycles are fun for a while, and the game has a leveling 
 system like in role-playing games that allows your character (Jet) to get better over time. The 
 game includes a bit too many key hunts and jumping mini-games for my taste, but overall delivers 
 a good 20-hours of solid gameplay. Graphics: The game looks better than the movie, which should 
 be no surprise 20 years after the movie was released. You do get the sense that you are inside 
 of a massive computer that is self-aware and in crisis. The use of lighting and colors is about 
 the most creative you'll see in any game. Character models and animations are pretty good, as are 
 special effects.
  
  Sounds: Appropriate for a game bssed on a computer theme. Beeps, synthesizers, and so forth. The 
 music is mostly from or inspired by the movie. Voice acting is pretty decent but not very memorable.
 
  
  Technical issues: The game ran very smoothly for me. I had two crashes to desktop, but no big deal 
 since you can save the game at any point and in multiple slots. The manual is good and the first 
 part of the game is a tutorial.
  
  Replayability/Value: Not much replayability for the single-player mode. There is the campaign and 
 light-cycle skirmishes, but nothing else. In multiplayer, you can go online and have duels with 
 discs, but I don't know if there is much of an online community for this game nowadays. Bottom 
 line, if you liked the movie, you'll like this game. You really can't go wrong at the current price 
 ($10) . However, if you never saw the movie or didn't like it, this is simply a pretty decent FPS 
 game, nothing more. Pros:
  
  +faithful translation of the movie
  +excellent visuals
  +light cycles are fun
  +good manual
  
  Cons:
  
  -a typical FPS game
  -limited replayability 
 for solo gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This will be a pretty short review. The main review really sums up a lot of how I also felt.
  
  Visually, the game is fantastic - from the glow effect to some extremely large and varied levels, 
 the visual presentation is a total treat. Weapons design is good, but nothing really groundbreaking 
 is presented.
  
  Sound-wise, the game is fantastic. With the exception of some redundant sounds being played over 
 and over, sound was spot on and enjoyable.
  
  Play-wise, I was pleased with the controls and responsiveness of the game. My biggest frustration 
 came from the LONG delays when the disc weapon (main weapon) would travel to the end of the level 
 (often very large) and then bounce back - leaving 5-10 second gaps without a weapon....
  
  The light cycle game elements were bit harder. It seemed that the presentation was ok, but the 
 controls seemed stiff and unnatural, with the computer enemies easily wiping the floor with me. 
 I'm not a bad player, but it quickly became obvious that maneuvers they were making were of the 
 type I never could duplicate....
  
  At heart it is a FPS with very little else added. It's a shame, because the universe created could 
 be so much more with a little more imagination. I will probably always be biased towards games 
 like System Shock because they add elements like the effects of decisions and a deep hacking/research 
 tree structure and allow for much more varied play.
  
  I kept wanting Jet to turn the tables from the inside of the system on the bad guys, penalizing 
 them in the real world by fighting back from the inside. It never happened - no penalties to them. 
 I realize this is a Disney title, but it would have been a lot more fun if there was more cyberpunk 
 in the game (especially since Jet was billed as a hacker .
  
  In the end, I got bored. The difficulty level seemed to go up and down based on the micro-task 
 that I was on - and so many things did not resolve like I thought they would (or should) . This 
 could have been so much more fun if Jet could have been given tools to hack/attack on the inside, 
 maybe even reprogram programs to do his bidding (he WAS a user) . it would have been better if the 
 battle was for supremacy, not just stopping the bad guys and escaping..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Tron 2.0 is a game where you are sucked into a computer world infected with a virus which you must 
 fight. The graphics and sound are good but where this game falls short is its gameplay. You get 
 a number of gun-like weapons and a disc to throw. The disc is almost your only weapon because the 
 guns take so much energy to fire you can kill about 3 enemies and you are out of energy. The other 
 problem is that the game makes sense but in order to really understand you need moderate computer 
 programming skills Even the storyline is lame. Why won't they take you out the same way they put 
 you in? Why don't they use an anti-virus? How is everything person shaped? Not a very good game, 
 I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics and effects, great sound effects, weapons look really cool, subroutine 
 and level up system is intuitive, feels just like the movie
  
  The Bad: Spotted cheesy dialogue, weapons consume too much energy, not enough enemies or bosses, 
 Light Cycle races are far too few and shallow, no one's playing online, frequent bug crashes are 
 annoying
  
  The first thing you'll notice in Tron is the amazing graphics and detail to them. It really feels 
 like you're in the movie and inside a computer. Everything is bright and highly detailed and look 
 exactly like the movie. The only people who'll really feel and appreciate the detail in the game 
 are people who know a lot about computers. There are many terms and words that refer to more advanced 
 computer users, me being one of them, so I understood everything. When you first start the game 
 you feel really giddy and it's just so cool playing this game! Monolith did a great job with the 
 number of weapons and their design. The weapons look really slick and the subroutine system that 
 is here is effective and nicely done. You can find archive bins throughout the game that store 
 permissions (which grant you access to move further in the game) , subroutines, and emails that 
 you can read that give you updates on what's going on outside the computer. The subroutine system 
 is cut into 3 categories: Defense, Weapons, Utilities. You place them in a ring and every time 
 you enter a new level you have different memory requirements which means you can equip more or 
 less. You can also upgrade your subroutines through optimizers you can find which upgrade it from 
 Alpha to Beta to Gold. Upgrading each step makes subroutines more powerful and take up less room. 
 You can also upgrade yourself through a basic RPG type style. Then you have energy which weapons 
 consume and so does downloading things. Now all this in theory sounds great but this game just 
 wasn't thought through all the way. Even though weapons consume energy they take too much so you're 
 just left with your weaker disc all the time. The makes battling many enemies and bosses annoying 
 since you're constantly dodging and restarting the level. Speaking of restarting there are NOOO 
 checkpoints anywhere and you have to CONSTANTLY quick save every step you take. The story is also 
 somewhat confusing and the dialogue can be a bit cheesy at times. There aren't enough enemy types 
 in the game, and the boss fights are all same. Micromanaging your subroutines is also annoying 
 when they get infected while fighting off the Corruption. You have to manually disinfect them and 
 it takes forever if you are badly infected. Now the errors and flaws are tollerable but they do 
 get old near the end of the game. Speaking of that there are some bugs in this game that cause 
 it to crash a lot near th end and as a result I couldn't finish the game (due to me quick saving 
 right when it crashed so every time it loaded it reloaded the crash.) I also have to mention the 
 Light Cycle races and they are few and shallow. There are 3 races in the whole game and even though 
 you have power ups and all that its hard to get them and the races end too quickly. Half the time 
 I wound up just moving around the grid until everyone killed themselves off so I could move on. 
 This whole game feels really neat in the beginning but near the end you just wish it would hurry 
 up and end. I didn't get a chance with online play since no one was on but I'm pretty sure it would 
 have been neat. If you want a snazzy looking FPS experience then go for Tron 2.0 you will walk 
 away pretty happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game thinking it was probably going to be a dorky computer game. I was wrong. 
 The music was great, the light cycle mini-games were different and fun and the whole look of the 
 game is like no other I have ever played. The story was interesting and kept me wanting to continue 
 to progress in the game. It was fairly easy on normal skill level and I used my disc primarly throughout 
 the game, but the whole concept of a killer disc made it more fun than your usual gaming firepower 
 to kill your enemies. I wish there would be some type of sequel, but it doesn't appear that it 
 sold well enough to warrant it. Too bad, it was a unique experience that any first person shooter 
 player would probably enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent6998
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  For six years now, Tron 2.0 has really good graphics. Glow effects and a terrific story line cannot 
 get any better. Music and environments make you feel and imagine infinitely. Voice acting doesn't 
 sound dull and voice effects rock the house. Long levels and fast action make the game long in 
 a very, very, very good way. Multiplayer is a hit, even though there are few gamers online. Unfortunately, 
 due to Buena Vista Games, the website lacks what it used to be and makes the game seem very dull 
 and boring. But that is just a mask. Under that mask is a superb game that EVERYONE should pick 
 up and play, and play, and play, and play for the longest of times. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Say what you will about the groundbreaking CG effects used to approximate a virtual world in Tron, 
 but that movie bored the heck out of me. Due to what I suppose were enormous budgetary and technical 
 constraints, most of the frenetic action that I associated as a pre-teen kid with the idea of living 
 inside of a video game was severely reduced by the limitations of performing in front of a bluescreen. 
 After watching the DVD release a few summers ago, I found the movies digital imagery murky and 
 markedly dated, and I was stunned to recall just how much time is spent with the actors standing 
 stock-still and spouting wads of computational jibber-jabber. The story and jargon were never really 
 the issue, since I could follow both without any problems at age 11 and, especially, after a few 
 (as my friends and I dubbed our field of study in college) puterSci courses. I just wanted more 
 from the movie: more Light Cycle sequences, disc battles, and, above all, a closer adherence in 
 the films overall events to my own fevered daydreams about running amok in a mainframe system.
 
  
  Tron 2.0 left me with that same feeling: despite the fact that I really enjoyed the game far, far, 
 far more than its celluloid predecessor, I didnt quite get my fill of all that it offered. T2.0s 
 sound and visuals are absolutely peerless among shooters, particularly the latter; as much as I 
 relish wallowing in the mud of Hill 30 or barging down the metallic corridors of a UAC base, the 
 neon bloom and see-through surfaces of T2.0 provided a rare and extremely welcome change of scenery. 
 Ive played through T2.0 three times since I bought it almost as many years ago, and the past two 
 visits to each level in the game leave me just as enthralled as they did the first time. Blips 
 and bars of data continuously stream across the gameworlds vast sky, character animation is 
 as detailed as one might expect from the wonderful Lithtech engine, and positively everything glows 
 like electrified sherbet. If I had to list my favorite sections of T2.0, the stunning City Hub 
 would take the top position, with the vertigo-inducing Firewall level next, Jets blue-hued commute 
 aboard a repurposed Recognizer after that, and every other digital venue tied for the fourth spot. 
 My praise for the dramatic evolution of the movies gleaming seams and solid RGB palette could 
 never be effusive enough.
  
  The concept of building the character of Jet  as well as his weapons, armor, and tools  was very 
 well-realized in T2.0. Like any good role-playing setup, maximizing Jets stats in one category 
 will sacrifice any added proficiencies to his other skills, so the player must weigh the benefits 
 of more hit points against faster downloads for the games ubiquitous floating fireflies of data. 
 I was obsessed with finding as many subroutines as possible and upgrading them all to their Gold 
 version, particularly for Jets relatively underused arsenal. Therein lies my first gripe with 
 the game: not enough combat. Although the Lithtech engine has never hosted the kind of pitched 
 battles seen in Painkiller (with the exception of KISS: Psycho Circus) , Jets trek across Thornes 
 Outer Partition was one of the few sequences that contained a lot of down-and-dirty clashes. I 
 could dispatch the isolated pairs and trios of ICPs and Z-Lots easily in nearly every other level 
 with little more than my Disc Primitive. Dont get me wrong: slinging the ol Frisbee was a whole 
 lot of fun, but its Sequencer and Cluster upgrades were never really put to the test with so few 
 targets around. The same sense of unrealized potential applies the other Primitive groups, particularly 
 the Mesh. In fact, I was very careful not to waste any Code Optimization Ware upgrades on subroutines 
 for which I might later uncover a better version (I even used Der Schnitters handy per-level map 
 of Alpha/Beta/Gold downloads on my most recent playthrough) , but I never managed to perfect the 
 Prankster Bit supergun. Of course, I never really needed that weapon, anyway, since it appeared 
 far too late in the game and boiled down to a bit of overkill when used against the sparse opposition.
 
  
  Tron 2.0 is one of those unfortunate titles  like its cousin NOLF, XIII, Tribes: Vengeance, and 
 the woefully truncated SiN renaissance -- of which the publisher didnt sell enough copies to warrant 
 the development of additional episodes -- with the exception of the Archer-free blip that was Contract 
 JACK -- despite (or likely because of) their unique appeal. I would gladly return to the inner 
 space of the Bradley familys digital domain for more grid battles and stimulating sights as long 
 as Monolith managed to mix in more action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  When I was younger much younger I had an Intellivison console and one of my favorite games was 
 Tron. You had a little character running around a square box with a Frisbee killing three other 
 opponents, it was fun. I spent countless of hours playing something so simple. This Tron I didnt 
 get the same satisfaction. Sure it was better visually than the Intellivsion Counterpart maybe 
 even better than the Disney Movie where it originated. But the gameplay wasnt fun at all. It tried 
 to be better than the movie but the movie wasnt that great to begin with just innovative storyline. 
 As an adventure game its sub par, as a first person shooter it falls a few years behind. The music 
 score is decent. There are a few bugs but fixed with patches. Visually you have to enjoy the neon 
 effects. Overall its and OK game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Highs: You are in Tron, and you are the godlike user trapped in the machine, you get to use the 
 disk weapon, a dimension of role-playing that allows you to choose a direction to evolve your character 
 and play the game differently.
  
  Lows: Parts of the game were overly hard on easy and felt like they would have been more natural 
 in hard mode, enemies spawning in inconvenient places (namely behind you and out of nowhere) a 
 little short if you really love it.
  
  First Person Shooter Fans: This game is so much more than could have been expected. Its a great 
 game thats based on a movie and that makes it one of a kind. Its easily worth the 50.
  
  Role-Playing Game Fans: Make no mistakes; this is an action shooter and a tough one. Its above 
 bargain bin quality if youre thinking of expanding into the genre, but dont wait till its 10 
 dollars, grab it at 20 or 30 and youll get your moneys worth out of it.
  
  Everyone else: This isnt going to be a major classic, but youll be missing out if you dont give 
 it a try sometime. Pick it up when you see it in a bargain bin for 10 dollars.
  
  Ill start by foregoing the natural references to the movie. A games real appeal comes from the 
 quality of the game itself, a lot of people have bought games based on movies and ended up kicking 
 themselves afterward. Tron 2.0 is an often intense first person shooter that trudges through a 
 relatively short story at a pace that is good enough that you wont feel that it passes too fast 
 or too slow that draws a lot of depth from a two part experience system.
  
  The character development gives Tron a superficial feeling of depth that isnt really there, though 
 it is quite convincing all the same. One of the two ways to develop your character, the stylish 
 and cool nerd turned glasses free superhero inside the machine named Jet, is through earning program 
 version build points by doing what you have to do just to continue and by collecting objects in 
 the game that add 2 build points apiece of which there are 100. Like going from an alpha program 
 to a beta, as you progress build points will be added to your final version number, the highest, 
 I think, being 10.0.0. The optional collectable build points being worth only 2 points apiece and 
 limited to 100 really makes no difference at the end of the game. Its almost impossible to miss 
 half of them as they are practically between you and the end of the mission and the difference 
 of between version 8 and version 9 of Jet is almost nothing at all.
  
  Part of that difference feeling so meaningless is that of the six attributes of Jet only three 
 of them are of any meaningful importance to the game, namely: health, energy, and weapon efficiency. 
 The other three attributes, such ass processing speed, only make parts of the game where you pretty 
 much just sit still and wait for your memory to debug, without any pressure to go on and some nice 
 locations to walk around and admire while you wait, a little shorter. By version 8 almost all three 
 were at their maximum level and with my version 9 upgrade I was able to waste a few superficial 
 improvements on the other three attributes.
  
  The fun part of character development comes from fiddling with your features. Subroutines that 
 make you more efficient, provide armor and other weapons, and add new features for the disk. They 
 all have their alpha, beta, and gold version statistics and as you move through the world amid 
 the many hundreds of optional jumping puzzles you will find upgrades to stronger versions that 
 take up less room in your memory stored in data bins or the occasional optimizer that will upgrade 
 any one of your already possessed subroutines to the next level.
  
  Now you have to ask yourself this important question. How did they keep this from being a strategic 
 development that made the game wide open for multiple replays with different grades of weapons 
 and power ups? Easy, the game itself is inherently designed to favor some upgrades over others. 
 Want all the best upgrades and all the story emails? You have to have your jump upgraded. Best 
 weapons in the game? You could easily play the whole game with the disk and LOL with the other 
 upgrades for the disk, especially the power block. The unbalance is just so strong that a clear 
 correct way to play through the game is there if you think about your options well enough at every 
 optimizer.
  
  More importantly, neither of these character development devices makes the difficult parts of the 
 game any easier as often they are difficult do to the shear randomness of the environment in some 
 cases. Ultimately though, it really feels deep. For instance, the option is there to do something 
 stupid if you just want to. You wont be able to do it very easily because there are plenty of 
 downloadable gold versions of the programs that need to be gold and you dont start with a million 
 subroutines to have to pick and choose from so by the time you get the opportunity to wreck your 
 game you are very well acclimated to the environment.
  
  Even more diversity is sprinkled throughout the game with frequent light-cycle races that are fairly 
 fast. If youre unfamiliar with the concept a light-cycle is a motorcycle that draws a wall behind 
 it limiting already cramped arenas with the object of forcing other players into either a player 
 wall or an arena wall. Truth be told, it doesnt matter how they crash so long as they do. Often 
 these segments feel forced and do a very poor job of advancing the story.
  
  The story is wisely separated into two segments, the meat and potatoes and the garnish and character 
 development, by the way it gets told. A good action game only needs the thin film of major plot 
 points to be fun. A good story needs the nuances of well-developed characters and Tron does an 
 excellent job of catering to both by sprinkling emails both new and very, very old, such as inside 
 an ancient mainframe, to fill in the gaps and give the different characters backgrounds and motivations. 
 This device also serves to motivate the players who are as much interested in the story as the 
 gameplay incentive to go through the many optional jumping puzzles to get them.
  
  The graphics dont deserve much note here. They perfectly match the style provided by the movie, 
 theyre done well. They probably wont wow you and they were never meant to, they had a specific 
 goal. The environments may not wow you though; everything has a stylish edge glow to it. A dreamland 
 has been hidden inside the machine and sometimes you have to just think what a great place it is 
 to be. The music and sound effects dont draw any attention in the game. They are both good enough 
 to work well but too subtle to be enjoyed on a level all their own.
  
  Tron 2.0 just wont appeal to everyone. It squarely fits in the genre of first person shooter, 
 but it does shine enough that if that genre appeals to you at all this game deserves your attention. 
 I guarantee that at the very least it will be a moderately acclaimed cult hit and will pick up 
 any awards Half-Life 2 doesnt. Go ahead and splurge, if youre reading this review at all youll 
 probably enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  I loved this game for the first couple of hours or so. The graphics are top-notch even a couple 
 of years removed from it's release. I've always enjoyed lithtech games for their clean textures 
 and smooth animation. The story is mildly entertaining but, the real hook is the way Monolith got 
 the Tron lighting effect just right. In the movie the characters had a cool glowing effect that 
 almost distracted the viewer from the fact that they were pretending to be in a computer while 
 wearing hockey helmets and BMX gear. Tron 2.0 recreated this effect and in some ways improved on 
 it. Where Tron 2.0 comes up short is the platform jumping. Side scrolling jumpers are fine because 
 you can gauge how far you need to go and how fast you need to be going better from a side perspective 
 and you know where the character's feet are at so you can land the jumps. In tron 2.0 you can't 
 see anything except for the platform your trying to get to and the platform your on. You can't 
 tell if you're at the edge of a platform or not which can cost you critical inches of jumping room. 
 The worst part is that later in the game every jump you miss can kill you. Your character doesn't 
 seem to be able to survive so much as a three foot fall, nevermind an endless plummet. If you take 
 a look at the cover of Tron 2.0 you'll notice that the your character appears as a well-built athletic 
 guy... then why on earth does he have the vertical leap of King Kong Bundy? I know that the game 
 let's you level up his jumping skills, but the starting point is ridiculously short. The jumping 
 in this game is so bad and such a critical part of the gameplay that it kills the game. Too bad, 
 it looks great and has a lot of good ideas packed into it. Maybe they Tron 3.0 will give you a 
 glowing pogo-stick to clear the jumps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I loved Tron the film and the game in the arcades. So my review is bias with that in mind.. I personally 
 loved the game.. I bought on release and I am still playing it even 3 yrs later. Yes, it is a bit 
 conventional if compared to other shooters, but this game is very much the first game of its kind 
 to use the old classic retro graphics with effectiveness.. Games like Darwinia and Its newest War 
 Games type game is a testimony to what Monolith did. It showed us that old school 80s type graphics 
 can still be loads of fun to use, and gives games an atmosphere. Darwinia used this, to form a 
 unique RTS game. Tron 2.0 is unique in the sense that I know of no other shooter that places the 
 lead character in a computer. To me its a breath of fresh air to not be running through some space 
 station blowing aliens to bits.. or in the past on the banks of Omaha Beach. Tron, can be played 
 just using the disk, with the exception of the one required sniper level.. I don't believe you 
 have the zoom capability to the disk before that level... Multiplayer is pretty much dead, as sad 
 as it is.. since I still enjoy a few minutes of light cycle racing.. and is you play light cycles 
 you have unlockable bikes so you can improve your turn ability and speed. As well as unlocking 
 maps and powerups. The sound is pretty what you expect from a retro style 80s computer, but with 
 a bit more bang to it.. The Music though is excellent.. I love the Tron theme... I still listen 
 to it in mp3 format (available from the main website) . I give Tron 2.0 a 9.1 since I still play 
 it even now.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icej
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  keep me busy for 5 hours while fear combat downloaded. I feel ive gotten half way through dont 
 know. but i say i got my $6.30 worth in the time ive played. I enjoyed reading the mail and the 
 feel of the game but i the action is bland and generic. I dont liek the combat system mostly the 
 energy cost of the weapons. I wish the weps didnt use so much energy or had more dmg. I wouldnt 
 let anyone I know I actually bought a game named Tron 2.0 from the dollar general that wouldn't 
 help me. (In fact i was about to pick it up when i saw a girl i knew from school as soon. I put 
 the game up and talked to her. When she was gone i went back and got the game) . I havent finished 
 the game but the story is kinda mild. guess that what happens when Disney is a owns, part of the 
 game (note: look at the cd copyright) if they wont involved then maybe the srry have some cursing 
 above hell and a few dams, and probably have a more interesting story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  The world of Tron bears a unique style that isnt built for everyones tastes. The sharp geometry 
 and flat surfaces may seem outdated compared to the photo-realistic universes most games are built 
 around these days. In a way, its refreshing to break from the trend, and thats what Tron 2.0 
 does best, by conjuring up a time when the inside of a computer was more than circuits and chips, 
 where programs were personified and users were mythical. In making this sequel, Monolith benefited 
 greatly from several talents responsible for the look, feel and sound of the original.
  
  * Gameplay: Choosing to set the story in current times allowed for several modern developments 
 in computing to weave through the plot. The title alone has a double meaning, since the development 
 for the game no doubt began twenty years after the movie came out. Viruss, spam, the PDA, the 
 Internetall nice additions that put a fresh spin on an old story. Your character is zapped into 
 the computer world in the opening scene, and thats where the whole game takes place. Much of the 
 design from Monoliths No One Lives Forever shooter is evident, such as the story notes you read 
 along the way, the overheard conversations, the way bystanders run and cower in fear when a weapon 
 is fired, to the item selection phase that begins many missions. Unlike the previous game, you 
 can switch the items you start with at any time, a feature lacking in NOLF. Although the utility 
 and defense options work well, the weapons are where the game falls flat. Its almost as if the 
 designers were saying, No really, all they will need is the disc! The others you pick up along 
 the way are poor versions of standard weapons found in countless shooters. A combination of factors 
 weaken their effectiveness, one being that the enemies you encounter all have eagle eyesight, spotting 
 you and firing from far away. Couple this with the high amount of energy required to discharge 
 a weapon, and you end up just using the disc anyway. Seriously, you can play the whole game with 
 just the disc and a whole lotta circle-strafing and do better than using any other weapon. This 
 is a real shame since all of the weapons are fantastic to look at and use. The main problem with 
 the disc is that it often gets stucksomewhereout there, and not returning when you need it 
 most. I was highly impressed by the level design, with a nice mix of action, puzzle-solving, exploration 
 and racing. Ah, the racing. I knew those light cycles were going to be a problem the minute I heard 
 they were going to be a feature. I just pictured how the designers were going to make it possible 
 for players to make ninety degree split-hair turns at 186,282.397 miles a second. A faster, free-roaming 
 camera would have helped. However, the light cycle missions become so frustrating that you just 
 want to finish them, rather than a sport you can master with skill. For one thing, the computer 
 opponents make turns impossible for a human player to make. That may fit in with how things work 
 in the Tron universe, but it makes for lousy gameplay. There are a few too many jumping puzzles, 
 the annoying kind where you have to hop on tiny block after tiny block, and one misstep means end 
 of line. I enjoyed the many touches that deepened the whole experience of being inside a computer, 
 such as accessing memory blocks to gain permissions, upgrades and stored e-mails. The level that 
 puts you in a PDA was hilarious, and the dance club (the Progress Bar, har har) had a lot of style.
 
  
  * Graphics: From the moment I stepped inside the world of Tron, I was dazzled. Everything about 
 the game looks right. All that neon-fringed geometry and rotoscoped character design brought a 
 smile to my face. This is reason alone to play the game, if you are a fan of the film. Forget stealth 
 and weapon accuracy, just take a walk and absorb the beautiful skies flowing with data streams, 
 at glossy platforms and light bridges. Corrupted sections are cracked and uprooted like an earthquake 
 hit the area, and bottomless canyons begged me to peer over every edge. The characters you meet 
 all look alike, which was kind of disappointing. Funny enough, even though there was no limitation 
 to filming real actors in black and white, the designers chose to be true to the film and leave 
 their faces grayscale anyway, a nice touch. As you might expect, the special effects match the 
 glitz seen everywhere else. Enemies derez into little blocks and a flash of light. Your disc leaves 
 a light trail as it sails around the area. Weapons have some imaginative animations as they assemble 
 on the spot. Dying is as undramatic as dragging a file to the delete bin. The light cycle arenas 
 have a style all their own, but after a dozen restarts, I was screaming to just finish them. The 
 new cycle contributed by Syd Mead has a great design, true to his original creations, with a shape 
 reminiscent of chopper designs Ive seen.
  
  * Audio: This is one area that may puzzle people who just dont get Tron. Upon first being introduced 
 to the synthetic compositions of Wendy Carlos, a newcomer might think something was either wrong 
 with their speakers, or they just stepped into the Wayback machine and arrived in 1982. Its more 
 than irony at work here, with a story about a digital universe featuring an electronic score. The 
 music is epic without taking center stage, allowing the visuals to draw forth. This is what truly 
 completes the sensory fulfillment and puts you in the game. No other game Ive played has such 
 a perfect marriage between the music and the environment. Having the voice work of Tron alumni 
 Bruce Boxleitner and Cindy Morgan really tightened up the experience. The effects for every action 
 in the game consist of electronic beeps, pops, whirs and blips, along with the ambient humming 
 and pulsing you might imagine inside a fantasy computer world. 
  
  * Value: The single player game is a tad short, even taking exploration and gawking at the scenery 
 into account. The online multiplayer as of this writing is barely alive, although the modding community 
 evidently still sees contributions. If you are only a fan of first-person shooters, Id have to 
 suggest passing on this title. But if you were a kid in 1982, wore a space invaders t-shirt and 
 had shoes with Velcro straps, welcome home. 
  
  * Tilt: Cmon, its TRON! Afraid to play a game your dad knows more about than you do? You dont 
 like neon lighting and straight edges? Realism is a fad, Im telling you. Give me the simple life 
 of polygons, perpendicularity and plane geometry any day. Oh, God Im old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paranoyia
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Truly one of the greatest first person shooters mixed with a roleplaying game ever created. The 
 one worthy of an equality with such hits as Deus Ex and System Shock 2, and even surpasses them 
 at some points. Truly it can't get any better. Outstandingly done graphically, with spectacular 
 special-effects and a cool in-game style of graphix matching the original movie. Gameplay is all 
 a first person shooter needs. Sounds are professionally done as well. Voice acting is beyond criticism 
 with voices of Jason Cottle as Jet and Rebecca Romijn-Stamos as Mercury. The story-line continues 
 the background of the famous hollywood movie Tron introducing new characters and plot twists. Very 
 interesting and fresh indeed. Roleplaying is there too as in Deus Ex and System Shock 2. You can 
 upgrade weapons, gadgets, overall character abilities. NPC interaction is at place as well as in 
 any self-respecting RPG game.
  
  If you are a cyberpunk fan as I am, don't miss the opportunity. Get it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupidjason
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Since its creation as a movie Tron has been made into quite a few games all of them suck up until 
 this point. Tron 2.0 has done everything I could have ever dreamed as far as being put into the 
 computer world. The game play is a sold FPS and is well worth any buy. It is also a nice add that 
 the game picks up right where the movie left off, so if you are a huge Tron fan like me all the 
 pieces are there. The well played music is actually remixes and recopies of the actual scores, 
 and I don't know about you but I listen to Tron music in my car. Again Tron 2.0 may not be the 
 best game out there but it's nostalgia value lifts it up high.
  
  I AM A TRON NERD AND PROUD OF IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I was a kid and went to see Tron in the theatres, I thought, "wow computers are 
 so cool." Of course I never could have imagined sitting here in my living room typing up a review 
 of a video game on my laptop connected to my home wireless network. As Tron's story proves, computers 
 are amazing. Tron 2.0 picks up where the original Tron left off. The visually unique and often 
 innovative world of Tron is video game heaven for any PC gamer. The problem for the game ultimately 
 ends up being that its a very straightforward FPS with a lot of room for improvement. That doesnt 
 stop the game from being fun, however.
  
  
  
  The story picks up with 
 Alan Bradley finally realizing his dream of being to digitize humans and sending them to "cyberspace" 
 as it were. However, a rival company decides that this invention can be used for world domination 
 (muhahahahaha) so they take over Dr. Bradley's company and force Dr. Bradley into providing them 
 the secrets to his plans. When Dr. Bradley disappears its up to his son, Jet, to save the day. 
 Upon being digitized in a well timed accident, Jet quickly must learn to survive in the digital 
 world. He has some help though, with the sexy Mercury, ma3a, and other more friendly computer programs, 
 Jet does indeed learn to cope with the digital menaces that populate the Tron world. 
  
  Things are a little more complex this time around though. The Red Guards have been replaced by 
 ICP's (Intrusion Countermeasure Programs) who are not very intelligent, but come in waves. The 
 ICP's are led by "Kernel", yes I know corny (nice little pun!!) . Its all very militaristic. Finders 
 are floating gun turrets that like to sneak up on you and blast you with energy shots. They also 
 have other functions as well that are not particularly innovative. These make up the main enemies 
 you will fight throughout the game.
  
  Along with the ICP's another faction, created by the corruption of fcon's activities, are is ever 
 present and even more annoying than the ICP's. These are virus like programs called Z-lots and 
 Rector Scripts. They fire weapons that gradually infect your subroutines and erode your skills 
 as well as cause damage. Think poison for a computer. This group is led by Thorne, the security 
 director of Bradley's company, who is responsible for selling the company's digitization to fCon.
 
  
  Other enemies include Seeker programs, bots that you light cycle against, and data wraiths (digitized 
 special ops dudes) , and resource hogs. While there seems to be a lot of variety here, the problem 
 is none of these guys are particularly smart. they dont help each other. They basically run around 
 and shoot at you which makes killing them very easy.
  
  The story is well paced overall, but ultimately boring. Interaction with other characters is completely 
 scripted so everything is predictable. While the story offer some funny moments, most of the dialogue 
 is childish and forgettable centering the use of computer terminology. The story moves along well 
 and comes together well in the end, but there just isnt enough pizazz to make worth replaying. 
 There just isnt any mystery in this game. 
  
  
  
  You would think fighting 
 with the glowing discs of death from Tron would be fun, but its not. It alls very straightforward 
 and requires very little skill. Its not hard to hit your enemies and you rarely have to worry about 
 losing your disc for long. In fact its so simpe that once you get the repeater that allows you 
 to shoot multiple discs simultaneously you wont use any other weapon. That doesnt me there arent 
 any though. The game does include a number of different weapons, but they just arent necessary 
 and often consume more energy than its worth.
  
  That brings us to the subroutine system of upgrading your chracter. Basically Think of a computer 
 program. As you continue to work on the program you make it more efficient and add functionality 
 to it. Thats basically what you do with Jet. As you play the game you will come across Bins with 
 downloadable programs in them. These subroutines can be plugged in to provide Jet with better skills 
 like higher jumping, or stealthier movement, ability to detect and remove corruption, better armor 
 and weapons, etc. You start with alpha programs and advance to Gold programs. Gold programs provide 
 better stats and take less energy to use. It also reduces the spaces in your subroutine program 
 so that you can utilize more subroutines. By the end of the game Jet will be uber Jet. While all 
 of this sounds interesting, it amounts to nothing more than searching each level carefully for 
 all of the Bins and permissions to access them. There is little challenge to unlocking these subroutines 
 and no real rhyme or reason as to how you use them.
  
  Jet has five main attributes: health, energy, weapon efficiency, transfer rate, something akin 
 to processor power which determines how fast you can disinfect corrupter files, or defrag memory 
 blocks to free up spots for subroutines. You capture build points during the game and after collecting 
 so many you can then upgrade these main attributes. Again, nothing special to see here.
  
  When you think Tron you of course think LIGHT CYCLES! You wont stay interested long. This is one 
 area that should be completely redone. While it stays true to the original Tron, its just to simplistic 
 and not very fun. You cant see the other game bots off screen, which makes it hard to adjust to 
 sudden appearances. This gets frustrating after a while. You basically press left and right arror 
 to move, and forward and back to speed up and slow down. Powerups on the map provide some strategy, 
 but these powerups are basically meaningless. In short, this is nothing more than a throw in to 
 appease Tron fans.
  
  The one thing this game offers is action. You spend a lot of time throwing your discs to move through 
 levels. This makes the game fun. The variety of enemies makes each level a little different and 
 the sheer numbers will present challenges, even if the AI isnt very good. 
  
  GRAPHICS/AUDIO 
  
  Tron was a visually stunning 
 movie during its time offering cutting edge CG's at a time when this was a common concept. Tron 
 2.0 does a great job of recreating that feel. The grafx are very well done. You definitely feel 
 like you are immersed in a digital world. Structures are geometrically created with wonderful colors. 
 The light cycles are created exactly as they were in Tron. While nothing new is created here, its 
 true to the movie and done very well. This is one area the game shines.
  
  Audio wise the game is solid but not specactular. The music gets repetitive, but fits the overall 
 mood of the game. The sound effects are nice and help to immerse you in the game. The VO's are 
 done by some known actors such as Bruce Boxleitner (from the movie) and Rebecca Romijn Stamos. 
 Jet unfortunately suffers from a very kid like persona that could have been a little more adult 
 in nature.
  
  
  
  While not offering anything new or innovative in the FPS genre, the game is fun. The graphics and 
 sound immerse you in an amazing world of digital battles using flying discs, light cycles and subroutine 
 programs. The dialogue is a little corny and way to scripted, but the story is well put together 
 and paced well. The enemies are diverse and plentiful, however they suffer from to little RAM upstairs 
 and are easy to blow away. If you like the Tron universe this is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitsie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  this game rocks just imagine if this is happening in your PC! right now!
  
  first of all great characters and then the bike races are fun
  and you will love the weapons 
 those things rock the disk is usable in the beggining but you will need is sometime if you understand
 
  
  If i only never lost my cd i would still play it!!
  
  but go on and spend that 60$ your grandma gave you or anyone just get it
  
  and keep it in 
 a safe place it isn't great to loose this cd
  and blame the maid!
  
  I did it
  
  becareful it is hard when it comes to racing
  
  and it will be worth it so get it now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  In Tron 2.0 you play as Jet Bradley - son of Alan Bradley, the creator of Ma3a and Tron. You work 
 in your father's company as a game programmer. Alan is working under the digitalization process (using 
 this technology, PC user can be ported to inside of the operating system as an .exe program) . He 
 has some problems with fCon Corporation. They are trying to make him working with them and take 
 the lead in digitalization solutions. When you play pinball, Ma3a says that viruses has infected 
 the system. She ports you to inside of the computer. Then, the story begins... Graphic in real 
 world (in some cutscenes - very rare) is ugly, but when you travel through the OS, it PWNS. Sound 
 is really good. Gameplay is great. I think Tron 2.0 is first RPG/FPS I ever played. Value is excellent. 
 If you are looking for some old, but good-looking game, you'll find it in Tron 2.0. Worth the money... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Tron is the present-day video game sequel to the 1982 cult film classic that was a landmark of 
 computerized graphical ingenuity. TRON 2.0, is a story-driven, first-person action game that propels 
 the player into an alternate universe inside a computer. As Jet Bradley (son of the original films 
 hero Alan Bradley) you will combat digital opponents using guns, rods, grenades, missiles, and 
 the iconic TRON disc. Combining the best of the genre with a truly innovative look and breakthrough 
 game play, TRON 2.0 delivers an adventure unlike any other. It takes PC gaming to a new level with 
 intense action, intense and deadly battles, and high-speed light cycle races. This is just one 
 of the best games ever made in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  The one true certainty that Tron 2.0 has going for it is that it's a beautiful game. Graphically, 
 I've not seen a better looking game. Even in the day of Half Life 2 and Quake 4, Tron 2.0 is a 
 stunning game to look at. And this may be because it doesn't look like any other shooter. In gameplay, 
 it's a by-the-numbers shooter with some cool RPG quirks, but the sights and sounds of Tron 2.0 
 shouldn't be missed. The voice acting and even the plotline is a bit cheesy, but the little things 
 like hearing the bits say 'Yes' in their mechanical way (just like in the movie) really puts a 
 smile on your face. The characters are realistic looking, thanks to a great graphics engine from 
 Monolith and the bright blues and reds and yellows are a welcomed change from the typical browns 
 and dust colors of other shooters. Upgrades and infections in the game are a fun way to vary the 
 shooting and the weapons, although simplistic, are still a lot of fun to use. This game has a lot 
 of replay value and is worth the price that probably is straight from the bargin bin knowing that 
 it's a year or two old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 5, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Tron 2.0 is a beautiful game with a dazzling style and a somewhat interesting story. Other than 
 that, it is a total letdown. The gameplay is very poorly balanced and archaic, not to mention frustrating. 
 Stealth is so poorly implemented that it is a complete joke. It is very faithful to the Tron legacy 
 and thus, if you are a fan of the old movie, then you might want to pick it up. Otherwise, go play 
 one of the many great first-person shooters on the PC.
  
  Tron 2.0 basically takes a vanilla 1999 first person shooter and puts it into an incredible graphics 
 engine. I will say this for the game. The presentation is amazing. The graphics are stunning and 
 very unique, and chances are, you'll never get bored or tired of looking at them. The weapons look 
 fantastic. The audio is also very good. The game is also full of great nerd humor that you will 
 probably enjoy if you like Tron, and the anthropomorphic computer entities are very charming.
 
  
  But the gameplay falls flat. For starters, about the only useful weapon in this game is the disk. 
 The disk moves so fast that it's impossible to dodge or time a block, both for you and for your 
 AI opponents. Thus, it's basically like a long-range shotgun that you use over and over again. 
 This destroys the tactics for the game and just reduces it to: 1. Hide behind cover, 2. Jump out 
 from cover and launch disk quickly, 3. Jump back behind cover, 4. Repeat. This simple tactic will 
 get you through about 80% of the opponents in the game. The sniper rifle also has some use. Ultimately, 
 you will spend most of your time walking through the levels, hiding when you see somebody, and 
 then eliminating them in the manner that I just mentioned. 
  
  Tron 2.0 is a classic case of trying to shoehorn stealth into an engine not built for it. AI opponents 
 instantly see you and start attacking you from a mile away. The sound in the game isn't good enough 
 to hear where guards are and where they are patrolling, and the game gives you no cloaking device 
 or anything else that you can use to stay hidden when you are not behind a box. Thus, stealth is 
 a complete waste of time. You get spotted within a few seconds on every level, and that's that. 
 However, there are a few extremely aggravating forced stealth sequences, which aren't fun at all.
 
  
  Other than a handful of interesting challenges and sequences, level design in this game sucks. 
 The majority of them are simple button pushing and key hunting affairs full of dozens of jumping 
 puzzles. You ride an elevator, pick up a key, then ride the elevator again, find the locked door, 
 and unlock it. It's all very simple once you realize that everything in the game is just a Tron-ized 
 version of another outdated first person shooter convention.
  
  This game could have been so much better. Combat is shallow and repetitive when it could have been 
 so unique and exciting. All that I can say about the Gamespot review is that, if anything, they 
 were too generous. Unless you are a huge fan of the Tron story, avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2004 8:25 pm PT
Review:  When Tron was released by Disney in 1982, it was considered a bomb. But those of us who were just 
 getting into computers at that time, we saw how cool the movie really was and made it a cult classic. 
 
  
  Twenty-one years later, a sequel to the movie arrived. And not on the big screen. Instead by way 
 of video game. Tron 2.0 stars Jet Bradley, son of Alan Bradley, maker of the program TRON. Jet 
 seems to have no direction in his life and does not want to work with his dad. But a rival corporation 
 is taking over the company that Jet's dad has worked at for years and is working on some rather 
 shady projects. After his dad disappears, Jet is sucked into the program world by an artificial 
 construct Ma3a to protect him from people sent to question him. 
  
  From that point, you are sent on an adventure over 15 or so levels that span over several different 
 and unique environments in a journey to free Jet's dad from the evil corporation (can't remember 
 their name off the top of my head.) and stop the data corruption in the system before it is too 
 late.
  
  While the story seems fairly generic, the lush look of all the levels, NPCs and vehicles you interact 
 with help bring the world to life. I don't know how Monolith did it, but they got the glowing look 
 of the films perfect. And the crossing of different systems was pretty cool. You use memory slots 
 to dock weapons, shields and other items (identified as subroutines) . Based on the systems you 
 are in will depend on how many slots you can dock with. In a PDA, and you will have very few slots, 
 but a gigantic mainframe will allow many slots. And each subroutine has several levels, from Alpha 
 to Beta to Gold, each step taking less slots. It is a nice leveling system for your weapons. The 
 ambient sound in each level is great and comes from the movie. And there are light cycles. Lots 
 of them. And they are as cool as they were in the movie and the Tron arcade game.
  
  The only problem I had with the game is that the end is far tougher than the body of the game, 
 and the end movie is a bit corny. I would however like to see a sequel since the game is definitely 
 deserving of one, but we will have to wait and see. With the game coming out on X-BOX, maybe it 
 will kindle more players and develop interest in a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2004 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Oh I like Tron 2.0, for having made the SP campaign 4 times. The modern artistry, tapestry and 
 level design are just simply astounding - but you have to be a Tron addict in order to fully admire 
 it. A COMPUTER GEEK. Realistic fans shall ignore it. Trons, bites and matrixes geckos shall like 
 it. It's a love or hate story, as shown in many reviews.
  
  The story integration is effectively awesome, all in all put together throughout the extensive 
 single-player ( 15+ hours of gameplay ) like swiss jewelry - definitely well above today's standards, 
 seeing how lame stories are incorporated within average games. That coding influences a LOT the 
 gameplay, more than you think. And that's what SAVES the otherwise mediocre gameplay delivered 
 here. One thing: weapons balance is bad. The player really needs only the disc, and more powerful 
 piked discs. the other kind of weapons are pretty much useless, though interesting to use in occasional 
 circumstances - not necessarily the toughest spots. 
  
  The musical score and many sounds seem tamed and overall boring ( the devs had to respect some 
 original bits of sounds from the original Tron after all ) , but I did find a great coding for the 
 voiceovers - I'm always impressed to hear for example the Kernel speaking in the cutscenes ) .
 
  
  Too bad the multiplayer didn't receive the same level of attention than the SP.
  
  Tron 2.0 is a hardcore game, but not for the usual reasons of themed challenge since it's normally 
 affordable for the less skilled casual gamer. It's because of the kaleidoscopic design imprinted 
 in the levels, the linear vectors richly detailed are not the kind of artistic tools prized by 
 the realistic geek! I'll keep this gem!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 26, 2004 1:03 am PT
Review:  this game SUCKS!
  
  IT IS LIKE SIM FRISBBE LIKE ANOTHER GUY SAID ALL YOU DO IS THROW A FRISBEE 
  
  do not buy at 
 all costs!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  gameplay what game play? it is soooooooooo horrible 
  
  u get some guns but not many!
  
  sound is cheesy and stupid mostly electronic sounds! and other 
 crap
  
  on the box it says or a
  company did may be the best action title this year 
 
  
  ACTION ?
  do they maybe mean throwin a frisbee at people and them going ouuuuuuuuuuuuuuuugh
  
  is that 
 what they mean? sombody fill me in on this please is that what they mean?
  
  oh forget it
  
  just DONT BUY THIS  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2004 7:29 am PT
Review:  Tron 2.0 is an execellent addition to the Tron franchise. It not only kept within the boundries 
 of the origonal storey, but too kit farther with the use of today's technology. Creative and intelligent 
 additions (such as the virus and Rescource Hogs) to the Tron world expanded on a great idea we 
 origonally only had so much exposure to. The ability to upgrade your character is a nice touch 
 as well to an already excellent game. This game breaks the mudane routine look of all the other 
 1st person shooters, and I just eagerly await an announcment of an expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalCowboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  I watched TRON the movie the other night (for the first time in about 10 years) and got such a 
 feeling for checking out the game (I had no interest in it before) and to my surprise it was a 
 lot of fun. Totally worth checking out! I would see the movie first to get in the mood though. 
 :)
  
  The guys at monolith should be proud of the game they made, it has good graphics (I love the whole 
 setting) and a well executed plot. Sure, its your standard FPS when you come down to the basics, 
 but the setting and some of the deeper game play elements are really cool. Try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drigam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 23, 2004 7:33 am PT
Review:  TRON 2.0 promises to drop you into the world you experienced years ago sitting in a movie theater 
 transfixed by the then "high-tech" cinematics. It delivers. The landscape is beautifully rendered, 
 well thought out and incredibly vivid. Gameplay is worthwhile and fast paced with advancements 
 on more than simply additional weapons giving way to more options in combat and stealth. The cycles 
 are fun and are included in an after-thought of racing scenarios including upgrades and new bikes 
 playable outside of the story line itself. Sound is well placed and appropriate, but never a large 
 part of my gaming experience anyway. 
  
  One main drawback is the AI occasionly getting stuck behind groups of objects and the subsequent 
 bout of merry-go-round while it gets pummeled by discs makes the battle seem petty. Multiplayer 
 is a joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd51
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 7, 2004 6:24 am PT
Review:  So this game is better than the 20+ year old movie that it's based on... big deal! The movie was 
 horrific, and being old enough to remember Tron when it was in the theaters and first hit cable, 
 I figured the game would be as well. 
  
  And despite my gut feeling about this game I trusted the reviews and took the plunge. Big mistake. 
 Besides the fact that the game looks and sounds good, there's nothing to get excited about here, 
 nothing that makes you look forward to getting around the next obstacle or nothing to make you 
 look forward to playing at all, save for saying you finished the game.
  
  Don't bother.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smakar
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 1, 2003 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most innovative and enjoyable games that I've played in a long, long time (and 
 I've been playing one sort of computer game or another since a mainframe version of Adventure in 
 1979) . I wasn't a big fan of the movie when it came out, but I had spent quite a few dollars on 
 the coin-op version in the 80's and hours on the Intellevision game at home. Monolith has another 
 winner here: a enjoyable, immersable plot, graphics that made me feel like I was in the actual 
 movie, and challenging while remaining fun instead of frustrating. And having just finished Unreal 
 2, it's WONDERFUL to have load times what only take a few seconds. I've recently become a "husband 
 on a budget", and I'm so glad I spent my "allowance" on this game (especially since I have just 
 bought and loaded Max Payne 2, but cannot play the game because of some technical glitch and I've 
 been waiting for three days for their Tech Support to respond) . Thank you Monolith!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeargantGoat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 12, 2003 1:16 am PT
Review:  I was so stunned by Scott Osborne's average review that I had to post my own feelings on this game. 
 I don't know what game he was playing, but when I got Tron 2.0 I found a very enjoyable game based 
 on a movie I've only recently seen. The graphics recreate and advance the theme presented by the 
 movie, and rather than being tedious, the story and dialogue are an almost whimsical and entertaining 
 take on the cycles of being a program inside the computer. 
  
  Using this paragraph to focus on the graphics is not enough to do them justice. The look and style 
 of Tron 2.0 is so unique and refreshing that sometimes the level of detail and precision is overwhelming. 
 One particularily memorable moment involves sneaking into the "Kernel's" observation tower to steal 
 your disc back, while far below on the grid an intense light cycle battle takes place. The glow 
 which Osborne seems to sarcastically discard is everywhere simply due to the stylized visuals, 
 and let me tell you, it looks great. It doesnt miss a beat in replicating the style of the movie, 
 and that is a very good thing. You'd think with all the crap games that come out to support new 
 movies, Osborne would have been a lot more impressed with this carefully produced, quality game.
 
  
  The gameplay itself is rather exciting, and the "retread" of a storyline is engaging if you are 
 accepting of it. Variaances in gameplay like more covert, sneaking levels to all out disc battles 
 make sure that the game isn't very repetetive. Rather than being a mere distraction, the light 
 cycles can actually be quite intense as well. Play a light cycle game online (Yes, you can) and 
 you'll instantly see what I mean. Multiplayer disc arena is quite fun as well, although I personally 
 like the light cycles more. 
  
  Perhaps Mr. Osborne should realize that just because he's probably played a lot of FPS's, does not 
 give him license to unfairly throw them all in the same bag. It's unfair to both the reader and 
 the game to generalize what a game brings to the table. There is more to Tron 2.0 than just standard 
 "Run and Gun" action, it involves more cerebral strategy, covert stealth, and while it does use 
 some FPS conventions, it does so with a fresh twist, one that Osborne obviously refused to see. 
 
  
  If there's anything you take away from my review, it should be that you need to BUY THIS GAME. 
 Oh, and when in doubt, judge things for yourself. Don't let someone with unreasonably lofty demands 
 judge for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psikosis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 8, 2003 8:22 pm PT
Review:  First, and most obviously, the graphics are superb. Bright, vivid colors abound and the attention 
 to details is commendable. True, I have a high-end system, but the animation is butter-smooth and 
 nearly free of glitches or other problems. Second, the sound. Well, it sounds like Tron should. 
 The voices of many characters have that old-school 'computer' sound, but it's more subtle, rather 
 like an accent. The script is well-written and well-acted. Third; gameplay. I'll concede that the 
 gameplay is uneven at times. However, it's a minor inconveniences at worst and overshadowed by 
 the excellence of so much of the rest of the game. The controls are pretty standard, which I find 
 attractive. Learning a new interface is difficult and there's no reason to use a non-standard one 
 in this game. A nice layer of power-ups is present and well-implemented (meaning minimally comlicated 
 and easy to use) . Finally, Tilt. This is where Tron 2.0 really shines. It really is a well-written, 
 well-directed, well-programmed sequel to the movie. A fine mix of 3D-shooter and RPG-interaction 
 that should impress even non-Tron fans. I haven't enjoyed a game so much since Half-Life and Halo. 
 A must-have game that should be a runaway best-seller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveroger
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 7, 2003 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Great game, with a tepid Scott Osborne review. Gamespot, get rid of this guy. He is out of step 
 with real gamers. I read his review and almost did not buy the game. You see I had played the demo 
 before getting to his review and I'd say that his review was some what consistent with the demo. 
 So, I am willing to bet that he did really never got past the demo although I am sure he got to 
 play the final product being an officially reviewer and all. Real gamers don't stop at the demo, 
 they take their search for great games farther than that. Look at the reader reviews. They are 
 generally spot on. Once again, come on Gamespot, steer me away from the crap, don't steer me away 
 from the great ones. By the way, whether or not you liked the movie is irrelevant. Rather, what 
 matters is whether you liked the game play of this game and/or the arcade version. And, Scott, 
 the light cycles are not too tough you are too stupid. Just like in the arcade version, you are 
 supposed to anticipate the computer opponents being able to move faster and do things you can't. 
 That is the whole point of the game. You are supposed to be the human techno wizard who because 
 you are human can beat a computer. That is called irony. This game has it. You don't and you don't 
 get it. Give up reviewing games and go back to posting irritating fanboy messages on irrelevant 
 websites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgdsn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2003 12:47 am PT
Review:  despite what people say, TRON 2.0 is a game tha MUST be expeienced. its one of those rare original 
 items that only comes around once in a while. the game CAN get tiresome ONLY IF you forget to quicksave 
 obsessively and often. hunting for keys was quick and easy (never needed an FAQ) . the few jumping 
 puzzles that people seemed to dislike were very original, enjoyable, and satisfying (youll understand 
 if u play) . disc combat is very engaging and rewards finesse. the only problem i can think of is 
 the game can make you tired after 4-5 hours of play just because the environment is very bright 
 and provocative (if you consider that a bad thing) . im very glad i picked this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alestian
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2003 1:58 pm PT
Review:  It puzzles me that game makers don't produce more high quality games of this sort rather than settling 
 for the quick buck with games such as mediocre expansion packs and medium-res environments. Tron 
 2 brings it all to the table. It has excellent graphics, great gameplay, an actual plot (more games 
 should have exciting plots) , and movie-quality sound. Other game makers should grab the notebook 
 and take good notes because this is the type of game that real gamers want. Have you ever rushed 
 to the store, bought a game because it looked great on the box or because a friend heard it was 
 cool, taken it home, installed it, and then wondered if you could get a quick refund? That's the 
 type of games that have been on the market for way too long. High quality games such as Tron 2, 
 Knights of the Old Republic, Morrowind, Halo, etc. are LONG overdue. We live in a new era where 
 computers are more advanced and therefore the games should be too. If I'm going to the trouble 
 of making sure my hardware meets the minimum requirements, installing the game, and reading the 
 manual then the game had better kick butt and glue me to the screen. Unfortunately, only a few 
 games have ever done that and this game, Tron 2, is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiny
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2003 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game. Its Metroid meets Tron in FPS form. Once you get the hang of all the upgrades and 
 the computer analogies of typical FPS elements (weapons, enemies, ports all have computer term 
 equivalents like subroutines, programs, etc) , the game offers a lot of depth, gameplay and excitement.
 
  
  Your main weapon, the disc, is much like the Predator disc from AvP. Its faster and has an alt-fire 
 "block" move which allows you to battle enemies by deflecting their discs and then hitting them 
 while you are vulerable. This adds a great twist to a typical FPS game. There are many RPG-like 
 upgrades, as in Metroid, that give your character improved abilities. In addition, there are many 
 variations on the 4 basic weapons you will find. 
  
  All in all, the graphics are excellent. The level design is very satisfying. And the little twists 
 this game adds to typical FPS titles out there, makes it a must have for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrino
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 29, 2003 1:12 am PT
Review:  I picked my copy of "Tron 2.0" the other day. I had been looking forward to this day for quite 
 some time. I have always been a fan of the movie Tron and Monolith games as well. As a movie, Tron 
 was a pivotal event as far as geeky sci-fi films go. As far the quality of the original film, its 
 defiantly hit or miss but most will not argue that the movie was ahead of its time. If you think 
 about it, Tron is very much like "The Matrix" in reverse...
  
  TRON: A talented hacker from the "real world" discovers, in a very unpleasant way, that there is 
 a "computer world". He is very powerful in this other world which helps him fight evil and save 
 the day.
  
  The Matrix: A talented hacker from the "computer world" discovers, in a very unpleasant way, that 
 there is a "real world". He is very powerful in this other world which helps him fight evil and 
 save the day.
  
  Anyway, you get the idea. While Tron 2.0 is not a Halo killer (or even a Half Life killer) it does 
 a very good job at taking a 20+ year old film and turning it into a very solid first person shooter. 
 Not only does the game look like the film, it looks better. The film of 1982 was very limited in 
 its use of computers and it shows. In many scenes the effects look cheesy and pasted on. Mostly 
 because they were painted on after shooting actors in black and white (and pajamas) . But Tron 2.0 
 looks like Tron only dreamed it could. Some of the levels are very large and have a great sense 
 of depth with the requisite scrolling, glowing, circuit board walls in the distance. The glow of 
 all the elements is done very well. Almost to a fault. You will probably fall to your death a few 
 times when you mistake a black abyss for simply the ground beneath your feet. It can all look a 
 bit too similar at times. Much like the movie, the graphics are comprised of a number of two tone 
 color schemes put together with great style. Considering the source material, they pulled it all 
 off very nicely. 
  
  What will you be doing in the world of Tron? Mostly standard FPS stuff including shooting, dodging, 
 and sneaking around a bit. And, yes, there are the dreaded (by some) assortment of jumping puzzles. 
 I don't mind jumping puzzles in PC games these days because you can usually save anywhere you like. 
 Fortunately Tron 2.0 provides this ability. It also quick-saves and loads as fast if not faster 
 then any FPS I can think of. The action is well paced and the level design is very good most of 
 the time. There are a few levels that are too tight and too frustrating but even the beloved Half 
 Life had its share of those. There is small and simple RPG element running through Tron 2.0 and 
 its imprinted on your disc and the version of your software. As you progress through the game, 
 your weapons and abilities can be upgraded to new "versions". This play element rewards a bit of 
 exploration but most of the exploration is mandatory due to the fact that you have to find enough 
 "permissions" (a. k. a. keys) to get to the next area. You do get to pick which upgrades are active 
 at any time which does require a bit of strategy.
  
  In addition to the typical FPS fair, there are also short diversion single player levels of light 
 cycle racing and "Discs of Tron" multi-player arena battles. These do help break up the monotony 
 of a FPS and I think of them as very large mini-games. As that, they are very well done but don't 
 expect them to be as deep as the rest of the gameplay. For example, the AI during light cycles 
 is a bit annoying because your opponents will act a lot more like a TRS80 than a human being. In 
 other words, your opponents will often do things that only a computer could do. Just like any poor 
 AI, there are ways around it and its still fun to play. Its too bad they did not spend just a bit 
 more time on the AI because light cycle gameplay would have been simply awesome. As it stands, 
 the extra diversions are just that, diversions which look better than they play.
  
  Sounds are well done but the developers have the distinct advantage that no one remembers what 
 the world of Tron sounds like. As long as you hear a few computerized drones your probably on the 
 right track. The weapons and characters sound decent but won't convince you to upgrade your speakers. 
 The voice acting is adequate but it seems with such recent examples as KOTOR, Eternal Darkness, 
 and even RLH, that the voice acting bar is getting raised. Tron 2.0 certainly does not clear that 
 bar. Its good enough to keep you from wanting to skip them but not good enough to bring out any 
 real emotional response.
  
  Overall, I would say that Tron 2.0 is solid first person shooter done with great style and good 
 substance. It does not break any new ground but it succeeds in almost every area of traditional 
 FPS gameplay. If you are a fan of Tron, you will enjoy it even more because its such a good interpretation 
 of license. Also, since the movie is 20+ years old, you are more likely to remember it as a great 
 sci-fi flick despite the sub-par acting or mediocre script. Tron 2.0 will help maintain this illusion 
 and I have no problem with that.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Jedi
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2003 4:58 pm PT
Review:  In an age where more and more games strive for realism, Tron 2.0 really is a breath of fresh air, 
 moving as far away from reality as one can get. It really is a fun, inventive experience, but not 
 without its share of problems. The premise is as follows, you are Jet Bradley, a low level game 
 programmer working at a high tech company down on its luck. One day you receive a phone call from 
 your father, who is a high level programmer at the same company, and the call is cut off as you 
 hear signs of a struggle on the other end. You rush to your fathers digitizing laboratory, to 
 find him gone, when suddenly you are digitized (turned into data and streamed into the computer) 
 yourself. From there, the AI system Ma3a enlists your help in battling corruption threatening to 
 destroy the system, and the plot unfolds from there. 
  The basic gameplay deviates from the norm of run and gun shooters. Instead of a collection of 
 various machine guns, for the first few levels you utilize a disc you throw at enemies. You are 
 also able to block the discs thrown at you by enemy ICPs, making for a skillful duel with each 
 of these enemies. Later you uncover other more potent weapons, such as the LOL, a sniper rifle 
 like laser rifle, a ball launcher, and a cluster disc which explodes on impact, though the disc 
 is probably the most useful weapon in the game. When you toss your disc, you can control it in 
 midair, and recall it whenever you wish, sort of like a boomerang. There are also upgrades and 
 powerups you can access, such as increasing the range of your jumping, adding armor to your character, 
 or a stealth upgrade that allows you to walk and run much quieter. The catch is you can only equip 
 a few of these upgrades at once. Inventory is managed through a screen with two concentric circles, 
 one containing all the weapons and powerups, and the other with slots for you to equip the upgrades, 
 into the categories of Combat, Defense, and Utility. Each level has different memory requirements 
 which limit the amount of powerups you can equip in that level. Each upgrade also has three levels, 
 Alpha, Beta, and Gold. Alpha takes up three inventory slots, Beta two, and Gold one, with each 
 level dealing out more damage than the last, but increasing the energy drain. All weapons, aside 
 from the standard disc, sap energy from your energy bar. 
  There is also an RPG like system for upgrading stats. Within each level, there are build points 
 hidden throughout the level, which increase your characters version number. Everytime you pass 
 another digit, such as 2.0, 3.0, etc, you are able to upgrade your characters pool of stats, broken 
 into Health, Energy, Weapon Efficiency, Transfer Rate, and Processor with a limited number of points 
 per gained level, adding a bit of RPG strategy to the game. The gameplay system does work well 
 for the most part, but it isnt without annoyances. First off, the difficulty is quite high for 
 all but veteran FPS players, even on the normal setting. Expect to reload quite often. Enemies 
 do a lot of damage, so it is easy to be overwhelmed at times. For those craving a challenge it 
 will be quite enjoyable, but for FPS newbies the difficulty may frustrate and annoy them. There 
 are also some platforming sections in the game, and while jumping is easier than in most other 
 FPS games, some of the more acrobatic maneuvers will cause you to plummet to your death, and can 
 get very frustrating. When will developers learn that jump a thons in FPS games are much more frustrating 
 than worthwhile? There is also a great deal of exploration in the game, as you gain upgrades, permissions 
 (keys) , and e-mails that develop and embellish on the plot in item containers. This does throw 
 the pacing of the game off a bit for those seeking a pure action title, but it is a nice deviation 
 from the norm of run and gun. The good does outweigh the bad in this title though, and it is 
 very stylish. Characters remark about reformatting as we would about death, about the kernel 
 as we would about a president, among other things, and the world really seems alive through the 
 characters, computer based dialogue, and locales. From personal computer systems to PDAs to even 
 the Internet, the variety of locations fails to disappoint, and the colorful graphics lend themselves 
 well to the game style. The game is of standard FPS length, taking between fifteen and twenty hours 
 to complete for the majority of gamers, decent, but the ride is over pretty quickly for experienced 
 FPS players, and the subpar multiplayer doesnt help to increase longevity very much.
  
  Mixed in with the action is lightcycles. This plays like a complex version of Snake, with you squaring 
 off against multiple opponents in an attempt to cause them to crash into a wall or your tail, 
 and them doing likewise. While this is a fun novelty at first, it can also be very frustrating, 
 as the camera angles are quite bad. In first person mode, it is hard to see what is coming at you 
 from the sides, so you end up blowing up as a quick turn brings you straight into an opponents 
 tail. The chase camera is somewhat of an improvement, but it is overly sensitive, and can be knocked 
 out of position by a quick move of the mouse, and it is difficult to recalibrate in position. Lightcycles 
 are made more interesting by powerups and turbo boosts, and when the camera isnt distracting you, 
 lightcycles can be a good distraction from the run and gun shooting. The enemies are relatively 
 good, and quite aggressive, but again, if you find lightcycles difficult, expect to die multiple 
 times before completing each course, which can lead to a lot of frustration.
  One of the most unique parts of the games is also the most noticeable, the graphical style. This 
 is one game where realism was as far away from the developers minds as possible. Tron 2.0 runs 
 on the Lithtech engine, the same as other titles such as No One Lives Forever 2, and the game is 
 very detailed. The world is very lively and colorful, and with a powerful enough DirectX 8.1 compliant 
 (Geforce 3 or higher) graphics card, a glow effect shines from many light sources. The character 
 animation in the game is overall pretty smooth as well, with characters tossing discs, firing weapons, 
 and the like, without looking stiff. The graphics go a long way towards maintaining the far fetched 
 illusion that the game takes place inside a computer. The corruption in the game has an eerie green 
 glow to it, and the landscape in corrupted areas is very distorted, compared to the exacting symmetry 
 in uncorrupted partitions. One of the most graphically beautiful areas in the game is the Internet, 
 looking like a cyber version of Las Vegas, with tons of neon lighting and signs hung throughout 
 the area, just as a living version of the Internet should appear. Overall, while the graphics 
 are not as good as those of the latest Unreal powered games, the engine lends itself to the computer 
 locales very well, and the graphics really help to immerse you into the gameplay.
  
  The sound in this game is of decent quality. The music score is overrall well done, with more darker 
 sounds accompanying levels of corruption, and faster songs during actoin sequences. The voice acting 
 is above average, though some of the characters voices have a generic feel to them. The sound 
 effects are quite good though, and the sounds of discs bouncing off walls, enemies derezzing, 
 the pulse fire of the laser rifles, they all really fit well into the game. Overall, the sound 
 effects are pretty decent, but could have been better.
  
  The only real qualm I have with this game is the anemic multiplayer modes. There are two gameplay 
 modes, lightcycles and Disc Arena. Lightcycles is just the same as in single player, but with human 
 racers instead of the AI. If you enjoyed single player lightcycles, you will enjoy multiplayer 
 as well, but it really is personal preference. Disc Arena is the more unique mode, and really is 
 love-hate. You begin in a lobby, which is a central location walled off by clear plastic so you 
 can watch ongoing matches. The problem with this is you are given weapons in that area, so those 
 wanting to watch the matches are frequently killed in a pointless frenzy (lobby kills dont count 
 towards your score.) When you get onto the game field, the maps are very claustrophobic, with your 
 only weapon being a disk. You play for three rounds, and you must win three before your opponent 
 to be victorious. You and your opponent (s) are seperated by an inpassable ravine, so you must throw 
 your disks at each other to win. This can be fun occasionally, but after a few rounds it does get 
 old fast, as most of the maps require the same strategy of hiding behind something, throwing your 
 disc or blocking one that is incoming, and hiding again. The game could have benefited from larger 
 maps with the inclusion of some of the other weapons from the single player game, but in its current 
 state, it deserves a look and a few hours to try it out, but it is definitely not goint to widely 
 appeal to the gaming community.
  
  Tron 2.0 had real potential to remaster the cult classic movie it was based on, and only partially 
 succeeded. Anyone looking for a fun and unique single player game should definitely check out Tron 
 2.0, but the multiplayer, and some of the single player aspects are disappointing. On the whole 
 it is a worthy single player game for those willing to put up with some frustrations, and it overrall 
 was an enjoyable, decent shooter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ylla
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2003 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Once again, I find myself in complete disagreement with an official Gamespot review. Why this game 
 would be given such a pedestrian score by Gamespot is beyond me and shows how gamers are becoming 
 more and more ridiculously fickle. In my opinion, while this game may NOT be breaking any new ground 
 in the FPS market it scores high marks on all the things it does do well; simply in being entertaining, 
 well voice acted, gorgeous to look at and, quite frankly, fun. 
  
  Now while I feel the game seems artificially frustrating at times (I swear the designers were a 
 bit sadistic in their attempts to find as many ways to cause one to die in only 10 minutes of play 
 as they possibly could) the game excels on so many levels that you cant help but play through 
 the frustration.
  
  Its becoming more and more apparent to me that Gamespots (and other review sites) critiquing 
 has become much too jaded. This is what happens when you eventually develop critics who view and 
 play games through the critical eyes of professional game reviewers looking for whats wrong, rather 
 than through the eyes of gamers looking for whats right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma8
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 28, 2003 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Long, detailed review: Fascinating There is a lot to say about Tron 2.0, so this review will have 
 two major sections, the first of which are my impressions of the game. The second section will 
 address individual points in the Gamespot review, which I feel contains and unnecessary negative 
 bias:
  
  The original Tron was a visionary movie put out by Steven Lisberger (et al) and Disney in 1982. 
 It revolved around a hacker/gamer who gets digitized and sucked inside a computer, which is represented 
 as a whole new world: programs are actually like people, data streams are like flowing currents 
 used for transportation, and the computer itself is "the world". The movie was very adept at creating 
 a believable, computer world that was accessible to the mainstream audience, but was ultimately 
 hindered by its niche subject matter (as well as its automatic disqualification for a Special Effects 
 Oscar, since the academy considered using a computer for effects to be "cheating" at the time) .
 
  
  Fast forward to Tron 2.0. The game take place two decades later. As the main character Jet Bradley 
 (son of Alan Bradley who created the Tron program in the original movie) , you get digitized into 
 the computer world, and have to save the world (naturally) from a nefarious plot. Without divulging 
 any details, I will say that I found the story-line to be less compelling than the movie's. The 
 characters and motivations involved were quite a bit less realistic, more suited to after-school 
 cartoons than real life. That being said, the plot was still interesting and significantly more 
 complex than the movie's, so it there was more to learn, and more to follow. The game also fills 
 in plot-gaps from the last 20 years.. the time between the movie and the game... via in-game e-mail 
 archives, any fans of the original movie will find themselves looking forward to digging up more 
 of these as they find them... especially since each individual mail is so short.
  
  The game consists of three major parts: the single-player campaign, multiplayer disc arena, and 
 a standalone light-cycles game, which can be played solo or multiplayer on a LAN only (it does 
 not prohibit playing online, but it's a complete waste of time due to completely unacceptable lag) . 
 I'll start by addressing the single player campaign (the bulk of the review) , followed by some 
 notes on production values, and will finish up with some light cycle information and then multi-play... all 
 before digging into the Gamespot review.
  
  --- SINGLE PLAYER (SP) CAMPAIGN ---
  I don't want to ruin any story, so I'll address the game-play, which is neither exceptional, nor 
 weak. The controls feel identical to any other entry in the No One Lives Forever series, or any 
 other First Person Shooter (FPS) for that matter. This means your tasks consist of hunting down 
 either keys or buttons to access the next area, but this does not make it a bad game. Half Life 
 relied on this formula too, but punctuated it with great action, some stealth, and surprises, which 
 made it one of the top games ever.
  
  Tron 2.0 does not have any scary surprises, and combat is fun, but not standout. However, Tron 
 2.0 goes very far with its environments. Each level represents part of a computer system, ranging 
 from servers, to desktop pcs, to a PDA, and more. The locations are painstakingly detailed, and 
 while some things are shared (all "exit ports" look mostly the same) , they are creatively unique. 
 Every element of the environment you see has some meaning in the computer world, although granted 
 this is often up for interpretation. An example would be the power conduits for the CPU inside 
 the original encom mainframe. Massive beams of energy flow towards a central point. Since your 
 task at the time is to increase the voltage to the CPU to facilitate over-clocking, you can easily 
 imagine that each of the 2 additional beams you activate ups it by .1 volts. There are many examples 
 of this throughout the game. Familiar computer events, such as viral infection, disk formatting, 
 running out of cpu cycles or battery life... these are all depicted as environmental problems that 
 directly affect your existence or goals in a digital world, and the effect is both integral to 
 the game-play and often mesmerizing to behold. It is in this way that the game matches the movie 
 and in many ways is its better.
  
  The computer-controlled characters are all well-voiced, and many of them do a very good job helping 
 set the Tron atmosphere. You have a few allies, but make no mistake that this is a solo mission 
 you are on -- allies are generally limited to cameo appearance, and only join you in conflict on 
 one or two occasions. I found the voices of the generic programs to be somewhat annoying -- like 
 a dorky neighbor from a sitcom. Worse, they sound like the same voices used in No One Lives Forever 
 1 and 2. I thought the voices sounded a bit lame in those games, hearing them again is no better, 
 and ruins my immersion a little bit. Keep in mind, they are not poorly acted, just somewhat un-cinematic 
 (thus un-Tron-like) .
  
  Level design is generally very good. There was only one level where I had successfully destroyed 
 every active threat, and wandered around in for an hour, unclear about how to pass it. The way 
 out turned out to be exactly what I thought it was, but there was unfortunately a very specific 
 spot where I had to enter a large beam. I finally found the proper path down to it and all was 
 well.
  
  COMBAT
  Combat is mixed. Many weapons can be ignored, and their order of introduction depends on how anal 
 you are about searching containers or fallen foes. The main weapon is your personal data disc, 
 a frisbee-like weapon that can be used to attack, or to block incoming discs. As far as I can determine, 
 you can only block other discs, if an enemy uses other ranged weapons at you, blocking will not 
 work. However even in cases such as these, the disc's high damage (which can be increased with 
 power-ups) generally cements it as the preferred weapon. Other weapons mimic the generic effects 
 of shotguns, grenades, sniper rifles, stun guns, and machine guns. Apart from an upgraded disc 
 weapon, only the sniper rifle seems to retain any usefulness throughout the game, although I did 
 find the machine-gun like blaster and the energy-sucking weapon handy in a few spots.
  
  Foes are not incredibly smart, sometimes they will shoot at you, not realizing that a floating 
 box is blocking their shot, but you can then bank your disc under the box to hit them. They are 
 smart enough to run and call for reinforcements via wall panels, and occasional duck head-level 
 attacks. They can also do a few tricky throws, which can fake you out into blocking early (which 
 means you will get hit, since blocking must be timed right) . If you are on a roll, successfully 
 blocking several incoming discs, while dishing out head-shots, combat can be very satisfying.
 
  
  JUMPING PUZZLES
  There are many instances in this game that involve jumping, either as a required part of your progress, 
 or for optional things such as additional power-ups or build points (which are similar to experience 
 points) . Odds are that you will probably lose a few lives to these jumping puzzles, but none of 
 them are overly difficult, nor ambiguous. One glance is all it takes to know if you can make the 
 jump or not in the vast majority of cases, the only reason you will be dying is because mid air 
 control in jumps is a bit tricky, and the jump itself is very quick. The jumping requirements do 
 not get increasingly harder as the game progresses, so by midway through the game, you will find 
 yourself well practiced and up for any jumping problems thrown at you.
  
  DEGREE OF DIFFICULTY
  Fortunately, for this and all other problems, quick-saving and quick-loading 
 is very fast and effective. Taking only seconds to reload your game on most systems. This is a 
 feature you will want to use often, since the computer world is deadly. Death never comes out of 
 the blue (well, it does... especially in sections where everything is blue) , it's very rare you'll 
 be killed by a surprise. Most deaths are caused by genuine trial and error being applied to an 
 observed problem. You will always know danger is either present or coming, due to warnings given 
 (verbal shouts, obvious deadliness of a situation before you, etc..) there is one exception to 
 this: Finders. They are near-silent, small, hovering drones with a far field of vision that can 
 shoot you with instantaneous laser blasts that cannot be blocked. Damage is fairly high, and you 
 may not even realize you're being attacked until you've been hit twice. The presence of these things 
 alone are worth saving every minute (at least) for. They are fortunately easy to kill.
  
  INVENTORY MANAGEMENT / EXPERIENCE / UPGRADES
  Instead of a a conventional inventory, you have 
 a separate interface that allows you to manage your acquisitions, which are referred to as subroutines. 
 You can possess as many subroutines as you like. Each one requires so many free blocks of memory. 
 Since you only have a limited number of memory blocks (and this amount changes according to what 
 computer you are currently in) , you have to make some decisions on what subroutines are currently 
 equipped. Fortunately, you can reduce a subroutine's memory footprint (how many blocks it requires) -- as 
 well increase its effectiveness -- by optimizing the routine via various opportunities presented 
 in the game. This system is very interesting and fun to look at and use. It has some other much 
 less frequently used functions as well, such as disinfecting corrupted subroutines, identifying 
 unknown ones, and defragging corrupted memory blocks.
  
  The only issue with this system is that your offensive items share memory space with defensive 
 and utilitarian items, so you will often find yourself pulling this screen up to toggle your load-out 
 on the fly. There's no problem with this, but it does sometimes feel simply like an extra step. 
 Since there's no penalty for making poor load-out decisions (they can be remedied at any time) , 
 making good selections seems less of a reward. Each time you entered a new computer, it resets 
 your active subroutines and prompts you to reconfigure them. I often found myself just hitting 
 escape and configuring them when the need arose.
  
  Experience points come via "build points". A very interesting system that encourages you to explore 
 every nook and cranny until your HUD indicates all build-points for this level have been found. 
 These allow you to improve your health or energy stats, as well as your speed or proficiency in 
 certain basic tasks, search as searching containers.
  
  All in all, this system is an improvement over most other FPS games out there, which for the most 
 part don't have real inventory systems. It's very well-designed within the motif, and while the 
 names don't necessarily make sense, you will quickly learn to simply recognize everything by its 
 icon. My only complaint on this system is that it would have been nice if there were a batch mode 
 (a queue) for sequential processing of infected programs or fragmented memory.
  
  --- PRODUCTION VALUES ---
  The production values are, for the most part, excellent. The weaknesses 
 are few in number, which include some inappropriate voice-work, as well as some abrupt transitions 
 between levels that harm the immersion factor. The music is also a bit on the weak side. My take 
 on the original Wendy Carlos score of the movie was mixed. I found the music during some of the 
 action scenes to be the epitome of dissonant, loud, overly synthy irritation... balanced out by 
 an incredibly brilliant theme music. The game strikes the middle path. There is no music that will 
 jar you as much as some of that in the movie, but there is also no mark of brilliance. Either the 
 remixes of the original Wendy Carlos themes -- while the highlight of the game's music -- have been 
 watered down and are not as good as they once were. However, in a game it's probably better to 
 live with the middle ground than it is to have both extremes, as repetitive track loops of bad 
 music would hurt a game more than good music would help it. Naturally, having all the music be 
 fantastic is the best, but Tron 2.0 simply doesn't deliver there, it settles for "adequate" music. 
 There are also no moments of dramatic musical silence, in my opinion an oft-neglected virtue.
 
  
  As can be seen with any set of screenshots, the visuals are incredible. Movement is everywhere, 
 and your head will be swimming in remembered color if you play for too long. The menus are completely 
 unremarkable, and not entertaining in and of themselves (such as Blizzard game menus) .
  
  --- LIGHT CYCLES ---
  The light cycles are a staple-crop of Tron, and they are done in Tron 2.0 
 with panache. The game presents a light cycle experience that is visually beyond that offered by 
 the original movie. Light cycle racing occurs occasionally as part of the SP campaign as well as 
 in their own mission-based single-player game off the main menu. These "missions" are not story-driven, 
 and are just a set of about 15-20 challenges in various stages that allow you to unlock things 
 like different color cycles (with improved stats) or the ability to use make certain power-ups 
 available in custom games.
  
  Sadly, as good as they look, this is not the best version of 3d light cycles available. There are 
 only two camera options available: ****pit and adjustable-height (and zoom) spot-view from behind. 
 There is the additional option of "unlocking" the camera, so you can use the mouse to look around. 
 If you are using the external camera, this gives you complete flexibility of how you want to place 
 the camera relative to your cycle's position. However, aside from locking the camera, there is 
 no way to have an adjustable view that stays relative to your cycle's HEADING. This means if you 
 do a quick 180 degree turn (two 90 degree turns) you will be heading blindly towards the camera, 
 and by the time you swing your view around, you may already be dead. You can compensate for this 
 by zooming out and trying to get a wide-area vista of your cycle revealing a decent amount of both 
 front and behind... but if you pull back too far, and/or center your view too much, many of the 
 trails become too difficult to see. The end result is too many needless crashes -- the camera is 
 either too limited (when "locked") or too sloppy (when "free-look" is on) to be effective. It would 
 have benefited greatly from "glance" keys to quickly look left or right, snapping back to straight 
 ahead when released, and/or a "relative" free-look that would keep your camera positioned relative 
 to the directional HEADING of your cycle, not simply its position.
  
  For examples of light cycles done better, check out (google for) gltron, or even better: Armagetron. 
 Both of these games provide far superior game-play experiences on the gaming grid. This is a shame, 
 since the Tron 2.0 cycles has much better graphics, sound, and even has a good feeling of control, 
 as well as additions to the grid, such as powerups and obstacles. The camera issues make it ultimately 
 less enjoyable, as well as control issues: it shares the same key-mappings as the FPS portions 
 of the game. So if you wanted to use your right mouse button to lock/unlock your camera during 
 cycles, then you better remember to re-bind it to "disc block", or vice versa, whenever you are 
 going to/from light cycles and FPS. Separate bindings for light cycles would have been wise.
  
  --- MULTIPLAYER (MP) ---
  The MP portion of Tron 2.0 is disappointing, due to lag and lack 
 of servers. Currently, it's unplayable as the finesse game it should be. The only online MP option 
 is "disc arena", where two teams fight in small arenas with discs. Just like SP, discs can be blocked, 
 which causes them to ricochet out of control for a while, offering good chances for counter-attack. 
 The two teams are separated by an impasse... either shoot-through walls or a chasm, and often parts 
 of the floor can disappear, either by shooting them with a disc, shooting targets on the wall, 
 or just as a time-based environmental hazard.
  
  Given that discs can be steered in mid-flight, and damage can be inflicted on a disc's return path 
 to its user, there are a lot of opportunities for fancy shots and blocks. All nearly impossible 
 due to current lag conditions.
  
  When (if) this lag issue is fixed, things should improve greatly, but it's still incomplete. There 
 is no death match, no capture the flag... only the disc arena game-type. It feels like you're playing 
 a small-time (but high quality) mod for a larger MP game... except that the rest of the game doesn't 
 exist. Given the richness of the Tron universe, some unique weapons and dynamics, hopefully the 
 community will step up to the task to create good mods... if the lag gets fixed.
  
  -------------------------------------
  --- COMMENTS ON GAMESPOT'S REVIEW ---
  I think Gamespot's 
 comments on the game's use of FPS "conventions" receives too much emphasis. Tron 2.0 offers so 
 much from a visual standpoint, that you barely even notice that life is continuing on outside your 
 computer room, much less dwell on whatever it is you are doing in the game. Playing Tron 2.0 is 
 almost like walking around through Wonderland, delivering a Fed-ex package. Which do you focus 
 on, your menial delivery task? Or Wonderland?
  
  Additionally, the game-play actually represents some of the higher end of the "convention". It 
 shares a lot more in common with the puzzles in No One Lives Forever 1 and 2 than with Return to 
 Castle Wolfenstein. In terms of puzzles and "conventions", I'd say the game holds up very well 
 next to or even surpasses the highly rated Jedi Knight II, Elite Force, and even Half Life.
  
  Gamespot's deba****t of the enemies as being "cannon fodder" is also a bit non-sensical... what 
 else do you want to do in a FPS besides SHOOT the enemies? It would be more interesting if the 
 AI had been better, but these enemies are no worse (and probably better) than those in any other 
 FPS save perhaps Half Life.
  
  The reviewer then bemoans the fact that you must do "cliche" things like defending an ally or fight 
 a boss, leaving me to wonder what sort of genre game they thought this was? I suppose the reviewer 
 probably thinks that roller-coasters are unimaginative and boring when they do such "cliche" roller-coaster 
 things like go upside-down, or take a precipitous drop. The bosses are admittedly a mixed bag in 
 terms of how cool they are.. and generally all involve fighting them in a static area, but for their 
 part, they are difficult and action packed. and not a detriment to the game.
  
  I guess I did not receive the memo that said we're not allowed to defend people anymore, because 
 it's a boring cliche. I'd call Tron 2.0 "complete", not a cliche. Tron 2.0 is a solid, exceptional 
 shooter. Not a solid, unexceptional one. I will not say it's revolutionary, evolutionary, or wondrously 
 innovative, because it's not.. But it is just as solid and creative as Monolith's previous FPS 
 outings, such as the No One Lives Forever series -- games which also did not bust through the gaming 
 envelope (for their time) , relying heavily on "cliches", unexceptional AI, and typical weapons.. Yet 
 Gamespot viewed them far more fondly. Tron 2.0 is better than 85% or 90% of the FPS games that 
 get released, unless you are judging it on multiplayer, which is not being billed as this game's 
 strength and is obviously there just as a cave-in to unavoidable demand.
  
  The things that will ultimately keep Tron from surpassing a game like Half Life, is not the button 
 hunting and key hunting (which is shares in common with HL) , but the relatively sparse battles, 
 the lack of quality transitions or explanation on what's really going on, and the relative obviousness 
 of what needs to be done at any time, which highlights the game's linearity... a linearity that 
 is no more or less linear than Half Life, the path along the line is simply more visible, so you 
 notice it more.
  
  --- SUMMARY ---
  In the end, I would have to say Tron does have some problems, which I may have dwelled upon here 
 in lieu of praising the game, but in the end it was a highly satisfying experience, that continues 
 to fill my head with questions and ideas that make me crave a sequel, or maybe even a MMO game 
 based on Tron. By the time I finished the game, the whole experience had been very cinematic and 
 interactive, and lived up to the movie and surpassed it in nearly every way. The game presents 
 a lot of details that cater to old-school Tron fans, in addition to providing a lot of its own 
 goodness. I do not think that this game will win any awards (other than graphics-related ones) , 
 and I think that's appropriate. But what you have here is solid game-play, complemented by incredible 
 graphics, and a very robust form of level design (more like environment or "atmosphere" design) 
 that truly creates a new world, delivering satisfaction on so many levels. The end result is nothing 
 short of amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2180natedogg
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2003 11:30 am PT
Review:  When reviewing a game like this, often times it is difficult to separate the effect of nostalgia 
 from the actual gameplay elements. However, to deny yourself the effect of nostalgia, especially 
 in this particular game, considering it's incredible fan base of the original 80's cult film, would 
 be an attempt to ignore the deliberate attempts of the programmers to use nostalgia to their advantage. 
 In Tron 2.0, often times it's the throwbacks to the original plotline that will provide for the 
 most enjoyment. There are times when the player will find an email from one of the original characters 
 from the movie, and that alone will sometimes provide more satisfaction than defeating an enemy. 
 Returning to the original game grid from the movie was definitely a nice cookie for the fans too. 
 
  Nostalgia aside, the any virgin to the Tron universe will not be dissapointed by this game. The 
 system requirements are steep, but those who have invested the time and money into converting their 
 word processor into a bonafide gaming platform will drool over the visuals in this game. Everything 
 is as it was in the original movie. Every surface has an ambient glow, like a neon sign and circuitry 
 runs through practically every surface in the area. Everything moves mechanically, from the wall 
 patterns to the weapons you break out and use. I'd be lying if I said that the level design would 
 shine if the walls and surfaces didn't, but the designers obviously took a lot of time and effort 
 to re-create the visual style of the original movie.
  This game strays a bit from the conventional FPS by incorporating some fundamentally RPG elements 
 into the mix. In some of the wooden crates (read "storage bins") you'll find upgrades to your programming 
 that affect your stats, such as jump height, available weapons, energy use, and armor upgrades. 
 This adds a sense of progression that is rarely found in other FPS games. In other games, you're 
 exactly the same person on the last level of the game as you are at the very beginning, save for 
 a few more weapons. The game is very linear, and only allows the user to wander for the purpose 
 of collecting your build points (experience points) and extra upgrades.
  The soundtrack is excellent for anyone that appreciates electronic music. The team at monolith 
 did an excellent job with the dynamic music as they did in the NOLF and AVP series. Some of the 
 original score from the movie was used in places to help add to the immersion. Sound effects for 
 walking and firing weapons are well done, adding the "digitized" effect (acoustic room echoes and 
 phaser/flanger effects) . The voice cast is well rounded, and while the dialogue is fixed and a 
 little campy at times, it captures the tone that the movie did. The writers did a great job updating 
 the dialogue for the year 2003, and avoided some blatant ignorant errors that the original movie 
 script had with respect to using tech terms properly instead of just reaching blindly into the 
 cyber-geek lexicon, eg "Integer the RAM Processing procedure for great megabytes, and defrag the 
 bit byte hard drive motherboard overclock while you're at it!" Thankfully, that kind of speak, 
 albeit hilarious, is not found in this game to that extent.
  The Multiplayer element of the game is entertaining. My only complaints about this particular feature 
 of the game is variety. It's apparent that the designer's primary concern was to create a solid 
 single player experience and threw the multiplayer in as a bread for the circus. The disc game 
 is entertaining, but it's the equivalent of deathmatch to any other game. If they had included 
 a mode that allowed to teams to try an dominate an area by channeling energy into blocks or walls 
 to turn them your team's color, putting an energy pool in the middle for refills, a sort of "viruses 
 vs. antiviruses" kind of mode, that would be mroe akin to UT03's dominate.. or include an assault 
 mode of some kind. The lightcycles are all but useless over the internet because the designers 
 put a ping cap on it. I don't blame them for it, because the nature of lightcycle battles demands 
 split-second reactions. IT would be like trying to play rock-paper-scissors via telegraph. I only 
 wish they could have optimized the online code a bit more to allow for a little bit more freedom 
 for those who don't have a spare T1 in their back pocket.
  With all of this taken into consideration, the game is very polished, very beautiful and downright 
 fun to play. Your 50 dollars will not be spent in vain.
  
  -Brian "FaNToM" Smith 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangler
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 26, 2003 8:29 am PT
Review:  Anybody who is as TRON fan will appreciate this game!! The graphics are amazing. You will need 
 a powerful graphics card to really show off how beautiful this game is. You can tell right from 
 the beginning of the game, that the developers paid a lot attention to detail from the visuals, 
 to having professional voice actors (from the original TRON movie) , to the story and to the gameplay. 
 Even if you never have played the original TRON arcade games (TRON and Disc of Tron) or seen the 
 movie (WTF?!) , buy this game. Multiplayer is the icing on the cake. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
