-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tropico
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/tropico/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 26, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.2, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 974 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: PopTop Software
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 23, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The political wrapper that PopTop has built around the core of the game is sophisticated enough 
 to appeal to all types of strategy game players. 

 PopTop Software's Tropico is SimCity with a deep tan and an even deeper Jamaican laugh. It is Caesar 
 with bananas, rum, and a gentle calypso beat. It is RollerCoaster Tycoon with a little mean-spirited 
 junta thrown in for good measure. At its core, Tropico is just another city-building simulation 
 that's reminiscent of many others before it. But the political wrapper that PopTop has built around 
 the core of the game is sophisticated enough to appeal to all types of strategy game players. The 
 game also has enough heart, soul, humor, and humanity to make it unique.           A college education 
 can make your citizens better workers.    

  Most games of Tropico start with a few people scratching out a living on a small Caribbean island. 
 You step in as their new presidente, with the background of your choice to give you a set of game-twisting 
 traits. For instance, if you come from a moneyed background, you'll have an advantage in industry. 
 If you're a radical student, the communists will be predisposed to support you. If you're Lou Bega -- this 
 is actually one of your starting options -- you'll wow them with your nightclub acts.   

  Armed with your distinctive set of traits and your new bank account, you drop buildings onto the 
 island: housing, farms, cattle ranches, churches, medical clinics, pubs, police stations, bauxite 
 mines, fishing wharves, and cigar factories. Later on, there are power plants, casinos, cathedrals, 
 and TV stations. And there are always the little landscaping touches, such as flower beds, trees, 
 fountains, and the occasional statue to remind everyone who's in charge. Tropico is dazzling and 
 can also be a little confusing in the breadth of things you can build.   

  Similarly, you can choose from a wide array of edicts, which are like the ordinances in SimCity 
 3000 or like spells in a fantasy-themed strategy game. You can arrest someone and bribe him or 
 her, burn books to appease the church and keep the intellectuals in line, or make overtures to 
 the United States for foreign aid. It's entirely possible to play without using the edicts, but 
 they offer a touch of direct interaction for hands-on players. Similarly, you can influence most 
 individual buildings if you're so inclined -- you can set salaries, raise rents, or decide what your 
 state-run TV station will broadcast.           Religion can also help keep your people in line. 
    

  The bottom line is, of course, the bottom line; you won't last long without setting up some sort 
 of profitable scheme, which generally means selling cash crops or manufactured goods or attracting 
 tourists (which is the functional equivalent to letting a bunch of extras from RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 onto your island to spend their money) . But in the end, your success primarily depends upon your 
 people. This is where Tropico truly rises above the level of any other city-building sim. You might 
 be the presidente, but there are a hundred or more folks who drive the action on the island. For 
 instance, to make money from rum, you just drop a sugar farm and a rum distillery. Your construction 
 crews show up and erect the actual structures. Then immigrants or citizens are hired as farmers 
 and factory workers. The farmers plant sugar cane, which grows over the course of the year and 
 is eventually harvested. Teamsters pick up the sugar and carry it to the distillery, where the 
 factory workers convert it into rum. Then the teamsters carry it to the docks, where the dockworkers 
 load it onto freighters. Only then do you finally get paid.   

  All the while, the people responsible for moving your goods along this chain are also going about 
 their business of sleeping, worshipping, getting checkups at the clinic, buying food from the market, 
 and paying occasional visits to the cabaret. When amenities aren't available, they're unhappy and 
 less likely to support you. Different people have different priorities. Some people are concerned 
 with crime, others with liberty. Some just want a nice house or a high-paying job. If they get 
 upset enough, they'll vote against you in elections, publicly protest, flee to join the rebels, 
 or maybe even take part in an uprising against your palace. In Tropico, money ultimately takes 
 a backseat to people.    

 There's a subtle, multilayered web of cause and effect in Tropico. If you don't keep enough priests 
 in your church, a religious general might kick up a coup d'tat. If you pay the farmers too 
 little, your lucrative tobacco trade might crumble like a dried-out cigar. If you neglect to build 
 a school, 10 years later you'll have to pay through the nose to hire engineers from overseas to 
 staff your power plant. If you revel in the details of a complex game system, you'll have a field 
 day with Tropico's intricate social tapestry.           Tropico gives you as much information as 
 you want it to.    

  However, Tropico also has a broad range of appeal, thanks in part to its various difficulty levels, 
 which range from a sandbox mode to sadistic realism. You can select different victory conditions 
 for different styles of games. Tropico can also be played at any number of speeds, and you can 
 interact completely with the game while it's paused. Casual players can crank down the political 
 and economic factors and just doodle around with impunity, dropping buildings and watching the 
 island grow, as in games like SimCity.   

  PopTop has beautifully adapted its Railroad Tycoon II engine to the sun-drenched environs of a 
 Caribbean banana republic. The 2D graphics will look familiar to Railroad Tycoon II fans, as they 
 feature the same sorts of gently sloping hills, rich colors, intricate artwork, and that unmistakable 
 copperplate font for map labels. But this time around, there are thick swathes of tropical jungle 
 and a bustling town full of animated people. This level of detail is what's most amazing about 
 the transformation from Railroad Tycoon II. All the while, a relaxing Caribbean soundtrack blows 
 through Tropico like a cool sea breeze; it's every bit as good as Railroad Tycoon II's rich bluegrass 
 soundtrack. Tropico has as much character and personality as in the extremely successful RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon.   

  The main problem in Tropico is its inconsistent interface. Considering the amount of detail, it's 
 a wonder it's not more difficult to navigate. It's a mouse-intensive game that could have greatly 
 benefited from more keyboard hotkeys. The game's interface squanders the right mouse button for 
 map scrolling. A comprehensive almanac offers a wealth of detail but sometimes buries this detail 
 one or two screens too deep. Some alerts are in the form of letters, but some are only voice-over 
 warnings with no corresponding visual cue. One of the biggest interface blunders is that you're 
 forced to make a choice about crucial elections before you can access important polling information. 
 Furthermore, building placement tends to be more of an art than a science, particularly when you've 
 exhausted your flat land and you have to take to the hills to expand. With no indication of how 
 much flattening will have to be done when you put a building on a slope, you can inadvertently 
 spend 10 years building a simple house.   

  Although the game's random-scenario generator has a lot of flexibility, the eight scenarios that 
 ship with Tropico are particularly disappointing for their lack of interesting scripting. Also, 
 since there's no included scenario or map editor, Tropico's longevity relies exclusively on its 
 random scenarios. However, the random scenarios would have been more satisfying had they given 
 a better sense of accomplishment after playing. As it is, you get a verbal briefing of your performance 
 and a high score on a list. There's no record of what sort of scenario it was, who your dictator 
 was, or how your people felt about you when it was all over. Tropico is steeped in detail, so it's 
 a bit of a shame to see it all fall away when the game ends.           The social framework in 
 Tropico is complex and interesting.    

  All the information available in Tropico about your economy, your citizens, and your society as 
 a whole is a welcome change from games that insist on running things under the hood. The thorough 
 documentation leaves very few questions unanswered. When you hold the mouse over a piece of information, 
 an excellent in-game help system spells out how it relates to the game's mechanics. The numbers 
 and graphs are all there at your fingertips, but they're not overbearing. Tropico is as complex 
 as you want it to be.   

  After an experiment as bold as Lionhead Studios' recent Black &amp; White, Tropico is exactly what 
 strategy gaming needs: a reminder that a game doesn't necessarily have to be weird, inscrutable, 
 or unconventional to be great -- it can get by on charm, broad appeal, and sophistication. Most everyone 
 will find that Tropico is a real pleasure to play because of these qualities.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: benwrong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Tropico has given me many hours of fun gameplay over the years. It is nothing new in terms of this 
 type of game play but you have to love the whole controlling your own island as a dictator since 
 it has never been done before this that i know of. If you like games like Sim City then you may 
 want to give it a try. Tropico is good game to pass a few hours of time from now and then and try 
 a hand at being a good ruler or a bad one. I did not like the Tropico 2 pirate theme as much as 
 the first but it was still fun. The guy who created Pop Top games apparently sold it so my hopes 
 for a Tropico 3 were bashed for a long time until i found some news and Screen shots of a new company 
 that is making Tropico 3 http://www. cinemablend. com/games/Three-Tropico-3-Screenshots-15913. html 
 . Hopefully it will be as fun as the first game was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 12:49 am PT
Review:  Sitting behind a big desk in a tropical climate, dictating the daily running of an island nation 
 has got to be one of the more enjoyable jobs in life. Look at Fidel Castro: he did a similar job 
 for so long, eventually only his ill health could force him out of office (despite the CIA's more 
 than 600 documented unsuccessful attempts to assassinate him over the years) . It is thankful then 
 that PopTop Software has given us a chance to follow in the footsteps of Che Guevara et al. by 
 constructing a thoughtful nation-building simulation centred upon Cold War era Caribbean politics 
 and culture. The game is highly detailed, funny, informative and a whole bundle of fun, providing 
 hours of addictive entertainment. With only very minor issues pulling it down in anyway, Tropico 
 is memorable by being one of the best strategy games of the past decade.
  
  The premise of the game is that the "Republica de Tropico" is a small Caribbean island somewhere 
 in the Gulf of Honduras of varying size and topography. And in this particular game, you get the 
 chance to be the island's Presidente, starting in 1950 and usually running up until the present 
 day. Your character can either be self-designed, or based on a real-life leader, such as Juan Peron, 
 Augusto Pinochet and bizarrely, Jazz musician Lou Bega. Along with attempting to balance relations 
 between the United States and the Soviet Union, you must also keep your citizens happy, by keeping 
 them all employed, housed and entertained, as well as boosting your country's economy with lucrative 
 industries or attractive tourist facilities, along with making sure you are squirreling away enough 
 money to fund your retirement. You can rule with a fist of iron, corrupt the nation with your various 
 philandering, or hold free democratic elections: the choice is yours. Each decision you make will 
 have an impact on your citizens' perception of the success of your rule, and alter their respect 
 for you.
  
  On the whole, the tycoon aspects of this game are extremely well thought out. Each citizen in your 
 populace has many identifying characteristics, such as along with the usual name, age and family, 
 how good their standard of healthcare, happiness, and respect for you is, along with membership 
 of any factions (such as Militarists, Environmentalists and Communists) . Buildings must be constructed 
 on flattened ground, which will be undertaken through the help of your construction workers, and 
 products are transported to the dock by teamsters before being loaded onto ships by the dockhands. 
 Appropriate military and police forces must be trained and enlisted, in order to keep the workforce 
 under control. Farms or ranches must be kept to ensure a steady production of food, and churches 
 constructed to keep the religious happy. All in all, there is enough micro-management to keep you 
 satisfied, but not too much so you feel overwhelmed by how much there is to do.
  
  Staying in power for extended periods can sometimes be challenging. Inevitably, any decision you 
 make will have its detractors, and if their forces are big enough it could lead to civil revolt. 
 Similarly, rigging the elections will result in a blow to citizens' liberty, also potentially prompting 
 an uprising. Managing your international relationships with the United States and the USSR can 
 also mean treading a very fine line. If you are extremely friendly with the Soviets, it could lead 
 to a US trade embargo or regime change, and likewise being pals with the Yanks could precipitate 
 a Soviet invasion of Tropico. All of these balancing acts are fun and good natured, and most of 
 the letters you receive from international diplomats or concerned citizens are accompanied by amusing 
 pieces of information provided by your Presidential aide.
  
  You can also issue a number of official Presidential Edicts to assist with the running of the country, 
 which will grant special benefits whilst they are enacted. A number of these can be relatively 
 minor, such as doubling your citizen's food or introducing cleaner air acts, but others can have 
 important implications. For example, if you decide to issue the Papal Visit edict, you'll gain 
 huge popularity with the Religious faction, but your standing will suffer with others, since they 
 will view it as favouritism. Further, if during an election you decide to have the opposition candidate 
 assassinated or imprisoned, this will dent your liberty rating, but might also make you become 
 more favourable to the Militarists (unless you assassinated a Militarist that is) . Again, these 
 management decisions are always interestingly presented, and hardly ever feel impossibly challenging.
 
  
  Sound is brilliantly done. The game features a great selection of classic Caribbean and Latin Jazz 
 music, all of which gives off this nicely upbeat, lively atmosphere. The voices of your executive 
 advisor, your citizens and also the tourists who visit your island are wonderfully done: everything 
 from the Miami tourist's American drawl to the friendly "Hola Presidente!" spoken by the island's 
 children. General sound effects are also perfectly passable. Graphically the game is sufficient 
 and on par something like with Railroad Tycoon 2, but occasionally some buildings can appear to 
 be sitting strangely on the landscape from certain angles. Details can be ramped up quite a bit, 
 and today even intermediate computers should be able to easily run the game on the higher settings.
 
  
  On the downside, Tropico doesn't have a sandbox editor, although it will let you select from a 
 multiplicity of options concerning the setup of your scenario. The graphics aren't particularly 
 brilliant for their details or polygon count, although they are on a par with Railroad Tycoon II 
 and other such strategy games. Frankly, they are perfectly adequate for what they game wishes to 
 achieve. You could also become bored by the repetitive nature of many of the pre-designed scenarios, 
 although usually there will have enough variety to keep you entertained. To conclude, Tropico remains 
 as a gentle and fun island simulation, that is different enough from the dominating SimCity to 
 have developed its own unique appreciation. With the news that Tropico 3 is on the way, there is 
 no better time to play the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunbrine47
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  All I can say is that Tropico is not your run of the mill game.
  For starters every Island genrated is unique from the terrain to the Dictator tratis that modify 
 gameplay ,to the diffculty options.
  Gameplay in a nutshell is easy ,all you have to do is make money (Luring Tourists ,making/growing/mining/Logging 
 items to sell to ships that in most maps also provide you with labor for the Island) to build buildings 
 that will keep your people happy so when they ,or you want to hold elections they are more likely 
 to side with you.
  As I have stated above the traits you choose (Or are stuck with if it's a scenario) can affect gameplay. 
 Ex. If you choose a trait ,that has a negitive impact on how a Political Party on the island views 
 you ,from the get-go you must focus on making the party happy or when elections are held ,whoever 
 that party leader is will most likely be your opponent.
  If a party Really doesn't like you they will try rebel and try to destroy buildings on the Island (Including 
 you're palace ,If that's destroyed It's game over) . That's where you have to invest in an Army ($$$$$) .
 
  
  
  
  Bottom Line: If you want a Hands on version of Sim City that takes place on an Island and during 
 the Cold War this might be the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanctifizzle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Being El Presidente is no walk in the park. You start on either a scenario island or an island 
 with size, elevations, minerals, and how your citizens behave that you choose. I recommend the 
 tutorial to everyone, even if you are skilled in sim games. When your island starts, all you have 
 is a palace, a couple guards, and an island full of uneducated people. From that point, whatever 
 events unfold are completely up to you. Your main goal differs if you have chosen a scenario or 
 a custom island. If you have chosen a custom island, (my personal favorite choice.) your only goals 
 pretty much are not to get overthrown. After you choose your personality pros and cons, (yes you 
 MUST choose at least 2 flaws about yourself. After all, nobody is perfect.) you get cracking. Every 
 island starts with a dock, a palace, a teamsters office, and a construction office. Most of your 
 profits are going to come from exporting goods. You can export crops, tobacco, cigars, gold, silver, 
 jewelry, lumber, and more. In order to get these goods though, you must first construct these places 
 of business. After you build something, you must then set wages in order to attract workers. You 
 can also choose to set different work policies in order to please the people. You can however choose 
 not to. You may choose to rule with an iron fist and make everyone work 14 hour days for 4 dollars 
 a day, its totally up to you. The more complicated jobs require educated workers. You can either 
 build high schools and colleges, or you can hire foreign educated workers to come to you. The latter 
 choice starts to get rather expensive though. You can issue edicts, or policies in order to please 
 the many factions on your island. There is even an edict to skim a few dollars from all your construction 
 projects and put them into your own personal Swiss bank account. As time goes on, you may want 
 to start building relations with America or Russia and they may share technology or money with 
 you. You also have the option of building attractions to lure tourists and their fat wallets to 
 your humble island. Every 10 years the people will demand an election, you may choose to allow 
 or deny them an election. You can pretty much guess what might happen if the people are denied 
 an election though. When the election starts, you are given a competitor. You can win against him 
 fairly, or you can have him or her assassinated, arrested, or even bribed if you want them to go 
 away. After 50 years though, your rein as El Presidente will end. You are given a different ending 
 based on all the decisions you made and you can continue to rule longer if you wish. The game gets 
 a little frustrating from time to time though. Sometimes it just seems impossible to get to the 
 bigger and better buildings like the power plant or the college. There is just so many little things 
 that need to be taken care of sometimes that bigger and better things just cant seem to get done. 
 Some things take too long to build. Ive yet to build the airport. It just takes too long and by 
 the time i get to a point where I'm ready to build it, its too late and my 50 years is up. With 
 the few complaints aside, this is definitely an underrated classic. Pick it up if you can find 
 it in a used bin. I'm sure its on amazon as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakednb
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  At first I didn't really know what too make of this game, as a die hard strategy city building 
 tycoon type games, I gave almost every game in the genre a try so when I stumbled upon this one, 
 ruling a Cuban island... sound a bit weird.
  But it was only weird till the installation finished and I was planing sun baked streets, and sugar 
 plantation, hours turned to days & days in turn turned to weeks.
  Today, I can't see my life without knowing this game.
  Amazing simple game play, with many issues 
 to deal with, magical Cuban music and hilarious citizens walking around (and drooping dead sometimes..)
 
  you even get the chance to play a spin-off the Cuban missile crisis.
  
  The only big problem I run into during the game, this is of course after hours of game time, is 
 the feeling that your being fed the lot with a spoon, almost every decision you make during game 
 play, is an obvious one.
  Also, after about 50 years in the game (about an hour or two..) you've basically done every thing, 
 your making money, and exporting rum and cigars, and basically, you have no more room on the island.
 
  
  Bottom line, this is a game I've had for about 5 years now, and I still go back to it for a few 
 games here and there, there is not one game out there too beat the eye candy appeal of that beautiful 
 Cuban island and it's weird citizens running around.
  Where as most games today introduce an amazing game engine, or shocking graphics, Tropico is just 
 simple fun and beauty, and unbeatable.
  
  If you haven't got it, buy it tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elsmallo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  It's a rare kind of game that manages to be a history, politics and economics lesson, a genuinely 
 enjoyable strategy challenge, and an escape to paradise all at once. With Tropico, developer PopTop 
 managed just that. Of course, it's a long time since Castro, Guevara et al were the dominant force 
 in the Latin Caribbean, but the nostalgia is still recent and powerful enough to make the task 
 this game poses a relevant one. It's also a lesson in third-world politics, almost enough of one 
 to cause pause before the armchair denunciation of real-world tinpot dictators like Mugabe. 
  
  This is more or less in whose shoes Tropico puts you in- a newly elected (or militarily installed) 
 autocratic ruler of a struggling island nation. Your people are poor, have no food and education, 
 and scrape a living in shacks and farms. You are their saviour, a man or woman with a dream of 
 change and prosperity for all. Will you follow the American model, and create a free-market haven 
 for foreign tourists? Or a Soviet styled collective, where everyone in the factories is an equal? 
 Either way, it's funny how even the best intentions can lead to unexpected ruin, and a degeneration 
 into despotism as you struggle to keep power. A few more years, you tell yourself, a few more years 
 and the economy will recover, the new generation of doctors and teachers will stand up, and my 
 people will love me again. Until then, I'll just have to rig the vote. And imprison the opposition. 
 And buy more guns. 
  
  Of course, you can just start out a total lunatic. Tropico provides plenty of fun paths to dystopia 
 from the get-go. Use police to supress the freedom of your subjects. Send them to work in mines 
 and factories for long hours with low pay. Teach your children that might is right, draft them 
 into the army, and send them into the jungles to crush the rebels who make your life a misery. 
 Siphon funds into your offshore bank account and make sure at least that, when the rebels finally 
 run amok, kill your last bodyguard and break into the palace, you are well away on the boat to 
 Las Vegas to cash in your chips. 
  
  This is not to say that it's impossible to achieve any good in Tropico. With some perserverent 
 and perceptive policies, it's possible to build a balanced society that doesn't entirely disenfranchise 
 one group or another. It's just very difficult. Luckily, the game offers several levels of difficulty, 
 both economic and political, that can make things less of a challenge. 
  
  But this rather misses the point. Played on the easiest settings, Tropico is a fairly basic strategy 
 game- build tenements for housing, farms for food, mines for income and so on. It's the extra elements 
 that add so much more. Trying to survive in office through that tricky period after you've just 
 built your first power station- a genuinely progressive move to further your people's prosperity, 
 but one that empties the coffers- is most fun with a bit of political and economic instability 
 factored in. 
  
  Aside from political modelling, there's a lot to recommend Tropico. It looks dated by today's standards, 
 but is still attractively presented, and boasts an excellent Latin-jazz soundtrack. Zooming in 
 to see a subject go about his daily life, wandering between the shops and avenues that you built 
 yourself, is always a pleasure. Even more so with the interface telling you what his name is, where 
 he's from, where he works and, of course, whether he's going to vote for El Presidente. All the 
 easier to decide whether or not to throw him in jail. 
  
  The sheer political difficulty of the game forces you to need to do this, though, so it's not just 
 a fun feature. You have to know what your populace is like, how many fall into which faction or 
 demographic, how many are skilled or unskilled, in order to govern effectively. Gathering intelligence 
 on the population is just another way in which Tropico makes you wonder about what sort of a ruler 
 you'd make if given the chance.
  
  This aside, Tropico manages to pull off such shenanigans with a healthy dose of humour and no little 
 fondness for the Cold War despotisms of Latin America's past (and present) , saving the game from 
 being too serious. The overall tone is one of intelligent parody, not total farce. It's fun being 
 a dictator, (especially one with the transparent flattery and compulsive gambler traits) but it 
 doesn't throw it away. It's pretty spot-on actually, making it addictive to come back to. 
  
  To conclude, it's difficult to sum up a game that is so much deeper than most. Perhaps above 
 all, it's a shame that it hasn't had any significant developments in the seven years since shipping. 
 Games get considerably better looking, more realistic, and more interactive every year, but how 
 many of them get any deeper to the heart of what it is to play a game? Tropico engages on levels 
 that other games don't even attempt, but it's not hard to think of ways that a sequel could improve 
 on those again. Truthfully, because I like Tropico so much, hope springs eternal. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Tropico is one hell of a game. At some points in it, you just do not know if you want to love it 
 or hate it. Ok, let me summerise the story for you, (but really most of the game's story is crafted 
 by you) , you are a dictator on a remote Caribbean island and it is up to you to keep your people 
 happy. You can also choose to be a communist or a capitalist. Ok, lets sum up it's good and bad 
 points-
  
  Good Points
  -Lots of depth to the gameplay, edicts are fantastic
  -Brilliant music
  -A lush environment really makes you feel like your on a Caribbean island.
 
  
  Bad Points
  -Just plain tricky sometimes
  -Strange glitches occur sometimes, (eg-The freighters that came to my island at the start numbered 
 around 4 each time, but by near the end of the game, only 1 came each year)
  -Sometimes slow-paced
  
  Overall, Tropico is a great game that requires a lot of skill and 
 perseverence to win. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I do like this game quite a bit . The game features good soothing music even though I don't understand 
 a word of any of the songs. They could fix the time flow of the game but isn't that big of a deal. 
 Needs to be faster on your people building and working but that is just a minor thing that is something 
 I would like to see. The game is just about right on difficulty. This is a good game to just sit 
 back and relax to. I would love to see a new Tropico come out in 2008 because I would automatically 
 get it based on the previous ones. So if you like sim games than this one is a sure winner in my 
 book.
  Just sit back listen to the music and be whatever presidente that might float your boat. You can 
 be a ruthless no liberty allowing dictator or a freedom loving hippy president, pretty much whatever 
 you want. Get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Brought to us in 2001 from the souls who created Railroad Tycoon 2, Tropicos Banana Republic 
 was a unique twist on the city building game, which at that period of time were just starting to 
 get a bit too generic. Its a simulation with a cool theme, a charming sense of humour, a quality 
 soundtrack and a very cunning management and political model. And while the beauty of the game 
 rested in the exterior, which was a freeform dictatorship on an island where no one was in a rush 
 or took anything too seriously, under the bonnet was a detailed cause and effect AI, which once 
 the stakes were raised in terms of difficulty, left no stone unturned. It will have the strategists 
 absorbed in a world where you are an outsider and revolution, international interference and 
 economic management are always knocking on the door as you try to keep your job and your population 
 happy and healthy.
  
  You are the newly appointed Presidente of Tropico, an idyllic though developing paradise isolated, 
 at least physically, from the rest of the world. After choosing your background, personality and 
 traits, its time to get to work and manage the nation. This is done through many tactics, strategies, 
 edicts and election (or non-election) campaigns as you watch your care-free population build the 
 world youve asked. This does go on for a finite period, but with updates every year in terms of 
 finance, resources, public and international confidence and general capability. The options on 
 all levels are not only numerous, but well crafted in terms of management as you try and tune certain 
 parts of the world, almost always at the expense of something else. Best of all is you get a score 
 the end, and we all like scores.
  
  Tropico looks like it should be on a brochure at your local travel agency. Whilst only in 2D, Pop 
 Top did a superb job in tuning the Railroad Tycoon 2 engine to develop and colourful, living breathing 
 world. Tropico can be viewed from the clouds or zoomed into to see each zone or each individual 
 going about their business, whether constructing, farming or just taking it easy. The characters 
 look just fine, as do the buildings which have a rustic charm. From small houses to giant hotels, 
 they all look impressive. The island itself is populated with woodlands and oceans and the user 
 interface is simple, effective and unobtrusive. When you have built a large population, the game 
 does suffer from lag, especially when there is plenty going on. However, Tropico looks very good 
 indeed and the opening scene is well done indeed. The sound is also spot-on, with the expected 
 day-to-day ambient effects mixed into the game without any problems and the voice-over of your 
 assistant being on-topic and on-key. The soundtrack is something that Putumayo would probably want 
 the rights for. Its an incredibly catchy Latin / Caribbean mix of laid back tunes that does stay 
 to the beat of the world thats never in a rush.
  
  The gameplay not only works from an environmental perspective, but it also caters for all types 
 of players due to the well crafted difficulty scale. You can cruise your way through the game on 
 the easy level, watching Tropico grow with the relaxed atmosphere of the island itself, or you 
 can be continually tested by the deviously complicated world model of the more difficult levels.
 
  
  You start with your very own palatial palace and a few tin shed and from there the game is about 
 building a tidy little town with a productive economy, a comfortable lifestyle for the inhabitants 
 and with the respect, if not the support, of the foreign powers looking on. Firstly, construction 
 is different to other games in the genre. Buildings dont magically appear with the click of a 
 button of appear once zoned, you need construction workers to actually build the structure. And 
 the have smokos and downtime as well. And while its enjoyable watching these little souls work 
 away, if you dont have enough builders, your structures dont get completed very quickly. And 
 the same occurs for all buildings and businesses, if resources are not appropriately supported, 
 they dont function correctly.
  
  The political model works quite well. You get support form the superpowers (U. S and Russia) based 
 on your political leaning, you have laws and edicts that range from social security to abject totalitarianism 
 and then you have elections to deal with, where prominent community identities will challenge your 
 position to rule. And on the hardest level, sometimes shutting such folk down and calling off the 
 election is the only possible way to keep playing. Ethical? No. But its only a game.
  
  Its the cause and effect model that makes Tropico a winner. Its also one of the few game manuals 
 worth reading, which details all facets and all environmental factors of the gameplay that you 
 will need to address. Things arent simple. You will need to or three different operators to see 
 resources to fruition and to be provided vital funds to make Tropico fresh and funky. And if its 
 all not in its right place, you dont get the cash. Your advisor will drop hints on what your missing, 
 but at times your are dealing with not only economic and social decisions, but ultimately ethical 
 decisions, which on the hardest level, there is only one answer to keep the game going. Its perhaps 
 too realistic for its own good. Just make sure theres enough dosh in your Swiss bank account when 
 you need to disappear completely. As I said, perhaps too realistic..
  
  Ultimately, while this all happens, its very satisfying to watch your community operate, people 
 (in all their charming splendour) work, relax, party, fight and die in the streets of Tropico. 
 Whilst all the hard work and hard decisions are happening in the background, Tropico grows and 
 operates in its own easygoing way.
  
  While I mainly stuck with the freeplay / sandbox mode, there are also several scenarios to take 
 on, ranging from a walk in the park to downright ridiculously hard. There is plenty of replayability, 
 not only in the form of increasing difficulty, but in terms of altering your own standard operating 
 procedures to make your leadership not only stronger, but more accepted by the community. Its 
 vintage Poptop.
  
  I purchased Tropico for $55 back in 2001. Its excellent random mode and challenging scenarios 
 ensures it gets plenty of time on the PC and is good value for money. The difficult levels add 
 extra playability. While its a mighty challenging game on the highest setting, sometimes you just 
 want to make a good looking town, and the easiest level facilitates that motivation perfectly.
 
  
  Tropico is probably like any island paradise. Whilst it looks a great place to visit, no one is 
 in a rush and the President looks almost iconic in their summer shirts by the pool at their palace, 
 underneath theres a lot of work and lot of decisions required to make the island function, and 
 at times those decisions may not always be ethical. The management and political model pushes Tropico 
 above and beyond the games by Impressions and Tilted Mill and as a serious contender to Will Wright 
 for the title of PCs best city building simulation. Its as easy or as hard as you want, but its 
 always an enjoyable and rewarding simulation. Its got atmosphere, charm and cunning. Be king for 
 a day, but a king as you please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opulous
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Tropico is one hell of a game. At some points in it, you just do not know if you want to love it 
 or hate it. Ok, let me summerise the story for you, (but really most of the game's story is crafted 
 by you) , you are a dictator on a remote Caribbean island and it is up to you to keep your people 
 happy. You can also choose to be a communist or a capitalist. Ok, lets sum up it's good and bad 
 points-
  
  Good Points
  -Lots of depth to the gameplay, edicts are fantastic
  -Brilliant music
  -A lush environment really makes you feel like your on a Caribbean island.
 
  
  Bad Points
  -Just plain tricky sometimes
  -Strange glitches occur sometimes, (eg-The freighters that came to my island at the start numbered 
 around 4 each time, but by near the end of the game, only 1 came each year)
  -Sometimes slow-paced
  
  Overall, Tropico is a great game that requires a lot of skill and 
 perseverence to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in tropico is like any other strategy game, you start the game with an island with 
 only a few building like your palace and then you go and build. It is enjoyable building up your 
 island and overall the gameplay is an enjoyable part of the game.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in tropico is good, the characters design look nice when you are zoomed in to the 
 max, the building designs are nice to look at and overall the graphics are good.
  
  Sound
  The sound in tropico is superb; the in-game music is nice to listen too. Everything sounds 
 good and overall the sound in tropico is brilliant.
  
  Value
  This game has great value, it takes you awhile to finish one level so you could a lot of time out 
 of this game and then you could make your own map so that gives you more value out of the game, 
 overall this game has great value.
  
  Tilt
  Overall if you are a fan of Business Strategy then you should try out tropico. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimrhurst
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I can't entirely explain it, but for me at least, this game has INFINITE replayability. There are 
 very, very few games I can play for more than 40-60 hours total and I almost never go back and 
 pick up a game I've finished with. But Tropico I have played at least a couple times a year since 
 I first bought it around release time back in '02. Its simple, easily engaging and visually inviting. 
 The ability to customize your dictator and your island (particularly with the Paradise Island expansion 
 and a few key map-editing tools) allow the game to be whatever you want it to be. You can play 
 with different objectives, different strengths and weaknesses of your character, different map 
 conditions, different gameplay conditions and on and on. There are a huge variety of strategies 
 leading to various victory conditions. And one simply cannot say enough for the sound. The music 
 is relentlessly catchy, spot-on perfect carribbean, with plenty of variety to it. The voices of 
 your citizens and particularly of your advisor add an additional sense of whimsy and engagement. 
 Although there is nothing I can put my finger on as THE magic feature or combination here, the 
 whole is more than the sum of its parts making this one an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarge_Maximus2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Why: In Tropico, you are set as the newly risen-to-power El Presidente of a small tropical island. 
 The game itself is not based on a campaign structure but rather a choice between scenarios or sandbox 
 play. While the scenarios allow you to try for goals that are pre-set in an attempt to gain a high 
 score, the sandbox mode allows you to customize every aspect of your island. From size and vegetation 
 to the level of difficulty you can expect in matters such as politics, and economics, to name a 
 few.
  
  Aside from those few differences, the game plays pretty much the same in both modes. You start 
 out with a Presidential palace where you can hire soldiers, and a few farms where you can hire 
 farmers, and a dock that will allow for people to enter, or leave, your tropical paradise. The 
 intriguing aspect of Tropico is that, unlike many startegy games, the people under your rule have 
 complete control over what they do. They will attempt to find the best jobs and get housing and 
 food, as well as satisfy thier entertainment and spiritual needs, to name a few.
  
  However, though your 'tropicans' have free will, you will find out very quickly that their will 
 can be made into your will. For example, let's say ytou wanted to reserve a certain restaraunt 
 for your soldiers and not for the common folk. All you would have to do is raise the cost of visiting 
 the restaraunt to a level above that of everyone but the soldiers. Which brings me to the customizing 
 aspect of the game: since it s very political-based, in Tropico you will have to remain leader 
 of your island to continue playing. This is achieved however you see fit, whether through strict 
 fascist tyranny, or through a freedom-loving democracy. You can set up any kind of government you 
 wish, and rather than choosing a kind of government, your government is based on the edicts you 
 enforce, and the wages and political freedom you allow. Truly, you can set up watever kind of regime 
 you wish, and if there is resistance, well... there's always public execution. Or if you didn't 
 want to risk an uprising, you could send any protesters to the local jailhouse or dungeon.
  
  Depending on how you treat your tropicans, and upon how well you enforce your right to rule, 
 you may end up with a very stable island with the regime you see fit. In Tropico, there is no one 
 right way to rule, you rule as you please. Though the game did seem to be leaning towards communism 
 or capitalism with no in between. That's not to say there is no other way to rule other than those 
 two, but they are quite heavy influences on your government, especially when your island population 
 grows. But as I said before, there are many, many ways to enforce your rule, and you never feel 
 like you are at the mercy of a game engine. The people may no longer wish you to be in power, but 
 you can always deny elections. Or, if an election is close enough and yet you are going to lose, 
 you can fix the ballot so that you win.
  
  Such things make Tropico a truly wonderful gaming experience.
  
  Graphics: 7
  Why: Not the 
 greatest but they get the job done.
  
  Sound: 10
  Why: I love good video game music, and the music in Tropico is superbly matched with it's theme.
 
  
  Value: 9
  Why: Lack of a campaign may make Tropico a bit less re-playable or those kinds of people that need 
 a campaign. But there's always the scenarios, and the sandbox mode is great whether you want a 
 quick burst of fun, or months of island ruling.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10
  Why: The customization, the freedom to rule how you want to, the unlimited and boundary-less sandbox 
 mode, and the great music all make Tropico one of thebest strategy games I've ever played! If you've 
 ever wanted a game that allows you complete control, this is as close as it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjp15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I just bought the Tropico mucho macho edition so it might be a bit different than just buying Tropico.
 
  
  Tropico is a game developed by PopTop Software. You have been appointed to presidency over the 
 island of tropico. Scenarios range from trying to attract tourists to trying to last as president 
 for more then an appointed number of years.
  
  
  Tropico is (in my opinion) designed for more advanced strategy game players. There isn't different 
 types of materials that you have to "harvest" it's just money that you earn by building different 
 places like farms, lumber yards hotels and other stuff like that. You use that money earned to 
 build buildings like tenements and houses.
  
  One thing i found extremely annoying was the fact that after I had built 3 tenement buildings for 
 my people to live in ( tenements have the cheapest rent and usually your people dont make alot 
 of money) there were still shacks scattered around my island even though I had less than 100 inhabitents. 
 Your people are also very difficult to please unless everybody makes an equal wage all your inhabitents 
 are well nurished and they have lots of entertainment there will likely be a rival to you. There 
 are also elections about every 10 years unless you choose to have them earlier by choosing a diplomacy 
 ( these are different things you can choose to increase your relations with America or Russia, 
 increase tourism, increase education, decrease crime and other stuff that mostly helps out your 
 island)
  
  Once again thought this game is extremely hard so unless you are ready to spend hours trying to 
 build exactly the right building to meet the needs of your island than I would suggest picking 
 up another game. If you are ready to take the challenge I would reccomend getting the mucho macho 
 edition as it is usually pretty cheap and it comes with the paradise island expansion pack.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkplayer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Tropico is a fun game that is very similar to the Sim city games but adds a lot of interesting 
 things to the mix to make it feel new and unique. In Tropico, you play the role of a Latin dictator; 
 you can ally yourself with the communists and the Soviet Union, or join the United States and its 
 capitalist economy. You take the role of the El Presidente and try to keep your people as happy 
 as possible by building churches, schools, bars, etc. which appeal to different kinds of people. 
 So you try to keep everyone happy without losing all your money, because if the people are unhappy 
 or you lose all your money you will be forced to leave.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Tropico proves is fairly good in terms of graphics, supporting both software and hardware acceleration 
 for video. The quality between the two versions is roughly similar, with the hardware mode greatly 
 speeding up the game's frame rate and showing some more visual treats. While zoomed out, you can 
 see the entire island from above the clouds; you can also see rain and lightning happening. As 
 you zoom in, you're eventually able to see individual people walking around, farming, building, 
 firing guns, etc. right down to the signs on the buildings themselves. The only let down of the 
 graphics is the stuttering when theres a lot of things going on. 
  
  SOUND
  
  Tropico has some Latin folk music which fits in perfectly with the theme of the game. The music 
 plays in background while playing and it doesnt bother your play. The only complaint is that the 
 music gets repetitive if played too long. The sound effects are also good; you hear people talk, 
 power plants operating, guns firing, etc.
  
  VALUE
  
  Tropico has quite a bit of replayability through scenarios which can be played out for quite a 
 while and some are challenging, giving the game some extra mileage. Theres also a random map generator 
 complete with customizable conditions. Also, you're able to custom-design your version of El Presidente 
 from a number of positive and negative personal traits, like drinking, ugliness, womanizer, etc. 
 Tropico is a game that can be played for a long time after being done; the only downfalls are that 
 it gets a bit repetitive.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Overall Tropico was a surprising game that provided many new things in the strategy genre to make 
 itself unique and stand out from the crowd. Its fun gameplay and humorous style are enjoyable to 
 see and play. I can recommend Tropico to everyone as it is appealing to a wide variety of people. 
 Simply put Tropico is a unique game that should be seen and played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Here is an example of what a bit of imagination can do with a pretty standard genre. Tropico is 
 way too fun, and if you know the Latin American way of doing politics, you will enjoy it much more. 
 And if you are not, well, you will learn about Latin Emperors and the ways they managed to stay 
 in power for so long (some of them are still in power, and others are rising but planning to stay 
 as long as they can) . It can be educational, as some of you have said here
  
  Apart of doing the day to day things of a typical tropical island, you will have the chance to 
 manipulate the strings of power to enrich yourself and live a happy retirement. One of funniest 
 parts of the game is when your advisor sucks-up on you some times you accomplish something, even 
 if it something very lame. The ability to chose your personality as a leader is just great (I like 
 the womanizer or the booze king, soooo true!) and the free elections are such a joke that you 
 will think you really are somewhere in the tropics
  
  I dont give it a solid ten because some performance issues, particularly when your island is well 
 advance and you have many structures built in, the gameplay slow downs significantly and I have 
 a powerful PC, more than qualified to play the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgue13-2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  There are many city sims avaliable, and most of them are versions of SIMCITY and therefore are 
 rubbish. This is one of my favorites, very involving and complicated with the added advantage of 
 being possible to play as easy as you like, and it is VERY funny. It has a lot of educational appeal 
 and you can learn a lot about political figures in history, and a bit about economy and polotics 
 from playing it. All in all it is very enjoyable and very woth-while. Would recomend to reasonably 
 mature (at least thrirteen) audiences interested in politics and with good sense of humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRaider31
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2005 1:43 am PT
Review:  I bought Tropico when it first came out and it was just what I was looking for at the time. I was 
 looking for a Sim Town type of game and got it. I decided where buildings went. I decided exactly 
 what type of industry would be built where. Tropico was a micro manager dream come true. Plus there 
 where families you could track. People grew up, married, had children, grew old, went to school, 
 worked, & died. The music fit the setting perfectly and was low key enough that I didnt have to 
 turn it off. I liked the policies and the fact that you could play in perpetual sand box mode or 
 complete scenarios. I only had a few issues with the game. The biggest was building time. It took 
 way too long to have anything built, from what Ive read about similar type games (children of 
 the Nile and such) same issue. But, you can literally get up, go have dinner, take a nap, etc. 
 and this is a valid strategy to let your game mature itself. The other thing I didnt like was 
 the occasional disgruntled person who would all of sudden decide that something terrible had happened 
 and he was going to tell the masses about this atrocity. And then nothing happened. Now I never 
 played as a dictator who jailed people or had them killed or whatever so that may be the puzzle 
 piece Im missing. But it was weird none the less. I also didnt like the negative character flaws. 
 They fell into 3 categories: insanely stereotypical, unrealistically stupid, and pointless. I used 
 the same two all the time and they fell under the pointless category because they were easy to 
 counteract for the type of dictator I played. Again, I enjoyed the game. I spent a lot of time 
 with it for a while and will have fond memories of it. But, I could not give it a higher than great 
 rating because I have not gone back to it since I initially stopped playing it. Only once did I 
 feel compelled to get an add on (the first one) but didnt do so. And never have I thought about 
 getting Tropico two. I would imagine they are great games as well but given the time it takes to 
 mature an island. Id rather spend my time doing something else. Cool game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review:  If Castro can do it, so can I! This is the statement you probably want to think about before 
 installing this wonderful paradise building simulation game. First coming out in April of 2001, 
 PopTop Software developed Tropico, a game where it let the player build an island of paradise where 
 they ruled the people. Following up that release, they came out with Paradise Island, the expansion 
 in February of 2002 which gave more buildings and different NPCs to roam your island of production. 
 But everything has a catch, and this game certainly follows the trend. You do indeed rule the people, 
 but you cant really tell them what to do, you have to make it worth their while before they pick 
 up a hammer and leave their house to build the city you want. The game takes place around the 1950s 
 so buildings and structures will look a little older than modern buildings, but it only adds to 
 the style and flavor of the game. Differentiating itself from any other game in its genre Tropico 
 and its expansion, also known as Tropico: Mucho Macho Edition in a bundle package, set out to give 
 the player an atmosphere theyve never experienced before in creating their own island of production 
 and tourism. Which one youd like to achieve more success from is your own choice. 
  
  From the main menu, youre able to choose your route of play, either playing through the numerous 
 scenarios which provide a nice healthy challenge, or play in the sandbox mode where you can try 
 to rule your people for around 70 years and see what kind of a final score you get at the end. 
 Both styles of play are fun and provide hours of entertainment considering the amount of scenarios 
 that are packaged in the Mucho Macho Edition, but most players will want to start from scratch 
 their first time and see how good of a ruler they are. From a list of different historic rulers, 
 youll be able to pick and choose the qualities you want as a ruler and will then have to work 
 off those personalities during the game whether theyre positive or negative traits. But thats 
 just starting off because from there, youre able to choose how large of island you want, the elevation 
 different between each coast, the vegetation, and also the amount of mineral deposits there are 
 where you might be able to extract precious gems for money. There are just so many ways to make 
 money on your island either through production of many different goods including food, furniture, 
 and gems, but also through large amounts of tourism that you can set up on your little villa of 
 paradise. 
  
  But will this island build itself? Nope, of course not and neither will your workers unless you 
 give them motivation enough to do their job. You better pay your workers enough, or give them a 
 nice enough living area for their family whether its an apartment or their own luxurious home. 
 Youll be dealing with a large family structure in Tropico, because of your inhabitants having 
 children and relatives and so on and they talk, oh yes. They all have their opinion of different 
 aspects of the island including entertainment, health, and religion so you better keep track of 
 whos happy and whos not. This may seem like a lot of micromanagement, but through large and easy 
 to read charts, youll find keeping your residents at least content with you can be pretty easy. 
 You just need to please them. But hey, if you dont, thats okay because theyll just vote you 
 off. Yup, every now and then, some inhabitant on your island will run against you in an election 
 and if you lose, you are deported from the paradise or hell you created. But, theres always ways 
 to change the vote, but there could always be repercussions of getting caught. And of course, some 
 jobs on your island are meant for a higher level of education than what the mothers on your island 
 are providing, so if you want to fill those jobs on your island meant for more intelligent people, 
 youll either have to bring in people from far off countries which can be costly, or you can build 
 high schools and colleges and educate your people yourself. You have the choice in Tropico and 
 thats what makes this game so replayable. The different ways to play each time. 
  
  But tourism is something that every dictator/president should invest time into because thats where 
 youre going to be making your money, and ultimately be how youll fill your Swiss Bank account 
 for your retirement after being the president. But be weary, because if your inhabitants believe 
 theyre not getting their share of the money, a high enough wage, theyll let you know and begin 
 to get irritated with you and your dictatorship. There are many ways to keep your people happy 
 with many different political, economical, ecological, edicts that are available to help bring 
 your popularity up before each election time so be rest assured you can pull out a few extra votes 
 before everyone goes to the election boxes. Tropico is a very in-depth game, but with the amount 
 of material, finding the right buttons can be difficult in the interface, but once you learn the 
 different buttons and how to find certain items, youll be fine.
  
  The graphics are of course a little old even though the game came out in 2001, but the ability 
 to zoom in to look at your little inhabitants and follow them around all day is great and then 
 being able to zoom out to get a full view of your island is amazing. The buildings are nicely detailed 
 and there are many of them to choose from to place upon your island, but one thing that might have 
 been better with the buildings is letting the player be able to rotate all the buildings to fit 
 on their roads and alleys in the direction they wanted. Only about half of the buildings can be 
 rotated to fit their surroundings so this can be a hassle if the player wants to create a perfect 
 city on their island. You can build roads across your island, but if it isnt the shortest route 
 to and from their place of employment, your inhabitants wont take it. NPC models in the game are 
 nicely detailed and help provide more atmosphere along with the building structures, but graphics 
 arent the only thing that places the player in the role of creating a tropical setting, the music 
 truly illustrates the relaxing feeling of being on a white sandy beach watching the crystal blue 
 waves role onshore.
  
  From the time the first cinematic movie starts on your computer, youll be listening to Latino 
 pop/folk/dance music thatll put you in a relaxing mood wearing your beach shorts and sipping on 
 your margarita drink as you scroll your mouse across the different sections of your island, whether 
 its your farms producing pineapples, corn, bananas, tobacco or over your business district of 
 your furniture factory or rum distillery. Youll just be in a laid back mood as you build up not 
 only your island, but the morale of your followers/slaves, whatever youd like to call them. This 
 game should have come with a soundtrack to listen to when not playing the game so fans could feel 
 that atmosphere of the sandy beaches, small markets, and palm trees, but youll just have to keep 
 playing, but most people wont argue.
  
  The overall experience youll have with Tropico: Mucho Macho Edition is what you make of it. Its 
 not like most other sim-building games where buildings just instantly build themselves or you how 
 theres no competition for leadership in the city. Youll have to give employees motivation and 
 then some to make them happy enough to keep you on the island and this feature of the game can 
 be difficult and frustrating for some players of regular simulation games. You can be the leader 
 you want, but the leader you are plays a large factor in how long you spend on your paradise island. 
 With the amount of scenarios in the game and the ability to play through in a sandbox mode creating 
 your own world of paradise, Tropico: Mucho Macho Edition is definitely a game that can last you 
 a very long and fun filled time.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
