-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tropico: Paradise Island
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/tropicoparadiseisland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 270 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: BreakAway Games
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Feb 3, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Paradise Island is an expansion that every Tropico fan will be pleased to own. 

  Tropico was one of the best strategy games last year. It took the familiar city-management-simulation 
 genre and infused it with a great premise and an interesting political element. You not only had 
 to preside over a Caribbean island, but you also had to deal with vastly opposing factions within 
 your populace. Tropico had personality, charm, and a robust system of simulated individuals that 
 could be coddled, terrorized, and manipulated in a variety of ways. And it was the first management 
 game in which a certain subset of your population would never fully support you simply because 
 you could choose to play as a fascist pop singer with a predilection for drink.
 
 Tropico: Paradise Island adds a number of welcome new features to the original. The majority of 
 the expansion's additions involve tourism: There are more types of hotels and attractions and even 
 more types of tourists. But Paradise Island also fills in some gaps from the original game by introducing 
 new edicts, buildings, music (another hour of excellent songs from Daniel Indart and Latin Music 
 Specialists) , and Presidente backgrounds and traits. Moreover, it fixes some minor problems and 
 includes a slew of new and improved scenarios to challenge your ability to keep your people in 
 line and your Swiss bank account brimming.
 
 Paradise Island is a worthwhile purchase simply for its surface improvements to the core game. Building 
 construction is noticeably faster, and canceling buildings now refunds the full price. Plus, more 
 buildings can be rotated, and support graphs are shown before you must decide whether or not to 
 hold elections. It doesn't fix all of them -- roads are still next to useless, and you'll still have 
 people taking yearlong vacations from their jobs. But if nothing else, Paradise Island is a great 
 patch.
 
 Most of its more substantial additions are just as great as its gameplay tweaks. Though there isn't 
 much in the way of new industry or housing, the few additions are useful. You get one new industry 
 building -- a furniture factory that lets you make a better income from your preexisting lumber industry. 
 Movie theaters are now available and provide a high entertainment rating. Condominiums, the new 
 residential building, are higher-quality mass dwellings that can be used to house your people or 
 as tourist time-shares. Entertainment gets a few new additions, including a movie theater and El 
 Presidente's childhood home.
 
 The most useful new building is the army base, which lets you amass a large military in a central 
 location while providing housing, religion, and health care to its residents. The benefits of the 
 base are numerous, but the most notable is that it lets you significantly increase your standing 
 with the military faction on your island. It also ensures that average citizens aren't forced to 
 stare at guard posts while they walk to the pub. Building the army base also lets you enact one 
 of Paradise Island's new edicts: conscription. This removes the high school education requirement 
 for soldiers. The other new edicts are just as good -- for example, social security is expensive 
 but increases your popularity and keeps retirees from living in shacks.
 
 Other new edicts, the spring break package and the world geographic special, help attract tourists 
 to your island. Most of Paradise Island's additions serve to make tourism a much more substantial 
 part of the game. You get one new hotel type, the beach villa, and several new tourist attractions. 
 These include a nature preserve, tennis courts, a miniature golf course, duty-free shops, and a 
 marina. There are two new types of tourists -- spring break tourists and ecotourists -- as well as 
 the addition of some Presidente traits, which help improve your tourism rating from the get-go. 
 All of this helps create a much more diverse means of generating income through tourism, an element 
 that was relatively underdeveloped in the original Tropico.
 
 Many of the new scenarios will challenge your ability to attract tourists and their traveler's checks 
 to your island, while others will have you defending against rebel attacks, rebuilding dilapidated 
 economies, and much more. The scenarios make good use of the scripted events introduced in the 
 v1.03 patch, often offering you interesting moral dilemmas that will improve your island's economy 
 at uncertain cost or allow you to siphon needed money into your own coffers. Breakaway Games took 
 these events one step further, adding random events such as storms, changes in the prices of goods, 
 and diseases to the regular game. Unfortunately, these events don't seem well balanced. The damage 
 done by storms is random and will occasionally destroy most of your structures, prices tend to 
 drop much more than they rise, and a particularly devastating plague can ruin your island's productivity 
 for years. These disasters can suddenly present huge challenges in a game in which keeping a balanced 
 population and economy is already a high-wire act. Luckily, the frequency of random events can 
 be adjusted or just disabled completely.
 
 Though the focus is on tourism, the additions to the other areas of the game are just as notable, 
 if not as numerous. Paradise Island is an expansion that every Tropico fan will be pleased to own. 
 And if you're not a fan already, pick them both up and save yourself the return trip. Tropico was 
 a great game, and Paradise Island does exactly what you want from an expansion -- it makes it even 
 better. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Loonic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  T. R. O. P. I. C. O.
  
  Tropical success
  Remarkable
  Original
  Plenty of fun
  Intelectual
  Courage
  Ociport (Tropico backwards)
  
  Fun, with tropico you will have lots 
 of fun ruling, building all the way from an airport to a papapya farm in the mountains, you will 
 also have to build hospitals, houses, schools, factories and many more.
  
  Educational, it teach the player about the caribean life, how was the third world country many 
 years ago and what type of jobs people had to work and in what conditions. It teachs about what 
 type of goverment there was and there still is in the tropical island. Also it teach the player 
 about political leaders and dictator from Ernesto "Che" Guevara from Argentina to Rafael Leonidas 
 Trujillo from the Domnican Republic.
  
  Unique, is unique because no other game comes close to tropico, in other words there is no other 
 sim game that focus on carebean life, goverment, rulin, jobs and culture.
  
  Fun, with tropico as a player you can spend hours and hours playing the game without getting bored 
 or getting tired of it.
  
  
  Great, put unique, educational, fun together and you will get a great game.
  
  
  Disappointment, 
 the only disappointment about tropico is they did not came out with another tropico game, tropico 
 2 is not that old but i a whole different tropico compare to the original tropico. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yapperface
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must own for any strategy gaming fan - even old as it is now. It is simply a blend 
 of beautiful music, decent graphics, and simple, fun gameplay, that's deep or shallow, depending 
 on how you set things. There are so many different ways to play this game, and you really can't 
 go wrong. Fun for a long, long time.
  
  My scores:
  Gameplay is worth nine, graphics are an 8, sound is a 9, value is 10 (very cheap game) and I tilt 
 with 9.
  
  My recommendation:
  If you like strategy gaming at all, go buy this game now. Even in the rare event that you don't 
 like it, it costs, like, nothing at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christiandk1
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 9, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Even if this game is old now its really a die hard game combining all the best empire building 
 games into one, The game consists of a good mix of stuff from other failed and succesefull games 
 into a both easy but challanging game, Tropico also puts you in challange with the amount of years 
 youv chosen, couse its all about staying in power, and who to choose to get friends with. Do you 
 choose the US or the USSR ? What kind of power will you be? democratic? Communism? Damned if you 
 do, damned if you dont. The graphics are not that good and can slow down the FPS fast if you zoom 
 to mouch down, on the other hand the music in the game fits like Meat and Burritos, ( not taco 
 hut ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irvine78
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Tropico, my Tropico. That you were not purchased by every aspiring world dictator is a crime. This 
 game is hard to describe in that it combines so many different elements in a fairly seemless product, 
 and does it with a panache that is second to none. Complaints to be levied against the game are 
 few, and most deal with personal preference.
  
  In Tropico, are cast as the ruler of a small island in the Caribbean during the Cold War. You select 
 from a list of characters (Ranging from Fidel Castro to Lou Bega) , and each one comes with a set 
 of vices and virtues which can be altered to your liking. Were you installed by the CIA or the 
 KGB, or did you seize power in a military coupe, or did the Pope appoint you to lead Tropico? Are 
 you an environmentalist farmer or a military-industrial tyrant? The choice is yours. You are then 
 given tools to customize the actual island which you shall control. Mountain height, surface area, 
 population, vegetation and mineral presence may all be fixed to your liking. Then you select from 
 a variety of victory conditions, ranging between merely making people feel good to depositing as 
 much money in a lucritive Swiss bank account as possible.
  
  Once you begin your rule of youri island, it is free to be run as you choose. You can alter your 
 economy per business (Construction, education, military) , so you can set equal wages across the 
 board or use a more capitalistic approach. The results will either anger or please your population, 
 and the world superpowers as they watch. Over time you can build military bases, universities, 
 cathedrals, sports arenas, media outlets to spread propoganda, and foreign military bases (In case 
 the Americans become too angry with you and try to invade, the Soviets will protect you) .
  
  If the people are unhappy, you can either suffer through the effort of appeasing them, or just 
 have them executed. Either way, you always face the prospect of revolt and peasant revolutions, 
 and occasionally you will be forced to hold elections. But even here you can fudge votes and remain 
 in power, though intellectuals on the island will cry foul. In short, you are as nice or as nasty 
 as you please, and there are literally thousands of possible outcomes so no two games will feel 
 exactly the same.
  
  Graphically, the game is a little simplistic. I personally am not a big proponent of the Sims-esque 
 isometric view that can only rotate 90 degrees, and there are not a prethora of animations to each 
 individual three-dimensional Tropican. But the frame rate is steady, and you can definately tell 
 what is happening by looking at the screen.
  
  The sound effects in and of themselves are a little repetitive (You will grow particularly accustomed 
 to the sound of hammers) , but your advisor, a lively disembodied Hispanic voice, has a wealth of 
 suggestions that are usually helpful. And the music is a real treat: it's all Latino music, and 
 it ranges from a nice light background jam with a smooth bass line to some fiery trumpet lines 
 and rousing Spanish vocals. It is worlds apart from your standard Tycoon game fare.
  
  Considering how many options you are afforded in the set-up of each individual gaming session alone 
 (Not to mention that your actions once you begin a game in earnest are totally up to you) , and 
 that the expansion comes with a dearth of pre-made scenarios ranging from simplistic to damn near 
 soul-crushing difficulty, this is a game that rewards multiple plays and experimentation. I've 
 been playing it for about five years now and there are features here that make me sometimes wonder 
 if I enjoy it more than, say, the Total War series. Go grab this game, folks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
