-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trophy Bass 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/trophybass4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 47 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Fishing
Date:     May 28, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're in the market for a new fishing simulation, then Trophy Bass 4 is the game of choice. 
 

 Bass anglers take their sport seriously. They watch fishing shows not just to learn fish-finding 
 tips or hear about new techniques but mainly to see their heroes reel in those trophy fish in hopes 
 that they'll be able to do the same thing their next trip. They clamber out of bed long before 
 sunrise so there'll be time for the requisite biscuit and coffee before setting out in search of 
 those lunkers who've just begun looking for a bit of breakfast. They endure scorching midday heat, 
 secure in the knowledge that if the fish aren't biting at that time, then everything will change 
 when the sun sinks low and things start to cool off.   

  If you appreciate the sport of bass fishing, then there's really only one marginal excuse not to 
 grab a copy of Trophy Bass 4 from Sierra Sports - and it's that you already own Trophy Bass 3D 
 and the Trophy Bass 3D Lake Expansion Pack. Trophy Bass 4 adds several welcome features not found 
 in the combo of Trophy Bass 3D and the Lake Expansion Pack, and the game's low price tag certainly 
 takes the sting out of upgrading to the latest version.   

  Besides the 22 lakes featured in Trophy Bass 3D and the expansion pack, Trophy Bass 4 also provides 
 three additional lakes, all in the South and the Southeast: Kentucky Lake (as well as Lake Barkley) 
 in Kentucky, Lake Marion in South Carolina, and Toledo Bend in Louisiana. Add these to the lineup 
 of previous venues - including world-renowned locations such as Sam Rayburn, Mead, Okeechobee, 
 Kissimmee, and Lanier, along with lesser-known favorites like High Rock Lake and John Kerr Lake 
 - and this is hands down the most complete array of fishing spots you'll find in any fishing simulation. 
 Spanning just about every region of the United States, the many lakes featured in Trophy Bass 4 
 include recognizable landmarks, including houses, dams, and docks, and you'll also see computer-controlled 
 anglers out on the lake trying their luck alongside you.   

  Another new feature implemented in Trophy Bass 4 is the ability to customize the appearance of 
 your angler and boat and save specific tackle setups for quick access during the pressure-cooker 
 environment of a tournament. It took only a minute in Trophy Bass 3D to set up a new rig, but this 
 new option lets you completely overhaul everything from rod and line to lures, as well as assign 
 a different persona (male or female) to that particular setup. You'll also notice that the fully 
 3D anglers don't simply haul a fish out of the water: You see the angler mosey over to the live 
 well and drop his catch in or release the small fry back into the water to get caught again.   
 

  Most anglers will start out on a single fishing trip, a mode that is also an improvement over Trophy 
 Bass 4's predecessor. The five available difficulty levels mean you'll get instant gratification 
 if you're looking for strikes the minute your lure hits water, or you can simulate the difficult 
 process of using all your resources to locate that special spot where the prize fish are hanging 
 out. On individual trips, you have a lot of control over every important condition affecting the 
 experience: Temperature, rain, water conditions, wind direction, and speed can all be tweaked to 
 create your idea of a dream trip. About all that's missing is an option to set a limit on the number 
 of six-packs you can take along for refreshment after your hard day's work!   

  Sierra Sports introduced its "lure cam" in Trophy Bass 3D, which let you view the lure as it moved 
 through the water. It's an interesting feature initially, but it eventually makes you wonder where 
 all the bait fish are that the 30-plus game fish feed on when you're not watching them. You might 
 also wonder why live bait, such as frogs, lizards, minnows, and even night crawlers haven't been 
 included in the game. The lure cam has its appeal, but after a while more serious anglers will 
 opt to view the game using the boat camera (behind the angler's back) or the free-floating camera. 
    

 The free-floating camera is especially useful because now there's no need to turn your boat in order 
 to face in a different direction: Using a simple key combo, you can spin all the way around and 
 even cast out the back of the boat if you like - just watch out for that outboard motor when you're 
 reeling in that prize catch! Switching between a trolling motor and an outboard motor is simple; 
 fishermen who want to vent after a fruitless day on the water might even be tempted to crank up 
 that Evinrude and plow over a couple of ducks!   

  New players will appreciate the built-in multimedia pro tips, which provide pointers on where to 
 find bass and how to get them to take the bait once you spot them. It's an excellent resource that 
 could almost be sold as a standalone product - in fact, I wish it could be accessed outside the 
 game as a quick reference for when I'm heading out on a real fishing trip.   

  Sierra Sports has decided to support only the Microsoft Force Feedback Pro among all the available 
 force-feedback controllers, and it'll be awfully hard going back to using a mouse once you try 
 it and feel that massive channel cat or a feisty brown trout fighting for dear life. The realism 
 achieved in the force-feedback effects is remarkable - smaller fish like crappies and young bass 
 reel in almost helplessly, while bigger catches make the stick jerk furiously forward, left, and 
 right - until they break water and the line goes slack!   

  Tournaments were an integral component of Trophy Bass 3D, and they're back and better than ever 
 in Trophy Bass 4. Because the multitude of lakes spans the entire country, Trophy Bass 4 lets you 
 compete in either the Eastern, Western, or Central divisions (though you can also opt out of division 
 play and compete on any of the available lakes) . Since many bass fishermen don't have the money 
 to jet around this wondrous land o' bass, they'll enjoy having the option to compete on lakes they 
 could actually drive to, in addition to those they've never been to before. Another new feature 
 that helps you relive those championship outings is a trophy album - take a snapshot when you drop 
 that monster in the live well, and you can show it to your unbelieving friends when they accuse 
 you of concocting a fish tale.   

  Trophy Bass 4 seamlessly integrates the WON. net interface for smooth Internet play, and as the 
 game catches on, there are sure to be more than the handful of competitors that were online in 
 the first week or two after the game's release. The game includes a good variety of competitions, 
 including standard rules where players keep their five best fish caught on each day of the tourney; 
 elimination, in which only the best are left standing for a single day of competition; holes, which 
 is like elimination but everyone fishes a predetermined spot on the last day; and team play, where 
 anglers vie to see who can haul in the most poundage of the specified fish. It's too bad you can't 
 tell what type of fish your opponents are hauling in - it's awfully scary to see a message that 
 someone caught a 12-pounder in a black-bass tourney when you're not sure if it's a catfish or a 
 bass. But of course, no one has that advantage in real life.   

  About the only complaint to be leveled against Trophy Bass 4 is that it's apparently limited to 
 a 640 x 480 resolution. Some players claim to get higher resolutions, but Sierra's tech support 
 had no clue how to do it - and the manual is no help either. Even so, the choice is clear: If you're 
 in the market for a new fishing simulation, then Trophy Bass 4 is the game of choice.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Yeah I know cheesy fishing game with bad graphics but I just couldnt help myself. I was hooked 
 on these fishing games once (pretty pathetic, I know 0 but I spent countless cold winter nights 
 reeling them in. Of course, its nothing like real fishing, but it gets you in the mood. The game 
 controls were easy to use and with 22 plus lakes, the scenery did vary, complete with different 
 fish species and sizes. I used the different vies (boat camera and free floating) and occasionally 
 the bait camera view. I think the boat camera works the best in game.
  
  I found the fishing tips top be pretty good, like where to find fish and how to catch them. They 
 must have had some experts pitch in. Hey wait, how can I land that job?! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
