-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tropico 2: Pirate Cove
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/tropico2piratecove/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 18, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.7, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 447 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Frog City Software
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Apr 8, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of Tropico may wish that this were a more direct descendant of the original, and those who 
 like the new pirate theme may wish Frog City had built a new game from scratch. 

  Tropico 2: Pirate Cove plays like both an add-on for the original Tropico and an entirely different 
 game. But it doesn't play like a sequel. The things we expect from sequels are absent: Tropico 
 2 uses the same engine as the original, with a slightly modified interface and new art, and it 
 doesn't refine the gameplay of the original. Instead, developer Frog City has used the basic blueprint 
 of Tropico to build an entirely new game -- one that exchanges the rum trade and political maneuvering 
 for Jolly Rogers and eye patches. The pirate theme of Tropico 2 is more than just an aesthetic 
 difference, as the dynamics of the game have been fundamentally changed to accommodate the theme. 
 And though some of the changes are interesting, not all of them are good.  

          You can zoom in and see your 'employees' at work.     

  It was easy to overlook some 
 of Tropico's more obvious issues. The game was inventive and gave you many unusual strategic options. 
 As a result, its less successful elements weren't as problematic as they might have been in a worse 
 game. For instance, Tropico gave you the option to be a benevolent dictator or an oppressive tyrant, 
 but the latter wasn't usually a viable option because it was so much easier to just keep your people 
 happy. Tropico 2 doesn't give you this option -- most of your residents aren't on your island by 
 choice, so happiness is out of the question.  

  Instead of managing a small, developing country, Tropico 2 puts you in charge of a secret pirate 
 hideout. You must kidnap workers to create a basic economy of products and services, and then keep 
 them terrified so they won't try to escape. The historical accuracy of the scenario is questionable -- did 
 pirates really manage huge, thriving towns and industries? The morality is even more questionable, 
 and the jaunty music and cartoonish graphics can't hide the fact that Tropico 2 could be more accurately 
 named Slave Tycoon. The amoral attitudes of games like Grand Theft Auto III and Postal 2 are denounced, 
 or at least they stick out, and yet the similarly amoral Tropico 2 has somehow not been commented 
 upon, even though executions, kidnapping, slavery, and forced prostitution are the backbone of 
 the game.  

  Moral questions aside, Tropico 2 has some basic similarities to its predecessor. You must manage 
 a small island community from its inception, building up the basic necessities and then moving 
 into luxuries in order to create a thriving economy. You must build farms to supply food to your 
 workers and then create more-extravagant products such as cigars and rum to keep your employed 
 pirates happy. The difference is your workforce consists entirely of enslaved captives, so money 
 is not much of an issue when creating your infrastructure. Instead, the only significant resource 
 is lumber. But you'll also need iron to make weapons for your pirates, who are the breadwinners 
 on your island hideaway.  

  Accumulating gold is the primary goal in Tropico 2, but you don't do so by trading the goods you 
 produce on your island. Instead, you do so by outfitting pirate ships and sending them out to loot 
 the high seas. While your workers don't need to be happy -- just resigned to their fate or terrified -- your 
 pirates do. You must provide them with entertainment and housing, and make them feel as if they're 
 safe from invasion. Entertainment includes brothels, gambling dens, restaurants, and taverns, so 
 the goods you produce are used exclusively to keep these establishments well stocked.  

          Your industries exist only to keep your pirates happy.     

  The economic system makes 
 for a somewhat abstract game. All the items you produce are used exclusively for the benefit of 
 keeping your pirates from revolting, but happy pirates doesn't translate directly into monetary 
 gain. Only bigger ships and more experienced pirates can bring you more wealth, and as a result 
 the whole system has less immediate reward than a thriving cigar or rum industry in Tropico.  

 
  There are other ways to make money in the game. Your entertainment establishments provide some 
 income, and in addition to snatching riches from the ships they raid, your pirates will be able 
 to take wealthy captives who can be ransomed. This, however, leads to one of Tropico 2's bigger 
 problems -- the interface of the original doesn't suitably accommodate some of the new features. 
 Instead, it feels like a new game was just crammed into an old shell.     

  Ransoming captives is the most egregious example of this: It's just not an easy thing to do. Once 
 your captives are let loose on the island, they wander around at will. To collect the ransom on 
 any one of them, you must issue a "ransom captive" edict and then hunt one of them down. To see 
 where the wealthy captives are, you must navigate a different series of menus altogether. Once 
 you've found one, you must click through three screens to issue the edict and then click on the 
 captive. It's overly complicated and not very intuitive.  

          You can assign your ships to explore the waters around your island.     

  You can, 
 however, just pause the game and ransom off captives as they leave the ship. This is the easiest 
 option, but not very wise, as their ransom value increases the longer they are held prisoner. The 
 downside to letting them stay on your island while their value increases is that they will spend 
 all their time in your entertainment establishments, thus taking up room that would be better served 
 in keeping your pirates content. It's in presenting this sort of benefit vs. detriment decision 
 that Tropico 2 is at its strongest. Many of your establishments, for instance, require a certain 
 type of worker, such as a cook or a gunsmith. Unless you've luckily kidnapped one if these in a 
 raid, you must order a ship to go out and find one for you. This means that instead of earning 
 you treasure or a batch of unskilled workers, your ship is occupied with kidnapping a single worker. 

  You also must balance the happiness of your pirates with the fear of your workers. Some structures, 
 such as the gallows or the interrogation chamber, radiate fear, while others, like the fort or 
 the observatory, help make your pirates feel safe. You can also decorate your island with objects 
 that create order, which is good for captives, or anarchy, which is good for pirates. Unfortunately, 
 these items are prohibitively expensive. A single hanging skeleton costs three times as much as 
 a farmhouse, and decorative objects only work in numbers. So balancing emotions on your island 
 will often cost you more than a brand-new sloop, which may make sense in terms of game balance 
 but just seems illogical in material terms.  

  Tropico 2 addresses one of the major criticisms of Tropico: Instead of just offering a series of 
 stand-alone scenarios and a sandbox mode, Tropico 2 has a full-fledged campaign. Basically a series 
 of stand-alone scenarios strung together, the campaign takes you through a series of islands, giving 
 you increasingly complicated goals to achieve. The campaign is a good addition, though it could 
 have been much better. Each island will be the subject of a few missions, but the buildings you 
 erect in one mission won't be standing in the next, so they may as well be distinct islands.  

 
  The single scenarios are much like those found in Tropico, with distinct goals that require you 
 to achieve a certain level of pirate happiness, a certain level of worker resignation, or a certain 
 amount of wealth. But, as in the original, the sandbox mode is really the heart of the game. You 
 choose a pirate, each with certain bonuses and penalties to his or her management abilities, and 
 then set out to create a thriving island within a predetermined period of time.  

          Famous and fictional pirates are available in the sandbox mode.     

  Despite all the 
 changes to the gameplay, Tropico 2 looks a good deal like Tropico. But that's not a bad thing -- the 
 colorful graphics of Tropico were one of its strengths, and you can zoom all the way in and watch 
 a single inhabitant go about his business, or zoom way out and get a bird's-eye view of your entire 
 island. The zoom levels are a bit extreme, and only one or two levels are very useful, but it's 
 occasionally enjoyable to zoom in and watch your miners or haulers at work. The music, again composed 
 by Daniel Indart, is excellent, blending the Caribbean soundtrack of Tropico with a jauntier buccaneer 
 mood.   

  It can be fun to get your town up and running and send your pirates out on raids, and learning 
 to balance the diverse requirements of your captives and your pirates is interesting. But fans 
 of Tropico may wish that Frog City had developed a more direct descendant of the original -- the 
 mechanics are basically the same, but Tropico 2 is a very different game. And those who like the 
 pirate theme may wish that Frog City had built a new game from scratch, instead of tying itself 
 to the Tropico blueprint. It's a shaky marriage either way, with the pirate game and the town management 
 game constantly fighting for dominance.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WhoAteMeDinner_
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  Hi All,
  
  Only an actual forum member very recenty so I am going to review the best of the back catalogue 
 first. What with pirates in Somalia taking massive oil tankers for ransom recently, I was reminded 
 to resume playing Tropico 2: Pirate Cove. This is a small sub-genre of God-sim / strategy games 
 about pirates. As I mentioned in the summary, I would recommend also owning 
  Port Royale (2003) form Ascaron as this game provides the one gameplay area that Tropico 2 leaves 
 out, the ship combat. 
  Tropico 2: Pirate Cove plays very like the original Tropic, the characters can only be influenced 
 by you as their leader, not directly contollled. So it is all about keeping you're pirates happy 
 just as Tropico was decided by keeping the voters pleased with the you're rule. The gameplay is 
 fun and takes a leisurely pace.
  The music is as would be expected of the Tropico games, very entertaining.
  It provides a fun 
 sea-shanty background while playing. Now of course its over five years old so the graphics are 
 not comparable with todays games but as with many colourful PC games from the strategy genre, like 
 Cultures and The Settlers, the animation always looked cartoonlike which saves it from being criticised 
 too much, it looks fine and the ships in the dock for example are well done.
  
  All in all a very entertaining, gentle paced gog-sim / strategy that has held its charm well with 
 time passing and I think the pirate sub-genre is quite rare and apart from Sid Meier's Pirates 
 and Port Royale, this is really it.
  Tropico 2: Pirates was great and still is and I give it a 9.0 as I was a huge fan of the original 
 Tropico too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chip211
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Hi guys, this is my 4th review hope you like it. I know this game is kinda old but reviews were 
 great so I got it at the Local Bargain store.
  
  Tropico 2 is a fun and colorful game with high replay value. At first when I jacked The disc into 
 my CD-Rom Drive and started the game, a very corny and ugly cutscene was played. I decided to skip 
 it and get on with the game. Another disappointment, the game had this ba, BAD menu. Nevertheless, 
 I started the new campaign. The game started with a nice feel with its finely detailed 2D graphics. Even 
 if its 2D, the graphics are great for a 2D game. In tropico 2, you play as a pirate king and will 
 have to raid seetlements, kill innocent lives, kidnap peole for ransom, destroy entire fleets for 
 booty, and you know, alot more of those fiendish piratey stuff. Being a pirate king means that you 
 will have to handle with all those tough micromanaging. But when you are used to it, the game works 
 flawlessly. Well its cool when you build taverns, restaurents, prisons etc. Micromanaging in this 
 game is tough to overcome. You will have to supply your ships with sea rations so they can depart. And 
 on top of that, you will have to make weapons in order for your ship to depart. Another scenario 
 is lumber. Lumber will have to be cut down and stored in the lumber camp. A courier will pick the 
 collect the lumber and carry it over to the sawmill. In the sawmill, the lumber will be cut into 
 smaller, finer pieces which in turn, gives you resources to build houses, decorative pieces, buildings 
 etc. The same thing goes for rum, beer, tobacco, etc. So to cut a long story short, micromanagement 
 is not easily managable as it requires time, alot of thinking and good planning. The game's engine 
 is somewhat similar to Civcity Rome. The best part of this game is when you look at your city once 
 you think that its good enough. It would look marvellous. You can see people staggering around your 
 town after having a nice round of beer/rum. You can see couriers struggling to carry their various 
 items etc. There is one more thing that is also quite hard to manage, the pirate and captive balancing 
 system. This system is all about keeping bothparties, pirates and slaves happy or they would leave 
 your island. If you have too many gaurds around your town, the pirates would not like the order 
 of your town and would start to leave your town. But if your town has too little order, you captives/slaves 
 would try to escape. But when captives escape, any gaurds around the area would be alerted and would 
 open fire when the escaping slave/captive is spotted. So this game is more of like a balancing act 
 where micromanagement is the key. I hope my review is helpful guys.
  Thank You! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 14, 2004 8:03 pm PT
Review:  In Tropico 2, you are once again the ruler of a small island. This time, however, your an evil 
 pirate captain who is creating an island stronghold from where he rules over his pirates, keeps 
 them happy, and steals lots of booty.
  
  Tropico is essentially a city building and management simulator. You build buildings to make your 
 pirate workers happy, and buildings to increase their maurading profeciencies. For example, you 
 build docks from which you can assign a ship a crew and give them a mission to steal some booty, 
 and then when they come home yuo build them a nice tavern where they can relax and recuperate.
 
  
  But its not so simple, considering pirates don't want to do any work on land. And thats exactly 
 why you have to capture and set to work lowly slaves. When pirates return from missions, if you 
 want them to, they will take prisoners who will become your slaves to build buildings and tend 
 the bars. You can also send for trained workers to be sent to you, if you need them.
  
  To keep your slaves in line, you will have to build menacing structures to frighten your workers 
 into being more efficient. This ranges from small piles of skulls to large implementations of torture. 
 Likewise, your pirates are kept happy by providing them with nautical pleasures on your island, 
 generally placing a few cannons here and there keeps them happy, but there are numerous other structures 
 that you may build as well.
  
  The game goes on as you collect more and more booty, and employ more and more pirates, all the 
 while keeping them as happy as possible and making sure your slaves all stay in line.
  
  Essentially, its the same formula that worked so well in the original Tropico, with a piratey twist 
 that definately makes the game plenty enjoyable and different enough from its older brother to 
 warrent a purchase.
  
  Once you get down the basics of keeping your pirates happy while making money, the game keeps going 
 with the same basic gameplay untill you achieve victory, (or not if your in sandbox mode) so it 
 may become boring after a while to those who are not as into management sims. For those of you 
 who like management sims, this is an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2003 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The GS reviewer was wrong on several points he inaccurately mentioned.
  
  First of all he questions the validity of if pirates actually setup thriving ports or cities 
 like depicted in the game. I was able to find information online about pirates (bucaneers) using 
 Honduras and the Bay Islands as a base of operations in the 1600's. ( http://www. remjourneys. com/RJIWeb/Travel/Group/Honduras/Honduras-history. htm 
 )
  
  So this sort of thing is at least loosely based on fact and it was sorta a goofy thing for the 
 reviewer to make a point of questioning this.
  
  Then on the point he makes about it being overly difficult to do certain things like ransoming 
 rich captives. Yes... doing it the way he describes it is lengthy. However if you play the game 
 for any amount of time you find quick ways to do things. For instance... on ransoming these rich 
 captives. You can do this.... click on the log button    then click the Ransom Captives (something 
 like that) link. Boom in two clicks you have list of all ransomable captives. Pick the one you 
 want to ransom by clicking on him or her. Close log and then hit the small "ransom button the his 
 or her profile below. 
  
  It's not that difficult. You dont have to search for them. You dont have to hurry and sell them 
 as they come off hte boat. This shows me the reviewer either didnt play the game long or didnt 
 bother to really learn it.
  
  Anyway.... the game is fun. The sound and music production is top notch. I wish the zoom levels 
 were adjusted a small bit but they work fine. The game is great. Try the demo and see for yourself. 
 Its worth a purchaes and worth your time.
  
  The city building type games have gotten so boring and stale. This game makes the genre fun and 
 gives new hope for the future of this type of game. I sure hope they do an expansion for it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digggd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2003 8:26 pm PT
Review:  BUY THIS GAME! IT ROCKS! I was not a very big fan of the original Tropico, got very bored with 
 it, was very buggy, and did not live very long on my computer. I almost did not get this game, 
 but after reading the box, it sounded like it might be fun and I was itching for a new game for 
 quite some time. Well, I was very impressed. The game is very fun, very challenging, and improves 
 on most of the areas that made the last one a bore and frustrating. The one area I wish they would 
 have improved on were the graphics; they seem very out of date. Everything else about the game 
 though is very top notch. I am so addicted to this game. I play it every chance I get. Speaking 
 of which, I am going to play it right now. SHIVER ME TIMBERS! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
