-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: True Crime: New York City
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/truecrime2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent soundtrack of licensed tunes from artists ranging from The Misfits and Blue Oyster Cult to the Wu-Tang Clan and De La Soul.
 You can cruise around in a fairly accurate representation of New York City.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unsteady frame rate even on a PC that far exceeds the system requirements.
 Voice talent is wasted on horribly clich, self-aware dialogue and story sequences.
 Bizarre vehicle physics.
 Poor collision detection, tons of bugs, and the list goes on and on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.4, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 580 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Luxoflux
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 24, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if you forgive the flimsy story and derivative gameplay, you'll have a hard time getting past 
 the frustrating technical problems that plague this game. 

  Shortly after Grand Theft Auto III set the gaming world ablaze in 2001, one of the first games 
 to attempt to emulate that game's gritty style and open-ended gameplay was True Crime: Streets 
 of LA. The game left a lot of room for improvement, but it at least laid a foundation that could 
 be built upon in future installments in the series. Somehow, though, with the follow-up, True Crime: 
 New York City, the series has taken a huge step  backward . Even if you forgive the flimsy story, 
 clich characters, and derivative gameplay, it's impossible to look past the myriad frustrating 
 technical problems that plague this game. While the PC version manages to address some of the more 
 egregious glitches that appeared in the console versions of the game, it still doesn't feel like 
 a finished product.  

          You can clean up the streets of New York City as thug-turned-cop Marcus Reed.     

 
  You play as Marcus Reed, a young gangster-turned-cop who is out to clean up the streets of New 
 York City with his own brand of off-the-books justice. Reed is the newest member of the Organized 
 Crime Division in the New York Police Department, and he's eager to make a name for himself by 
 taking down the biggest crime syndicates in the city. There are four major cases to solve, and 
 each one involves taking down the same kind of stereotypical thugs and mob bosses you've seen in 
 countless cop movies. Each case is broken down into several smaller missions that follow the same 
 basic pattern. You get a tip about a bad guy, locate that bad guy, waste all his henchmen, and 
 then interrogate him until he tells you about yet another bad guy that you have to bust. You then 
 head off to do the same thing all over again in a slightly different location. The missions are 
 extremely easy, and it doesn't take too long to complete each one. Since there are only four cases, 
 you can easily beat the story part of the game in just a few hours.  

  If for some reason you feel like spending more time with this game, there are some side missions 
 to keep you busy. You can meet up with informants who give you tips on various crimes going down 
 around the city or who ask you to do a bit of dirty work for them. These missions are pretty quick 
 and easy, but completing them is a good way to make a little extra cash. There's a madam who sends 
 you on errands to take care of her girls, a cabbie who needs an extra driver from time to time, 
 and more. Aside from the informant missions, you can join an illegal street racing circuit or put 
 your fists to work in an underground fighting tournament. As you cruise around the city, police 
 dispatch will inform you of random crimes that are happening in your vicinity. If you want to, 
 you can go arrest or kill the perps. If that's too much work, you can simply walk up to anyone 
 on the street and frisk the person for contraband. Sometimes you'll find things like gun parts, 
 stolen license plates, obscene photos, or drug paraphernalia. When you collar a criminal, you earn 
 career points, and you can turn in collected evidence to the precinct or sell it to a pawn shop 
 for cash.  

  Career points are rewarded every time you solve a crime. Once you have enough career points, you'll 
 be promoted within the police department. There are five ranks to achieve, and at each rank you 
 can earn a couple of new driving or shooting skills. If you play by the rules, you'll earn good-cop 
 points. If you use unnecessary force and terrorize the public, you'll earn bad-cop points. These 
 good-cop and bad-cop points don't have much effect on the game unless you reach the extreme on 
 the bad-cop side of the scale, which will cost you a rank within the department.  

  The basic gameplay mechanics are pretty simple in True Crime: New York City. You can run around, 
 climb on obstacles, shoot enemies, commandeer and drive cars, trucks, and motorcycles, and use 
 a few different styles of melee combat. The default PC controls are just about unusable, so you'll 
 definitely want to map the controls to an analog gamepad.  

          You can be a good cop or a bad cop, but either way you'll be playing a bad game.     

 
  Once you play this game you'll realize why nobody in New York drives. It's just not worth the 
 hassle. You can flash your badge or fire your gun into the air to get drivers to hand over their 
 cars, and you can also purchase various cars if you're so inclined. The cars are all based on real-world 
 vehicles, and you'll recognize them as such even though none of them are licensed. The vehicle 
 physics aren't realistic at all. Cars seem to float around at times, and they don't ever feel like 
 they have any weight to them. Sometimes you'll hit a small curb and be launched 20 feet straight 
 up into the air. You can perform some fancy moves, like driving on two wheels and performing a 
 pit maneuver to spin out a fleeing suspect, but these tricks just look and feel awkward. The pit 
 maneuver is especially goofy, because all you have to do is lightly tap the rear quarter-panel 
 of any car, and it will instantly spin out, regardless of what type of vehicle it is.     

 
   

  The gunplay is extremely basic. You can lock on to an enemy and just shoot until the enemy is dead, 
 which usually takes only a couple of shots regardless of which gun you're using. You can perform 
 a gun dive and aim manually for more precise shots, but those tricks are rarely useful. You can 
 pick up any guns your enemies drop, and while there are quite a few different types of guns, they 
 aren't varied enough to be interesting, and usually you'll end up picking up new guns just to get 
 the ammo. Melee combat is a bit more fun, just because it looks and feels so ridiculous. You can 
 punch and kick your enemies in a variety of styles -- which you can learn at dojos located throughout 
 the city -- and you can also grapple and dive-tackle your enemies. When grappling enemies, you can 
 slam their heads against a wall, sock them in the kidneys, or, if you're stealthy enough, break 
 their necks.  

          This game is full of bugs -- some are kind of funny, while others will drive you mad.    

  The developer did a good job of capturing the physical geography of New York City, but the life 
 within the city feels completely unnatural. There are only a few different character models for 
 non-story characters, and you'll often see whole crowds of the same exact character walking down 
 a street. It's also a bit strange to see the same character model used as a prostitute and as a 
 delivery driver cruising around in a big box truck, or to see a police officer driving a fire truck. 
 The sound is way off too, and sometimes you'll hear a person on the street talk in two or three 
 accents as he or she spouts off random -- and usually very profane -- phrases.  

  Those types of odd glitches are everywhere in this game. Some of the major bugs have been worked 
 out for the PC version, but there are still plenty of bizarre and annoying moments in the game. 
 There are serious collision-detection issues where you'll have to try several times to grapple 
 a person, and edge-detection problems where you'll get stuck on the edge of a platform and just 
 tweak out for a while. Sometimes you'll see a character disappear, and if you're inside a building, 
 you'll often see people running for the door only to stop and tweak out as they reach the door. 

  The graphics are rough as well. It isn't a matter of dull textures or blocky character models (which 
 this game has plenty of) ; it's a matter of an unstable frame rate, flickering textures, and copious 
 amounts of jarring draw-in. Sometimes when you're driving, a car will suddenly appear right in 
 front of you, which makes high-speed chases particularly frustrating. The frame rate is unstable 
 no matter what you're doing, even on a PC that far exceeds the recommended system requirements. 
 Sometimes when you enter a business, the game will slow to a crawl and stay that way until you 
 go back out onto the street.  

          There's some real talent on hand to provide the character voices, but it feels wasted on 
 the clich characters and uninteresting story.     

  The sound is fairly decent overall. The soundtrack includes licensed music from Redman, Blue Oyster 
 Cult, The Misfits, Danzig, Grandmaster Flash, and many more. You can rank each song according to 
 your preference, so if you hate one song, you can give it zero stars, and it won't come up in the 
 random playlist that you hear as you drive around. There's some good voice talent on hand, but 
 it feels wasted on this mess of a game. Christopher Walken and Laurence Fishburne both have prominent 
 roles here, but it feels like they were used for the sake of including some celebrity voice talent, 
 not because their dialogue brings anything to the game. The dialogue in the game is composed almost 
 entirely of the "F" word and variations thereof. The profanity is used to the extent that it sounds 
 foolish rather than edgy or tough. The sound effects are all standard gunshots and explosions, 
 and none of them are remarkable. The vehicle sounds are somewhat varied, and it does sound cool 
 when you commandeer some elderly woman's exotic sports car and roar off down the street.  

  True Crime: New York City is just a mess of a game that should be avoided regardless of whether 
 or not you enjoyed the first True Crime game. The gameplay has a few almost-decent spots, but the 
 technical problems far outweigh any faint hope this game ever had of being enjoyable. If you're 
 curious about what a video game looks like before it goes through adequate testing and quality 
 assurance, then by all means give this one a look. And if you do happen to give in to that morbid 
 curiosity, the PC version is the best version to get -- although that's not saying much.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EdisVenis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  C o o l g a m e i l i k e d i t i t i s j u s t m y g e n r e r a c i n g rpg action and all kinds 
 of stuff. and you have a lot of free will in this game so it makes it even better. c o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l . I l i k e d i t ccccccccccccccccccc cccooooooooooo oooooooooollllllllll llllllllllllllllllll
 
  GGGGGGAAAAAAAA MMMMMMMMMMMEEEEEEE EEEEEEE
  :DDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDDD
  
  i need more characters to complete the submit so
  
  iiiiiii iiiiii iiiiiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii 
 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiiiiiii
  iiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiii illllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllll 
 llllllllllllll lllllll llllllllllllll lllllllll llllllllllll
  llllllllllll lllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllll llllllllllllllll lllllllll lllllllllllll lllllll
  llllllllllllllll lllllllllll llllllllllllllllll lllllllllllll llllllllllll llllllllllllll llllllllllllll 
 lllllllllll llllllllllllll lllllllllll ll llllllll lllllllllll l
  llllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll 
 llllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllll
  lllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllll lllll llllllll llllll l
  lllllllllllllllllllll llllll lllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll llllllllllll llllllllll 
 llllllllllll llllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll llllllllll llllllll
  llllllllllllllll llllllllllllll lllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll 
 llllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauro11223
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is a little bad, with missions and stuff, although i like the "sub-missions" where you 
 receive a message from the police Department that tell you of an ongoing crime and you go arrest 
 the people involved. I also like when you show the badge and the people obey you and that you can 
 use your power as a cop to extort and fight people. Car physics is bad, even the PIT maneuver is 
 very bad, last time i flipped a bus over with a PIT. The graphics aren't that bad, i like a little 
 bit the way the windows of cars break. The music is good and i liked it. It has a player in the pause 
 menu in which you can see and hear the music played in-game. The game isn't hard or at least it 
 doesn't seem to be hard for now (I played only about 3-4 hours) . That's all i can think about this 
 game, and as I said, rent it or at least see some gameplay vids to have an idea of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andre9977
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  I haven't got a single idea, why this game has been rated so low on GameSpot, here.
  
  The game itself is very wonderful, in the NYC (police) concept.
  I actually got stuck for a while, 
 but now I've continued playing the game.
  
  Missions:
  - Well thought, good build-up
  
  Characters:
  - Just what fits in the NYC concept
  
  Free Roam:
  - Good freeroam way: 
 Cars, Bikes, Crimes - all you could want from a game that actually is like GTA in overall, looking 
 over the fact that You aren't a police officer in GTA series.
  
  Weapons, Machinery:
  - I've always wanted to drive a cruiser, that NYC has cop cars Map:
  - The map is huge, just 
 what a good freeroam game needs
  
  Map:
  - The map, a area to drive on is wonderful, that's what a good freeroam needs.
  
  I like the 
 thing that I can drive EVERYWHERE, backstreets, Middle of central park - Where ever. Most of other 
 games don't have such feature...
  
  The game gets a good 10.0 from me.
  - Andre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  at first i thought i am a gangster and a game but im surprise to find out my self wearing a police 
 uniform, god damn **** men im a police again but suddenly while playing the game after finishing 
 my training and police academy and assign and the street i been learn something and also find something 
 that i can choose a good cop or a bad cop 
  now i start to like this game i can extort shops buy some clothes do frisk-kit and plant evidence 
 or buy some civilian car or police car, buy weapon at police armory or buy weapon and the street 
 upgrade some vehicle from civilian vehicle to police vehicle or do street upgrade have police siren 
 to your 
  also you can change the hair style but suddenly i start to disappoint and this game cause i found 
 some bugs when you change your hair style and have a clothes that have caps you will see the bugs 
 i was talking about....................
  also sometimes if you jump to other place not exactly properly jump and the next tiles you thought 
 at first its okay but after a few seconds your character or going down and die or have a few life 
 points damage, also same when you crouch.
  also when your using ladder you can find some bugs...................
  also there are a bugs 
 that you can see, when your trying to go out and the door from a shop you can see the eyes or your 
 character at your back instead the hair of your 
  but any way the game detail graphics are so good i think the game programmer of this game really 
 concentrate at the the game details not and your character an so 
 
  also cleaning the street feels me sleepy but not like godfathers that taking business and rackets 
 are requirement, cause if you are after for the 100% game completion you need to clean the street 
 and as they said and game loading finish 100% will unlock game bonus, i want to find out that game 
 bonus they was talking about that's why i doping this but its feel sleepy while you cleaning the 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  To be honest i was quite suprised with the 4.3 score, granted i can see some of the points raised 
 were valid but even so. True Crime New York City is the sequel to True Crime streets of LA. We 
 seem to leave Nicolas Kang Behind in LA, and are replaced with marcus, an ex gangster turned cop, 
 who is on the path to good.
  Or is he? thats the beauty of this game, you can do what you want. You wanna be a god cop and help 
 people? or be a bad one? and plant drugs on people and extort shops.
  There is not other game out there that is a fully fledged cop sandbox game, which i like.
  The 
 story is Cliche but still there are some twists, and its not all bad. The driving mechanics suffice 
 and the weapons system is nothing below average. In some aspects its better than LA, more Good 
 Cop bad cop features, more atmospheric and a better soundtrack.
  However it is smaller, and its seemed to have lost a cheeky sense of humour that LA had.
  That 
 said NYC is mapped out pretty well, its very detailed and you do actually feel like a new york 
 cop.
  One major let down however is bugs and annoying glitches. The game is full of them, and if you 
 don't have the pc version for patching your stuck with them. Also some poor development leads to 
 frame rate drops on consoles.
  Sound wise however the game prevails, with an awesome soundtrack.
  
  The Good: Soundtrack, 
 Atmosphere, Setting, Good Cop/ Bad Cop
  The Bad: Bugs, Frame rate issues on consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: putiblabla
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Game-play :impossible to equip a weapon what i want, streets are looking boring, no sun in sky, too 
 dark, game has more bugs than game itself.
  
  Graphics :Not worst but can be better, shooting is unrealistic and streets are horrible.
  
  
 Sound: pretty good but so rip-off from GTA. some music is annoying and people are swearing so much. There 
 are very much sound bugs.
  
  Story: classic, boring. every normal people can make better story than this.
  
  Controls: worst 
 of all time. these are most horrible controls i ever seen. Hard to hit enemy's, crappy moves hard 
 to arrest someone.
  
  Please Do not buy this game it is waste of time and money.
  do not even buy it when it cost 1$. stay away this game as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldfool94
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  The game is really underrated. I have finished it and it really brings back a lot of good memories. 
 I'm going to buy it on ps2 cuz i wanna play it again!
  The enviroment is amazing. I feel like i'm in NY!
  
  gr r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r 
 r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r reat!
  t r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r ry it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meekrage
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The missions in this game are just extra and not that great. Don't expect it to out do games like 
 GTA. Game movement and driving can be tweaked for acceptable game play. I find it easier to use 
 the keyboard rather than a gamepad for walking and driving.
  
  If you like driving around a city in a police cruiser busting and beating people then this game 
 is for you. I've spent hours just answering calls from dispatch and cleaning certain areas of the 
 city. You can frisk people at random and extort shop keepers along the way. The game also includes 
 celebrity voices like Christopher Walken and Snoop Dog. True Crime NY has an awesome soundtrack 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazves
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  First i want say this game is almost better than the san andreas it have got better gameplay you 
 can select good pliceman or bad policeman in the san andreas you just be a mafioso nothing else. 
 This game graphic is pretty good not bad at playstation 2 good at PC i like games like that you 
 can go to the shops buy something or frisk civilians sometimes find some drugs often to whore also 
 you can buy cars police or civilians good police car is 15.00$ police equipent 1.000$ 16.000&amp; 
 it's not much much if your carer points are good. Civilian about 3300$ you can do a street upgrade 
 it's just 800. This game is very good and fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  If you don&acute; t think every day on GTA, and you want the same level from every game in this 
 style, than you wont like this game. But if you wan&acute; t a good game, and if that game is not 
 GTA than this game is a great choice. Sometimes you will feel, that the creators wanted to copy 
 the GTA feeling: the new True Crime is in New York  the place of gangs, they changed the main 
 white character to a black rapper, the soundtrack is filled up with rap, and the main character 
 almost 100% looks like CJ. But the story is not the same &amp;#61514;. The graphic engine is quite 
 good, some effects are looking great, and I think the story line is also great. Ok, its short, 
 but you will enjoy every mission in this game. You can also make side-missions, you can train your 
 character, and theres also here the good cop  bad cop thing. I think this is a good game, with 
 a good soundtrack, but GTA is alive, and it has no opponents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazznutty
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Very fun game. Even though the graphics are slightly lacking it really feels like you are in New 
 York City. The game takes a little getting used to but in the end this turns out to be a very fun 
 addicting and has alot of playing value. If you liked true crime la at all then this is a must 
 buy. One thing that needs to be pointed out is that you can get in a taxi to go straight to where 
 youwanna go in this game. driving takes a VERY long time so always remember to take a txi when 
 going to a mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V_E_I_L
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Good game , I liked it but did not play so much... so far. However, game is really well designed, 
 Graphiic is much more enhanced prior to other third person shooters. sound in game is really well 
 like gun shoot, peoples scream, cars noise and etc.
  
  Gameplay: As it is always happening in third person shooters... you are either cop or outlaw who 
 either wants more power and recognition in the street gang life either wants to bring justice to 
 that street gang life and sweep that stuff from the streets of New York City.
  By the way city itself really well designed there are a lot similarity between real and electronical 
 New York City.
  
  Well in this case you are the cop, who wants to defeate his enemies, gang bands, and bring jusitce 
 to the streets. you gonna have a lot of weapons and bag with full of life :) ) )
  
  So enjoy your judgment!!!
  
  Save hostiles and lifes, bring a justice to the world of virtual 
 by just clicking on a few butons of keyboard. Sounds easy but you got the long way to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreig_jones
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  One size fits all - is definitely not true as especially in the field of gaming.
  That's why we have so many genres - RPG DM FPS Strategy & recently we have open-ended game play 
 courtesy Grand Theft Auto.
  Grand Theft Auto took the gaming world by storm with its open-ended ness.
  From that time on 
 many games have tried to bank on this winning strategy. Total Overdose was one of them & now we 
 have True Crime.
  This is a port from PS2. So it is fair to expect some PS2 flavor reminiscent in it.
  But this 
 game fails to deliver dismally. 
  But before jumping to conclusions & passing a judgment we have to consider a tiny bit of info that 
 I started with.
  People are different, so are their tastes. So what appeals to me is worthless for others.
  It 
 is to be understood clearly that I am a hardcore DM fan & I see from that perspective.
  There are thousands of reviews for every game but nobody bothers to say what type of gamer they 
 are before writing a review. 
  This should be made into an option in Gamespot to allow the readers to see from the writers perspective.
 
  For example, I read many people write bad reviews for DOOM3 giving it 3 or even 1.5 but just ask 
 them what they love playing. Most would say Diablo II, Prince of Persia, Age of Empires . These 
 are RPG, Strategy fans writing reviews for DOOM3. They know nothing of what the rush of blood fells 
 like, never played a DM in their whole life. So do we take what they say  yes, only if I am too 
 a strategy guy but absolutely not if I am a FPS lover.
  So before writing a review we must clearly state what is our fav genre of gaming.
  My genre is 
 FPS & DM.
  
  So as I was saying before this game fails to deliver dismally. As a FPS I like to see some hardcore 
 brawling. GTA, Total Overdose both has plenty of it. This game is tough from the outright & the 
 most impossible thing happened that never happened to me in my whole gaming career, whole 7 years 
 of fit. I failed the TUTORIAL mission the first time round. Time over its what its called in this 
 game  True Crime. Dont the developers realize this is PC game and the PS2 culture doesnt apply 
 here? Of course we had time limited games in PC in the past - but for every level :o I think thats 
 too far fetched to demand from a PC gamer. And look at the time they give hardly four minutes.
 
  
  The very first level starts with a time limit of 4 mins within which I had to reach my deputy s 
 office. With no directions to help & map tucked away 3 levels deep were the developers thinking 
 that I would yo-yo between that map & the game & still find my way out. Not a single word is wasted 
 to lower the learning curve. We play to have FUN. If we have to waste good part of our time figuring 
 out how the game works the FUN part is quietly stripped off what we are left with is pure frustration. 
 
  The only good part I saw is the cars  they are good to handle & run really fast.
  But if we really want to have fun with cars we would play NFS, & Total Overdose (It really has 
 some cool Car stunts to play around) . 
  We will not go around to buy a game just because the cars are good. And no matter how much the 
 cars are banged against objects, they just refuse to suffer even a scratch.
  This is based on GTA so it is supposed to be vast & open. It is vast but the time limit cripples 
 the game. If the levels are vast we should be allowed ample time to navigate it.
  I didnt even go three blocks when it times out. Is this a game or a race ?
  For average gamer 
  You just cant beat the time limit set by the game in less than three tries. For me thats more 
 than I can tolerate  12 mins of nothing .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  After having played the original True Crimes game, I couldn't wait to get my hands on New York 
 City, and blaze through like Jackie Chan on steroids. However, to my great dissapointment, the 
 game failed to live up to even my lowest expectations.
  
  The game starts off well enough, with a storyline that could have been taken from any hard hitting 
 action movie to date. However, as soon as the gameplay started is when things went horribly wrong. 
 Being a port from the console version of the game, it doesn't handle mouse support very well at 
 all. The fact that when you move the mouse, the screen hardly moves at all is a testament to that. 
 Considering that the game requires mouse input for shooting/aiming, it makes the game nearly impossible 
 to play. Another annoying factor is the useless configuration of the mouse and keyboard, which 
 makes the game surprisingly hard to play. Also, in order to change your settings, you must exit 
 the game, and launch the setup. Annoying huh?
  
  The graphics look fairly sharp, however, on a PC that heavily surpasses the recommended system 
 requirements, the game likes to lag as soon as you're outside. Although the lag isn't enough to 
 keep you from playing, it is enough to consider hitting the exit button.
  
  The one and only redeeming feature of this mess is the excellent sound. Breathtaking voice over 
 cast, and an awesome soundtrack make you cringe that they have been wasted on such a game.
  
  I really wanted to like this game, but unfortunatley, it is impossible. Stay away at all costs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  When True Crime: Streets of LA came out in 2003 it received a lot of flak for its tired formula, 
 lackluster storyline and unlikeable main character. Even with that, it was still a passable shooter 
 that stuck to the basics. The sequel, True Crime: New York City, tries to turn the series in a 
 new direction with a fresh setting but players will recognize the same old problems and some new 
 ones to boot.
  
  On the streets of New York crime is on the rise and gangsters run drugs under the nose of the police. 
 In the middle of it all is Marcus Reid, a former gang banger-turned cop. When his life on the streets 
 is suddenly thrust into chaos an old family friend aids Reid and covers up his misdeeds. Taking 
 control of his life, he becomes one of New Yorks finest and when a bomb takes his partner out 
 Reid takes to the streets to investigate whispers of a possible police traitor.
  
  His investigation takes him up and down Manhattan Island chasing down a wide spectrum of stereotyped 
 bad guys. Italian Mafioso, drug-dealing ghetto homeboys and suave Asian businessmen all come under 
 the gun as Reid deals out his own unique brand of justice. The main story missions parallel one 
 another and are a simple mix of gun fighting and hand-to-hand combat. At the start of each mission 
 youre tasked with collecting evidence, battling through series of henchmen and interrogating their 
 leader for information. A few boss battles here and there mix up the action but dont add much 
 since the combat is a simple affair.
  
  Due to the inclusion of the console auto-aim system you can quickly dispatch bad guys with a few 
 shots. Auto-aim is complimented by a slow-motion zoom-aiming ability that allows you to aim for 
 specific parts of the body like the head, elbow or knee and causes death or the disabling of a 
 suspect. You have the option of using some rudimentary moves like crouch, wall-hide, peeking and 
 a fancy gun-dive maneuver but using them isnt necessary. Youll use these tactics while running 
 from room to room defeating pre-scripted enemies that charge in to engage you. The weirdest part 
 is that of the many guns featured in the game, caliber doesnt seem to be a factor. Large assault 
 rifles dispatch enemies in the same time as smaller handguns.
  
  There are, however, certain situations where you wont have access to guns and fists will have 
 to suffice. New York City includes a basic fighting system that includes a grapple and both light 
 and heavy attacks. A few combos are available and after a quick succession of punches your target 
 may become dazed, which gives you the opportunity to perform a slow-motion finishing move. Melee 
 weapons can also be utilized and unlike firearms vary in damage. Theres not much depth to it but 
 youll only be using it when required by the game. When fighting youll notice that rapidly tapping 
 the attack buttons is all thats necessary to succeed.
  
  If New York City has anything going for it its the large re-creation of Manhattan Island that 
 Reid patrols. The main missions, which take roughly four hours to complete, are only one aspect 
 of the game and are only played at will. If you dont want to head to a "major case location" then 
 youre free to explore the city. The game encourages this by creating random crimes in your vicinity 
 that can be taken on or left alone. Crimes vary from hostage crisis to road rage victims to serial 
 rapists. Occasionally these crimes will lead to sub-plots such as a car-theft ring or stolen goods 
 racket. The catch is that those are the only scenarios in the game. Youll find yourself listening 
 to the same dialogue all over again contemplating the fact that youve already taken out the "out-of-state 
 car-theft ring" umpteen times.
  
  
  
  For every crime you resolve youll receive career points that increase your rank. Every rank increase 
 gives you access to different weapons, cars and gameplay mechanics like a double zoom, all of which 
 can be purchased. Depending on how you solve the crimespeacefully or forcefully, death or arrestdetermines 
 whether you get good or bad cop points. Theres no real reason for the points except a different 
 ending and the occasional reduction in rank for an excessively rotten cop.
  
  Besides tackling crime there are a bevy of other things to do. You can help out a time-strapped 
 cabbie by running his cab to earn extra dough, assist your incarcerated father in settling his 
 street business or visit local brothels for the latest word on the street from informants. Theres 
 a whole lot for you to do if you can stomach the bugs.
  
  True Crime wouldnt be nearly as painful to play if it wasnt for and infestation of bugs. You 
 first notice it driving around the city. Vehicles feel like they have almost no weight and until 
 you adapt driving is an absolute horror. Cars will leap off the ground from things as small as 
 a sidewalk curb and if youre onto embankments your vehicle will flip through the air several times. 
 Sometimes this causes you to land on the cars nose and spin around like a top. When thats finished 
 you may fly into the side of an underpass and rocket back to the ground. Its like the worst pinball 
 game ever made with your car as the ball. It happens regularly and may leave you with an ungodly 
 desire to use the games public transportation.
  
  There are also some non-vehicular bugs that will stand out and make playing a chore. The targeting 
 reticle, when zooming in has a nasty habit of jumping to random objects when manually aiming. While 
 climbing down from objects Reid doesnt instantly fall; he floats in mid-air on an invisible plane 
 and only comes down after repeated jumping or crouching. When jumping, Reid may get hung up on 
 an invisible object, which stops him in mid-air and causes him to crash to the ground. Sometimes 
 it results in death and sometimes theres no health loss.
  
  More unforgivable than anything is the games inconsistent frame rate. Outdoor environments are 
 fine and will flow smoothly but running indoors will cause the game to grind at an abhorrently 
 slow pace. The reason for the flawless outdoor framerate may lie in the abysmal draw distances. 
 As you travel down roads youll see buildings to the left and right with nothing but empty space 
 and clouds in front. Damaged cars will be drawn brand new if they get far enough ahead. Its true 
 that graphics arent everything but in New York City they arent much of anything.
  
  Perhaps the only thing that was done right was the audio. New York City features dozens of tracks 
 that span several music genres. Hip-hop, alternative rock and punk are all represented. My Chemical 
 Romance, Interpol, Busta Ryhmes, Bob Dylan and Biz Markie are a small list of the artists that 
 you can rock out to while cruising the streets. A simple favorites system locks in which music 
 you prefer and will increase its chances of getting played. Sound effects dont fair quite as well 
 and while explosions and smashed glass sound decent enough, gunfire is laughable. Sub-machine guns 
 and pistols have the ferocity of a nerf gun and sound more like air pistols.
  
  The fact that there was money invested in this game and how much better it should have turned out 
 is evidenced by the talent hired to voice the characters. Christopher Walken, Lawrence Fishburne 
 and Mickey Rourke are the most noticeable actors and add some credibility to the cast. Overall 
 there arent many complaints about their performances although a few bits, like Walkens forced 
 humor, leave a bit to be desired.
  
  This writer wanted to like this game, really. The first few minutes showed promise and what looked 
 like a decent third-person action game. As more was revealed, however, numerous bugs caused the 
 game to become unbearably frustrating. True Crime: New York City was a decent effort but this PC 
 port needed much more work and attention to detail to be completely playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khalid_power
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 8, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the game because it has wonderfull police chases and amazing arrests. You can give 
 tickets, arrest and search individuals or cars. The only this bad about this game is its senarios 
 (missions) and unrealistic because your a cop but you can't call for backup what so ever.
  
  If the producers makes a patch which will allow the players to call for back up in the game 
 and will fix the bugs in the game it will be the best game ever. If they dont do those two things 
 then dont waste your time buying the game.
  
  Get the game and judge what do you think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrautava
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  I have seen better quality in games released 4 years ago 
  and even some freeware games looks better.
  And the camera? I will not even go there... (blind 
 spots, black corners...)
  
  Sounds:
  Only good thing in this game. I like hip hop, so it was nice to hear Nas, GangStarr 
  and others 
 when I was playing. (without winamp runing in bakcground)
  And second thing was that there was lot of songs in the game.
  
  Story:
  Well... What I play 
 this game, the story was only there that it will learn you how to play.
  
  General:
  I play this game for 4 days and it crash 3 times and there was some big problames with my ATI card, 
 
  or then it was just an bug in the game. There was these weird lines in my screen...
  (only with this game)
  
  Maybe I have too slow PC. (AMD Athlon 64 3500+, 1024mb DDR, Radeon 
 x800 XL 256)
  
  So I think I will try this again after first or second patches what will bee released...
  
 
  Score: 4 (2 point for music and rest of them for pity)
  
  Some lines my friends said to me after testing this game:
  - There is better games in discount 
 shelves in your local stores.
  ( agreed )
  - If u want to play this in your pc, u need to have 3 arms.
  ( agreed also )
  
  -nrautava 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  True Crime: Streets of LA was a great game but needed to be polished. New York City only made it 
 gleam a bit. The game is awesome but poor mechanics made it a little dissapointing. First of all, 
 in one of the levels, when you must interrogate the pimp P. Lincoln he sends 4 men over the table 
 to shoot at you. Sadly, the other two don't do anything. Their like Willy Wonka's chcolate, just 
 reach out and grab it. They just sit there while you jump on their face. In one disatrous bug, 
 you must throw a chinese dude of a carrier box. You follow the on-screen buttons but it doesn't 
 work!! If you read my review, don't panic. Hit the button together with the A button together real 
 fast and you should throw him off in no time! The fighting is okay but only one finishing move 
 per style is pretty bad. But its nothing to complain about. Get this game now!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlameAlpha
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  this game fails to give the "joyride" feeling that gta gives, that is it's main reason for being 
 a mediocre game, while the story is better then the san andreas story, ( some disagree ) , general 
 feeling is like playing gta3 after you already finished all of the newer games in the series , 
 so
  the gameplay isn't good enough to keep up.
  one city - one repetitive look.
  graphics - pc ps2, xbox = not good.
  controls - console conversion to pc, not good!
  tilt - 
 you get to be a cop
  value - no reason why you should get this , you can get any gta game instead =
  see classification 
 - almost, but not quite.
  
  (reviewed on a high-end system)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  In true crime new york city you play as Marcus Reed, former thug who now is a cop. 
  
  in the beginning you begin like a greenhorn cop with a greenhorn car. and what you see is that 
 the driving is really bad in this game. the driving physichs is really bad. when you go too a place 
 where there is a jump the car wont react at all and thats really bad. you can also sometimes go 
 right through a car. and it doesnt that much feel like theres any difference in them. they will 
 have almost the same speed and it is really bad. There are also some frame rate problems the first 
 ten minutes always when you play, its really is a laggy mess. Also you car will fly up 20 m up 
 in the air for nothing sometimes thats really sad. there is also some glitches people will spawn 
 out of nowhere sometimes. also if your inside a house when people try too run out of the building 
 they will often get stuck. and the missions you do look too similar too. its always the same missions 
 like gun wielding employee, grand theft auto, drunk people, fighting bunches yeah and some more 
 it gets more and more boring every time. 
  
  Sometimes you will also do missions some of them are really good. especially when you help that 
 FBI dude in the main missions. its fun. but its too easy. you just have too auto aim a guy and 
 hes dead. when you help the taxi guy the missions are way too much reptetive. one time i did the 
 exact same missions. and most of those missions are piece of cake. and you will also help your 
 father sometimes they are actually kind of fun and they are not that repetetive. and then you have 
 too help a woman, she gives you easy missions. all of them are just way too easy. whats cool is 
 when you shot the hell out of a guy and he loses his legs thats really good. and his leg wont go 
 away either. whats also good is that you can use any gun you find, uzi, rpg and much more. you 
 can also use swords and sledgehammers and stuff like that. 
  
  The graphics in True crime isnt quite a looker. and those frame rate problems are really bad for 
 a game that doesnt look too good. also when its raining and its day man then it just looks ugly. 
 at night the game look somewhat good you will see merchandise and stuff on walls and it does look 
 quite look well. the characther faces actally look quite good. there is some ugly places here and 
 there but its ok. detail on stuff doesnt look too good. stuff like forests looks very ugly, the 
 menu, like the controls menu isnt too good you will just bearly see what button is what. overall 
 the graphics in this game is OK.
  
  And then we have the sound. you will hear music like LL Cool J and much more and whats good in 
 this game is that the soundtracks have a great varety. you will hear Metal, Classic, Rap, Rock, 
 Pop and techno. but the car sounds are bad as i said, you will bearly hear any sound from the car, 
 how the motor is and stuff. and people will say the same thing over and over. and those words are 
 always stupid like "Im civilizised" and most of the time they are angry everybody is cussing at 
 eachother not a single person has something nice too say and its damn irritating. Charachter voices 
 like Marcus is pretty good but in almost every mission the person who talked too him would say 
 something and every time he says "Je je what is it now" or something. people like that taxi driver 
 sounds great hes funny too listen too. and Marcus Pap and the women all sound ok. they will say 
 stuff that matters. overall the Sound in this game is Good.
  
  The value in this game isnt too good. its 30 bucks and that is a little bit too much there is no 
 multiplayer either. you can play through the game in 25 hours and you wont fell for playing through 
 it again. not fun too play the same mission again. because they are not anything special its like 
 its fun one time but the second time you say no thx im kinda tired. overall its an ok buy for 30 
 bucks. but there could be so much more.
  
  The game got frame rate problems, car physhics are bad, the graphics is outdated, not much varety 
 in sound, plenty off glitches, only 25 hours. but you will get an overall fun game its fun too 
 shoot the leg off a guy and stuff. and most of the missions are fun the first time. so what do 
 i say i will say if you dont expect grand theft auto, and you dont want top graphics, ill say what 
 the hell rent the game atleast its fun and enjoyable. just remember all the problems i said above.
 
  
  ITS YOUR CHOISE PAL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  Nice game , I liked it but did not play so much... so far. However, game itself really well designed, 
 Graphiic is much more enhanced prior to other third person shooters. sound in game is reall as 
 well. gun shoot, peoples scream, cars noise and etc. 
  
  Gameplay: as it is always happening in third person shooters... you are either cop or outlaw who 
 either wants more power and recognition in the street gang life either wants to bring justice to 
 that street gang life and sweep that stuff from the streets of New York City.
  By the way city itself really well designed there are a lot similarity between real and electronical 
 New York City.
  
  Well in this case you are the cop, who wants to defeate his enemies, gang bands, and bring jusitce 
 to the streets. you gonna have a lot of weapons and bag with full of life :) ) )
  
  So enjoy your judgment!!!
  
  Save hostiles and lifes, bring a justice to the world of virtual 
 by just clicking on a few butons of keyboard. Sounds easy but you got the long way to go!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
