-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: True Crime: Streets of LA
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/truecrimestreetsofla/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 7.1, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 676 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Luxoflux
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     May 11, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
True Crime is a game that really lacks polish and, in some cases, feels unfinished. 

  As video games become more and more complex and realistic-looking, game developers are starting 
 to look toward other media for inspiration. No longer is game creation as simple as inventing a 
 character, creating a world, and plotting out a mess of sprites. With the increased power of today's 
 platforms, game developers have to consider the best way to keep players immersed in a game's world -- a 
 process that touches everything from the gameplay to the graphics to the soundtrack. This sort 
 of suspension-of-disbelief approach to design is something that moviemakers cope with every day, 
 so it's really only natural for game developers to, at least, glance in that direction for a pointer 
 or two. Activision and Luxoflux did more than simply take a glance with their latest game, True 
 Crime: Streets of LA. The game itself is merely a vehicle for a premise and a plot that could have -- and 
 practically has been -- done as a modern day action movie, full of clichs, catchphrases, and 
 leap-of-faith twists and turns. Unfortunately, the game's transition from console to PC wasn't 
 handled as smoothly as you might have expected, thus leaving a game that was already a little uneven 
 feeling a little broken in some spots.  

          With his smarmy and annoying chatter, Nick Kang is a pretty annoying protagonist.     

 
  OK, action movie aficionados, stop us if you've heard this one before. In True Crime, you take 
 on the role of a Los Angeles police officer, suspended indefinitely for unspecified infractions 
 that have you classified as a "loose cannon" that no one else on the force wants to work with. 
 But when the triads and the local Russian gangs start working together, you -- and your tough, reckless 
 take on everyday police work -- are the LAPD's only hope. After quickly offending your new female 
 partner by calling her a secretary and asking her to get you coffee, you take to the streets to 
 set about solving this crime "your way." Along the way, you'll uncover some deep conspiracies, 
 attempt to rescue your kidnapped brother, and even find out the  truth  about what happened to 
 the father you barely knew -- who, of course, was also an LA police officer who happened to vanish 
 while investigating a particularly tough case. By the end, you'll have caused several things to 
 explode, engaged in high-speed car chases, and shot holes in or broken the necks of just about 
 every hardened criminal in the City of Angels. The story writers have managed to create a fairly 
 genuine, albeit somewhat generic, take on the B-rate action movie plot.  

  In this action movie script, you'll play the role of Nick Kang, a recently reinstated cop. Unfortunately, 
 the story's first problem surfaces almost immediately: Nick is almost completely unlikable. His 
 alienation of his partner doesn't come across with the same happy-go-lucky-go-crazy nature of, 
 say,  Lethal Weapon 's Martin Riggs. Instead, Kang just comes across as an unnecessarily cocky 
 jerk from start to finish. His dialogue is stale, cheesy, smarmily delivered, and, in many cases, 
 ripped from other movies. The way the character leans on catchphrases that aren't his (expect to 
 hear him say such lines as, "See this? This... is my  boomstick !" or "'Tis but a flesh wound!") 
 takes you out of True Crime's world and is, in a nutshell, really dumb. That said, Kang's own one-liners 
 aren't really any better at keeping things moving, and, overall, the lame main character is one 
 of the game's larger problems.  

  While on the surface True Crime appears to be touching the same territory as Rockstar's Grand Theft 
 Auto games, Luxoflux's game really has a lot more in common with Gathering's story-driven genre-crosser, 
 Mafia. All three games give you wide-open spaces to drive around in. In fact, True Crime models 
 240 square miles of the Los Angeles area with a pretty high level of accuracy -- except for the traffic, 
 which is practically nonexistent. However, like Mafia, True Crime doesn't really lend itself well 
 to aimless driving unless you're interested in seeing if your own personal Los Angeles landmarks 
 have been included in the game. The game always gives you a place to go, but the story unfolds 
 in a branching, yet ultimately linear, fashion. You'll receive one of three endings upon completing 
 the game's final chapter, and, if you're really crafty, you can even unlock Snoop Dogg as a playable 
 character with his own mode, or you can unlock a series of characters from other Activision games, 
 like Pitfall Harry, Rikamaru from Tenchu, Officer Dick from the Tony Hawk series, and so on.  

 
  The different endings depend on how well you perform and what sort of cop you've been. A counter 
 swings back and forth to keep track of your good cop/bad cop rating. Completing missions and properly 
 solving the random crimes that pop up when you're driving from place to place makes you a good 
 cop. Running down pedestrians and killing everyone you come into contact with makes you a bad cop. 
 The random crime feature is a cool addition, but you'll start to see the same crimes (street fights, 
 illegal racing, domestic disputes, and so on) over and over again. Also, the game's sense of justice 
 is (commentary on the LAPD's occasionally controversial tactics aside) pretty insane. You can break 
 up street fights with your pistol, but as long as you're only shooting people in the leg, you're 
 still a good cop. In fact, you can even solve a lot of these crimes by simply driving up and running 
 the perpetrators over. If you hit them too hard, you'll kill them, which makes you a bad cop. Hit 
 them a little softer, and they'll just be knocked unconscious, which makes you a good cop. To be 
 fair, you're given a lot of different options, such as firing warning shots in the air and flashing 
 your badge, but a little bump from the front end of your car is really all the persuasion most 
 small-time crooks need to let you arrest them. There's just something a little weird about stopping 
 drunk drivers by shooting their cars until they either stop moving or they explode -- that's all. 

          It makes decent attempts with its different styles of gameplay, but none of them are done 
 particularly well.     

  The random crimes are, in the grand scheme of things, pretty insignificant. The game is really 
 about moving from mission to mission and from chapter to chapter as you uncover drug running, money 
 laundering, other sorts of organized crime, and, well, zombies. Wait. What? Yes, you read that 
 correctly. One of the game's chapters inexplicably pits you against the undead and other mystical 
 creatures, and then you're back on the streets, doing cop work and tailing dirty cops. While there's 
 something to be said for the game's random jaunt into such weird territory, it only serves to make 
 the plot feel that much more disjointed and thrown together.  

  The gameplay is broken down into three types. Driving is how you'll get from place to place, and 
 you'll encounter missions where you must escape pursuers, reach a specific location before a timer 
 expires, or tail a suspect without getting too close and blowing your cover. Though you can commandeer 
 any car that comes your way, most of them don't corner very well, and, overall, the driving feels 
 a bit stiff. Over time you'll earn upgrades to your driving skills, which lets you execute burnouts 
 and lets you skid to a stop. Additionally, you'll also earn new and improved vehicles.     

 
  There's an awful lot of gunplay in True Crime, making weapon control and firing another third 
 of the gameplay. The PC version of the game retains the console game's auto-aim, but you also have 
 access to mouse aiming, which is even more precise. But with the combination of lock-on targeting 
 and mouse aim, wiping out your enemies is as easy as pressing the fire button as quickly as possible. 
 Nick Kang can also execute Max Payne-like shootdodges, and the game even drops into slow motion 
 when you execute this move. Nick usually fights by using two pistols with unlimited ammo, but you 
 can also pick up weapons that may be lying around for a little extra firepower. Like your driving 
 technique, your firearm skills can be upgraded as well. You'll earn new default weapons, an invaluable 
 faster reload, faster aiming, and a laser sight, which improves your precision mode aiming skills. 

          Not even the inclusion of elbow drops and Christopher Walken can cover up all of True Crime's 
 problems.     

  The final of the three main types of gameplay in True Crime is also the most frequently encountered. 
 You'll be using a lot of martial arts in the game, though usually in enclosed areas. The camera 
 in these areas is fixed, which can be a real pain, since enemies will be able to get the jump on 
 you while they're still offscreen. The game tries to teach you some tactics (hit high when the 
 enemy blocks low and vice versa) , but the hand-to-hand combat usually consists of wailing on the 
 attack buttons, pausing occasionally to block, and hoping you land more shots than your foes. The 
 environments in the game's many indoor fights are very breakable, and this fact, combined with 
 some of the grapples and throws you'll eventually learn, makes for a cool show. For example, you 
 can actually toss a stunned enemy into a guitar amp and watch as he gets electrocuted to death 
 by the now-destroyed amplifier. While you'll unlock upgrades, such as new grapples, combo attacks, 
 and the ability to execute attacks on enemies while lying on the ground, the hand-to-hand portion 
 of the game isn't very interesting from a gameplay perspective. A little more strategy for the 
 combat would have been a good touch, because what's there gets boring fast. Not even the inclusion 
 of wrestling-style elbow drops, which are available as an upgrade, save the combat from tedium. 

  You'll also find a handful of stealth missions along the way that ask you to stay out of sight, 
 but you can still sneak up behind foes and eliminate them either with a knockout blow (for good 
 cops) or a lethal one (for all you bad cops out there) . The fact that the difference between being 
 a good cop and a bad one is as simple as hitting one button instead of the other is a little weird 
 and serves to make the whole system feel a little ill-conceived.  

  True Crime's three different gameplay styles mesh pretty well, for the most part. However, the 
 control in the game is, across the board, pretty terrible. You'll go from one set of keyboard controls 
 for fighting, to mouse and keyboard controls for shooting, and back to the keyboard for driving. 
 The controls are similar, but they're different enough that it's difficult to get the hang of things 
 as you move from one scheme to the next, even after reconfiguring the controls a few times to find 
 a better fit than the defaults. Even though this game is technically a third-person shooter (most 
 of the time) , it's still a game that controls better on consoles than it does with a mouse and 
 keyboard. The fact that the PC version doesn't have any sort of gamepad support certainly doesn't 
 help, either.  

  So True Crime trucks on from mission to mission at a brisk pace and tries its hardest to be a game 
 that even the most casual game player can get through in some form or another. When you fail a 
 mission, you're given the option to try it again, or you can simply carry on with the story. In 
 some cases, this will cause the story to branch. For example, if you fail to get to a location 
 on time and decide to continue down that path, you'll discover that the building has been torched 
 in the extra time it took you to get there, and you'll lose an important lead. Eventually, all 
 roads lead to a final confrontation, and the option to retry a failed mission, combined with the 
 general ease of the game, means that getting the best ending isn't very difficult. In fact, most 
 of the game's difficulty comes from frustration rather than genuine challenge. For example, you'll 
 oftentimes fumble with the control or try to position the camera in a way that lets you actually 
 see the action.  

  True Crime looked really solid for a console game when it was originally released back in November 
 of 2003. Even though it's been less than a year since then, the PC version looks really dated. 
 Things like textures, including those used on the streets and those used for the faces of characters 
 in cutscenes, look low-quality and, to a lesser extent, washed-out. Even on a system that blows 
 the game's minimum system requirements away, True Crime looks like a PlayStation 2 game that's 
 been ported up, touched up a little bit, and shipped. That said, the game's rendition of Los Angeles 
 is still pretty impressive. Los Angeles looks startlingly realistic, right down to the maze of 
 freeway on- and off-ramps. What's more, the city streets don't look repetitive. The buildings along 
 the streets are nicely varied, and you'll even pick out a few landmarks, like the Staples Center 
 and the Los Angeles Convention Center. Just don't try driving up the street from the convention 
 center in search of the Del Taco on Figueroa. It isn't there. The cars in the game are nicely detailed, 
 and the lack of licensed ones means that you can bang up all the vehicles quite nicely. In fact, 
 a shot to the gas tank will actually cause a car to explode in a fireball of destruction.  

  The interior sequences are dark and sort of ugly, but the breakable environments mask some of 
 these flaws. Fights cause a lot of destruction, whether they occur in bars, butcher shops, or dojos. 
 Clipping is a problem, whether you're inside or out, so you'll see cars clipping through the road, 
 fighters clipping through one another, and so on. Overall, the whole game just looks sloppy.  

 
  The main addition to the PC version of the game is online multiplayer. But this four-player option 
 feels like it was thrown in without much thought given to its design. The game offers a few different 
 modes, such as a gun fight, a dojo battle, checkpoint races, or "the beat" (where the player who 
 solves the most random crimes wins) , but none of them are very fleshed-out. Dojo master, for example, 
 dumps you into an arena, along with three other players. The object of the mode is to beat the 
 heck out of one another until one player remains standing. Unfortunately, the fighting was never 
 made for taking on this many players, so it just feels really slapdash. Lag also manifests itself 
 by making the game stutter to the point of unplayability. As a result, low pings are a must. On 
 top of all this, the game actually locked up on us a few times when playing multiplayer. All in 
 all, the online mode actually detracts from the overall package rather than enhancing it to a point 
 beyond its console brethren.  

  When it comes to creating something with a cinematic feel, a cohesive soundtrack is important. 
 To this end, the console version of True Crime had one of the most amazing soundtracks we've heard 
 in a game thus far, even winning our award for the best licensed soundtrack of 2003. The game contains 
 three separate sets of songs to fit cruising, fast-action, and slow-action scenarios. The game 
 contains more than 50 tracks in all, most of them of the West Coast rap variety, which fits the 
 game's Southern California setting quite well. Artists on the soundtrack include Westside Connection, 
 Snoop Dogg, E-40, Ice-T, The DOC, Lil Eazy-E, Sly Boogy, RBX, Mausberg, Warren G, and Kam. There 
 are a few nonrap tracks on there as well, including songs from Megadeth and Taproot. As the game 
 is M-rated, the songs on the soundtrack are presented in their entirety -- uncensored. Furthermore, 
 a lot of songs have been added to the soundtrack for the PC release, which mainly includes a smattering 
 of metal and rock tracks in an obvious attempt to appeal to people who can't hang with the hip-hop. 
 These tracks aren't good enough to stand up on their own, though, so it isn't much help. And in 
 the end it only serves to water down the overall sound of the game, unless you go through and turn 
 off the individual tracks that don't fit with the game.  

          You'll see things like tires and feet clip into the street fairly regularly.     

  
 The sound effects are well done, though cars, for some reason, sound incredibly underwhelming, 
 like they're idling at all times. True Crime has a great deal of voice work in it. As previously 
 stated, Nick Kang is constantly spouting off lame one-liners, and his cocky line delivery grows 
 tiresome almost immediately. The rest of the voice in the game, however, is actually very good. 
 Christopher Walken, serving as a narrator, of sorts, bookends the game's story and shows up here 
 and there as an old-time cop who used to work with your father. He's the shining point of the audio, 
 and it's a shame that he wasn't used more frequently. The game's stilted narrative certainly could 
 have used the help.  

  In the end, True Crime is a game that really lacks polish and, in some cases, feels unfinished. 
 It makes decent attempts with its different styles of gameplay, but none of them are particularly 
 well done. Furthermore, the game's control is poor, and its storyline doesn't tie together in a 
 satisfying way. Add to that an annoying lead character, a general lack of difficulty (which makes 
 the game's eight chapters seem even shorter than they already are) , and an ill-conceived multiplayer 
 mode, and you've got a game that isn't really worth your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  To start off this game has great graphics for a 2003 game. The gameplay and the story are really 
 like an action movie. Now lets get in deeper. The games story has you playing as Nick Kang, An EOD 
 Special agent who's rejected by police. And the game has some really cool action movie stuff in 
 it. You can aim in slow-mo, do crazy stuff in a car and i could be going on for hours but then there 
 are the street crimes. Solving them is quite intresting becasue you feel as a real cop in real car 
 chases. The suspects are quite cunning too. You never know what will they pull of next. Sometimes, 
 they just give up. Sometimes they pretend to give up and then make a run for it. Sometimes they make 
 a run for it, pull out a gun and start shooting at you while running. Sometimes they want some Mortal 
 Kombat. And when the last one happens when you pull out a gun they are just going to run. And yeah. The 
 only things that leave to be wished for are the car handling and sometimes the AI too. I mean no 
 AI can be perfect but that ones in random occasions is just dumb! They start running from you but 
 run into things and get stuck there and give you a chance to easily neutralize them with a shot 
 in the shoulder or maybe a non-lethal takedown but yeah... that fills in the spot of GTA for me. In 
 summary it is a great game in its own right. If you enjoyed the GTA series you'll enjoy this.
  Real Score:8.7
  
  Peace out, DaSoul 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickKangWilson
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  There was a lot of hype and publicity regarding the release of True Crime: STreets of LA back in 
 2003. This game was one of the first GTA Clones To be released after GTA III. You had to admit 
 that the gameplay videos were rather snazzy and stylish looking, explaing how the game perfectly 
 combined driving, shooting and hand-to-hand combat. But, inreality, this game became one heck of 
 a dissapointment. The first and foremost problem was that the game was a glitchfest. Yes, the game 
 was probably one of the most glitchy and buggy game ever to be released.
  Fast forward to one year later. True Crime: Streets of LA has finally been released on the PC. 
 And was it good? Darn tootin'! NOT! The PC version of True Crime: Streets of LA feels nothing more 
 than the Playstation 2 version of the game directly ported to the PC. The building and character 
 textures are still low-quality garbage, and the bugs. The Bugs. Yes, the bugs haven't been removed 
 despite a year's worth of time to do so but rather, new glitches have been added, the most irritaing 
 ones being the random crashes and freezes that occour after playing the game for a while. The game's 
 draw distance is just plain terrible, with a 2x draw distance rendering available with no options 
 to enhance it. This basically means fences, walls, bulidings, objects, cars and
  pedestrians popping right out-of-the-blue especially during a high speed ride, making the game 
 look just ugly. True Crime: Streets of LA has one of the worst collision detection problems in 
 the history of games. Its quite normal for people and objects (Including yourself) to clip through 
 buildings, walls and the list goes on and on. It also makes driving a weird and unnatural experience, 
 with your car just bouncing off the collided object. The car's handling seems to be based on pre-drawn 
 animations rather than proper gravity and physics. The controls are just buggy. This game was basically 
 a direct PS2-to-PC port with a few unlockable player skins of previous Activision game stars like 
 Rikamaru from the Tenchu seires (Yes, there is a Tenchu skin!) and a few of the game's characters 
 thrown in plus a few unlockable weapons that include a baseball bat (Lame) , a crossbow (even more 
 lame) , and a rocket launcher (Sweet) . The controls were basically built for the PS2 and so handles 
 badly on the PC with the controls being irresponsive, espicially the mouse. Putting it on low sensitivity 
 makes the Character turning around a real hassle. So why not use a joystick or gamepad, you say. 
 Well, the cold hard truth is that the game offers no kind of joystick support whatsoever. Come 
 on! This is 2004! People own joysticks, game pads and racing wheels! The good part about the game 
 is that it handles these combinations of fighting, shooting and driving rather well. The game offers 
 240 square miles of Startlingly realistic GPS accurate Los Angeles to explore that include Venice 
 and Downtown. True Crime also features LA's landmarks like The Staples centre, Los Angeles Convention 
 and The U. S Bank Tower (Although the U. S Bank tower's graphic is rather weird) . But just don't 
 try driving up the street from the convention center in search of the Del Taco on Figueroa. It 
 isn't
  there. The cars and pedestrians are barley to be seen. The game may have given LA accurate right 
 down to the very gravel, but the traffic and pedestrians are certainly not plentiful! The game's 
 gun fighting system is quite unusual. You start the game with two black Smith&amp; Wesson's Police 
 Cheif's special that contain unlimited ammo (But you still gotta reload) . As you go on in the game, 
 you can visit Police shooting ranges where you can can upgrade your weapons with zoom scopes, laser 
 beam targeters, stablizers and so on and so forth or just replace your handguns with new ones altogether. 
 Your gun can also have a presicion aim system, whereby pressing the shhot button for about 3 seconds 
 gives you an almost first person view of you gun. This is particularly useful in neutralizing and 
 head shots (We'll get to that a little ahead) . The Protagonist has a two handed fighting system 
 in which he can pickup and fire any two weapons in his hand. This means you can pick up an AK-47 
 in one hand and a Franchi PA-7 SPAS 12 shotgun in the other and splatter your enemy's guts all 
 around the room. On a negative note, the weapon sounds are just weird and weak, a sloshing noise 
 for shotguns and some handguns and a rubber-band plucking noise for you first hand-gun set.
  Now away from the game's technical limitations, True Crime: Streets of LA is the story of a previously 
 suspended Loose Cannon cop Nick (Kang) Wilson . The game starts with Kang suspended for not obeying 
 his superiors on a criminal case. The game's voice cast mostly consists of A-List actors like Christopher 
 Walken (Who also serves as the game's narrator) and Russel Wong. True Crime is game that has it's 
 serious moments but is mostly having dark humour. Nick is a guy who trash talks alot. He even calls 
 his new partner his Secretary and asks her to get him some coffee. Despite the rocky begining, 
 Nick and his partner Rosie Velasco soon become good freinds based on mutal respect. But his attitude 
 may still get annoying ,if not funny. The game is unusual for having a branching storyline systems 
 and also allows you to continue despite failing your storyline missions. For example, if you dont 
 beat the timer when rushing to a bulding, the place would go up in flames. YKang can get to his 
 destination on free-roaming missions or solve random crimes that show up on his police scanner. 
 These crimes are rather repititive. You also have a Karma meter which is based on the morality 
 of your actions. For example, killing innocents and giving criminals lethal head-shots with precision 
 aiming will give you bad-cop points which will lead you to the bad ending of the story (This game 
 has 3 different endings) . The best part of the game is it's sound track. Music of punk, rap etc. 
 groups belong to the game. They also suit hte mood very well. Like, during high-tension shhot-outs, 
 heavy metal or punk is played. The PC port contains 50 new songs from the original games, making 
 the music even better. Another addition to the PC port is the multiplayer, which is very weak with 
 pings and has rather simple modes like deathmatches and races. If this game had some more work 
 put into it, it would have been very, very popular.
  The overall verdict; is True Crime: Streets of LA worth the buy? If you can ignore bugs in the thirst 
 for action, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlososuna
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  good GTA based game.... true crimes: streets of LA is a GTA based game with multiple playing roles, all 
 of which have difrent points of play.... (derr)
  this game is very.... uniqye in its own ways, the fact that you can have 3 multiple endings (poor, average 
 and excellent) makes most players movitaveted to finish and complete other levels to see the multiple 
 levels and endings.
  
  this game is a mashed up combination of GTA, max paine, need for speed, street fighter, splinter cell 
 and a little bit of die hard in it.
  
  GTA part=240 km of new york city and the role of free style cop is GTA based, and prety fun.
  
 streetfighter=the fact you can learn and have alot of kung-fu fighting
  max pain=alot of action and shooting, and dont forget the slow mo dives
  splinter cell=sneaking 
 around areas, knocking ppl out and tailing ppl in cars....
  need for speed=alot of racing and driving.... ALOT
  i dunno why i said die hard but meh...
  
 
  well, the point is, TC: LA is only for people who enjoy alot of free styling gang cop games like GTA, although 
 most would disagree, this game is an enjoyable game it self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burning-blade
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  true crimes: streets of LA is a GTA based game with multiple playing roles, all of which have difrent 
 points of play.... (derr)
  this game is very.... uniqye in its own ways, the fact that you can have 3 multiple endings (poor, average 
 and excellent) makes most players movitaveted to finish and complete other levels to see the multiple 
 levels and endings.
  
  this game is a mashed up combination of GTA, max paine, need for speed, street fighter, splinter cell 
 and a little bit of die hard in it.
  
  GTA part=240 km of new york city and the role of free style cop is GTA based, and prety fun.
  
 streetfighter=the fact you can learn and have alot of kung-fu fighting
  max pain=alot of action and shooting, and dont forget the slow mo dives
  splinter cell=sneaking 
 around areas, knocking ppl out and tailing ppl in cars....
  need for speed=alot of racing and driving.... ALOT
  i dunno why i said die hard but meh...
  
 
  well, the point is, TC: LA is only for people who enjoy alot of free styling gang cop games like GTA, although 
 most would disagree, this game is an enjoyable game it self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 2.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Awful game period. The game locks up on me every five minutes. It's an awful clone of GTA. The 
 city of LA is bland, GTA SA did a better job of LA. The combat is bad, the driving is very unresponsive, 
 and very glitchy with lots of clipping. I spent 29.99 and its not worth a single penny. This game 
 is meant to be avoided and never to be played again. The game is so bad. The game feels so cheap. 
 I would rather watch Gigli than to beat True Crime Streets of LA if I was forced in that situation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  the gameplay is a little badly because it almost the clone of GTA only now you are a cop but its 
 realy noobie because as i wil try to arest somebody you must star right behind him thats not good 
 because than as you not stay correct on good position you can arest him and he run away the car 
 drivers are badly to as i would like to stop a car they ride me down and then im died
  thats badly the game music is good only not much persons voices but the graphics are good only 
 its not a realy cool game i hop the newer version of the game is better. but ive seeing some cools 
 as you go fight than youve realy good moves! like karate etc! but its not a real goo dgame what 
 i had see 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelpont27
Rating: 2.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Everything thing about this game is terrible, trust me do not but this game, it is a waste of Money. 
 The graphics are the worst of i have ever seen, the sound it up most crap, but however the storyline 
 and the characters are ok, but overall i wish i still had my reciept becuase i would like my money 
 back from this upmost, terrible crap game. The inside movies have been done very well but put it 
 with the sound and the graphics it coulde have been done a lot more better! If you want to try 
 out this game, MAKE SURE YOU KEEP YOUR RECIEPT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgs3_solidsnake
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is really great. What i like most about the the game is that it combines more than 1 
 genre. this includes driving, fighting, shooting and stealth. thats a combination of my favourite. 
 Another great thing i like about the game is that u can roam about the city for the fun of driving 
 or just to bust some thugs. frisking people and aresting them is really cool too especially when 
 u get nice weapons of them u can use. its a change from being a badguy in the gta. The ending of 
 the game is what brings the game down. although it had 3 endings and that was really cool only 
 the last ending seemed realy nice to me. learning new fighting moves, getting new cars and new 
 guns as well as gun upgrade was really cool too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enaceo
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  In this game ,we live the life of a cop in LA. Our character's dad is belived to have been murdered, and 
 we are on a quest to find out who did it.
  While the story is pretty interesting ,and with many twists, it does not make the game a real winner.
 
  Gameplay: The gameplay here feels like it was designed for PS rather than PC. We have a mix of GTA 
 (driving cars, exploring the city) and some Kung-fu style fighting. We have 3 stances -normal, walking 
 stance ; -the stance with guns ;and a fighting stance, where we can push buttons and combinations 
 to preform some moves.
  We can also improve our car/guns/kung-fu after any of the missions in the game (which are quite 
 few ,only 12 and they are rather short also) .
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are not so good. Even at high the game will look rather bad ,more 
 like a console game.
  Sound: now here is where the game gets a ten! The sound-track is good, composed of rap/hip-hop/some 
 latino music which fits the game atmoshphere very well.
  In the end: if you are looking for a "light" game to play , or something for the weekend, i think 
 this is the game for you. If you are a hard-core gamer, and a fan of this type of game, you might 
 also consider it ,but you should get something from the GTA series instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game feels unifinished, especialy near the edges of the map. I also found it feels like a 
 playstation game, the graphics are very playstation even at high settings. the game is also very 
 short, with only a dozen or so missions, i feel the game could have become very good had the developers 
 put more time and effort onto this title, it might have been more of a success. The soundtrack 
 to the game is very good, with big names from LA including Snoop Dogg. But overall its a title 
 which is worth giving a miss, it was made for playstation which is why it lacks something special 
 and is graphically unappealing. 
  
  The game will give limited enjoyement but the Grand Theft Auto series is much better with more 
 fluid gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  True Crime: streets of LA has a few highlights and a few lowlights. A good soundtrack is easily 
 its best feature, if you like rap music. True crime also has something that is common in Grand 
 Theft Auto clones: great graphics. Like the getaway, True Crime: streets of LA has graphics that 
 blow even grand theft autos out of the water. The biggest lowlight of True Crime is that if you 
 are used to grand theft autos controls you are going to have a very difficult time adjusting to 
 true crimes horrendus controls. Bottomline : if you have 20 bucks digging a hole in your pocket 
 and you want to play something similiar to Grand theft auto, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: army_commando
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  This was a great alternative for GTA, especially if you wanted to play from the other point of 
 view like as a cop. Very enjoyable just driving around and busting drug dealers. They had some 
 good touches in there like being able to upgrade your guns, cars, and martial arts techniques. 
 My only complaint seemed to be that whenever someone was describing a mission while driving and 
 you hit anything the sound in my game would just stop, and the only way to remedy this was to restart 
 the game and make sure you don't hit anything again. Other then that glitch it was a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Our history with True Crime stretches back all the way to E3 of 2002. We remember first seeing 
 it there in its early stages, and thinking that it was a mix of Max Payne and Grand Theft Auto.
 
  After facing some delays, as most games usually do, True Crime made its second E3 appearance in 
 2003. The game still carried its mix of Max Payne and Grand Theft Auto flavor, but was obviously 
 much closer to release.
  True Crime finally hit stores (and the Streets of LA) in November, and weve played it all to find 
 out if its more than what met our eye. All 240 Square Miles
  As the name suggests, True Crime takes place in Los Angeles. While I do not live in La La Land, 
 the games rendition of the City of Angels seems to be fairly accurate. You probably wont be able 
 to find your favorite neighbourhood game store, but all streets, avenues, and freeways are accurately 
 named and mapped out in relation to each other. My LA experience is mostly limited to the yearly 
 E3 experience, and surely enough, I was able to navigate my way down to downtown Los Angeles to 
 find the convention center, right where it should be, next to the Staples Center. Too bad the Lakers 
 werent playing.
  Gameplay mixTrue Crime: Streets of LA is a mix of four gameplay types: driving, shooting, sneaking, 
 and fighting. The fighting is your standard beat-em-up variety with a buttons devoted to punches, 
 kicks, jump kicks, and grapples. Sneaking just involves moving from point A to point B without 
 being detected. While any third person action game where the main character wields two guns at 
 a time is immediately compared to Max Payne, the only similarities to our favorite New York cop 
 (aside from the dual guns) are the slow-motion shoot dodges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  ok so this game is preaty lame...
  its sopost to be like GTA but its realy lame and realy lame try to copy
  in this game you are 
 on the good guys and thats what makes it boring....
  its nice to arrest people if they have drugs on them....
  but it has low graphic and its not 
 realy intrasting...
  and the missions are lame...
  its not worth to spent time on it!!!
  evry thing in this game is lame and not worth to buy it, play it or even watch it.
  ther are other 
 games to play... this game lett him stay on the shelves unteal he will die LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  You play in this game a police agent Nick. If ya collect 30 doggy bones you can play as Snoop Dogg. 
 The grapics are bad but ok for a old pc game. Whats nice is the option online. You can chat and 
 shoot. The controlls are bad and dificult, but if you play it more than 4 hours you get it. The 
 cars are ok and a some rides are pimped. Ya got 2 tuners, a lowrider, a Lambo, A ferrari and and 
 one special of himself. A nice game if you like grand teft auto and games with police but i hope 
 that you like hard controlls. Get them jack uuhhhh....... i mean nick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 8, 2004 8:41 pm PT
Review:  True Crime: Streets of LA could of been a great game. Unfortunately, this is a average to mediocre 
 game at best.
  
  True Crime pits you as a renegade cop that has been suspended, but is now given the chance to become 
 part of a juristiction free police task force that is going to take down the criminal element in 
 the game. Insert generic action movie title for the True Crime title and you would get the same 
 thing. 
  
  The surprising thing is that as hyped as this game was, it has no special hook or value that will 
 make you want to keep playing. After the same repetative karate sequences and shooting sequences, 
 you will wonder where the fun is in the game. And it looks so average. Even on high resolutions 
 on my PC. Vice City was a direct port for the most part, but it still looked stylish on my PC at 
 1280x1024. The voice overs sound a bit phoned in at times but are fairly decent. 
  
  The driving can be repetative, but it was fun to navigate around a city that I personally live 
 near and have driven through on a regular basis. And the soundtrack is fairly decent. The three 
 story branches that you can play through are based on if you are a good or bad cop which is metered 
 by a karma meter. Kill too many civilians, and get lots of bad karma. This is a nice system and 
 should be picked up on by other games.
  
  Overall, while not great, it does have some redeaming value. Definitely a bargin bin pickup. Look 
 for it at a major sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banemalar0
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2004 3:42 pm PT
Review:  True Crime recieved a mixed reception when in was first released on the consoles last year. After 
 months of hype, the final product was disapointingly mediocre. The game doesn't fair better on 
 the PC.
  
  
  A cliched story, with average gameplay is made worse by sloppy game mechanics, control, and graphics.
 
  
  The story is taken right from a below average cop movie. The protaginast is the "loose cannnon" 
 Nick Kang with a conservitive partner, and they have to investigate Triad activity in LA. 
  
  The gameplay is of the GTA/Mafia variety (interesting a name hasn't been created for the genre 
 yet) with a few twists added in. It's possible to slow down time and aim very precicly while driving 
 or shooting, however the mouse control during this is sluggish at low sensitivity settings and 
 jerky at high ones. No setting seems to get it just right. The camera control is similar. Hand 
 to hand combat is added, but the system is shallow. It amount to smashing a button until the oppent 
 becomes dazed, at which point a throw or hard hitting combo can be exicuted.
  
  The soundtrack consists of rap and alternive rock. Neither of which have the flavor that other 
 games in the genre have becomce famous for.
  
  The graphics are shockingly bad, while the character models can be acceptable at times, the texture 
 resolution even at the lowest settings is abysimal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 21, 2004 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game with low expectations, based on the XBOX review I had read. Needless to say, 
 my expectations weren't low enough. This game is fairly weak overall, from gameplay to graphics 
 to sound (especially sound) . 
  
  Within a few hours I completely lost interest. The gameplay is tiresome and without stimulation. 
 The interface is 'clunky'. The missions are nothing out of the ordinary. Graphics are average. 
 Weapons sound effects are terrible. Overall, I honestly can't think of anything positive to say 
 about this title.
  
  If you're a hardcore GTA fan, I'd have to recommend to avoid this one. Those with high standards 
 would be well advised to keep their hard earned money in their pockets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heretrix
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 17, 2004 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Worst. Control. Ever.
  
  Kudos to Luxoflux for producing one the WORST PC ports ever!
  
  First, the Controls. It's 2004! Joysticks are available for PCs. If you're gonna port a console 
 game at least port the gamepad support with it! A really bad design choice that made a not so great 
 game, terrible. On the consoles the controls weren't all that good to begin with. Here, it's impossible. 
 The cars handle like crippled tanks.
  
  What hurts the most is that you can see what could have been, while you play through the game. 
 The game is huge and there are some cool spots, but the control is so bad that you can't really 
 enjoy them. I really wanted to like this game. But the rough spots dominate the game and ruin it.
 
  
  Luxoflux should go to everyone that has the misfortune of buying this load of crap and pay them 
 double what they paid at the store. I don't understand how anyone could even mention this game 
 and GTA in the same sentence. (Dammit, I just did!) 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
