-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tsunami 2265
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tsunami2265/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 30, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.6
Critic Score: 3.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 40 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Got Game Entertainment
Developer: Prograph
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Aug 4, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Your best bet is to not play Tsunami 2265 at all. 

 Tsunami 2265 begins with a schmaltzy love theme filled with ludicrous but sincerely crooned lines 
 such as, "I see fighters coming for your heart." For an anime-inspired action game about giant 
 robots and their human pilots, it's a promising start. Unfortunately, things go abruptly downhill 
 from there. The designers obviously know their anime -- apparently at the expense of ever having 
 played a video game.           Tsunami 2265 uses cel-shaded graphics, but not very well.    

  Tsunami's one other strong point is a visual technique commonly called cel shading, which uses 
 flat-colored textures to give a game's graphics a convincingly cartoonlike appearance. The visuals 
 feature lots of clean lines and bright colors. It can be strikingly effective in games that use 
 it creatively, but Tsunami's visual design is so relentlessly bland that the effect loses any impact. 
 Roughly two-thirds of the game's 13 long levels take place in virtually identical mazelike canyon 
 corridors. Most of the rest of the environments are a variation of either blocky, characterless 
 industrial landscapes or nondescript caves.   

  And that's basically Tsunami 2265 -- a nicely done giant robot ode to love and some potentially interesting 
 graphics. It's hard to imagine how any other aspect of Tsunami could have seemed like a good idea, 
 even in theory. The designers have apparently ignored many of the traditional principles of designing 
 an interesting action game. But when you play the game, you won't get the sense that they deliberately 
 chose not to use these principles. Instead, it almost seems like the game's designers were never 
 aware of these simple rules in the first place.   

  The levels are split into two types. In the "shoot 'em up" sections, you pilot a mech from a third-person 
 perspective. These levels generally involve navigating a maze and looking for objects that, when 
 destroyed, will open up the next section of the maze. You'll basically repeat this pattern until 
 you can finally complete the level and call it a day. As noted, Tsunami 2265's environments are 
 repetitive and bland. Even worse, they provide absolutely no sense of the massive scale of your 
 mech. There are no signs that any location you visit was designed for or is inhabited by anything 
 human-sized. Being a giant just isn't thrilling when nothing around you is tiny.   

  The game's mazes are populated with a small variety of enemy mechs. Other than shooting at you 
 and wiggling around a little, they display absolutely no tactics. In fact, their behavior can barely 
 be called a simple pattern. You pilot one of three mechs, but all three are more or less identical 
 other than relatively inconsequential differences in secondary weapons and movement speed.   

 
  Good run-and-gun shooters -- even most bad run-and-gun shooters -- make combat a logistical puzzle. 
 In addition to testing your reflexes, good shooters require you to balance weapon types, ammunition 
 supplies, the weaknesses of your enemies, and the tactical opportunities provided by the environments. 
 Tsunami 2265 doesn't do any of this. Your mech has two weapons: a gun and a missile launcher. No 
 other weapons or weapon upgrades are available. Furthermore, both of the weapons have unlimited 
 ammo and never need to pause for reloading. The game's ubiquitous canyon levels are all essentially 
 flat tubes, so intelligent use of cover is pretty much out of the question. The lack of enemy intelligence, 
 the simplicity of the landscape, and the choiceless, resource-free weapon system turn every fight 
 into an exercise in strafing left and right while holding down both mouse buttons. In fact, since 
 there's absolutely no reason not to fire both weapons at once, you can consider it a failure of 
 interface design that they weren't both mapped to the same key.           Here's an example of 
 Tsunami 2265's simplistic gameplay.    

  Four of the levels occur in what the designers call "adventure" mode. The primary difference between 
 these and the "shoot 'em up" levels is that, rather than piloting a mech, you pilot a person. But 
 for some reason, the scale remains about the same. Also, in addition to blowing things up to open 
 the next section of the maze, you sometimes have to pick up objects and take them someplace in 
 order to open up the next section of the maze. Maybe because a button had to be used for picking 
 things up, you only get one weapon in adventure mode -- a pistol. In fact, adventure mode has all 
 the weaknesses of the shoot 'em up mode, with one notable addition. If you back into a wall, the 
 camera often swings around to face you, and there's a good chance that it will get permanently 
 stuck. When this happens, the controls become effectively reversed, which is confusing to say the 
 least. Even worse, you still fire toward the aiming reticle, even though your character isn't actually 
 facing it. The only way to correct the camera is to quit out and restart. Unfortunately, you get 
 five lives to finish each level with no opportunity for saving. So if you quit out, you have to 
 start over with no guarantee you won't spend a half an hour wandering around the maze just to accidentally 
 back into a corner again. Another option is to suck it up and walk backward through the entire 
 mission.   

  But your best bet is to not play Tsunami 2265 at all. Don't worry, you're not missing anything. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HavocHQ
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  There's no arguing that Tsunami 2265 is a terrible third person shooter with mecha elements. It 
 could be said that it has no redeeming qualities. Even as a bargain bin purchase, I feel the ten 
 dollars I put down for it could have been better used lighting a cigar. Still, there has to be 
 a good side to anything. Let's see what kind of spin can be put on it to make Tsunami 2265 look 
 like a logical, entirely intended train wreck.
  
  First things first, the game's relatively pretty. It looks decent. Sure, the cel shaded thing has 
 been done to death by many other games that pulled it off fantastically better, but they wouldn't 
 look so good if there weren't games like Tsunami showing off what the norm looks like. It takes 
 a lot of humility to take that kind of hit so that other games can look better by comparison. Besides, 
 the graphics do the job alright by conveying the anime look and feel. The same goes for the sound; 
 if it were anything more than passably mediocre, it might draw attention away from the point the 
 game's trying to make with the graphics.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, the team behind Tsunami didn't half-ass the job. No, the fact that 
 the mecha portions of the game have only two weapons with unlimited ammunition is a prime element 
 of Tsunami's elegant design. Many games confuse the player with complex weapons of varying stats 
 and specializations, offering too many choices when it comes to customization and combat strategies. 
 Ultimately, one or two of the weapons are the best, eclipsing all others. Tsunami merely decided 
 to give them to the player right from the start. The game has a story to tell; it can't take the 
 chance of leaving players with underpowered weaponry if it means they may not make it to the next 
 cutscene.
  
  Another sound decision was to not even give the player the option of inverting the mouse controls. 
 After all, too many cooks spoil the broth; players mustn't be confused with a perplexing plethora 
 of options. Invert mouse is an antiquated function anyway, a leftover of flight simulators. It 
 has no place in this cutting-edge, science-fiction tale of man and machine.
  
  All in all, Tsunami 2265 may be not much to look at, mind-numbing to play and otherwise unremarkable 
 in a sea of much better games, but that's exactly what makes it so effective. It's meant to tell 
 a story and let the player reflect on the ongoing plot as they mindlessly wander around plain corridors 
 looking for keys while spamming heavy artillery. In the end, this reflection leads the player to 
 a better understanding of themselves and the world around them. That, or it leads them to a refund, 
 a lighter and a cigar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  The journey starts with you talking with your master. (Man like I care about their talking) , and 
 then you started this "glorious"journey to destroy evil. The producers uses cell-shaded graphics 
 with is one of the most interesthing graphics in the gaming world but not this game. The game play 
 is bad, totally. And if you fail the mission you gotta start over again...... You never get to use 
 any new weapons, however you can use the characters outside of the robot. You think that please me 
 but no, you are stuck with a handgun, and do the same thing like inside the robot.
  
  Another thing is that the storyline is weird, voice over is awful and the crappy cut-scenes with 
 a long dialogue but no substance. Overall you don't want to play this game, go find other games to 
 play with. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
