-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Turok
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/turok/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You exterminate lots and lots of dinosaurs.
 The dinos are fun to shoot and behave in interesting ways.
 Knife kills and other fun tricks are tremendously satisfying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Quicksave feature is broken.
 Cheap deaths.
 Problematic artificial intelligence.
 Underwhelming production values and poor performance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.5, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 921 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Touchstone
Developer: Propaganda Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 22, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dinosaurs rescue an otherwise underwhelming shooter. 

  It's impressive how far slitting a dinosaur's neck can go toward saving an otherwise mediocre game 
 from becoming immediate bargain-bin fodder. Without the lumbering lizards, Turok's middling artificial 
 intelligence, spotty difficulty, and average production values would make it a merely functional 
 first-person shooter, and the shoddiness with which it's been ported to the PC would be a mark 
 of shame on any developer's record. Yet shooting and stabbing dinos is amusing enough to keep Turok 
 from sinking into the abyss of mediocrity -- but just barely.  

           Dinosaurs are cool.      

  The story bears no resemblance to the Turok games of yore. 
 It's the spacefaring future, and as Joseph Turok, you join a military team called Whiskey Company 
 that is tasked with capturing your former mentor, Kane. While orbiting the planet that functions 
 as Kane's home base, the company's ship is shot down, and you and your distrustful comrades must 
 fight off all manner of prehistoric beasts while searching for Kane and developing an escape plan. 
 The plot itself is entirely uninteresting, but Turok's mysterious flashbacks and the tension that 
 builds between him and Whiskey teammate Slade keep things flowing.  

  Unsurprisingly, you spend a big chunk of time shooting at dinosaurs, and they are indeed the stars 
 of the extraterrestrial jungle. A few of them, such as the towering Tyrannosaurus rex, are appropriately 
 imposing and shake the ground as they lumber toward their meaty morsels. The garden-variety reptiles 
 are more common but provide a fair number of exciting moments due to their remarkable speed and 
 agility. The most interesting of these dinos will scurry toward you for a quick clawing and then 
 scamper away, possibly to flit up into a tree and survey the situation before again galloping in 
 your direction. When shot, your scaled foes will flop around and try to get their bearings, make 
 clumsy attempts to get back on their feet, and thrash around in a flurry of limbs and teeth. It's 
 entertaining to watch, and though there's no way to know if real dinosaurs would react in similar 
 fashion, it still seems remarkably authentic.  

  Dinosaurs had tiny brains, so you wouldn't expect them to act with any degree of intellectual cunning. 
 In Turok, however, humans seem to have developed within the same evolutionary tree as the raptors, 
 considering that they exhibit approximately the same level of intelligence. At times, enemy soldiers 
 will take cover behind a block of debris or a dividing wall, but more commonly, they will hang 
 out in the open, even when they or nearby comrades are under fire. Foes often don't react when 
 buddies standing a few feet from them are filled with bullets, or will blindly charge through a 
 bottleneck without regard for the stream of lead you're firing in that direction. You'll usually 
 be accompanied by a buddy or two, but they don't fare any better than your adversaries. They often 
 stand around doing nothing while you engage the enemy, and they don't hesitate to shoot you in 
 the back if you get in their way. It's an annoying issue that gets even more frustrating in a few 
 late-game levels, in which a friend with a chaingun can do as much damage to you as an enemy with 
 a rocket launcher.  

  As if to compensate for the dull artificial intelligence and resulting lack of legitimate challenge, 
 developer Propaganda Games chose instead to implement a difficulty level based not on keen AI or 
 legions of enemies, but instead on player disorientation. Most dinosaurs will knock you back when 
 they attack you, and though it takes only a second or two to get back on your feet, these knockdowns 
 can be chained together into inescapable cycles of damage. Rockets and grenades not only knock 
 you down and thrust you backward, but also result in a good deal of smoke. Additionally, damage 
 is represented by the level of blurry redness that closes in on your viewing area, rather than 
 a traditional health bar. This is not an original method of indicating damage, but as implemented 
 in Turok, it makes it almost impossible to see what's going on at the moments when you need the 
 clearest view. These factors all conspire to take events out of your control and leave you to the 
 mercy of annoying design quirks. Turok isn't challenging; it's cheap.  

  To help ease one of the more common complaints with the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of 
 the game, the PC release supplements the checkpoint saves with a quicksave and quickload feature. 
 Sadly, quicksaves are broken, and using them can disrupt scripted events and cause other noticeable 
 and inexcusable issues. Should you load a quicksave, you may find that all enemies have disappeared 
 and downed teammates have sprung back to full health. In two cases, loading a quicksave kept an 
 event necessary to continue to the next level from occurring, which forced us to restart the level 
 from the beginning. These events could all be re-created on a second play-through, which is a sure 
 sign of a busted feature.  

  In spite of these issues, Turok still shines whenever dinosaurs take center stage, particularly 
 when you put aside the conventional weapons and rely on your trusty blade. Knife kills are the 
 most satisfying method of spilling a leaping lizard's blood, not just because of the cool and bloody 
 animation that showcases the kill, but also because the swift dinos can be tough to catch. The 
 shotgun's flare ammo is also a terrific way of handling a crowd of carnivores. If you hit one with 
 a flare, the others will voraciously descend on it like condors to carrion, which gives you room 
 to breathe. The rest of your arsenal is a traditional mix of weaponry: sniper rifle, SMG, rocket 
 launcher, flamethrower, and so on. You can dual-wield many of these firearms, though you won't 
 need to very often, given that the ability to aim a weapon is usually more desirable than the additional 
 power of a second firearm.  

  You can take your extermination skills online, but two weeks after release, there is practically 
 no one playing. Although the largest maps support up to 16 players, we never found that many people 
 playing at one time, so your deathmatches may end up being one-versus-one games that end before 
 the target kill count is reached. Two Capture the Flag options and a team mode called Wargames 
 round out the competitive online modes, though it's impossible to get the most out of them when 
 you can't find a full contingent of players. There are also a few cooperative missions, though 
 it's painful to find a player to enjoy them with. The tiny online population means that the multiplayer's 
 claim to fame -- computer-controlled dinosaurs that periodically respawn to create havoc -- will go 
 unnoticed. It's too bad, because the maps are designed well and set the stage for massive battles 
 that sadly never occur.  

           Human beings are less cool.      

  Turok was built using the Unreal 3 engine, yet it pales in comparison to many other games that 
 use the same technology. Environments are bland and look nothing like the lush jungles featured 
 in other shooters. Foliage is underwhelming and textures are dull, and the linear levels never 
 give you a sense that you're making your way through a tangled tropical paradise. It seems that 
 most of the attention was given to the dinosaurs themselves; their animations are outstanding, 
 and they look daunting and ferocious. Regardless, the price you pay for middling visuals is rather 
 severe. On two computers that both greatly exceeded the minimum requirements, the frame rate suffered 
 from noticeable dips. Protracted loading times between missions and a long installation process 
 that involves two DVDs are both unseemly drawbacks for an ordinary-looking game that takes only 
 eight hours to finish.  

  PC-specific issues and glitches keep this version of Turok from being the one you want to pick 
 up if you are in the market for a dino-killing extravaganza. Those roaring reptiles pack a punch, 
 and patient players may find enough pleasure in decimating the dilophosaurus to overlook the flaws. 
 Sadly, aside from the dinosaurs, there's nothing particularly memorable or exciting about Turok, 
 and it certainly doesn't meet the high standards set by other modern shooters.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (59 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cassial777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  this is one game that I think should have gotten better reviews than it did. 
  
  While it is true It could have used some polish the game play, story, and voice overs are solid. 
 its just fun to play. yes i said it, its fun to play, despite its short comings. and in the end 
 isn't that what a video game is supposed to be?
  
  now that Ive defended the game let me explain why this game has become an easy target for negative 
 criticism. 
  
  first: graphics. this game is produced in the Unreal 3 engine like many other games on the market 
 now, yet many parts of the level design take on a last gen look. the developers simply didn't push 
 the engine as far as they easily could have. 
  
  second: it doesn't feel like a Turok game. while the story is solid, it simply feels out of place 
 when compared to other games in the franchise. fans of the old games may feel betrayed by a liberal 
 interpretation of their old favorites. however, if you take the game out of that context and look 
 at it as a stand alone concept it becomes far more entertaining ( at least for me)
  
  third: slightly last AI, but this shouldn't come as a surprise few games really have a unique or 
 new take on AI
  
  fourth: with more and more games pushing next gen technology and imersion farther and farther this 
 one simply falls short when comared to lots of other games hitting the market at the same time 
 
  
  Now despite all that could have been done better in this game the things it got right it did extremely 
 well. I keep finding myself amazed at how nice the voice over work is, and enjoy the dialog between 
 characters. 
  
  this is a good game that simply got over shadowed in a crowded market during an especially competitive 
 holiday season. 
  fallout 3, left for dead, far cry 2, call of duty 5 all came out within months of this game. while 
 this game doesn't compare on a technical level to these games it is still just as fun to play in 
 lots of ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hishamramzan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Turok was really awesome. A planet with military bases surrounded by pheristoric jungle and dinosaurs 
 and we have to fight them to survive. These type of games I like. The only things I didn't like 
 in turok is that there are only 8 creatures we deal with and have of our team died in the beginning 
 and reez and cowboy shouldnt have died. In this thirteen allies survive the crash and one by one 
 ten died and three survive. In my idea twentyfive allies should have survive the crash and one 
 by one twenty allies died and five survive. Beside this I love this game. I know the story ends 
 in this part cause we kill kane and defeated every soldier but I still hope that they make turok 
 2 with more weapons like rail guns, plasma guns, laser guns, revolvers, multiple missile launchers 
 etc. More allies like three or five different companies, more enemies like elite wolf pack soldiers, 
 drones etc. And more dinosaurs like allosaurus, giganotosaurus, triceratops, stegosaurus etc and 
 should some sea dinosaurs like plesiosaurus, megalodon shark etc. If it is corfirm that a second 
 turok is coming then message me to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugly_gee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  I'm not a FPS fan (ok Quake 1 doesn't count) so why i spent my time with Turok? I wanted the game 
 because of it's predecessors but the low ratings cool me down. Hmmm! Let's review it:
  Graphics: 9,5
  Sound: 9
  Controls: 8
  I would have give it a 9 but i encountered some bugs 
 and one of them really annoying and my saves are useless.
  But gameplay is impressive, the world looks great, enemies make u jump from chair sometime, the 
 story is good and linear (IMO this is a good thing, if i want puzzles i return to my RPG) . System 
 requirements are not very high: my sistem is AMD X2 5200+, 4 GB DDR2 (is too much) , ATI 3850 512 
 MB and u don't have loadtimes or nasty framerates.
  It's like a breath of fresh air, because i/m tired of wwi, ii, iii etc.
  I never expected to 
 say this for an ordinary FPS but it's a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guzmonster2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:14 am PT
Review:  This game sets the trend from the get-go when it begins getting choppy at crucial spots in the 
 gameplay (even on a rig way above specs) and then you discover that the save system is broken! 
 It looks like a game that has real potential, even though the graphics leave a lot to be desired 
 considering the Unreal engine used. But it starts to become merely frustrating due to the many 
 flaws (bugs) some of which seem to be there to make the game 'Challenging?' but are just lame. 
 It's a shame that the writers did not spend the time to put out a quality game given the great 
 theme! I read that the games producers decided against even putting out a patch to fix some of 
 the many flaws in this game, this speaks volumes about them and their commitment to the gaming 
 public. Another one for the bargain bin!
  The Guzmonster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron12435
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  ok lets get this right off the bat 
  Turok is an amazing game 
  its got great Graphics
  its got geat sound
  its got great animations 
  plus a great story 
  so whats not to like 
 
  turok is great game the weapons u get are awesome and so are the dinos u get to fight ull surely 
 get ur heart pumping just that bit faster the knife and the bow are the best weapons and sticking 
 ur knife into a dinos head or slashing its throat never gets old its story is told greatly through 
 great voice acting and great cut scenes 
  if u got a system that can handle it buy this game its a blast but its challenging and if u dont 
 use cover often and just run in there using only half ur brain it wont work 
  graphics - 9
  sound - 10
  controls - 10
  overall - 9.5
  note that there are no long load times if uve got 
 a system that meets just above the system req 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuFazzZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Although i had read a lot of negative comments about this game, I really wasn't looking forward 
 to buying it. Especially after the rating 6 of the critics, i didn't bother for some time.
  But something in the back of my head was telling me that maybe this game deserves more. Having 
 played the first old-school Turok, which spent a lot of my hours when I was a kid, I knew that 
 I had to play it. And of course, it didn't let me down.
  Although the intro is small, it get you right into action. Well, in the beginning you wonder, how 
 do these people survive the starship crash... but they had to in order to have a scenario right? 
 hehe..
  The knife is a very fascinating aspect of the game, stabbing anything with cool animations (although 
 they could add more moves) and fun.
  Then comes the bow, another nice weapon adding a lot of nice one shot enemies to your list.
  
 The dual wielding is a bit fun although i liked the zoom a lot. The other weapons are satisfying 
 and have nothing to fear from other hi-tech FPS (well maybe they could add some more to Turok's 
 arsenal) . No ammo counter, making it more realistic, with only "beep-beep" sounding whenever it 
 was close to reload. Really nice.
  About the graphics i really loved them. Although I played it in a crappy PC, i really enjoyed the 
 surroundings, the jungle, the inferior places and generally the environment in which the game story 
 was unraveled.
  The enemies were ok. Humans were all the same model but carrying different guns. Dinosaurs were 
 funny a lot, either large or small. T-Rex was nice and damn was there until the last scene..! The 
 creepiest were the mutant ones, but the flamethrower made them look like piece of cake.. the itching 
 was a bit horrifying though..
  Scenario was pretty cool and all the story was lovable with all the suspence, changes in the flow 
 and the way it guided you to the end..
  Multi player is promising but most of the comments have been made above. 
  I really do not understand 
 why critics have been throwing darts at Propaganda Games. The game is worth-playing.
  They have my +1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Turok is a good game. In fact it is a very good game that made me wanting to play until the very 
 end. It starts with a convincing way and then when you reach a moment where you think that it won't 
 give you more, that it won't surprise you any further it's then when it makes you jump out of your 
 seat.
  
  This game may not be better than Crysis, Call of Duty 2,4, Far Cry but considering that it borrows 
 couple of ideas from all of those games while adding something on it's own I would place it just 
 below those above mentioned and above any others. In fact the game was surprisingly good considering 
 how pure score it was given.
  
  You play as Turok, a native Indian who is being introduced to his new comrades on a board of a space 
 ship. Nobody knows who you are. In fact.. even the player doesnt know who Turok is. All we know is 
 that people don't really like him and the name Turok makes others laugh. The game does a good job 
 introducing you to your hero over time through some nice cinematics being presented as Turok's 
 memories. Soon the player knows that Turok is an ex-member ofWolf Packwho's leader Kane is 
 the same person that Turok wants to get even with. Why? You will get to know the whole story in 
 due time.....
  The game starts with a bang as couple of minutes after the introduction your spaceship is being 
 hit by a missile that brings you all down. You crash on some planet and this is where you will get 
 to know your past and where you will make your way while demolishing raptors and Kane's mercenaries.
 
  
  The game takes place in a jungle most of the time. Whole game is divided into chapters and only 
 couple of those chapters take place indoors. The jungle looks dense and you almost sweat from the 
 humidity just by looking at it. In fact it's one of the best looking jungles in any game I have 
 ever played. You feel constant uncertainty of what may jump at you from above or from some hidden 
 caves. You constantly hear different and scaring sounds being them either raptors' screams or even 
 worse... screams of people who got in the wrong place at the bad time.... Sometimes you almost feel 
 claustrophobic and even without knowing why you always feel like somebody is watching you all the 
 time which results in some nervous gun pointing or even some nervous shooting in every direction.
 
  The bad thing about the area and game's design though is that it lacks freedom. The game is pretty 
 linear and usually has only one path you can take which eliminates the possibillity of losing track 
 of where to go or even worse... getting lost.
  Speaking about getting lost... there's no in game map! This game doesn't have any world or mini 
 map. All you can rely on is the quest's cursor that shows you the approximate way whenever you push 
 theTabkey. But considering that there's only one way to get to a certain place it isn't needed 
 but still... most games have it so it's an unpleasant surprise.
  
  Most of the time you will be travelling with fellow soldiers, survivors from the destroyed ship. The 
 more distance you will cover and the more chapters you will complete the more MIA's you will be 
 finding which will result in finding a decent squad for later stages of the game. Your companions 
 are not anonymous though. Each of them looks different and each one of them has different character. More 
 than often all of them have their own thoughts and fears. They will argue with you or cover your 
 back. All of this adds more realism to the game and makes you feel like you were watching a decent 
 film about Vietnam conflict or Predator. But people will die and what surprised me was that every 
 time one of my mates died I felt sad.... The plot in overall is very good and keeps you wanting 
 to discover the end of it. It's not dumb, it's not revolutionary either but it still manages to make 
 you sit by your comp looking forward to it's ending.
  
  
  
  The game's graphics is nice and weird at the same time. Why? It's nice because it looks real without 
 any candy textures. It's sharp, cold and the green color of the jungle is mixed with some grey and 
 dark background which makes you think that despite being in a nice jungle you're in a place where 
 you just can't feel safe.
  Why weird? Because it kind of reminds me of the Oblivion graphics sometimes. All of the npc's have 
 some kind of aura around them, the area's brightness and changing light reminds me of the outdoor 
 areas in Oblivion. It's neat, deep and harsh while being to ehmm... brigth sometimes. The textures 
 are very good though. Everything from npc's through weapons and distant lands looks impressing. The 
 only thing that may affect the overall feeling is the texture quality when you stick to a rock 
 or a tree. Then you are able to notice some bad looking pixels at times. All in all I liked what 
 I saw.
  
  Sound... the sound is great. It's the kind of sound I would like to hear in every combat, fast paced 
 game. It has some hard, rocking tunes which immerse you even more with the game's action. Every time 
 you find yourself in a dangerous situation the music changes accordingly which is a good way of 
 knowing when to reload your pulse rifle :)
  
  The game is offering you a wide arsenal of weapons. You can have a knife, simple rifle, shotgun, pulse 
 rifle, sniper rifle, rocket launcher, grenades, a bow, flare launcher. Every weapon looks nice and solid. Every 
 weapon is nicely detailed. The sound when you use them is very realistic, the reloading animation 
 looks cool as well.
  The only irritating thing ( which may be realistic thing at the same time ) is that you can have 
 not more than 2 weapons at the same time excluding the knife and your bow. That makes you wanna 
 really think about which one to choose. In certain situations you need a weapon you wouldn't normally 
 use so you have to throw away your old and fully loaded one to realise that after couple of minutes 
 you don't need it anymore but you can't find a replacement which leaves you with only one weapon 
 of your choice until you will find what you're looking for. As irritating as it may be it is also 
 realistic and adds something to the tactics subject. The weapons and ammo are spread out in the 
 entire area though so for those who consider this 2 weapon limit as an annoyance it's not something 
 they should concern them with.
  
  The game's controls are easy to learn and are not annoying like in some other games ( anyone tried 
 to play assassin's creed on pc?... exactly ) .
  
  The game is in one aspect a clear Resident Evil 4 ripoff.. In certain battle cinematics where you 
 have to hit multiple keyboard keys or mouse buttons to get away from some dangerous situations. Whenever 
 a dinosaur jumps at you the view changes and you see yourself fighting with it. Then suddenly your 
 keyboard keys or mouse buttons appear and unless you want to have your head bitten off you need 
 to press them quick and hard to get away with it. The best example of the RS4 ripoff is the last 
 knife duel with Kane. It looks and feels the same like a duel between Chris Redfield and that mutated 
 marine in a factory where in order to survive you needed to smash different pad buttons that appeared 
 in random order to get from that encounter alive.
  
  The game is also similar to Far Cry in that it also takes place on an island, it involves different 
 beasts ( some of them are also mutaded and it also involves research facilities but the enemy instead 
 of inventing a new perfect DNA it is inventing a perfect BIO weapon.
  
  The enemy type... well.. it's dinosaurs, dinosaurs.. more dinosaurs and... some mercenaries. In this 
 game you wont find to many types of enemies. All of the human enemies look the same. They vary only 
 with the weapons they are holding. When it comes to dinosaurs you have couple of types ranging from 
 the smallest ones that you can easily kill with one swing of your knife and the largest one and 
 let me assure you.. the largest one of them.. the T-REX is one tough son of a gun so you better have 
 some tactics prepared and and toilet mission accomplished because a close encounter with this beast 
 may loosen your... ( you know what) to much...
  
  But this lack of variety may frustrate some people and adds couple of points towards the game's 
 repetitivness.
  
  The game isn; t without flaws either.
  
  The game saves don't make any sense. Many time when I was saving the game right in the middle of 
 a tough encounter and then I died it reloaded the area but the area was bugged, so bugged that in 
 fact I had to reload the whole chapter again. As the game relies on checkpoints, the last checkpoint 
 is your last save game. because of that I don't understand what the purpose of F5 and F9 keys was. It's 
 just one huge mistake.
  
  The game has no maps ( but I mentioned that before )
  Sometimes the game textures dissapear which made me falling thorugh world onece or twice. Usually 
 reloading the area solved the problem but if your last checkpoint was far behind you may get really 
 frustrated. It's a bug though rare one.
  
  The game could have moretotal masacremoments. Those that are are amazing but there is just 
 not enough mayhem. More explosions would be nice.
  
  The game is too short. I finished it in 2 days without breaking any sweat. It's not good money for 
 value thing. It makes the game cost you 25euros per day :)
  
  All in all, Turok is a very good game that doesnt try to be another Crysis. It's unique in it's 
 own even if it ripps couple of ideas off. it's really worth a try and as much as it surprised me 
 it can surprise you the same way.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliminatoRss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Well, graphics was good at least I think good enough, story wasn't bad ether it would have been 
 perfect for some Hollywood action movie with some bad ass actor as main character, actually game 
 was much better than I expected, except for some places at first part of game where you get the 
 feeling that you are playing quake like game cause of constant running trough facilities and stuff 
 like that... which also was the reason why it is so criticized in lines of gamers. Unfortunately 
 when game was released it still had quite many bugs (game scripts froze for no reason, elevator 
 bugs, sometimes savegames was damaged (gladly it didn't happen to me, but it did happen to my friend 
 when he was playing the game) ... But, in the end I can say that those gamers that left it after 
 first 20-30min of playing have missed a great FPS game which surely is worth playing till the end. 
 even thought it had some draw backs cause of some bugs and sometime linear gameplay times. It is 
 to underrated in lines of FPS games.
  
  P. s - the underground tentacle boss also was a bit to hard to beat... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  This was a total let down. One day my friend said he bought Turok, other day he said it was fun. 
 So I buy it, install it and try it. And it was completely horrible. I mean, the visuals were bad, 
 and the gameplay was even worse, which could have made up for the visuals but it didnt.
  
  I told my friend to play Crysis and see what he thinks about Turok. So he goes and play Crysis, 
 and only THEN says that Turok was a piece of crap.
  
  No, im not comparing the graphics, but you have to admit, the game play was kind of terrible. It 
 was just like any other first person game lazily done without any speciality. Even killing dinoasaurs 
 was too boring for me. It was like a "Been There, Done That" thing.
  
  And being a 2008 game, it kind of brings disgrace to gaming. I heard the previous ones were quite 
 good but this one is just completely terrible.
  
  If the game play was more exciting, like a free style combat where you can choose to attack any 
 way you want or kill a dinosaur in your own style, then i'd appreciate the game even with the same 
 graphics that it has now.
  
  Turok misses on every point of what a game should be. Game play was terrible, that's the main thing. 
 And it's too easy , even on the hardest mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Turok is a game that came out for PC a bit later then the console version. The game starts in this 
 spaceship where is Turok (our main character) . The intro shows us that he was first a prisoner, then 
 a part of The Wolfpack (with its leader Kane (not that one :) ) ) and he is a part of soldier-team, but 
 of course, nobody thrusts him.5 minutes later a rocket crashes into the ship and you are (of course) 
 one of the survivors. When you start exploring the new planet, you see it's full of dinosaurs, big 
 bugs... and people 8| .There are some cool weapons to play with-a shotgun, sniper rifle, pistols, autos, a 
 pulse rifle, a bow and a knife (the last three are my personal favorites) . The pulse rifle is the 
 best against human enemies, but against dinosaurs the shotgun feels better (also there are very 
 cool combos with the knife and they are very effective here) . Against the big bugs you have to use 
 machine gun or flamethrower. But even with these cool weapons the game is hard, because there are, like,3-4 
 colors in the game-brown, green, black and white. It's very difficult to see where is the enemy. Also 
 the game loads veeeeeeery slow, but you die very easy and that's a problem, because on every 10 minutes 
 you have to see the loading screen for 2 minutes. Now the graphics are very good and I really fell 
 into the atmosphere of the game right from the beginning, but as I said there are only 4-5 colors, so 
 after 2-3 hours playing this game you will feel headache. The sound effects are also great. But I 
 expected something more, the game is only 10-12 hours, the story feels very weak and the only cool 
 thing from the gameplay remains the stealth action-when you sneak behind somebody to stab him, or 
 you shoot someone with an arrow... still that game is not bad, but I felt it very disappointing : ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  so ill start by saying that this game is good.. but the game have lots of problems the make the 
 game bad..
  
  like first thing the game is like 15GB and doesnt have the best graphics... crysis and bioshock 
 are 6GB and have better graphics than TUROK
  
  second thing.. the game is really short.. i finished it after two days and i hate short games...
 
  
  the sounds are great.. even awesome love the dinosaur sounds and all the visual sounds in the game
 
  
  grahics.. like i said its not the worst grahpic but its not the best.. even if you play on high 
 its not the best graphic...
  
  the gameplay is ok.. the game is fun, i love to stick a knife in the dinosaurs and kill theme in 
 a fan way...
  thats the best thing in TUROK
  
  the game is ok.. rent it first.. i think the game doesnt worth buying.. only rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  i didnt know what to expect when i first played this, even though a lot of people thought gamespot 
 was way off and that this is a good game. well, it is not at all and gamespot was spot on, so touche'.
 
  
  The gameplay is the most annoying and generic flaw of this mess. it is just standard run and gun 
 shooting with no creativity at all, and has no blood when you kill a human, which is real lame, 
 because when you kill a dino allt this blood spurts out.
  
  The graphics are sub-par but overly lame and ugly to look at, so i think the graphics suck. the 
 blood is well done i guess but overly it just sucks, and i wouldnt recommend buying this if you 
 think the graphics are good.
  
  The story starts out ok, but i just got bored with the game about halfway through and thought"games 
 should provide me enjoyment, not frustration."
  
  I then took this off my hard drive in a heartbeat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  The game can be entertaining if you want to be, however it does not compare to Doom3, Quake 4 or 
 any other well-known FPS. The game play was ok; there are places in the game where you actually 
 have fun killing the enemies and dinosaurs. There is no such thing as to a good story in here so 
 don't expect an interesting plot or an intriguing story to keep you going. It's pretty much lock 
 and load and it can get pretty boring at times.
  
  Cons:
  I was actually disappointed and guys I have to admit, I had force myself to play the game till 
 the very end. I didn't enjoy the game much, it was alright but not what I expected; I got caught 
 up in the hype because of hearing the name "Turok" and at the end I was disappointed. It's your 
 regular FPS and not a very impressive one, like I stated before it does not compare to Doom3 or 
 Quake4. Some of the weapons were bizarre I actually felt I was holding weapons made from when Christopher 
 Columbus first discovered the Americas, one of the weapons I actually enjoyed was the bow, it was 
 actually kind of cool, but that's it. I was not pleased with the graphics engine though. Anyways 
 I know that if you are a Turok fan you're going to have to see it for yourself and try it, I'm 
 just like that anyways. Who knows you might actually enjoy it. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This new game definitely lives up to what Turok is known for... and that's great animation. The 
 old classics had you running around giant levels battling dinos and other things, searching for 
 keys. This one is much more story oriented. But I must honestly say that this is the only Turok 
 game that I've ever beaten. I always got lost in the originals... ESPECIALLY Turok 2. That game 
 would take a good thinker 30 hours to beat. 
  Now, the graphics are not all that special (been playing too much Crysis, lol) but there are some 
 beautiful scenic vistas in this game. The stars of the show are the dinosaurs of course, and they 
 act how you would think dinosaurs would act. The plant eating dinos just kinda watch or ignore 
 you while the raptors and other meat-eaters chase you around mindlessly. It gets pretty intense 
 when there's more than one, so the addition of the flare is perfect. It allows you to divert the 
 dinosaur's attention to another dinosaur or enemy soldier. 
  The boss fights are pretty intense as well, especially the T-rex. That thing is HUGE!! You can 
 always tell when one is nearby because the ground just pounds very loudly... like you'd expect. 
 
  As for the annoyances, they are few. Mainly just glitching. One time, I loaded up a level and the 
 ground was completely absent, lol. I was falling.... forever! Minor texture tearing from time to 
 time. Tree textures will appear on rocks, rock textures will appear on trees. This stuff doesn't 
 happen often at all. Just thought I should list it.
  So, if you're a fan of the Turok series, you'll definitely have fun with this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Turok has been quite a staple for FPS gaming since the N64 days. Known for its gruesome combat 
 and killer weapons (cerebral bore anyone?) , Turok was easily accessable and fun to play. However, 
 times have changed, so can Touchstone and Propaganda Games bring this blast to the past into the 
 present?
  
  Turok does not follow the story of the old games, but introduces a new character. As Joseph Turok, 
 you are a new hire for a military team Whiskey company and are out to get your old boss, Kane, 
 who is thought to be constructing weapons. The story is uninspired, but works decently. You are 
 en route to get Kane in space when your ship is shot down, and you find yourself on a planet infested 
 with dinosaurs (and Kanes company.) 
  
  For a game that runs on Epics epic (pun intended) Unreal engine, the graphics are a little lackluster. 
 Don't get me wrong, they are great, but not as good as some of the other Unreal engine games out 
 there. The character models are dated looking, and the weapons look quite generic. The planet is 
 lush with green foliage, but the environments don't change quite enough. You will see a lot of 
 green forest, followed up by boring steel complexes, then more forestry, then steel complexes, 
 then underground, more steel complexes, etc. At times though, the game is breathtaking, like at 
 the beginning when Turok is overlooking a wide area full of brontosaures eating foliage and pterodactyl 
 flying through the sky. The game uses decent amounts of HDR lighting without being obnoxious. Water 
 effects are good too, and the lava looks nice. The dinosaurs are what steals the show. They almost 
 look too real. The rubbery look of their bodies make for some really nice dino eye candy.
  
  The sound fares well too. The voice acting is generally acceptable, with Turok sounding as 
 gruff as he looks, but your teammates often can annoy. Guns pop off realistically, and the sound 
 of explosions is loud. Unfortunately, the dinos can sound underwhelming, which is disappointing. 
 They sound as if they should sound, but not as mean as one might expect. The soundtrack kicks in 
 every so often to build tension, but is nothing memorable.
  
  Unfortunately, the gameplay doesn't do much to keep things interesting. You can dual wield some 
 weapons, even mix and match to keep things interesting, but not all weapons. Only a couple, the 
 pistol, SMG, shotgun and a plasma pistol can be dual wielded. Turok in the past has been known 
 for its unique weapons, but in Turok it is not the case. Standard fare weapons are here, but each 
 weapon has alternate uses, and some have alternates that are pretty inventive. For instance, the 
 chain gun can spool up as an alternate fire, and blow off rounds as a primary, but when the heat 
 starts to pick up, you can turn it into a turret. Man, this should have been in every game with 
 a chain gun! The second moust button is mostly used for zooming, and the shift button is held for 
 alternate fire, and shift+second mouse button is used for grenades. Pretty interesting. Turok also 
 can dodge left, right and back, for intense situations.
  
  The games enemies are unfortunately pretty boring. The human enemies are brain dead, and the dinos 
 are too easy to kill because of knife kills. Basically, all you have to do is get close to a dino 
 and when the screen flashes the mouse button, you click for an instant dino kill. The animations 
 for the dinos are cool, but this takes away almost all of the fun factor. You can literally kill 
 20-30+ raptors with ease. You are supposed to be able to use the knife for stealth kills on human 
 enemies, but it is too difficult to sneak around. Strangely, though, when you kill an enemy, whether 
 by gun or knife, they never bleed. Every enemy is generic with a full body suit, mask and all, 
 but only yellow sparks come out when you kill one. Odd.
  
  Multiplayer is not even worth mentioning, especially since it is too difficult to find a good game 
 since no one really plays. Honestly, Turok is not a bad game. It as some interesting ideas, but 
 nothing really fleshes out. I played this on my friends XBox, and honestly, the PC version is a 
 little superior because there is absolutely no aim assist, making this game too difficult. I ran 
 into only one bug, and that was quick save and quick load did not work. Apparently, quick save 
 only saved your progress at the last checkpoint, so it was not a save anywhere affair, and this 
 game could have benefitted from this at times. I cannot whole heartidly recommend this game, but 
 it is a nice purchase when the prices falls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  As I've said in the past, not every game can be a Half-life or a Crysis. Turok is not nearly as 
 good as either of those, yet it is still able to provide a reasonable shooting experience that 
 can be fairly fun most of the time. Sometimes this is all that is necessary for those of us that 
 need a game to play where there is very little out there.
  
  Turok's graphics certainly could be a bit better. It seems as if they tried to make them really 
 good, but something got left out. There are still some very impressive environments, and the dinosaurs 
 look awsome, which is good since they are an integral part of the game. I didn't have any severe 
 technical issues to contend with, so as far as I'm concerned the game ran fine. 
  
  The sound was fairly good, with good ambient effects, and reasonable voice acting to round out 
 the game. What else can you say about sound?
  
  The game play itself could be extremely fun, or just kind of usual depending on what was happening. 
 The weapons in the game were not all that exceptional except for a few. This is the first game 
 that makes the knife cool. Killing something at the right time with the knife gives you a cool 
 insta-kill animation that never seems to get old, it also turns out to be very effective and I 
 found myself using it more often than many of my other weapons. The bow was also fairly interesting 
 to use, quiet and lethal. The other weapons you acquire are fairly average, and not all that interesting, 
 although playing with the flares on the shotgun can be fun since you can send dinosaurs where you 
 want to with them. There was enough plot to keep the action moving and cohesive, and some of the 
 boss fights were pretty good as well. The difficulty can be erratic, sometimes fairly easy, sometimes 
 very hard, never too much of either, but for some people I could see it getting frustrating.
  
  Overall Turok is another one of those FPS games that isn't going to reinvent the genre, but 
 will provide a reasonable fix for those people looking for a game to play during the dry summer 
 months where there is very little else to look forward to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyranasaurus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Although this game was kind of fun to play. After playing open ended environment games like Crysis, 
 Oblivian. Assasins creed or the amazing breathtaking BIOSHOCK just to name a few. I get the feeling 
 my expectations to gameplay are a bit too high these days. Especially when i play a game like TUROK 
 in 2008.
  
  At the start of the game Unreal Engine comes up, so Im thinking GREAT!!! the last unreal game i 
 played was Unreal Tournament 3 amazing looking game (I absolutely LOATHE unreal tournament's glooby 
 snot weapons and the stupid double jumping thing though. but i was pretty impressed with Unreal 
 Tournaments prettiness)
  I was extremely surprised to find that TUROK 2008 is stuck in what almost looks like the 2004 unreal 
 engine NOT the recent one, I couldnt belive it. I felt like I was playing Alien Vs Predator 2 without 
 any care in quality or originality. The textures were old, and the gameplay was old too. And the 
 story was really zzzzzzzzz material. 
  If it wasnt for the Dinosaurs there really would be NOTHING to this game at all. Its like following 
 the yellow brick road to the end. 1 path for about 6-8 hours and finish what a waste of money. 
 Its the type of game that if you play the demo the full game doesnt offer much more just like Clive 
 barkers Jericho.
  However if you want to just switch your brain off or a few mindless hours of shooting dinosaurs 
 then play Turok but its not going to be a massively memorable occasion. It will be fun until the 
 Dino animations wear thin. And once they do youll be back playing good game's again in no time 
 lol. GO PLAY BIOSHOCK or Doom or Oblivian if you want a REAL masterpiece. 
  
  Overall this dissappointed me because i was expecting something greater than it was (sigh) not 
 graphically but an interesting story a battle of the forest vs dinosaurs in a open ended kind of 
 dino killing fest. I was definately expecting more atmosphere theres WAS NO atmosphere in this 
 game, a few scare tactics thats about it. This game will collect dust unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit2006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Dinos have seldom been used in games before, save KINGKONG perhaps. But TUROK greatest strengths 
 comes from these dinos. It has never been so much fun to kill dinos with miniguns, RPGs or knives. Though 
 the best part comes with the knives. It offers some typical FPS gameplay with lots of action and 
 weapons. Theres hardly any story but you never need one with all the action packed levels. But 
 this is where it all ends. TUROK greatest strenghts are also its greatest weakness. The game is 
 full of Bugs and other annoying features. The quicksaves feature may often force you restart a 
 level because of the problems it causes with the game. The graphics engine using UNREAL 3 ENGINE 
 looks dated and hardly resembles it. Even on high machines we had framerates issues. But if look 
 to ignore all these and have patience to reload a level quit often to proceed, then TUROK will 
 entertain you with its dinos and action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothkin
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  while there are a few satisfying moments, like killing dinosaurs, the game is lacking in too many 
 obvious ways. first of all, the graphics are just a shame. you'd expect that with the Unreal III 
 engine, they could make a game looking better than this - UT 3 looked fabulous, as did gears of 
 war. the jungle looks decent from afar, but up close the textures are just very blurry and an eye 
 sore. this is also true about buildings. stuff like fire and explosions look good, but textures 
 are really lacking, and the environment is completely noninteracting. 
  
  Dinos are a lot of fun though. although it doesn't take much skill, its still a lot of fun to watch 
 Turok stab a dino on its head, or sling around its neck and slice it. unfortunately, the classic 
 Turok items, the knife and bow, are the most fun; every other weapon is okay, but nothing special. 
 they even made a flamethrower look uninteresting. 
  
  As far as story goes, the game is fine. its got a decent story and it is told sufficiently. sure, 
 maybe it COULD have been fleshed out more, but it is still okay. 
  
  the game also lacks a lot of really simple things that EVERY shooter must have. for example, there 
 is no indicator as to how many bullets you currently have in your clip before your have to reload 
 (except in the pulse rifle) . also, there is no run capability, wtf? and there is no radar to tell 
 you where people are. I know that these things would be unrealistic in the jungle, but it still 
 makes the gameplay really annoying. another thing, the sniper rifle only zooms in a tiny bit. 
 
  
  but still, with all that being said, Turok is not the worst game in the world. general features 
 are missing, graphics are bad and gameplay gets repetitive, but dual wielding is fun, dinos are 
 cool, and satisfying weapons and story make this game worth a try (maybe just a rental though) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maf17
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Things I liked about Turok:
  
  1. Dinos are cool. Killing dinos in as gory a manner as possible is even cooler
  
  2. Graphics: 
 Liked the waving grass. Nice touch.
  
  3. Knives -cutting dino's throats & stabbing guards in the back = cool
  
  Things I didnt like:
 
  
  1. Its so obviously a console port. At least pretend to be a PC game.
  
  2. Dual wielding weapons system is clumsy and confusing. Hard to find the right weapons combo when 
 youn need it.
  
  3. Slade. Ugly as a hippo's anus and surly to boot. As far as travelling companions go he's the 
 pits. Any chance we could port Alyx over from HL2?
  
  4. Too many cutscenes. I was already totally underwhelmed by the storyline - I really didnt need 
 to know any more. I just want to kill dinos, damnit!
  
  5. Did I mention that its so obviously a console port?
  
  6. Quicksave doesn't work, probably 
 something to do with being a console port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea what to say about this game. I played it more than once to see what the hype was 
 all about but I came to the conclusion that some games just don't cut it no matter how innovative 
 or revolutionary they try to be. When I first heard about this game I thought it was a "cool" idea. 
 I had mixed feelings about the dinosaur stuff gave them the benefit of the doubt. I figured that 
 if the story line was good they would be able to pull it off. However, I should have when with 
 my instincts and turned away from the game. Story line is hardly believable, at least in my opinion. 
 Point of the game.... um no point actually. 
  Though this game seems to have a lot of potential, it just doesn't reach it. Video games are not 
 about new ideas and story lines, they are about pulling the player into the game in a manner in 
 which the player really feels part of it.
  
  But as I always say, for those of you who like it, more power to you. Its just not my thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  A lot of fun while going through the game. Amazing graphic effects that shows whole glory of the 
 prehistorical jungles and it habitats... OF course the most great feature of this game is the chance 
 to shoot at dinasuars and basically all other creatures that your are facing through out game... personally 
 the water beast give a quiet a bit headache! :) However the T-rex love fighting with him... man 
 that was great.... also just allowance to fight with just knife gives more intention to the game... however, 
 if you set difficulty to inhuman.. no freaking way that you go through tough parts with just one 
 knife... that probably after while gonna get blunt :)
  
  Anyway, story could have been a bit more interesting but in general satisfying... A lot of ammo 
 and firing power you will require and developers ensured that you never out of ammo!
  
  Sound effects also in a satisfying level, could have some music appcompaniment but to strain the 
 situation but again, not bad so far.
  
  As a conclusion in my opinion it worth to go through the path that Turok have choseen... as if you 
 like survival games that puts you through jungle full of prehistorical creaturse then this game 
 is for you. 
  
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goshyn00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Now I'm sure any gamer that considers his or herself a gamer has heard of Turok. And what's more 
 has heard of the abomination that is Turok's gameplay. For years Turok has been branded one of 
 the worst games ever for any platform and has failed to yeild anything that would be considered 
 a good game. The N64 games branded mediocre FPS gameplay that was quite easily overshadowed by 
 other FPS at the time like Doom or Wolfenstein and horribly horribly glitchy and poorly rendered 
 graphics. By the time the series made it to the PS2 and Xbox the FPS genre was dominated by the 
 Unreal and Quake series as well as the newly emerging Halo. Not that that is an excuse for the 
 still horrible gameplay. 
  
  But with the latest title release I was indeed as skeptical as anyone else knowing Turoks past. 
 My friend still refuses to play it. But after observing a friend playing it for the PS3 and being 
 one who needs to actually play the game before judging it I had to see for myself. What I found 
 was that somehow Touchstone had managed to not only revive Turok from the depths of a horribly 
 fatal past but actually create Turok into an innovative single player experience. 
  
  The premise of Turok is that you're are a turncoat leading a group of soldiers on an attack against 
 Cain, your former teacher and a typical villian. After your ship is shot down you are forced to 
 navigate your way through the planets endless jungle forest complete with the series trademark 
 villians, Dinosaurs. Within the first half hour of gameplay you get a taste of what a T-Rex is 
 capable of.
  
  As you make your way to infiltrate Cains base you are forced to hook up with Slade, a surviving 
 soldier who hates your guts and voiced by the ever brilliant Ron Pearlman (Hellboy) . With a decent 
 if not excellent storyline in place, Turok seeks to expand on that by introducing an innovating 
 style of FPS action.
  
  Instead of carrying an infinite supply of weapons you have a set of a knife, 2 choice guns, and 
 Turoks trademark bow and arrow (modernized to a compound bow) . Now at first I was skeptical about 
 this set up, but the game does each gun justice. 
  
  First off is the knife. and before I get into the mechanics I must say that I have played numerous 
 games before utilizing a close range weapon. UT and Quake's last ditch weapon is ok if you're a 
 master at the game, Call of Duty 4's combat knife is good for an instant kill but the epic-ness 
 ends there. shank, they're dead, the end. And the only game that seemed to do a knife any justice, 
 Resident Evil 4, limited it's real use to cut scenes. 
  However, Turok, seeks to take the knife and bring back it's practicality by integrating the cutscene 
 style combat from combat into the gameplay. See an enemy soldier standing around on patrol. Running 
 up behind him and clicking the attack button pans the camera back to a 3rd person perspective for 
 one of about 3-4 different death scenes. The same goes for dinosaurs though the cutscenes are limited 
 to only one. Slashing a Raptor or Compy's throat open to name one.
  
  As for the bow, it adds a slight element of stealth, though this is no Metal Gear Solid (what game 
 is) , it is nice to hide in some tall grass and pick off scouts one by one down the line. 
  
  However when it comes to fire fights the knife and bow are rendered almost useless. Yet this 
 is where Turoks true innovation comes in. While previous games allowed you to dual weild weapons, 
 this does it with anything the size of a machine gun or smaller. want to weild two machine guns, 
 done. A machine gun and a pistol, done. Or my personal favorite, a machine gun and the timed-sticky-grenade 
 gun (yes it's exactly what you think) . Where this deviates from previous games of its kind is that 
 while dual weilding it eliminates the zoom functions on guns in exchange for replacing the right 
 click with alternate fire. left click fires the left gun, right click fires the right giving you 
 control over the weapons not seen in many games. Fire the right one until it's empty then switch 
 to the left while you reload the right, or just own all with dual firing. 
  
  But don't expect to just run in with both guns blazing. The game does well enough with the AI to 
 add a challenge while making your way through the single player mode. Allow yourself to be surrounded 
 without cover and you're toast within seconds.
  
  As for the single player not much changes except that the challenge increases as it switches to 
 Actual Intelligence. Nice additions to the typical FPS matches like Capture the flag include Dinosaurs 
 thrown in to mess up players while shooting things up. 
  
  The only thing I had to complain about the game is the load time. It takes a good ten minutes to 
 load the game and about the same time in between deaths as it has to reload the level. However 
 this did not matter to me much for once in the game it makes it worth the wait.
  
  To wrap up, while Turok has had a sketchy past, the Unreal Engine and change of ownership has done 
 the series good and created a truly innovative and cinematic single player experience with an interesting 
 multiplayer option to mix things up with little to complain about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_originaldappa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw this game I wasn't confident that it would do well. To be honest, I didn't 
 know that it was an old game. Only when it was mentioned I looked through some emulator roms and 
 found it. I might have been a little more excited if I was a long time fan but this wasn't the 
 case. At first the game looked like it was hoping that the fact that there were dinosaurs in it 
 that people would flock to it.
  
  Unlike other games, this game didn't reveal the other goodies it posesed before it was released. 
 For instance Call of Duty 4 wasn't on my watch list. I only played COD 1 and loved it. I just thought 
 it was gonna be another shooter. Modern? What's so different? but upon release I was so excited 
 for it. Anyway I gave Turok a chance.
  
  The story wasn't compelling, The graphics was great but a lot of parts could have been tightened 
 up and improved.
  
  I didn't think the dinosaur combat was any fun. I mean, walk up to it and press a button. Not even 
 a choice of ho to kill it. The switch to third person view would have made it more exciting if 
 the animations and graphics were fluid.
  
  Gameplay was uninspiring, it was basically moving from point to point. Inaccuracy negatively impacted 
 the gameplay and fun in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyflyfish
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Turok is an epic, story-driven first person shooter set on a dark, mysterious planet in
  the future. The player will take on the role of Joseph Turok, a former black ops
  commando, now 
 part of an elite special forces squad, known as Whiskey Company,
  which is on a mission to take down Roland Kane and his army, the Mendel-Gruman
  Corporation. 
 As Whiskey Company's ship approaches the planet inhabited by
  Mendel-Gruman, the ship is shot down. Turok is stranded on the planet and must
  locate other 
 crash survivors while confronting Mendel-Gruman soldiers and a variety
  of dinosaurs and other ravenous creatures. Things kick off fine, with flashbacks showing off the 
 history between Turok and Kane. As soon as you start fighting for survival, however, your purpose 
 changes from finding Kane to locating crash sites, finding com-link boxes and going on other mundane 
 tasks. The story quickly loses its thread from then on, making the player less interested in the 
 universe as well as its characters. The game hurls players 200 years into the future and follows 
 the account of a tough ex-black-ops who are both ex convicts and ex millitary (merceneries) . Unless 
 you want to be chopped into mince meat by dinosaur teeth, you're gonna have to think every step 
 of the way. Trouble is, most of the time dinosaurs can leap out of nowhere and knock you over. 
 As soon as your character gets back on his feet, your primary instinct will be to start shooting. 
 
  Quite high minimum system requirements
  
  Comes on 2 DVD's, 18 Gigs hard drive space (biggest yet I've played) , Win XP or Vista, 2.4 GHz 
 Pentium or AMD Athlon 3400 equiv., 1 GB RAM, 128mb Direct X 9.0c, 3D video card (nVidia 6600 or 
 better or ATI Radeon x1300 or better, excluding X1550) , onboard integrated chipsets are not supported. 
 16 bit Direct X 9.0c sound card, 8xDVDROM drive. Does not use Direct X-10. Personly i think this 
 game is worth playing and to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Turok may look awesome from the front cover and the screens on the back but please people do not 
 let this fool you. The game is hidious and full of annoying and down right horrible things.
  
  1. Story line is boring and very dull. There doesnt seem to be any life in the single player 
 mode what so ever. You, as you might have guessed play as Turok some bad ass marine type of soldier 
 that betrade his previous squad. Basically people in the game hate you and really dont trust you, 
 im sure they do in the end though however I havent got that far in the story mode.
  
  2. The graphics are terrible. For a 2008 year game you would expect something flashy and even mindblowing, 
 this game does not deliver the goods here im afraid. The character models are shocking when you 
 are close up and the character movement and total phisycs of the game are dreadful. The game is 
 powered by the Unreal III Engine, yeah right! it sure doesnt look like it.
  
  3. General things about the game that are annoying and just plain stupid. These include things 
 such as, Enemy soldiers knowing where you are before you even get there, Take to much dage to fast, 
 dinos knok you over, horrible recoil on weapons, horrible script (Voice) .
  
  There are loads more things about this game that suck so bad, abover are just a fuew.
  But wait.... 
 there is more and funny enough this is the a good thing, the knif is the best weapon out there. 
 The instant kills on soldiers and dinos are awesome and excellent fun to exercute. Animation in 
 this respect is brillient and well worth the 15 I spent on this game just for exercuting soldiers 
 (When they dont magical know where you are) and Dinos. Sometimes the instant kill with the knife 
 wont show up on screen then you know it should, this is annoying.
  
  Overall turok is a terrible 2008 title and I plee with anyone that wants to play this game not 
 to! it's beyond disapointing. But if you are still intent on playing the game please get the demo 
 first and play it about 20 times untill you are 100% posative you want it, but with it's terrible 
 graphics, AI, script and dull story mode there is nothing here worthy of your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertommy8
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  As i said before i was especially impressed by the excellent game play and also by the very interesting 
 storyline. If you play the first 3 chapters from Turok you will want to finish the game, even if 
 the sea monster will give you lots of headaches and the bug monsters from the generator room will 
 make you hit your keyboard. 
  But i don't want to enter to much into the story line's details because it's to interesting. 
 
  Any way the moments when you remain without ammo and you have to kill dinosaurs with your knife 
 are irreplaceable.
  One thing that i didn't like contains in the difficulty of the game , because at the beginning 
 gives you the impression that is a very simple FPS (like most of the games from his category) but 
 it's not, especially in the last 5 chapters you'll have lots of difficulties. 
  
  
  Graphic: 9
  Storyline: 9
  Game play: 10 
  Sound: 9
  My personal impression: 9,2 so 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 31, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Turok is a game that can be entertaining and at the same time disappointing. How ? let's find out.
 
  
  Let's start with the Graphics; this game is using one of the most photorealistic engines (Unreal3) 
 and still you could notice the mediocrity of the graphics in most textures. The only aspect that 
 graphically shines in this game are the dinos, they are very well designed and you can see the 
 bones moving so realistically thanks to the engine again. Also, there is a number of graphical 
 glitches and bugs some of which are hard to put up with. overall, the graphics are decent enough 
 to keep you going, but if you've played CoD4 or Crysis or Bioshock, you'd feel left out on the 
 graphics department in this game. 
  
  The gameplay is fairly good, not great but entertaining to some extent, thanks to the combinations 
 you can pull off to stab dinos and kill bugs, which never gets old. the shooting is a bit dull 
 in Turok as the guns are not very cool or fun to use anyway. I found myself using the knife and 
 bow most of the time. but there is something to this game that can keep you going. i must warn 
 you that the loading times of this game are painfully long, though. imagine dying multiple times 
 and having to wait for these long loading screens agrrrr ! seriously, it almost turned me away 
 from finishing the game. 
  
  The story is fairly decent but nothing extra and the game is not long (7 - 8 Hours) . the multiplayer 
 would not save the day, either. 
  
  all in all, if you like stabbing dinos in the forehead and shooting guys in the face than this 
 game is worth trying (though a rental would be wise) . The graphics Will let you down no matter 
 how far you push the resolution and Gfx settings, but this may not turn you away from enjoying 
 the game if you are into FPSs. so .. Your call ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_ozz
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Well lets get one thing out right way.. TUROK is not a bad game in any means, neither is it ugly.. 
 Its only that the game feels unfinished in sooo many aspects and thus TUROK finds itself in this 
 mess..
  
  In the story mode u play as Joseph Turok an ex of a black ops squad "Wolf Pack" and now part of 
 the commando team called Whiskey Company. Ur primary aim is to track down Rolnd Kane the chief 
 of the Wolf Pack and turok's old mentor.. In the begining itself the ship in which u were travelling 
 is hit by a missile and the ship explodes into this planet that is inhabbited by dinos.. This is 
 where u get to fight the dinos which is the most interesting part in the game and it never gets 
 old.. Awesome weapons aside, there are other cool interactive moments scattered throughout the 
 game like when ur attacked by a raptor u will be asked to mash a button and if u press the corresponding 
 button that will result in an instant kill which really looks cool.. The story of how Turok ends 
 up in the Whiskey Company is told in small flashbacks which is also interesting but the main prob 
 is that there is no interesting twist in the story.. U will be finishing this game in about 10-12 
 hrs.. And the game is also pretty easy.. Its not the humans that cause the real prob here its the 
 dinos..
  
  Another problem with this game is that there is no room for exploration and there are many scripted 
 moments that gives game that dated feeling.. Though the weapons at our disposal is really awesome 
 and also feels right.. And the most common but highly ignored weapon in most FPS ie the KNIFE comes 
 in handy in this game.. There are a lot of sleek moves that we can pull out with the knife.. And 
 also the trusted weapon of choice of TUROK also makes an early entry in the game.. And using the 
 bow is also cool.. 
  
  Grphically TUROK is passable.. The lush green jungle , the blue sky and the dinos iare all well 
 done.. But character animations could have done a bit more job.. The textures are also a bit bland.. 
 And ya the animations of the dinos' are simply superb.. Their reaction is also very very realistic..
 
  
  The sound of this game really compliments the tone of the game.. There are also some really good 
 sound effects like a grenade blast or machine gun fire.. Its all done well.. Even the noises made 
 by the dinos are cool.. The voice acting is good at times and terrible in some parts.. But the 
 lead voice act is fairly constant throghout the game and also does a good job..
  
  The multiplayer in TUROK is really good compared to its single player campaign.. There is online 
 co-op mode with some descent missions and also max of 16 players can hit the map together in various 
 game modes including team deathmatch, free for all and others.. And ya the real star of TUROK the 
 raptors also make it into the multiplayer thus making it a bit more interesting.. 
  
  To summerize, TUROK is neither an innovative game nor reinvents the FPS genre.. Its a simple straight 
 forward FPS with lots of dinos to kill.. It does not introduce anything that we haven seen earlier.. 
 Well except the dinos.. With some more exploration this game could have been a lot better.. But 
 with the lush green jungle, some neat sound effects and some superb weapons at hand this game definitely 
 worth a try.. A rental i guess would do but not worth the full amount.. 
  
  If u can overlook all these minor flaws then u surely have a game that u would enjoy to the core.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acehighwind311
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  If you like prey you'l like turok, or if you want to see well animated dinos then you'll like Turok. 
 I remember playing the original turok, and story wise it had little to do with the comic book, 
 which I own. Now this game is not what most people thought it was going to be, i remember seeing 
 screens for this game and just remembering the dinos and not the main character or the setting,
 
  I like how they give you a simple story that doesn't really get a chance to take center stage, 
 but at the same time doesn't overshadow the game play.
  I liked the voice actors, especially the one for turok, he gave the character a very noble feel 
 to him, as he was holding the truth about previous missions, in which his beliefs were brought 
 forth as to let people live or to let them die, which being native American killing innocents was 
 never a part of there tribe, and him being noble as a warrior is also present, i wish it was fleshed 
 out more in some of the gameplay, but thats what sequels are for, 
  
  I love the stealth kills, can't stop doing them, wish there was even more variety in the ways you 
 can take an enemy down but thats what sequels are for also, no I liked the look of the game, at 
 first i thought they were going to go unreal with it making huge ass guys with armor like they 
 did in the unoriginal gears of war game which i own but hated the art directoin, but the dinos 
 take the stage, from AI to animation, to using them to kill enemy's, but i would like to a see 
 a sequel, id like to see more character development, and maybe theuse of a differnt game engine, 
 maybe crytek can lend a hand in jungle environments. overall if your system is a core2 duo and 
 a 7900gt or 8 series card youre in for a treat the game looks good with everything turned up, it 
 has a certaoin style to it u can't tell it's unreal for a time being, the only thing that tells 
 us it's the u3 engine is the glow hdr lighting effect on humans, but other than that liked this 
 game alot and didn't deserve the flak it got, yea it should have been optimized better, and textures 
 on 360 and ps3 should have been better but, hey the game play and atmosphere replace those little 
 problems, it's no crysis, but it's not trying to be, and reviewers must understand that interms 
 of technology not everyone has 3 to 4 years to develop a game like crysis did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 5
Date: May 24, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Of all the games I expected remakes, this one was the last one I thought was going to be rehashed. 
 The original Turok, despite being great fun and a technological marvel in its time, wasn't a huge 
 "blockbuster", to put it that way. 
  
  So, what does Propaganda Games and Touchstone Interactive propose with this remake?
  
  I'm 
 sad to say it, but apparently, nothing new.
  
  You are Joseph Turok, a badass with a shadowy past, sent to kill your once-mentor-now-target Roland 
 Cane in a planet full of dinosaurs. Other than that, the plot is irrelevant. There is no real connection 
 to the characters, and, despite of the all-star cast of voices (Ron Perlman and William Fitchner 
 amongst them) , the voice acting is terrible.
  
  The sound is barely appropiate, with the typical jungle sounds and chirps, and with all dinosaurs 
 roaring the same. All enemy soldiers you'll find scream the same and look the same (excuse: a full 
 body armor) . The weapons feel amazingly light, and long gone are the times of wacky BFGs: is all 
 SMGs, shotguns and pistols here.
  
  The save system could be one of the most annoying parts. Checkpoint based (boooooo!) with HUUGE 
 chunks in between saves. Plus, the game isn't exactly easy, and newbie players will have a hard 
 time getting used to the odd weapon interface and handling (one key for each hand)
  
  Of course, the trusy knife is here, and is probably the most entertaining part of the game... for 
 a while. The kill animations are splendid, gory and very cool. However, the novelty wears fast, 
 as there are only 5 or 6 of them. It would have been great if these animations would have been 
 triggered by a physics system, like the IK technology on HL2: Episode 2, or the Euphoria on Crysis. 
 As is, you'll only enjoy them the first hour. Later on, you'll find is too difficult to kill enemies 
 this way, and the knife will take a second place on your arsenal.
  
  Another old pal is the bow. It feels heavy (which is cool) and the animation is also terrific. 
 It's very powerful, which might be the reason as to why you can't find any ammo for it on three 
 levels. That certainly limits it's use.
  
  Now, one of the more meaty pieces. The first turok was a tech jewel back then. Regrettably, this 
 remake falls waaaaay below par on the graphics department. It is powered by the Unreal Engine 3, 
 on its worst implementation so far. The textures are drab, and the level design is uninspired. 
 Hell, the foliage is made of sprites! Sure, the jungle parts look prettier than the building parts 
 (which are all grey and plain) , but after seeing Crysis, this is something that makes your eyes 
 hurt. To be perfectly honest, Episode Two has better forest than this. Jeez, even Unreal 2 had 
 better forest than this!.
  
  All in all a very mediocre game. Whatever originality it had with its knife fighting and bow shooting, 
 is unable to hold all of its run of the mill, me-too parts together. 
  
  Only buy it if you are a person who has Turok tattooed somewhere or if you find it at less than 
 10 bucks. Otherwise, steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your Turok. A hardcore space marine. Your on a planet to find a guy. Lets get em
  
  Missions: Follow This Follow That Kill This and Kill That kinda stuff. nothing to unique here.
 
  
  Controls: Standard FPS controls
  
  Features: pretty good graphics, fun gunplay, good sound, intresting story
  
  AI: Seems pretty smart 
 teammates know how to fight and enemys know how to fight back. It seems they know what your going 
 to do before you do.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good but nothing to great. Should be better for a next gen res of a old series. 
 They are passable though. Prety detailed enviroments
  
  Audio: Good. Jungle ambiet is beautiful and voice acting is kinda cheesy but its fine.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 Online, TDM, DM, CTF stuff
  
  Requirements: A Pretty Good PC,
  
  The Good: A pretty good try at ressing a new series but i have second thoughts on the next version 
 of the game. 
  
  The Bad: Some glitches and such. Not that great of a game anyway
  
  The Ugly: turoks Hair
  
  Replay Ability: Little To None
  
  The Bottom Line: A good try at 
 ressing a old series. hardcore fans of turok will love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those times that I would like to have not read the reviews before I played the game. 
 I have to say, I have no idea what game some of the reviewers were playing, but I thought Turok 
 was an absolute blast to play.
  
  Graphics  Ok, so they weren't cutting edge off the charts graphics, but come on, is this all people 
 are looking for in a game!? The environments were expansive, and the foliage was fantasticwhoever 
 did the grass in this game gets a kudos from me. Yes the game was buggy, but the issues I had were 
 never graphics oriented, and never crashed once due to freeze ups, or any issues related to the 
 Unreal Engine.
  Sound  I have to say, Turok had the best surround sound environments that I have ever heard in 
 a game. It was very much of the survival horror sound in that I was always on the edge of my seat, 
 and the sounds came from off camera, so to speak, and kept me on edge during all of the outdoor 
 scenes.
  
  Gameplay  Again, nothing bleeding edge here, but neither was Painkiller and that game received 
 much better reviews. The physics and the dinosaur deaths were absolutely perfectshooting a dino 
 with a bow, watching him slide into the ground, do a nose dive turn, and come back at me only to 
 receive another arrow and then begin thrashing on their back was very well done. The weapons were 
 standard and there was plenty of ammo to go around as well. From the many reviews that I read, 
 I was expecting to just run around a jungle and kill dino's and that's it. Far from itTurok had 
 many facets to its levels and I thought they did a nice job of mixing it up. Extra bonus goes out 
 to the boss'sfor me, nothing ever gets old about fighting a T-Rex.
  
  Storyline  Ok, so playing Assasins Creed was beautiful to look at, but after I rescued my 30th 
 citizen to only have the chime out the same boring line was better than Turok? This game had a 
 much better than average storyline and it didn't bog down the game like some do. There were times 
 when the voiceovers got a bit repatative, but no where near the 100 times I heard each line in 
 Assasins Creed.
  
  Did I experience game save issues? Absolutely, but so whatI had to repeat a couple of scenes and 
 quite frankly, they were better the second time. Take away what for me were less than bothersome 
 game save issues, and Turok was a well rounded game.
  
  I hope that this was does go on sale because it will be well worth buying for under $30, and definitely 
 be a fantastic bargain bin game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: F0U666
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  If you like to wander in the jungle, following a linear path, passing by beautiful landscapes and 
 wonderful sceneries, climbing in huge trees, exploring caves, killing a lot of hungry dinosaurs 
 and angry soldiers, and you don't like puzzles too much... You'll give this game a 10/10.
  
  I like to explore and solve puzzles, that's why I gave 8.5 instead of a 10. The difference 
 between this one and Seeds Of Evil, for example, is the way maps are organized. In the first Turok 
 games, you had to complete levels by finding keys & puzzle parts. In Turok "4", there's no more 
 master teleport & puzzles, you follow the story and you walk the maps one by one with no possibilities 
 to turn back as in the other Turok games.
  
  Everything else: Sounds, Music, Graphics, Scenery, Guns, Dinosaurs, Insects, Enemies, Animations, 
 Story... are perfect for me. Maps in jungle are so nice... but very linear... So judge by yourself. 
 Some will love it, others will totally hate it.
  
  Thanks for reading this short review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pseudodog07
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  If you listen to the naysayers you might just miss out on a very fun game. 
  
  Graphics- Nice looking, maybe not the best in the world but nothing to gripe about really.
  
 
  Guns- The guns are top notch in Turok. Each one is unique and really quite fun to use. With all 
 the dual wielding, alt fires, special knife kills, stealth, and sniping strategies you will really 
 never play the same game twice. If nothing else you have to give the game A+ in gun creativity 
 and uses. Although there one issue with them; There is a bit of a learning curve since they use 
 a press shift + mouse button combo system to use the alt fires.
  
  Story- It's fairly simple for the most part. Kill the bad guys, survive the dinosaurs, stop the 
 baddest bad guy. Not so deep or anything, but the acting is gritty and top notch with great actors 
 such as Ron Perlman in the game. 
  
  Gameplay- Some say it's too "by the numbers", but I found it too be much deeper especially when 
 you challenge yourself on difficulty levels, use a variety of weapons and strategies, and go for 
 some of the achievements available. I've completed Turok 4 times, completing all the singleplayer 
 achievements, and had a blast the whole time.
  
  The Bad- Multiplayer is a joke with no server browser and nobody on. And the loading times are 
 very long, so bring a TV with you to watch during the breaks ;) . Turok requires a lot of hard 
 drive space too, more than any other game.
  
  If you can look past the flaws, this is a very fun game. And if you like sci-fi shooters like Doom, 
 Quake, or Half Life you will probably enjoy Turok as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsguy15
Rating: 1
Date: May 7, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  In addition to the problems pointed out that also exist in the console version the main thing that 
 has me frustraded is the performance issues.
  On a mid-rang system that can run crysis smoothly at medium\high (8600gts 256mb, pentium d 3.00 
 ghz processor, 2gb 533mhz ram) this game will blaze on all high settings through some areas and 
 barely chug along on low settings through others. Add to that an awkward but manageable aiming 
 system and you will find the game hard to enjoy.
  But, when you play through a part where dinosaurs burst out of the jungle or you are trying to 
 shoot small raptors running around in the grass, or when you pull off a knife kill on dilophosaurus 
 the game can be quite fun.
  However technical issues just seem to get in the way of gameplay not to mention the 12gb of space 
 required and extremely long load times. Even if you are a dinosaur buff (unless you have an extremely 
 fast computer that can compensate for the inexplicable performance drops) i would not recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickcdr
Rating: 3
Date: May 7, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Even the dinosaurs, which are nicely animated, could not rescue this non-optimized game. I played 
 King Kong to the end, and the dinosaurs, pace, variety, level design were all much much better. 
 Turok feels like one of the DOOM clones that came out years ago, a first person shooter that copies 
 the formula but does not bring any excitement.
  
  The killer for me was that when you die, often due to something beyond your control, the loading 
 time is 30-45 seconds, and I have a quad-core new pc.
  
  If they had spent as much time on the AI and level design as they did on the dinosaurs and the 
 scripted movies, would have been a much better game.
  
  Turok was uninstalled from my computer never to return after trying to have fun for 2 hours. Instead 
 I went back to Assassin's Creed and finished that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorbrook123
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 6, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  trashy multi player you are lucky to just get a 1 on 1 because apparently everyone catches on and 
 sees that it's no use because no one plays multiplayer. single player is a front lines fuel of 
 war, the club, turning point clone. unreal 3 engine graphics is nothing new. the fact that there 
 are dinos in the game and that you can get a satisfying knife kill that zooms into the kill shot 
 isn't worth while. I'd call it more of a puzzle shooter because on hard and above all you do is 
 play over and over until you beat it which is really discouraging. Worth playing if you buy and 
 try every other FPS the gets released but will end up on the shelf or ebay. Couple of other single 
 player bugs make you restart from last checkpoint because I guess there's an error in the code. 
 I am a PC builder with good hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpanacadavid
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  At first you might think "This looks a little cliche", but then you will love it. The campaign 
 mode is really good, the stealth killings are really fun, and every time you see a solldier alone, 
 you will try to take him down with the knife, and it's always more fun to kill the dinosaurs with 
 the knife as well. When you are fighting the dinosaurs, they'll sometimes jump over you, so you 
 will need to press some buttons repeatedly to take them off. Another cool stuff about the dinosaurs, 
 is that sometimes they will come from nowhere (so they might scare you... a little =P) . The battles 
 are really good, you will need to take cover , and shoot from strategic points in order to win.
 
  
  The multiplayer mode is great... with varied type of games, like deathmatch, defend the flag ( 
 i dont remember if that was the name) ; etc. And it also has some great cooperative maps combined 
 with great gameplay.
  
  Each gun has two shooting modes, for instance, the bow shoots normal arrows, and explosive arrows... 
 Another great thing about the PC version, is that the achievements from the 360 Version, where 
 put in the game as "game achievements" (i hope i explained myself) ... for instance there is an 
 achievement where you must pass a level without using the shotgun. another one where you must kill 
 three soldiers with a grenade... 
  
  One of the bad things about the game, is that sometimes it might get frustrating, so you will have 
 to take a little time to relax =D. Besides that is an awesome game, definitely worthed of being 
 played... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddastoor
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Good game overall, just beat it last night. I'm sorry to say this... but the storyline sucked hardcore. 
 It was like watching a crappy John Cina movie all over again... though I was surprised to see Timothy 
 timothy Olyphant's (Hitman - 2008) name in the credits (voice of cowboy in the game) i knew i'd 
 heard his voice somewhere before!
  
  Graphics were awesome (for the first 10 mins, the game had defaulted to ultra low gfx... even though 
 I cranked them to ultra high.) I had to go into my nVidia control panel and instruct the GFX myself 
 for the game.
  
  The atmosphere of the game was dead on... it made me feel as if I were on the dinosaur planet.
 
  
  All the dinosaur enemies were AMAZING! and the ai was quite good for them... though it could have 
 been better. I also enjoyed the variety of dinosaur enemies you get to fight along the way.
  
  At some points the dinosaurs were too stupid though. Like the ones which climb the trees and 
 hurdle towards you like lizards... Most of the time they would just sit on the trees making noise, 
 and you could pick them off easily with a sniper to the brain.
  
  The only thing I hated about this game is no dismemberment of bodies on the human enemies. From 
 what I recall, the previous Turok games were amazing in the way they depicted gruesome bloody deaths 
 on ALL enemies either they be dinos or humans. Throughout the whole game, all human enemies seemed 
 to be bloodless, even when their chest and throat were ripped apart by a slash from Turko's massive 
 biceps (the same ones he uses to turn dinos into blood and guts)
  
  Overall, good game, but wouldn't buy it Brand new... good buy from the bargain bin
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: genious_devil
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Turok is the game u like after playing masterpieces like Crysis Bioshock COD4 i play all these 
 masterpieces and i m get so excited after play Turok because Turok is also a masterpiece and i 
 realy like this game Background enviroment is look like so real for me. People who say that game 
 is piece of crap they are wrong because game is made beautifuly from every angle Excellent Work 
 from Team of Turok .I Want sequel of this game. Game is entertain you for a long time and not let 
 you borring Better than Assassin Creed I recommended everyone to play this game. Game realy deserve 
 to get a 9.5 out of 10 because game playing give you enjoyment not give you Tension like Crysis 
 Everyone who like pure FPS try this game i guarnted that you like it more than anyother game Perfect 
 shooter in my eyes who says this game is failed he have to think again and again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joyyy
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  the textures are good, gameplay, and ai.
  what i love about the game is using the knife, you press the button and a gameplay cinematic plays 
 killing someone with the knife (soldiers, dinos, bugs)
  the game campaign is not short or long, its just right, a little short but right.
  multiplayer 
 is good just so little maps, im waiting for the velociraptor map pack for the PC. and i hope it dosent 
 cost. it has some bugs, and glitches, but the game still ROCKS. the difficulty is a little hard.
  when i die the game has to load again, and it takes more than a minute every time!! shoudent the 
 level be loaded in the memory when you first load it?
  in every game i've played, my load times are no longer than 20 seconds. but in this one is a LOT, more 
 than a MINUTE AND A HALF..
  
  Well the bugs, and glitches, difficulty, load times reduce my game score to 8.0 out of 10.
  i was 
 going to give it a 9.5 out of 10, but when played it i really noticed the right score.
  Buy the game it IS good. dont believe the ones that say that the game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  For full review and score breakdown:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2534,0. html
  
  Turok has quite a history, being known for its great console shooter installments and legendary 
 cerebral bore. So, it suffices to say that a lot of gamers were excited when a next-generation 
 Turok was announced for consoles and the PC. But, can it live up to its predecessors while at the 
 same time competing with industry shooter giants?
  
  There's no more time-traveling in Turok, and the story is very much sci-fi convention. It plays 
 like a movie with tons of action and plot twists. You play as Joseph Turok, a Native American warrior 
 who is sent with soldiers to hunt down a rogue military company of which he used to be a member. 
 If you're looking for a deep story, shy away from Turok. All you do is crash on the planet, find 
 survivors, find a radio, and eventually escape the planet. The one interesting thing is that the 
 planet has been made into a laboratory where evolution has been sped up. Unfortunately, in typical 
 fashion, the purpose and creators of this planet remain mysterious for further installments. The 
 majority of the game takes place in jungle environments and some indoor areas.
  
  The majority of the game, in typical Turok fashion, has you fighting dinosaurs. If you're a big 
 fan of dinosaurs, there's plenty of varieties of lightning-quick raptors, docile vegesauruses, 
 and, the mighty Tyrannosaurus Rex (a boss) .
  
  There are no surprises in Turok's arsenal, you get your standard pulse rifle, shotgun, machine 
 gun, rocket launcher, and more. Taking a page out of Halo, you can only carry two weapons but you 
 can also dual wield. Ironically, the best weapon is your trusty knife. There are several cinematic 
 action sequences where you have to hit a certain button to execute a cool kill move. Unfortunately, 
 if you use the knife a lot as I found myself doing, the animations tend to repeat depending on 
 the type of dino you're fighting.
  
  The majority of the game has some solid shooting gameplay, but there are dissapointments that bring 
 them down. The mandatory evil humans just take away from the fun of fighting dinosaurs. Their AI 
 is weak when fighting at distances and can't melee you up close. Some sequences and boss fights 
 are dragged out for far too long and get rid of any sense of accomplishment. Checkpoint saves are 
 also few and far between. The game runs about 10 hours, but a lot of that can result from the repetition 
 of difficult settings.
  
  The graphics are ok for a UE3 game. The Jungle environments are definitely nothing great compared 
 to Crysis. Textures seem messed up. Granted, there are some great animations, particularly when 
 dinosaurs lie twitching to death on the ground.
  
  Multiplayer adds the standard DM, TDM, and CTF options. But, dinosaurs spice up most of the matches. 
 There's also a handful of co-op missions that let you tackle some side quests. Co-op supports up 
 to 4 players, and the action is a lot more intense than in regular single-player because the number 
 of enemies and dinosaurs have been ramped up considerably. No one's playing online though.
  
  Turok is essentially about battling dinosaurs and there's not much more to it. The rest of 
 the game just gets forgotten and the plot is just average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game, it's pretty unique compared to most shooters these days. You play as 
 Joseph Turok and... I'm not gonna spoil the story :P Here you get to battle humans and dinosaurs 
 and the way you do this is cool. You can either go with guns or shoot them stealthy with the bow 
 and arrow from a certain distance or sneak up on them and use the knife in a specially animated 
 way which looks awesome. The graphics are also great with just a few texture flaws and little glitches 
 here and there, but it's not bad at all as some reviews say. The single-player is long compared 
 to other shooters from this generation and will be very fun, it will introduce you to all the weapons, 
 you will fight a few large and hard bosses and the environments are really big especially outside, 
 so I guess that's why the game's 15 gigabytes... but they could have at least compressed it so 
 it would be 10 gigs, not 15... oh well, forget it, at least it's good. The multiplayer part is 
 very fun, especially co-op if you can get in with 3 other players, but unfortunately there are 
 only 3 co-op maps... maybe they'll release more in the future. There are also a few other game 
 modes, but they're what you've seen in every other shooter with online function. Overall, I think 
 people underappreaciated this game and only looked at its flaws instead of enjoying it for what 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danlinenberg10
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna make it short and sweet -
  
  Turok is one of the better FPS games i've encountered during the recent years. It may not be one 
 of the top 3 or 5, but definetley a one worth remembering.
  Turok has stunningly beautiful graphics (at dx10, atleast...) that made me, unlike many other games, 
 amazed to a point where i just stand and look at the view; even so, the graphics aren't perfect 
 - apparently, some lazy programmer used a solid texture of weeds, and pasted it all over the terrain, 
 which moves at an angle for each side I look at it, but still, having a full landscape filled with 
 these runescape looking weeds, makes it difficult to notice it, unless you try.
  
  the gameplay is great, the constant battles with different dinosaurs, who look like they have been 
 extracted out of a steven spielberg movie, keep you wanting more (the only drawback is the lack 
 of variety in the killing moves with the knife) . the stealthy assassinations of human enemies, 
 and gun battles, ressemble previous games but are still a lot of fun.
  
  many people said that the guns in Turok are boring and banal - it's true, but which mediocre FPS 
 doens't have banal weapons? SMG - wow, caught me by surprise, shotgun - huh, slow down crazy man, 
 sniper rifle - this is going into the gaming industry world records for originality.
  Turok's strong point was to use primitive weapons as a main purpose - the knife and the bow, other 
 than that, the weapons are like any other FPS game, but some of them (pulse rifle, sticky gun) 
 are suprisingly fun to use.
  
  Turok storyline is compelling non the less, keeping you intrigued to find out what flashback will 
 this chief-running-water experience next , and believe it or not, for a FPS, this storyline is 
 quite impressive.
  
  The only real problem I had with the game, is that when you kill a human, via a knife or gun, he 
 doens't bleed. I can understand the sensitivity, but slashing dinosaur throats that shoot a rain 
 of blood towards Turok's stylish mohawk, and the clever loading joke "what is a meat fountain? 
 grenade under a dinosaur" don't really complete the intention of rated-E shooter.
  
  All these features prove that Turok isn't your ordinary run-of-the-mill FPS game, but a strong 
 statement of renovation and thought, which avid FPS fans and gamers alike will enjoy..... if they'll 
 open their minds and try to ignore others' reviews and create a personal opinion for a change. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbpvivi
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  Its more of a random rant of ideas than a review
  
  Its like they built this game using the UT3 editor. The cut scenes look like they came from Gears 
 of war, im guess they just used the same technology found in the editor. When you zoom in with 
 the right mouse button it looks like gears of war (just 1st person instead of 3rd) the way you 
 have to release of whole clip into someones face to kill them feels like gears of war.
  
  Levels are awful, the vegatation looks plastic textures dont align at all, rocks are wrapped in 
 the same textures and are not seamless so you can see really nasty lines. There is always the possibility 
 that this game could get a facelift on the PC, they replaced the textures on stalker and that worked!
 
  
  Weapons are generally quite dull. The star of the show in this game tho has to be the knife. Unlike 
 so many FPS out there where the knife is considered a last resort in this game it kick ass! Makes 
 you think how much more fun crysis would be with silent kills. A good point to note aswell is if 
 you get seen you can still take them out, which is usefull because the AI is a lil eratic at best 
 and your occasionally get spotted crouched behind a rock or something.
  
  You know what consol this game should of come out on, the WII. Its not next gen but its 'okay' 
 (like most games on the WII lol and didnt turok originate from nintendo roots :S ??) Infact using 
 the bow on the WII would be very fun :D
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Each game is a mixture of theme, the creator's imagination, and the developer's technology.....
 
  
  Mix them Well ------You get a Game
  
  Synchronize them Well ---------You get a Masterpiece
  
  This is what Turok is all about........ A 
 masterpiece with a great theme, gameplay, and artwork
  
  Though the whooping 12.45 GB of Install Setup and 20 GB of space does seem like a sacrifice on 
 the PC side..... But the sacrifice pays well for gamers with High End Rigs on their Room Tables...
 
  
  This game has great graphics and the killing system is one of its unique..... Getting to kill Dinosaurs 
 and Humans both at the same time is an extreme treat of its own....
  
  The music and the sort of environment created will always keep you on the edge of the screen... Either 
 it would be to admire the scenery and the quality work done... or.... To the surprise attacks of 
 the dinosaur herds....
  
  The guns are normal apart from the uniqueness of the secondary fire that each weapon has... but... the 
 BOW is quite a unique part of armory that we have........ It just gives you the feeling of being 
 in that jungle.....
  Combining different Weapons adds up to the strategy part of the game....
  
  And 3 enemies on 
 the same battleground could leave you sometimes with the advantage or dis-advantage The story is 
 quite normal for an FPS game with a lot of slashing in the game........
  
  On an all overview side..... This game is great and a must for all FPS lovers.......
  
  
  
 PS: Steven Spielberg must play this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  This may sound like a very subjective view, but in how many games you can actually use a bow, pin 
 your enemies to the wall (depend on how long you can hold the bow, the powerfull this shot would 
 be) , make combos, using your left mouse button making it different by your aproach to him/it (i 
 am talking about PC games) , get into situation when you find yourself in the middle of juicy battle 
 of bunch of different kinds of dinos, T-Rex, ten enemy soldiers killing each others while you can 
 participate in the fight or not, and on top of that you are attacked from the air by the giant 
 flying things" spitting acid at you (so you must find a shelter fast) ... undiscribable. Gameplay 
 is fast and much fun to play. Animation of dinos are made almost perfectly, its the best part in 
 my opinion. In-game movies perfectly fade to gameplay so you wont notice the difference during 
 the play. There are plenty of various weapons you can find during the game (sniper, gun with sticky 
 granate, chaingun...) which you can hold in both arms (some of them combined) using different mouse 
 buttons for alternate firing mode.
  I find story a decent one ... Turok was a member of the Wolfpack, a specialized military detachment 
 whose members were trained in black ops by General Roland Kane. After a falling out with the group, 
 Turok was reassigned back to the military and was eventually made the newest member of Whiskey 
 Company, a team that has been assembled to apprehend his former mentor and return him to Earth. 
 Formerly 'General' Kane, he had supposedly disappeared two years earlier only to have surfaced 
 once again on a world under the jurisdiction of the Mendel-Gruman Corporation.
  
  Graphics could of been made better judging by the similar mix of Crysis and S. T. A. L. K. E. R wich 
 in my opinion this game tend to be. But again, i think we all become spoiled now-a-days, hungry 
 for visual effects, which in Turok, when i started a game didnt looked promising, but after playing 
 it for a while i was surprised ... its very well optimized with decent framerates, up to 60 FPS 
 most of the time. Characters and dinosaurs have enough polygons to make your jaw dropped, hopefully 
 in this PC version you can set some extra options (AA) unlike consoles, but it cant be told the 
 same for enviroment (poor textures) , allthough it have its shinny moments as seen in explosions 
 (especially smoke, while using rocket louncher) and water effects (waterfall) . Abandonned fort 
 flooded with reptiles and spider/scorpions who invade from the floor, cave with sea monster and 
 jungle simply describe the great level design.
  Music and sounds fit perfectly into atmosphere (sound of T-Rex is simply awesome) .
  Well, i couldnt 
 find any major issues or bugs in this game, exept for the stupid "checkpoint only" save mechanics. 
 Otherwise i highly recommend this game even if you arent a fan of Jurassic Park, at least try the 
 demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trevlyn34
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I bought Turok with the hopes of finding an action FPS with a tactical approach and a surreal sci-fi 
 story line. What I found was a run and gun shooter, attempting the action of Gears of War, and 
 falling far short.
  Keep in mind that my typical tastes in FPS's have fallen to games such as Painkiller, Half Life 
 2, and Prey while I truly enjoy an inventory based sci-fi shooter like S. T. A. L. K. E. R..
  That said let's look at the good. Teaming up with Touchstone, Propaganda games put some quality 
 into this game with nice cut scenes and excellent voice acting. The acting talents of Ron Perlman 
 and Donny Wahlberg are without question in my book and they are a credit to this game. I would 
 also list the fast action and surprise factor as positive traits with many instances of being blind 
 sided by fast moving and hard to spot dino's. The voice acting and action do not save this game 
 for me and we must press on to the bad.
  Some of these traits could be counted in the good column if they were coupled with a better overall 
 combat style of play. First off is the lack of a comprehensive HUD. Specifically, there is no 'loaded' 
 ammo indicator, no health indicator, no mini-map or radar system, no detection indicator, and a 
 very muddled and limited weapon control system. Overall this left me with the feeling of not knowing 
 where I was and how I was set offensively. I assume this blind HUD system was intended to add some 
 realism to the game making you feel, perhaps, a bit helpless and uneasy. However, I tend to enjoy 
 all the input that a robust HUD offers. If I wanted uneasy realism I would most likely hide in 
 my back yard with a paintball gun and snipe the local thugs or go play FEAR. The weapon accuracy 
 of the automatic weapons in this game can be described as hitting a bee with a gatling cannon. 
 I've never quite experience this level of frustration in aiming except perhaps while aiming in 
 Resident Evil 4 with no mouse support. Waisting an entire clip of ammo on a target and hitting 
 very little is fine if I'm playing a cover based FPS like Gears of War but not here. Granted we 
 have the knife and bow at our disposal but that brings more problems. There is no effective stealth 
 indicator in the game so getting a clear shot off at a stationary target is almost unseen and attempting 
 to one shot a moving target while being sprayed with lead is not within my skill range. The knife 
 could be useful if you can understand the cryptic "what to do" messages while in close combat. 
 I must emphasize that I am solely a PC gamer. I do not play console games and when given the letters 
 A and D on the screen with arrows below them I look at my keyboard in confusion yelling "I am pressing 
 A and D but I'm dying!"
  I digress. These last two issues I would consider personal erks and not really valid for all players. 
 One, I consider my game system to be in the moderate range. I have played all the afore mentioned 
 shooters at max settings with no difficulty but in order to get smooth game play and the chance 
 at hitting anything this side of the barn I had to run Turok on low. Yes, I heard the screams of 
 horror out there but I like smooth game play over detail and I'm using a 7900GT, 2GB ram, a Pentium 
 D 930, and a Raptor drive. My last gripe would be the 18GB of HDD space that is required. Even 
 when I did play on high settings I did not see any awe inspiring graphics or extended game play 
 that would constitute this kind of space. I look at a game like Oblivion with hundreds of hours 
 of game play, an immense game world, massive amounts of NPC's and items and I think if they can 
 pack it all into 4.6GB what's the deal with Turok.
  Long and short, Turok left me with buyers remorse. This game is and feels like a port. Some console 
 / PC gamers may interact much better with this game and enjoy it more but I did not. Here's hoping 
 for a better PC game future than old news ports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: submicron
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Please, do not bother with this game! Is the worst port I had the misfortune buying. I have a $6,000 
 gaming rig and this thing looks just plain bad and not to mention the bugs. Save yourself the trip 
 to the store. Go play it at your friends' house on the Xbox or PS3. Is too bad I can't return it 
 for something worth the installation alone. Yeah, it takes like 15 gigs of hardrive space. I was 
 looking forward to this game. I remember the Nintendo 64 days. I have Unreal Tournament 3 and the 
 graphics are beautiful there. Not to mention I played the game with everything on high and still 
 achieve average frame rates of 130. It doesn't make any sense. I ran Crysis with everything on 
 high and the frames rates average 43 and 44. It's simply flaw in every aspect. So much for waiting. 
 Another add-on it feels like it was put together in a month. No exploration whatsoever. Am I the 
 only one feeling like this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The game trully brings out some new ideas where some manage to do it right & stand out & the others 
 are a litlle glitched ! 1st i want to say that for the 1st game from the new studio "PROPAGANDA" 
 they did an excelent job few fresh studios can delliver at least at this quality of games ! The 
 gameplay of the game is tense .. it gives you the impression sometiems ... of "FEAR" in the jungle 
 & the agressive dinosours make it all fun but ... alltough the dinasors have great animations & 
 A. I. the human opponents don't i mean they do but only after they have spoted you so they are good 
 at tactics but retarded till the moment they spot you ... they will sure challenge you in doors 
 ... & yeah the ideea of using the Dino's as an neutral A. I. that effects both camps evan i multiplayer 
 is superb & intense but inb single player the level desing should have used at least 50% of the 
 Crysis concept ( every level being a small sandbox ) or at least the "2way" stuff from Gears of 
 War & that nowdays its draging back , + the Dino's make fora great competitve multiplayer but the 
 multiplayer haven't been exploited at maximum imagine if you had a mode like all the players VS 
 1one Trex or all the players surviving a horde fo RAPTORS for 10 minutes + many more & yeah beeing 
 the spiritual succesor to TUROK "Dinosour Hunter" ... the weapons feel preaty simple compared to 
 the 1st game of the franchise .. only 3 of them are of that quallity & a very good one ... but yeat 
 olso the game world is brought more in to reality in to an world like "ALIENS" (without the aliens) 
 mixed with "UNREAL2 the awaikening" + its own touch !The gameplay aspects that the game manages 
 to do right is the knife kills - at last a game where the knife isn't useless + the passing of 
 the game , the full body awairnes system being the 1st one i've saw that reacts to explaosions 
 , the mini game system present in key moments of the game ! From a presentation stand point the 
 game is just amazing = the story is about honor , revenge & yeah futuristic mercenaries with a 
 great script , funny jokes & probably one of the greatest voice acting ever ... your most popular 
 character in this game is SLADe done by Ron Perlman + Timothy Olyphant + many more , cut scenes 
 = hollywood movies + the music its lets say just perfect for the setting & the effects to + the 
 UNREAL 3 engine proves to us once again that it still has the power to impres & it looks as god 
 as GEARs but in an other way... being used in nature enviroments with some of the greatest grass 
 effects ever made ! I enjoyed the game playing it on medium & i trully recomend to play it on easy 
 because its hard sometimes & suprinsingly some levels have a multitude of checkpoints & some only 
 have to 2-3 , it has potential the same that Bioshock did + i compare it to BIO because of th unique 
 setting but as i sad if they nail some of the things that i have mentioned up & add something more 
 this game will really be a HIT ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfassassin
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  The maps are EXTREMELY straightforward and linear, making the game boring and not very fun to look 
 at. there's nothing to explore because you're goaded down canyons 80% of the time and stuck on 
 cliffs the other 20%. It doesn't give you any chance to do your own exploring, which has come to 
 be the standard in new games like GTA and Crysis. The linear maps make the game go by too fast, 
 because you know EXACTLY where to go, (which is exactly like the N64 version) so you spend the 
 whole game just running through levels trying to get to the end because there's nothing else to 
 do or explore. On another note, the knife kills are pretty cool, and the concept of hunting dinosaurs 
 is awesome, but they could've just made a huge white room with dinosaurs to kill and i would have 
 had as much or more fun with that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  heard all sorts of horror stories about this game from having abysmal graphics to crappy performance 
 and more.... well i had a crave for some dinosaurness and purchased the game going against everyone's 
 advice....
  
  let me tell you this is a GREAT game, graphics aren't everything in life sometimes you need to 
 take a step back and enjoy the damn ride.
  
  GRAPHICS - yes the graphics range from good to very good, if you rename the executable to Bioshock. exe 
 you can force AA in the nvidia control panel, make sure you disable also any nvidia Optmizations 
 by setting High Quality in the panel it makes a world of a difference.
  
  currently playing 1440x900 all high with 4x aa and 4x af (8x af will hurt performance unless you've 
 got SLi or crossfire) , so far performance is very good lowest fps 40fps and highest 60 (capped 
 anyway) , the dinosaurs and general animations look great, a few textures could've used a bit higher 
 polygons but that's fine.
  
  if you've ever played GEARS OF WAR well the graphics are quite similar or better.
  
  SOUND 
 - well the sound is an integral part of the experience, you're on an island (way too open) so you 
 gotta pay attention with those little dinosaurs pests running around where you can't see them, 
 5.1 speakers and surround provided an good experience but this game shines on Headphones you've 
 got my word on it, awesome voice acting (the characters are plain bad ass which is cool!) , music 
 is ok.
  
  GAMEPLAY - all i can tell you is that while it shares the name and dinosaurs it's quite a different 
 game from the original, but i gotta tell you also to stop comparing this to the old one, take the 
 game for what it is and you'll enjoy it keep on comparing and you'll drop it real quick.
  
  won't bore you with the story you must've read about it, but suffice to say you'll be fighting 
 enemies such as soldiers combines and dinosaurs including a T-Rex! oh yeah, weapons feel great, 
 the characters are likeable in the context their in, the story won't win any award but it isn't 
 half bad either.... bad guy end up on an island with dinosaurs and gotta fight.... good mindless 
 fun.
  
  CONCLUSION :
  
  sure the game could've been better by improving a few things but then it could've been worse, honestly 
 this is a great game and if you can forgive a few niggles you'll love it as much as i do, it's 
 FarCry vs Jurassic Park really.
  
  Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 26, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Too bad this PC version of the game was not released at the same time (2/5/08) with XBOX and PS3 
 versions. I guess, publishers don't realize how much they lose by not having their stuff ready 
 by the release date as promised. Usually PC users get screwed by that "one-game-fits-all-platforms" 
 idea. Anyways, coming out almost 3 months after its XBOX and PS3 counterparts, the PC version is 
 anything but hot, and worse that even after the delays the PC version still feels like a something 
 that should be a console game only.
  
  Good stuff:
  - neat dinosaurs and other critters you need to kill, and ... well, that's about it on the positive 
 side
  
  Bad stuff:
  - expected much more from Unreal 3 engine, but the graphics are only mediocre even on the highest 
 settings. For some reason I wished for Crytek engine from Far Cry to render Turok's foliage and 
 scenery. Anyways, a bit disappointing usage of Unreal 3
  - two install DVDs and have a huge hard disk footprint (15 GB+) compared to much longer games and 
 most of them fit on one DVD -- not sure where the developers wasted the release date postponement 
 time since this looks totally unoptimized (a very similar development lameness to Midways's Blacksite 
 and Stranglehold games)
  - human opponents' AI is a great example of how the excessive inbreeding has detrimental effect 
 on offsprings' intelligence ... or maybe the FPS part is simply not well done or not exciting enough
 
  - another developer who forces you to install AGEIA PhysX software regardless of whether you have 
 the card or not
  
  Overall, this is not a bad FPS game ... it's more bland and uninspiring than bad or great. Underdeveloped 
 story, a rather minimalistic set of FPS moves with no "take cover" system and no "iron sights" 
 instead of a fake zoom, a huge hard disk footprint, and mediocre presentation renders this game 
 as "play when bored or when nothing new is available". The developer/publisher failed to build 
 up hype and excitement by missing important deadlines on all platforms, but especially on the PC. 
 Still this game has some cool animals and may appeal to some or many. It could prove that the multiplayer 
 is more fun that the rest of it. Anyways, waiting a few more months for the price drop is probably 
 not a bad idea.
  
  Score: 5.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoatheMe
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 25, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  This is specifically for the pc version of the game. It's hard to even get into the gameplay details 
 of this game because I just can't concentrate on them since the people who ported this game to 
 pc did the exact same thing the people who ported area 51 to pc did and released it with the graphics 
 not fully enabled. There are no antialiasing or shadow options at all... running this on all max 
 settings still looks like a game from a few years ago rather than a fancy unreal 3 engine game. 
 I don't know what it is about unreal 3 engine games that start off on 360... but if you really want 
 to play Turok I'd suggest getting the 360 version or waiting until they come out with some kind 
 of fix for the pc version, though I wouldn't hold your breath on that. If you really want to you 
 can force anti-aliasing and other options through your video card, but it will cause the graphics 
 to glitch like crazy. Waste of timeeeeeeeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surdanis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This latest installment of the Turok series is a reboot title. While not a terrible game, Turok 
 suffers from some major flaws that keep it from being a genuinely satisfying shooter. You are Turok, 
 a Native American soldier who was once a member of an elite special operations unit known as "Wolf 
 Pack". Set far into the future, where mankind has apparently colonized other solar systems (and 
 everyone wears a Bluetooth) , it takes place almost exclusively on a seemingly jungle planet straight 
 out of the latest King Kong movie: You are treated to a panoramic vista of the place when you first 
 land that is reminiscent of the first Jurassic Park. As the newest member of Whiskey Company, your 
 mission is to capture your former mentor and commanding officer, Kane, who has gone rogue.
  
  Slightly stylized in a similar fashion as the Gears of War and Unreal Tournament fashion, the 
 graphics are pretty darn good despite some minor glitches here and there. However, it isn't as 
 realistic as Crysis or Call of Duty 4 (the two most recent FPS kings) . But nowhere near as perfect, 
 mind you. The level design is repetitive, consisting for the most part of green jungle, sci-fi 
 bunker, and more jungle, being more in the style of CoD4 than Crysis in terms of objective openness 
 and railroading. The grass, for example, is of annoyingly poor quality, appearing as dancing paper 
 sheets that look like some six-year-old cut them out with a pair of scissors and pasted them upright 
 in the backyard: When you skulk around to get a stealth kill, you'll notice it right away. The 
 specular lighting, which exists in abundance, causes a plastic look to many of the model textures 
 (though not nearly as bad as in BioShock) . The models of the enemies -- about half of which will 
 be Kane's goons -- are all dressed up in futuristic armor of varying levels like a bunch of Helghasts 
 (their eyes even light up red when you they go into alert and offensive mode) .
  
  The HUD, however, is thankfully minimal, though something you might not expect from a sci-fi piece 
 (though I should mention that the only really sci-fi element here is the setting) . What do you 
 see in the bottom right corner is your ammo count, including hand grenades (of which you can only 
 carry two) . As another auto-healer, there is no health meter: the devs having chosen instead to 
 adopt the recent trend where your status is indicated by a blurry red screen.
  
  The cut scenes, as mentioned earlier, tend to flow in and out of regular game play smoothly in 
 most cases with the camera zooming in or out of the main character's head. As is the custom in 
 FPS"s today, the cut scenes are also in-game and not pre-rendered, eschewing breaks in the storytelling. 
 And the storytelling is mostly good, though the story itself is fairly close to bland. Not letting 
 the cat out of the bag, the plot is wafer thin, being as basic as any action serial can be, involving 
 some secret weapon -- but that takes a backseat here, for the story itself is blatantly character 
 oriented. You expect twists and turns, but they never happen. Some of the cut scenes are flashbacks 
 to Turok's past while in Wolf Pack, and focus mainly on the relationship between Kane and Turok 
 as well as Turok and Slade (of Whiskey Company) , and they do the job of fleshing out the protagonist 
 well. But while the spotlight is certainly on the main character, character development is virtually 
 absent; the only one displaying it being Slade, who, initially against Turok's inclusion to the 
 unit, eventually warms up to him. The climax, up to and including the eventual showdown, is poorly 
 spun. There is not a drop of dramatic build up, and the final fight is as quick and entertaining 
 as a Tyson knockout in the first round -- too much like Rainbow Six Vegas 2's ending.
  
  And the boss fights highlight one of the flaws. Too often, they are staged as giant puzzle games. 
 While puzzle fights are great to break up the action, too many puzzles can be a mind numbing chore. 
 Tension was indeed high (because you are getting chased or attacked at the same time) , but was 
 due more to a gross feeling of caginess. Because the battles can only be solved one way, there 
 is no reward for ingenuity. In first T-Rex battle, for instance, you can only defeat the creature 
 by going to one spot only in the cave and using it as cover -- going anywhere else is much too difficult 
 to even try since you would be pinned between the T-Rex and some velociraptors, which spawn infinitely.
 
  
  The game play is fairly standard fare, but it's here where many of the jarring errors rear their 
 ugly faces. To begin with, you cannot run, which is a standard in most FPS's. Even R6V2 has finally 
 jumped onto the bandwagon of added realism and introduced a run key. What is frustrating is that 
 there are number of levels where you wish you really had a run key -- like when you're trying to 
 run away from a T-Rex, but instead move at a relatively brisk walk. You're just waiting for Jenny 
 to yell "Run, Turok! Run!". In speaking of missing keys, the most obvious one is the quicksave 
 key. A staple in any FPS is the quicksave; not only does it save you time from having to go into 
 the menu and save the long way, but it also saves you from having to restart at checkpoints. Indeed, 
 some great FPS's don't have a save function, but there is glaring evidence that the devs intended 
 to put a save function in but left it out. If you go into the menu key binds, you'll find that 
 quicksave is indeed a function, but for the life of me, I can't figure out how to get it work! 
 So I am forced to respawn at the last checkpoint, which in turn forces me to waste even more time 
 trying to kill an obnoxiously difficult boss from the very beginning... again.
  
  But Turok does give us the much talked about knife kill. Unfortunately, in the PC version, getting 
 a knife kill is somewhat more difficult than in the console version. Through my own playing, I 
 find it easier to get it to stick when I am standing still: any movement tends to lessen the chance. 
 But when the knife does stick, you get a cool animation where the enemy is instantly dispatched, 
 which is instantly gratifying. The animations, which send the camera into third person mode, may 
 vary depending on the creature (such as a velociraptor) you attack and the angle from which you 
 strike. Your knife may end up digging deep into the raptor's skull or you may elegantly slice his 
 throat. You even get to play mini games to fight off dinosaurs that have pounced over you, the 
 success of which may result in the death of the beast -- similar to CoD4 when you are knocked down 
 by the attack dogs. The mini game concept, however, also finds its way into the final fight with 
 Kane, which is more than a little disappointing.
  
  The controls are, on the whole, fairly simple, though again, there are some missing features. You 
 cannot go prone and you cannot lean right or left. You cannot stealth walk (which would have made 
 knife kills much easier, but then the areas where you can actually do them are all staged) . The 
 weapons are nothing special are all quite standard: SMG, pulse rifle, pistol, sniper rifle (which 
 doesn't have a toggle or wheel zoom but requires you to hold the right mouse button instead!) , 
 shotgun, and rocket launcher. There is even a crossbow, mini-gun, and flamethrower for added fun, 
 though you will probably only use the pulse rifle for the majority of the game for its balance 
 of power and accuracy except where you are forced to use something else (such as your knife -- which 
 happens on many levels) . Secondary modes of fire are accessed by holding shift the key. Curiously, 
 the devs chose to impose this system of holding the shift key down (pressed along with the right 
 mouse button) over the ubiquitous grenade key, such that you have to think just a little bit more 
 to throw lob one. There is even a special pistol that shoots delayed explosion sticky balls of 
 energy as its primary fire; it shoots balls of energy that explode on impact for its secondary 
 fire (which probably should have been switched, considering how much more effective it would be 
 to spam those buggers) . There is also a dodge function, which causes your camera view to get stuck 
 in one direction with the animation until it finishes, being only useful against melee-ers such 
 as dinos.
  
  The sound is nothing fancy, and the soundtrack is forgettable. Even CoD4 and Crysis had hummable 
 tunes. However, the voice acting is superb, really lends itself to the cinematic feel. Many of 
 the characters are memorable in Whiskey Company -- but they don't stay around long -- and you can't 
 help but just wish they'd fleshed them out some more. (Especially, Reese, the albino sniper, whom 
 I affectionately call "Whitey".) There were time during the cut scenes where I though I was watching 
 a really good animated film, such was the acting combined with the expressive facial animations.
 
  
  The AI has apparently not been fixed from the console version. It's certainly not broken, but there 
 are times when the AI may gain a fantastic Force sense and anticipate you walking into a room, 
 proceeding instantly to shoot at you with stunning accuracy while moving from about 200 game yards 
 away. And sometimes the AI attempts to shoot you from behind cover -- but fires every single shot 
 in an attempt to shoot THROUGH the cover. One particular species of dino can often times be seen 
 on tree trunks from many yards away, allowing you to take some shots from afar. And their specific 
 AI doensn't know where you are if you're not within a certain range of him so that you can keep 
 slinging rounds downrange until he's done. But where it isn't spotty, the AI does manage to dish 
 out some of the best use of small units tactics I've seen from any game. I've witnessed a soldier 
 try to pin me down with fire as his teammate attempted to outflank me by running behind him, forcing 
 me to choose between two targets.
  
  All in all, it is a good game, though alarmingly handicapped in spots. You get this nagging feeling 
 like the writers and the devs originally wanted to do something really big with this project, but 
 were hammered down by budget/time constraints. There was even talk of including vehicles in the 
 game, but that was eventually scrapped in exclusive favor of the more intimate, visceral action 
 of run and gun. In the end, when you have completed the game, you feel as if you just finished 
 a Hong Kong action flick where the plot was never really there and doesn't really get tied up like 
 it's supposed to. In the post-game arena of multiplayer, I am also left unfulfilled: I can't even 
 find a game that exists, leading me to believe you can't participate in PC Internet games as of 
 yet! But all is not completely lost. This current version of the Turok world is still a breath 
 of fresh air from the latest craze of modern military shooters -- however short the breath. It is 
 definitely worth borrowing if not buying to add to your shooter collection, if only to think about 
 what a truly marvelous game this might have been...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grynnan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  
  The game is ok, but it feels that there is something missing....
  
  
  The weapons, there are very cool weapons, but it doesn't really matter what gun you choose, you 
 always end up spraying led, minigun or not .
  The guns are really cool, but they don't do their job.
  Luckily, there is no short of ammo. 
 
  
  Turok seems to missed his marksman education, no head shots in this game.
  Turok did however turn up on close combat class, but the knife has to big of a role for my taste, 
 FPS is First Person Shooter, not First Person Knifer.
  However, the knife slaying is pretty cool animated.
  
  There are a few weapons that stick out 
 though, the Bow, -Always fun to nail enemies to the walls. The "bomb gun" With sticky bombs that 
 will get stuck on everything, or the secondary fire that produces a "minefield".
  
  
  
  The AI, Artificial idiots. On this planet the dinosaurs seems to have evolved as the same rate, 
 as the bad guys devolved. 
  They are deaf and dumb, and doesn't give you much of a challenge.
  
  
  
  I don't know what 
 they have done, the game is  12GB, "however the size of the game is not for textures". The textures 
 has a "painted on cardboard coulisse" feeling to them.
  12GB... The bloat, must have something to do with copy protection, because I can't think of anything 
 that would make this game so huge compared to UT3 or Crysis. (I know, different engines, but still)
 
  
  
  Best thing to describe this game is not as a FPS, but as a "First Person Arcade Game".. Run shoot, 
 have fun!
  
  The multiplay is the old "we have seen this before" deathmatch, capture the flag etc.. nothing 
 new.. and to few maps.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The Turok series was always about dinosaurs, and alot of gore, well, this version doesn't disappoint, 
 but does do a couple things differently then the last games.
  
  Gameplay - The game was always about a hunter known as Turok and his adventure in the jungle, well 
 this shifts plot lines onto a different planet, and has no relation to the previous installments, 
 instead you play as Joseph Turok, a former Wolfpack Member, the games intro does a good job of 
 introducing all the characters, but for the most part, the characters are in ways, like The Delta 
 Squad from Gears. The game has a big emphasis on survival in the natural environment, you get a 
 knife at the beginning of the game, this is probably the only sense of "survival" in the natural 
 environment, cause for the most part, there are a lot of guns in the environment, with lots of 
 ammo around, so this is mainly an action packed, Hollywood style sort of movie, one fun thing to 
 do in the game is to do the knife stealth kills, which are just as satisfying as using the chainsaw 
 in Gears, but sometimes, just not as bloody, Shooting is serviceable, nothing annoying, but it 
 just doesn't feel as satisfying as knife kills.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are in ways great, but on the pc, its a real system hog, 18 gigabytes is 
 a lot of space for one game, but if you have the space, and the hardware, you will get a great 
 looking game, Lighting can be great, but a little bright, Textures are good, but can get blurry 
 in spots, and the frame rate holds up considerably well, but as I said before, it requires lots 
 of space to even play, but then again, every unreal 3 engine game always is a system hog.
  
  Sound - Knife kills sound great, weapons sometimes sound appropriate, but as I said before, 
 they are not very impactful, and for the ones that sound very good, just don't have the power that 
 there sound addresses. The voice acting can sound to over macho, but it does do very well for its 
 own good.
  
  Value - The multiplayer is great fun, the Dinosaurs add an extra level of strategy, and if you 
 have a 16 player match going on, it can be very fun, especially with the knife fights in the game, 
 my personal favorite weapon set is knives only because it can get very hectic, but sometimes frustrating 
 because you can miss a lot, but you will laugh a lot when you do so. 
  
  This game is definitely worth a purchase if you want to try an action packed game with a decent 
 multiplayer component, the singleplayer can be good at times, but sometimes a little repetitive, 
 but if you have enough for a multiplayer game, LAN party perhaps, then this should keep you occupied 
 for a good 2 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacagrande1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  I don't know if it's the fact I like dinosaurs that attracted me to this game, or if it's just 
 because I like FPS, but I was sort of disappointed due to those two reasons just not getting me 
 to like this game so much. 
  The graphics are ok... If you running them on a good system, but their still kind of laking, sort 
 of a been there, seen that sort of thing.
  Game play is ok as well, just that you get to use your knife so many da*n times, all other weapons 
 are rendered practically useless, In my opinion of course. 
  What I mostly enjoyed were the animations of a raptor lurking around or running at you to tear 
 you to pieces. Animations made the game believable and realistic. AI wasn't too bad either.
  Multiplayer is surprisingly effective, but still loose. Thanks God we don't have to deal with that 
 wacky aim in the console versions, that will lighten things up dramatically and we will able to 
 get some more pownage online!
  Overall I enjoyed the game just a little, but I was hoping to get more emotions out of it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
