-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Turok 2: Seeds of Evil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/turok2seedsofevil/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  4, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 207 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jan 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Turok 2 starts out poorly, but it does have some redeeming qualities. 

 Dinosaur games just can't seem to get a break. Trespasser was terrible, Turok was an ignored blip 
 on the PC radar, and even Carnivores, despite that fact that it was a decent, make-believe hunting 
 game, didn't get much attention. So how does Turok 2 fit into this distinguished group of dinosaur 
 shooters? It's not a bad dinosaur game when you compare it to present company, but when you compare 
 it to the best of current first-person shooter fare, that's when you discover you really don't 
 want to play Turok 2. Turok 2 starts out poorly, but it does have some redeeming qualities. It's 
 too bad they aren't enough to separate it from the mediocre games of this genre.  

 The graphics in Turok 2 are fairly good, especially the monster animations and weapons special effects. 
 There are multiple death and pain animations for the enemies, many of them depending on what area 
 of the body you hit. Shoot an enemy in the hand and it'll clutch it in pain. Blast its face and 
 its head will whip back from the force. Shoot an enemy's chest at point-blank range and a gaping 
 hole will appear in the middle of its torso. There are also some nice death animations: Dinosaurs 
 convulse and then collapse to the floor; raptors wobble precariously while spouting blood before 
 crumbling to the ground. Some enemies' torsos explode, and other creatures lose limbs and then 
 fall dead. However, these animations do get repetitious after you've played a few levels.  

 Turok was noted for its impressive weapons, and Turok 2 is no different. There are more than 20 
 weapons, ranging from mundane bows and pistols to multiple-rocket launchers, nuke launchers, and 
 dinosaur-mounted mortars. There are melee, projectile, and energy weapons. There are even weapons 
 to use underwater, such as a harpoon gun and torpedo launcher. The flamethrower is the best-looking 
 such weapon I've seen in a first-person game, and the animation of its liquid flame is quite impressive. 
 The special effects on several other weapons, such as the nuke and scorpion launcher, are equally 
 good-looking.  

 The AI for the enemies in Turok 2 is noteworthy in that it isn't mindless. If you go after enemies 
 while you are on the back of a triceratops armed with twin-mounted mortars, they'll run away from 
 you. If you're on foot with a puny gun, they'll charge you. They might even dodge your bullets 
 if they have time or hide behind crates and shoot at you from cover.  

 The enemies in Turok 2 are a mix of reptilian and alien bipeds. There are a few raptors and reptilian 
 lizardmen early on, as well as a good variety of alien enemies later - ranging from spindly organic 
 creatures to wide hulks that vaguely resemble the alien grunts from Half-Life. Turok 2's bosses 
 are gigantic, multi-part creatures. In most cases, you must blow away eyes, arms, or tentacles 
 before you can dent the meaty vital parts of the boss. These bosses are noteworthy because of their 
 size, but otherwise aren't drastically different from your run of-the-mill bosses.  

 Aside from the cool weapons and effects, the game plays like your typical old shooter. As I roamed 
 through confusing environments and blasted weird dinosaur-human hybrids, I thought the game wasn't 
 too bad. In some instances, it was actually fun and showed a few nice flashes of good AI or detail. 
 But if you've played Half-Life, it is hard to go back to games like Turok 2. Except for the weapons, 
 it's not graphically state-of-the-art, doesn't have any particularly noteworthy levels or design, 
 and continues the same key-hunting, switch-turning fare of old shooters. The pacing is faster than 
 in Turok, but it's still slow when compared to such games as Quake or Sin. Nor does it offer anything 
 in the way of an involving story or suspense to justify its slower pacing, something that Half-Life 
 did brilliantly.  

 Worst of all is the hub-based gameplay and confusing level design. The problem with hub-based games, 
 like Hexen II and Turok 2, is that there is no clear direction. The designers want you to explore 
 every nook of the level, by looking behind crates and blowing up every barrel in sight to reveal 
 secret caches of keys. But these hub-based levels are huge and sprawling, and if you miss the tiniest 
 detail or object, which you need to advance to the next level, you are out of luck. You must now 
 wander the entire level again, retracing your steps and looking for the last barrel you failed 
 to shoot or the last crate you didn't move and find that key that will take you out of this level 
 that you had otherwise finished long ago. There is no shame in crafting a linear level that propels 
 a player along at a fun pace. Whatever you might say about its lack of story, Quake at least had 
 clear direction and didn't lose you halfway through the level. It's the unnecessary retracing of 
 steps that is really annoying in Turok 2.   

 If you love shooters, you'll like Turok 2. It's obviously not in the same league as Half-Life in 
 design and immersion, nor does it compare to Quake for pure entertainment. It's not the most fun 
 shooter, but if you don't mind old key-hunting gameplay and the annoying hub-based design, by all 
 means step into Turok's shoes again.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Although the original Turok (which I actually played years after its sequel) functioned precisely 
 like a weak console port, its gameplay was fun when taken in measured doses. Since that game only 
 allowed for periodic saves through relatively scant (although reasonably well-placed) way stations, 
 a checkpoint or two each evening was usually good for a quick dinosaur hunting fix just before 
 bed. Seeds of Evil, on the other hand, often kept me up for hours past a decent bedtime for two 
 reasons -- one of them good, and the other bad.
  
  First, the good: Turok 2 contained several fascinating worlds, most of which evoked the same page-turning, 
 cant-stop-now curiosity as other games  like the original Doom or, more recently, The Suffering 
  that had me sitting in front of my monitor, enrapt, barely breathing, and rarely blinking, until 
 dawn. Although T2s protagonist, Joshua Fireseed, clomps slowly through each of the games diverse 
 arenas as though he were wearing moon boots, his trek through every courtyard, underground tunnel, 
 or spaceship hallway is never dull (not on the initial pass, at least, but more on that in the 
 bad section) . Josh crosses paths with a large assortment of expressively-rendered critters; everything 
 from plasma-spewing mutant lizards to chittering, hungry-looking insects to subterranean monstrosities 
 to genuinely unsettling zombies to bizarre cybernetic unicyclists will leap, stampede, or shamble 
 out of the shadows, just begging to be dispatched like so much cannon fodder. And, oh, but the 
 cannons at hand are among the very best ever to come across a first-person point-of-view: from 
 the lowliest machine pistol and Rambo-approved Tek bow to the gleaming, hulking mini-missile and 
 nuke launchers, there just werent enough targets to satiate the urge to use every weapon in T2s 
 arsenal in equal measure. Foremost among Joshuas toys  the games pi&egrave; ce de r&eacute; sistance, 
 if you will; like Hexens Justifier or Half-Life 2s gravity gun, a weapon that Id like to see 
 in every FPS ever made from now until the end of time  was the astonishingly gruesome and cathartic 
 Cerebral Bore. To repeat exactly what I exclaimed when I first saw the Bore do its thing  which 
 is, for the regrettably uninitiated, to buzz lazily after a tracked target, latch onto its head, 
 and drill out the contents of its skull pan in the messy manner of which Phantasms Tall Man could 
 only dream  would be inappropriate, but portions of my reaction (apart from the full minute of 
 mad cackling that followed) included such sentiments as that was absolutely awful and I cant 
 wait to do that again.
  
  Although the folks at Acclaim fixed the issue of widely-spaced save stations, Turoks foggy, curtained 
 view distance that never withdraws further than, say, 100 yards is still present for Joshuas quest. 
 As a result, the handy sniper scope option on both the Tek Bow and Plasma Rifle only adds about 
 five pointless yards of visibility to any long-range exchanges. My other gripe for Turok 2 recalls 
 the other, less desirable reason for losing so much sleep over this otherwise excellent game: backtracking. 
 The sprawling worlds in T2 contain locked areas that Joshua can only access after he acquires certain 
 pseudo-spiritual upgrades. My second pass through the entire game  particularly, as I recall, 
 the uniform tunnels of both the Mantids hive and the Blind Ones lair  devolved into a boring 
 revisitation of chambers and pathways that were cleared long before. I was afraid to shut down 
 each night until I re-completed each world, for fear that I might lose my place the next day and 
 double-back yet again in one of the flooded tunnels or completely overlook the levels newly-unveiled 
 portal. Reinforcements are beamed into the conquered zones to keep the action fresh, but the slog 
 wore me down eventually, so that even a succession of bodacious shock-em-and-shuck-em Charge 
 Dart/Cerebral Bore combos completely lost their appeal.
  
  Turok 2s recycled levels and its complete absence of the scenic vistas that are often more appealing 
 to me in other shooters than the action itself are forgivable (at the cost of one or two points 
 in the Gameplay category, anyway) when compared to the games impressive character animation, bristling 
 toolkit, and compelling dimension-hopping adventure. Since Acclaim never bothered to port Turok 
 3 over to the PC, my experiences with Fireseed and his clan unfortunately ended with the Primagens 
 defeat. Even so, the first two video game adaptations of the surreal Lost Land comic series were 
 entertaining enough to suffice. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
