-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Turok: Dinosaur Hunter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/turokdinosaurhunter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 23, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 232 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Playing this violent masterpiece - with its flashy arsenal of weapons and lifelike cretins - is 
 a technically arresting adventure. 

 When Turok came out for the N64, it was met with mixed opinions. While fans of first-person action 
 games championed Turok as a game innovative in its class, many were up in arms about the game's 
 over-the-top bloodshed, causing certain stores to embargo the cartridge. Either way, playing Iguana 
 Entertainment's violent masterpiece - with its flashy arsenal of weapons and lifelike cretins - 
 is a technically arresting adventure. Acclaim's latest PC version of Turok is no exception, though 
 some of the gameplay criticisms originally fired at its Nintendo cousin still apply.  

 To mimic the N64's SGI level graphics, Turok PC requires a Direct3D-compatible accelerator. Once 
 that's in place, the Nintendo's smooth-edged graphics give way to sharper, faster shapes and colors 
 on your video monitor: Slinky raptors charge up and gnash their hideous teeth; underworld assassins 
 aim blow darts and fire in unison; mounted triceratops emerge from the mist to attack. Using a 
 3Dfx chipset, Turok's environments really come alive on the PC - with the exception of the occasional 
 slowdown caused by an overpopulation of baddies on the screen.  

 There is no multiplayer option in Turok PC: You are on an eight-level single-player adventure to 
 collect the pieces of the Chronoscepter, a weapon so powerful that it has captured the interest 
 of an evil overlord who plans to use it to rule the world. Between your trusty tek bow and the 
 Chronoscepter there lies an extensive trail of unusual weapons: a whirring, portable Gatling gun; 
 a launcher that sends four rockets trailing into the horizon; and finally, the end-all-be-all hand 
 cannon that releases a brilliant fuchsia apocalypse in a single shot. When critically hit, soldiers 
 and creatures grab their throats to stop an outpouring of blood, some diving back onto the ground 
 to writhe around and yelp in their last throes of death. If you're into guns and graphic violence, 
 Turok is sure to keep you entertained for hours. But when those hours are up, you may find that 
 the game seldom rises above the monotony of simply running and shooting.  

 Many will be disappointed that Turok PC still utilizes the "save stations" from the N64, and does 
 not permit saving your game at any chosen point. But Turok does allow you customized mouse and 
 keyboard configurations as in Doom or Quake. Compared with those classics, Turok seems to make 
 up for its flat progression of events with graphics that are as engaging as they are spellbinding, 
 but whether or not Acclaim's dinosaur can compete with the latest wave of accelerated PC shooters 
 remains to be seen.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Turok: Dinosaur Hunter nearly ten years ago, my initial impression of the 
 title was that its gameplay would actually consist of cautiously stalking a variety of thunder 
 lizards much like Roland Tembo in The Lost World. Alas, the safari simulator that I presumed Turok 
 to be would not arrive on store shelves until exactly one year later, under the name Carnivores. 
 I was not familiar with the thrice-rejiggered comic series that began in the 1950s as a mixture 
 of  Conan Doyle. Although I found the idea of clashing tooth-and-claw 
 with some bioengineered velociraptors compelling, I completely lost interest in Turok when I discovered 
 that the game was A) a rough port of a console game that B) was consequently lacking in the save-anywhere 
 features that I still regard as an incontrovertible privilege of PC gamers. To restate my main 
 beef with Turoks functional design in less grandiose terms: checkpoints suck, and I wasnt about 
 to spend my money on a game built around scads of jumping puzzles if the folks at Acclaim couldnt 
 bother with adding a quicksave routine.
  
  Years passed, and I played through  and thoroughly enjoyed  my turn as Joshua Fireseed in Turoks 
 sequel, which did reflect more than a mere copy-and-paste effort by whomever ported its code to 
 the PC by including a hard save option. Long story short, I backtracked a bit and spent some 
 time in TalSets moccasins. To tell the truth, I didnt have as many problems with the checkpoint 
 system as I expected; thankfully, save stations are available just before most of the games more 
 difficult leaps and skirmishes. Although Turoks level design and character animation is as blocky 
 as one might expect in a late-90s title, I really appreciated such minor details as the histrionic 
 death throes of certain enemies (a shot to the jugular is painful to watch, with copious jets of 
 blood and lots of choking, gasping, and flailing about) and, especially, the selection of deadly 
 hardware that TalSet eventually gathers. Explosions and environmental textures are imbued with 
 bright, shiny colors that reflect Turoks illustrated pulp origins very well. The selection of 
 adversaries in the game isnt limited to bionic variants of Jurassic-era reptiles, either; humans, 
 aliens, and some fairly creative boss monsters are scattered liberally enough throughout the different 
 regions that there was always something interesting and new to see upon arriving at each new level.
 
  
  As for Turoks negative elements, I still count its checkpoint system among them  if only on general 
 principal  even though I didnt have to retrace my steps very often. However, one of the worst 
 instances of lost progress occurred when I simply fell through the floorboards in the Treetop Village 
 due to a clipping glitch. Also, there is no such thing as a horizon in Turok; a thick, framerate-saving 
 fog surrounds the player up to only a few dozen feet away at all times. I understand that the Nintendo 
 64 needed the limited view distance, but even the flat, bitmapped vistas of the Quake engine are 
 attainable on a PC.
  
  I can see why Turok was very highly regarded by N64 owners, but its shine was diminished somewhat 
 by a lot of unrecognized potential in the PC port. Players who arent familiar with the marked 
 simplicity of pre-Half-Life shooters might not enjoy a visit to the timeless Lost Land, but completists 
 who already own a copy of Seeds of Evil can probably find a ripped edition of Turok on some of 
 the finer abandonware sites on the Internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, this game is gorgeous. Before I go rambling on about anything else, Id like 
 to tell you I was blown away by its looks. Were talking about year 1997 here, when mainstream 
 graphics were around the quality of Blood. Yet here we have Turok, featuring sleek, sexy, and bootylicious 
 3D that you can savor, squeeze and writhe all over while screaming in ecstasy. Maybe Im exaggerating 
 a bit, but since Im a seasoned abandoneer, and Ive gotten used to staring at the most grainy, 
 hideous, and abysmal visuals ever, my eyes sighed with relief after encountering such smooth 3D. 
 Well, now that has been dealt with, let us continue with the review.
  
  Okay, to be honest, I have no idea what the storyline for this game is. Even after playing it through 
 completely, I am hopelessly lost. If the story happens to be that Tal'Set, our Native American 
 hero, is running around with weapons of destruction, then massacring anonymous people, dinosaurs 
 and small animals, then yes, it is all explained. As said in the previous sentence, there is plenty 
 of massacring, and, indeed, I found it satisfying. All enemies have a variety of death animations, 
 be it wailing and gasping for air as blood pours out of their necks, or falling back as blood sprays 
 in every direction. Youll never have a lack of violent and pointless death around you.
  
  Now what fun would this senseless violence be without the proper tools to commit it with? Why of 
 course, here at the Turok National Armory, you get everything from the standard hunting knife to 
 the classic pistol, and much, much, more! One of Turoks poor aspects, unfortunately, is held within 
 its combat. When it all boils down to it, the only thing youre doing is shooting stuff, and looking 
 for keys. Every now and then, a nice booby trapped dungeon, or a jumping puzzle (God blessed us 
 here, none of the jumping puzzles in Turok are overly difficult) breaks the massacre of anonymous 
 people and animals. Your enemies are actually varied quite nicely. As mentioned before, you spar 
 with armored humans, who posses an arsenal of different weaponry, from knives and pistols, to grenades. 
 Along with the good old thugs, youll come across good old fashioned dinosaurs, ranging from the 
 fast and deadly raptor, to the massive and intimidating T-Rex. To spice things up, there are some 
 monsters that I cant really define. Although they arent out of place, they pop out at random 
 intervals, and arent really as well situated as the other monsters. These can be trolls, or ogres 
 that pound the ground and send out shockwaves, and many other strange creatures.
  
  Enemy AI is simple, after just encountering a few enemies, their tactics will become obvious, and 
 you can dispatch them with ease. For example, pistol bearing thugs tend to send a few rounds in 
 your direction, and then move around a bit as to avoid any projectiles you send their way. Turok 
 does fine with its major objective, finding keys. Its not as much finding them actually, as 
 theyll naturally come across your path. This is excellent level design on the developers part, 
 because as we all know, key hunting is irritating beyond belief. Although I generally have few 
 problems with Turok, saving was one major annoyance. It employs a console style checkpoint save 
 system, which is irritating to say the least, as they decrease in numbers later on in the game 
 where difficulty ramps up significantly.
  
  When it all boils down, I recommend Turok. Its a satisfying romp through a pretty world that will 
 leave you happy after a good play session. Turok isnt a monumentally fantastic game, but in my 
 opinion its definitely worth your time, so try it out. If you dont like it, you could at least 
 credit it with its nice level design, and the amazing graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fistfull_of_me
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Well, thats not all true, you shoot some dinosaurs but mainly, you kill humans and pretty much 
 anything that moves in your general direction. This may seem boring by its self, but once you add 
 in the supurb graphics and excellent sound, this game really stands out as one of the most enjoyable 
 shooters made. 
  
  You, are Turok, an Indian sort of guy, and you go around looking for pieces of the chronoceptor 
 (or something) before it gets into the wrong hands. So the story's not that deep, but hey, its 
 only a shooter. The gameplay is actaully prtty good, there are plenty of levels to complete, each 
 of them looking fairly different. There are even secret portals, that once completed, will reward 
 you with a weapon or an upgrade of some kind. There is a fairly large amount of weapons, each getting 
 ore and more far-fetched as you progress through the game. 
  
  The graphics are suprisingly good, the environments look really clean and well constructed, as 
 do the enemies themselves. The guns look pretty cool, especially seeing as its firts person view. 
 The enemies have quite a few different death animations, some funny, and some just downright gruesome. 
 If you get them in the head, they wil usually drop to the ground, or slowly decend upon their knees 
 as blood squirts all over the rock walls. The water looks really good too, and if you have a good 
 computer, it is easy to navigate your way through some of the tight cave sysytems.
  
  Sound is definately one of the best parts of this game. There is the constant jungle chatter going 
 on in the background, and even a little roar is let of by some dinosaurs. The enemies will scream 
 at you, and you will easly hear when they are coming because they walk like elephants. This is 
 not nesesarily a bad thing, because it gives you a good idea for how many to expect.
  
  One good feature about the game itself is you can customise the controls to suit you specifically. 
 Even if your computer is a little slow with games like this, you can turn off some of the effects, 
 like fog or fancy tree animations. Keeping the game simple like this will keep the framerate smoothe 
 even when faced with more than three tough enemies.
  
  When the supurb graphics, customisable controls and great sound are all combined, you get one sweet 
 game. It all comes together in perfect harmony to make this really enjoyable and definately long 
 lasting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 28, 2004 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I can't resist to review here an old classic FPS of mine, and that one has a unique atmosphere. 
 Carvernous, dark in the mist ( too much mist for the performance issue, oh there was a huge debate 
 at the release about this ) , and occasional gameplay lags, overall the original Turok remains a 
 true testimony of exceptional level design. The sequels NEVER achieved the same leveling quality 
 and connection. Some may not like the hub system in Turok, however the design itself and level 
 atmospherics are perfectly on point for the theme used. The tamed cavernous sounds help a lot too, 
 as marvelously experienced when playing the Ancient City, Catacombs, namely.
  
  Three things can resume the game apart from the competition at the release: raptors, blood spilling 
 and sounds related to. Mixed together, the result is a Turok raptor you just shot and dying that 
 still remains a unique scenery not really imitated since with such success. Raptors in Turok: Evolution 
 are pale in comparison.
  
  I know the N64 version is better, a bit more fluid, and a better skybox since I remember having 
 seen it in action a few years ago. The PC version could have been a bit more polished. If you find 
 it in a bargain bin, don't hesitate! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
