-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Twinsen's Odyssey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/twinsensodyssey/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 11, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 392 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Adeline
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jun 30, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of adventure games will not want to pass this one up. 

 Relentless: Twinsen's Adventure (known overseas as Little Big Adventure) was a tremendously inventive 
 action-adventure game. Created by the man behind the original Alone in the Dark, Frederick Raynal, 
 Twinsen's Adventure was so incredibly fun, and so visually stunning, it was easy to look past its 
 faults - like a frustrating combat system and next-to-useless save game options. Now Twinsen is 
 back to save his homeworld of Twinsun once again, in Adeline's Twinsen's Odyssey. The sequel is 
 as gorgeous as its predecessor, with the same strange wit and interesting characters. But the faults 
 are a little more apparent this time around - and the reversion from a static, isometric viewpoint 
 to a switching camera angle seems like a step backward.  

 Twinsen's Adventure dealt with our hero saving his planet from the oppressive rule of Dr. Funfrock. 
 Traveling all over his homeworld (an enormous place called, confusingly enough, Twinsun) , Twinsen 
 began as a political prisoner and ended by fulfilling a mystical prophecy and becoming a magical 
 hero. Twinsen's Odyssey picks up pretty much where his Adventure left off. Now the wizards of Twinsun 
 are being kidnapped by an alien race named the Esmers, and as Twinsen searches to aid them, he 
 uncovers a plot to destroy Twinsun as a sacrifice to the Esmerian deity, the Dark Monk. With the 
 addition of Esmer, and its satellite, the Emerald Moon, the amount of area to explore in Twinsen's 
 Odyssey has grown to enormous proportions. Just exploring these bizarre lands and the inhabitants 
 (including several new species of anthropomorphic animals, a group of sausage-soldiers called the 
 Knarta, and a surprising cameo by a dead ringer for Gene Simmons) , is enough to recommend the game 
 to anyone who enjoyed the original or anyone looking for something a little out of the ordinary. 

 But that recommendation is made with some reservation. Simply put, the "action" portion of this 
 action-adventure is frustrating to no end. The original game suffered from a similar problem - 
 the combat was the worst part of the game, requiring you to hit enemies with a magic projectile, 
 and targeting was a difficult affair. Twinsen's Odyssey compounds this problem with a new camera 
 system - in outdoor environments, the perspective switches a la Alone in the Dark or the more recent 
 Ecstatica II. The varying camera angles make targeting an enemy almost impossible at times. You 
 have the ability to move the angle, but only to a position directly behind Twinsen - which is often 
 an even more useless point of view. In the end, you must use the game's quirks to your benefit 
 - using your enemies' less-than-genius AI to hide behind objects and snipe at them while they relentlessly 
 attack your chosen barricade, or making Twinsen spin in circles and switching the camera angle 
 simply to find one that works.  

 Luckily, the "adventure" portion more than makes up for these problems. The puzzles are varied, 
 the world is huge, and the story and characters (despite some unfortunately amateurish voice acting) 
 are interesting enough to buffer the faults of the combat. Perhaps more than any adventure game 
 in recent memory, Twinsen's Odyssey successfully creates the feeling that you are taking part in 
 a living, breathing world, and an incredibly strange one at that. The attention to detail in the 
 hundreds of characters you'll encounter is stunning, and the fantastic settings and excellent musical 
 score make wandering around Twinsun and Esmer a great experience. Fans of adventure games will 
 not want to pass this one up.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: travellinguist
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  It has been many years since I played this game, but I still remember it really well and it holds 
 a special place in my heart. Creative, fun and quirky, this game showed me what was possible from 
 PC gaming years before exponential computer power increases really unleashed the creativity. The 
 power of a game is not in how much it eats up in your specs but in how well it uses them. I played 
 this game on a first generation Pentium with 40 megs of RAM. This meant several CDs of information 
 and some load times but I was hooked and played this game for hours and hours until I finally beat 
 it. Over the years I have seldom been as drawn into the story of a game as I was into this one 
 without even having played the original. This game is a credit to a creativity that valued substance 
 over style. There were so many interesting features in this world and so many things to uncover 
 and discover. It was Grand Theft Auto before that series fully understood its potential. The good 
 thing with this game of course was that parents couldn't complain about the violence (in contrast 
 with GTA) since pegging enemies with Twinsen's ball or shooting skating hot dogs with a laser is 
 largely inoffensive child's fair, but with sophistication for adults to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nenn88
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Where should I start...
  
  First of, this game has been one of my all time favourite games ever. Yeah sure I say that about 
 most of the games...
  But still this game has something in it which makes it unique, and fun!
  
  You play a character 
 called Twinsen, from twinsun!
  
  The graphics in the game are stunning, specially if you bear in mind that the game was made in 
 the 1997.
  Sounds, and the musics are absolutely amazing, and funny!
  
  Gameplay of twinsens odyssey is not too great. The combat system is a bit tricky, and annoying, 
 And the saving system was, and is horrible. but that didnt stop me from playing it 11 years ago, 
 or now. Because the whole idea behind the game is amazing. And the adventure part is alot of fun. 
 So all in all, the adventuring in the game made up for the fact that the combat wasnt that great.
 
  Even though the whole combat mechanics aint too good... I still highly recommend trying out this 
 game, and playing it!
  Trust me its worth it. Because the whole story of the game is brilliant, funny, and unique!
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokolvrolok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games which once you have played it, you will never forget about it!
  
  You will no doubt be thinking that this game is far too old and will be terrible seeing as 
 there are next gen consoles out with revolutionary graphics.
  Well, think again. Yes, the graphics are stuck in the old days but despite that they have their 
 own unique style which hides the fact that it was created 11 years ago and makes it equally playable 
 today as it was in 1997.
  
  I am not going to explain the story to you because to be honest, it would sound ridiculous! But 
 once you have that disk in your drive, once you are playing the game the storyline feels so right!
 
  Basically: You play as the character: Twinsen. Throughout the game you will explore the planets 
 and islands, collect objects, talk to the many NPCs (who feel more alive than some of the NPCs 
 in most modern games) , you will learn how to use certain powers and magical objects, fight, sneak, 
 help people out and perform many other actions!
  It is as good as it needs to be. It is complete with cutscenes and in game clips.
  
  The scenery, 
 despite the rather dated graphics, is quite detailed and there is almost never repeated objects/pieces 
 of scenery in order to keep each area of the games universe feel like something new and never repetitious.
 
  
  There is nothing and no one forcing you to do the missions. You can just roam around and explore 
 the large islands, talking, beating up random people (You can hit anyone and everyone!) , you can 
 drive your little car around, buy weapons and objects and basically do whatever you please until 
 it starts to get boring and so you decide to get on with your task.
  
  The gameplay is very enjoyable. When you carry out your missions/tasks you will either unlock something 
 or someplace new or you will gain information which will help you proceed through the game.
  There is no actual tasks set. You must use your own initiative and intelligence to work out what 
 you should do/where you should go next.
  It's a rather similar idea to the Legend of Zelda games. (as in the Ocarina of time) .
  The game 
 is not linear in the slightest! 
  
  This game has an unforgettable soundtrack which will stick in your head for years to come. It never 
 gets boring because there are many songs, the majority of which have a very catchy tune. 
  They definately improve the game a lot!
  The sound effects are a bit dated. But there is voice 
 acting for every NPC and believe me, there are many.
  I noticed that some voices actors/voice recordings are re used but that only applies for the enemies 
 you fight; each NPC which you can interact with (I mean the good guys) have their own unique voice, 
 but some sound, as gamespot pointed out, rather immature.
  Other than that the game is complete with sound effects including thunder, rain, footsteps, gun 
 shots... it's all there but as i have already stated above, some do sound a bit retro.
  
  The game camera is good but only if you are used to that kind of game camera. It has an isometric 
 view when you are in buildings/houses/shops.
  And when you are out in the open it revolves around your character more or less at his level but 
 slightly higher. When you are outdoors (in the game of course) you can press enter to adjust the 
 camera view. It is slightly jolty and can get on your nerves at times but you will get used to 
 it.
  Gamespot have said that the new outdoor camera is hindrance to the quality of the game but i think 
 differently. It is in fact better than the indoor camera as it gives you a better perspective of 
 your surroundings and you can admire the 3dimensional world.
  
  The controls require quite a bit of adjusting if you want to just fly straight through the game 
 without delay. It can be done but with the mini pop up action screen it will be slighly awkward 
 no matter what key you assign each action to.
  
  Loading times are not a problem. They are very rare and and short anyway.
  Also, the game takes 
 very little space on your hard drive. 
  
  
  I conclude that Little Big Adventure 2/Twinsen's oddysey/LBA2
  is an extremely enjoyable game. 
 There's something in it for everyone to enjoy! It has it's few let downs such as awkward controls 
 and a slightly dodgy camera but the fantastic gameplay, the large open ended world, the great amount 
 of interaction and the many options you are given make up for these and make LBA2 a very fun and 
 very playable game even today!
  9.5 Out of 10!
  
  What i must point out:
  1. This game is rather rare now as it is quite old. You may be able to find it either on Ebay or 
 Amazon though.
  2. This games requirements are Windows 95/98 and ME but it will work on whatever computer you have 
 because there are downloadable patches. I got it working on my Vista!
  3. The game looks rather childish but don't be fooled by the box art. It is a brilliant game which 
 will appeal to children and adults alike.
  4. What i didn't point out before: The game is very long and can take some time to complete first 
 time round.
  5. There are cheats available for this game! 
  6. DO NOT USE A WALKTHROUGH! You will ruin so much of the fun if you do!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullOfRage
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrific, absoulutly amazing, This game has everything magic, aliens, space, fighting, 
 heros, swords,  guns and even a turtle that will 
 let you jump on its back and it will take you to hidden places!!!!!!!! I know it is amazing, a 
 turtle will take you places, it is like the ultimate action movie, it is like having arnold shwarzineger (or 
 however you spell it) , Bruce Willis and silvester stalloin fused together to make an awsome movie. 
 Anyway enough about movies i want to talk about this excellent game. It had awsome graphics for 
 when it came out and even now they can be easily tollerated, I think the hero and main character 
 in this game (you, Twinsen) . is awsome sure he can be a bit lame sometimes but i still think he 
 is pretty cool, you get cool weopons, there are a lot of hidden bonuses for replay value and there 
 are a lot of fun boss fights. i could go on for pages and pages about how good this game is but 
 its up to you. if you ever see this game i suggest you buy it sraight away, itll be in the bargin 
 bin because its old not because its crap and dont worry about renting it first cause it should 
 hopefully be cheap, i got this game as a gift for no reason and it was the best random gift i have 
 ever been given. BUY THIS GAME (it is worth buying a crappy old computer just to play it, trust 
 me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Well What can I say this is truly the greatest adventure games i have ever played and I have Played 
 a tonne, It has the classic traits of a great adventure with elements of collecting things, meeting 
 memorable characters all over again, killing people to have shiny Polys come flying out, vast areas 
 ti explore, Funny moments and dialog it passes the originals by far.
  
  The Amazing Adventures of Twinsen only It is a few yeahs after the death of Funfrock in Sendels 
 Well and things on twinsun are starting to change, Twinsen is the hero and everybody respects him 
 He has now married Zoey and she is pregnant and Dinofly is living with him. Then one day a storm 
 starts and one of the lightning bolts struck Dinofly and causes him to crash land and with storm 
 a Floodgate of events happen aliens land, You fight a giant rat, you get to travel to distant planets 
 in rather cheese UFO's and Fight old enemys but I don't want to spoil the entire game.
  
  This Adventure of Twinsens id really great and even Better then his First as it by now had established 
 itself and was starting to grow an community but It really is an adventure game you can't be without. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingShivan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is a wonderful 3d open-world game from 97, where you control Twinsen, a humanoid character 
 in the world of Twinsun. It was one of the first really good 3d adventure games I remember playing.
 
  
  It's actually a sequel, but it doesn't really matter. I have the feeling that the first one, called 
 Relentless, didn't do very well, and the decision was made to make LBA2 (Little Big Adventure 2, 
 as LBA was the name of the game I guess) with only basic references to past events so that anyone 
 and everyone could get along with the story just fine.
  
  For its day (and even when held up against recent games) it had pretty decent graphics. The art 
 is good, at any rate, whether or not the graphical engine itself is more than adequate. What I 
 mean is, it looks good, even though it uses only so many polygons... I dunno. Anyway. Good graphics 
 comparatively.
  
  The music and sound was and still is (to my ears) excellent, with great music tracks, great sound 
 effects, and decent (if not particularly stunning) voices. The voices sort of seem like it was 
 4 amateur voice actors who did extremely well- all the voices were of good quality and perfect 
 for situation and tone and all that, but I'm pretty sure a lot of the voices were simply the same 
 guy as before only while speaking through his nose this time or pitching his voice lower, etc... 
 basically I think they had a really small voice cast who did extremely well in voicing all the 
 characters and NPCs (every npc and character in the game can be talked to and have a voice, and 
 that's pretty good, considering that not even Baldur's Gate had voices except for the player characters 
 and some VIP npcs) . But yeah, the music and sounds still are excellent, even compared to todays 
 releases.
  
  The story is more than decent, although most players above the age of 14 would consider a lot of 
 the dialog simplistic and somewhat repetitive. While the progression of the story is in fact linear, 
 the world is open and you can go basically anywhere you want. The basic plot revolves around you, 
 Twinsen, the hero of the world Twinsun, who saved the world from an evil dictator named FunFrock, 
 who tried to enslave and such. Having defeated him, you returned home, got hitched, and are expecting 
 a kid. During a storm, your pal DinoFly (a flying dinosaur... did I forget to mention that some 
 of the names weren't particularly original?) gets struck by lightning and you have to help him 
 out. This sets you on the path towards gaining magical powers, and finally the storm breaks, and 
 aliens come to your peaceful world, who talk nice, but seem fishy, and you just know you're on 
 your way to trouble. The game's settings are really varied, from volcanic settings, to space settings, 
 deserts, caves, and industrial centers. The settings and areas are extremely unique, actually.
 
  
  Something some people might find interesting about this game is that although the basic play of 
 the game involves violence, there is absolutely no gore, no blood, not even any death sequences- 
 with the exception of 2 instances, all deaths result in the enemy/npc simply vanishing, almost 
 always leaving behind an item (usually mana or health) . So while the game is built around essentially 
 violent action (the majority of play revolves around you defeating monsters and enemies) , there 
 isn't anything particularly disturbing about it (for those who'd be disturbed anyway...) , especially 
 since there are precious few actually human-looking characters, one of which is you, and as far 
 as I can remember, you never fight any other almost-humans. The aliens you fight consist of 4 distinct 
 races, and one is pretty human=like, but it's distinctly alien (big, blocky heads, pointed narrow 
 chins, very very thin and tall) .
  
  I recommend that if you have children or know children and need a good computer game that works 
 the brain (there are some tough puzzles in this game, but none that a child couldn't figure out 
 given enough time) without having much human violence and absolutely no gore, try to find a copy 
 of this game on Amazon or elsewhere. It's actually still being sold on Amazon for 25$. That surprises 
 me. But personally, I'd say that's an excellent price for this old game. For today's standards, 
 it looks and plays like an independent game-maker made it, because it's not top-notch graphics 
 but it's excellent music and gameplay (and the graphics really aren't that bad) .
  
  And I'd also recommend this to anyone who just wants a singleplayer game they have never seen before 
 that they'll really enjoy.
  
  This is perhaps my favorite adventure game of all time. Abe's Oddyssey is a cheap, linear, 2D, 
 worthless pos in comparison with Twinsen. The only thing Abe's has is graphics, and that's nothing 
 compared to the importance of story, action, and overall fun. (although, Abe's is great to play 
 AFTER you've finished playing Twinsen...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  When LBA 2 came out and i first saw the game at one of my friend's house i was in love with Twinsen 
 and his world. I did have Little Big Adventure on the PSX but since i did not have a PC yet i couldn't 
 buy this game. When i finally had a PC i bought this one immediately.
  
  The game stands out because it's such a funny adventure. The whole world is nicely drawn and the 
 characters are mostly unique. One of the best aspects of the game would be the music, very funny 
 music which stay in your head for years. Besides the music there are the cute graphics, ok i must 
 admit that it's not very nice if you would buy the game nowadays but still...
  
  Also the gameplay has to be good and that is the case in my opinion, sometimes a little bit difficult 
 to move your character but when you get the hang of it you'll know how to play. Too bad i dont 
 have the game anymore because the CD didnt work anymore, now i have to find it somewhere to buy 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewis-ritchie
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  story- the story of little big adventure 2 (twinsens odyssey) is the wizards of the planet twinsun 
 are being kidnapped by the alien species the esmers the story involves you travelling around twinsun 
 helping out the wizards flying to the esmers moon base and saving twinsun from a bigger force than 
 he ever imagined.
  graphics- the graphics for this game were great in there time and they still look not to bad in 
 todays game industry.
  sound-well the sound in the game is unrealistic but it has to be because of the items and the way 
 they are used such as throwing a magic ball.
  value- the games replayability factor really makes this game stand out the game is quite short 
 but can take a while the first time since you dont know what to do and you can explore the planet 
 to a reasonable level but theres something about it that makes you keep coming back to it after 
 youve completed it for your 10th time this week its just so addictive.
  tilt- the game crosses with action, stealth, adventure and theres even a bit of romance in it with 
 a baby resulting in the end. on a whole this game is one of the best games you will ever buy poor 
 sales caused there not to be a third one but there are rumours speculating people calling out for 
 a third one so buy this game if you like games that are fun last for ages and get you involved 
 in the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukonhey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  I had a great time with this game when I played several years ago. I still haven't felt the same 
 happiness with any other game. I wonder why there was no Little Big Adventure 3; was it under-appreciated? 
 Anyway, it is a big game, and a great game. The world is really huge, and you have a great time 
 exploring it. The story is imaginative and immersive and the whole universe is addictive and amazing. 
 Characters are funny and the graphics and soundtrack have a a charm still today. Twinsen's Odyssey 
 is stylish, funny, amazing; with no-doubt we have a classic here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gutsallover
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Wow. Just wow. I got this game with my computer when it came out. I was only 7, and yet me and 
 a friend really got into the game. It took us almost a half-year to beat it, but hell, that half-year 
 was worth it. First off, the characters are awesome. It may seem like some cartoon anime kids show 
 kinda thing, BUT IT'S NOT! It's much, much better than this. Way better. The characters are all 
 wonderful. Secondly, the storyline is awesome. How Gamespot gave it an 8.1 is beyond me. Even as 
 picky as they are, it shoulda at least got a 9.2 or so. Everything about this game is just wonderful. 
 Instead of wasting your time reading a review, why the hell don't you just go BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PipeBigboss
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Well this was one of the best games that I played, starting with the graphics that are great for 
 the time there are some videos that explain the story and that are great, also the sound that this 
 game has it's excellent the music and contrast between the voice and the music it's good. Well 
 I'm going to do a short review maybe in a future I'll do a better one geve me some time. For me 
 a good game need: -A good story
  -Good Graphics
  -Good Sound
  
  This game has all but you need to play it in order to understand me.
  
  Thanks for your time 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakashiMaze
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This was actually the first PC game I ever purchased. I was a little late onto the PC gaming scene. 
 This sequel to Relentless/Little Big Adventure, improves on it's predecessor in almost every way.
 
  Little Big Adventure 2, also know as Twinsen's Odyssey, puts you in the shoes of Twinsen, who 
 recently saved his planet from certain doom at the hands of an evil dictator. Now living a peaceful 
 life with his wife whom is pregnant in their comfortably large home, it's hard to imagine anything 
 could possibly go wrong so soon after his adventure. Unfortunately, the trouble starts when a race 
 of intelligent beings begin landing all over the planet. Although they claim to be friendly, it's 
 not long before their true motives are made clear, resulting in Twinsen having to save not only 
 his beloved planet Twinsun, but also the planet of the alien race, the planet Zeelich.
  Back in the day, this game looked and played fantastically! The graphics were crisp, with the different 
 environments ranging from 2D and 3D, both of which were highly detailed and beautifully rendered. 
 The gameplay may be a little awkward at first, but you will get used to it after some time. Most 
 of the game can be played through easily, but Twinsen's movements are sometimes a little slow and 
 cumbersome, especially when battling the various enemies throughout the game. Unfortunately, most 
 of these are beaten either by lucky hits, glitches in the enemies movement patterns or hiding where 
 the enemy can't hit you, but you can hit them. I suppose if you look at this a different way, it 
 means miore thought must be put into your strategies than just hack n' slash.
  The musical score in the game is fantastic, as you might expect if you've heard the orchestrated 
 soundtrack from the previous game. It really does make this adventure epic to a degree where if 
 you've become fond of the game, you can't help but parade around the Internet demanding another 
 sequel.
  Computers these days may have problems playing this game at all, but there are various patches, 
 devised by fans which keep this amazing game running on modern hardware. I suggest you check this 
 adventure out because if you missed it, you missed a key moment in adventure game history.
  
  Pro's: Fantastic storyline, beautiful visuals and a killer soundtrack define this game as a 
 true epic adventure.
  
  Con's: Lack of replayability. There are very few secrets and side quests to find throughout the 
 game. On top of that, the game doesn't take more than 6 hours or so to complete anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nielz_nl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Twinsen's Odyssey is just one of the best games ever made. It has a few problems but they are minor 
 and the rest is just fantastic.
  
  This was the game that made me love games. Everything about this game is just so good and charming. 
 Story , Characters , Environments and all are just great. The puzzles are fun to do but they are 
 never to hard. Fighting ain't bad either. Besides the main story there are still a lot of things 
 you van do. The Only problem that I had with the game is that the camera ain't always so handy 
 placed but after a while you get used to it. And the combat can be hard at first but as soon as 
 you get used to it it just plain fun. I did something like 30 hours for my first time through and 
 I revisited the game a few times after that. After all these years this still marks my top 5 games 
 and I'll prefer playing this than any new game out there. It just so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevildoctor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to compare the whole game with today graphics and that kind of stuff... that wouldn't 
 be right.
  I'm going to talk about it and rate it as if today were the year 1997.
  
  Gosh, this is like the perfect adventure game, and don't get confused thinking that it's a childish 
 game because IT'S NOT.
  In fact, it can be enjoyed by all the people, no matter the age you have.
  
  As I said in the 
 top of this review, it's really underappreciated. I don't know why, maybe the screenshots confuse 
 the people, maybe it's the cover, but heck I don't know.
  The gameplay is AWESOME, and that is really difficult for adventure games as many fail in that 
 goal. The controls are just normal, not too easy or difficult to learn, if you know what I mean.
 
  The camera movement is perfect, you can leave it to control by itself or you can handle it to 
 make yourself more comfortable with it.
  
  The maps, the world is greatly decorated. You can visit EVERY portion of the map you are on, the 
 views are relaxing (in every possible aspect) and you will absolutely feel IN the game.
  What I'm trying to say is that the maps and everything just trap you in, then you forget about 
 everything else that happens around you in the real life.
  
  Not just the maps are cool, every graphic of the game can be enjoyed. The characters are greatly 
 modeled. You can talk to almost all the people you find in your way (except for your enemies of 
 course... sometimes :P)
  
  Almost every time you enter a different zone of any map, you'll hear outstanding catchy tunes. 
 Yes, the year is 1997 and the music sets and changes your mood during the adventure. This helps 
 to immerse you even more in the game. Maybe the general sounds are not too well elaborated, but 
 the music covers up that little thing.
  
  It shocks me to know that so few people has heard about this game, and as some of you may see, 
 it was highly rated during it's time (and it's still highly rated by some reviewers) but I repeat, 
 I just can't understand why is it so much unappreciated?
  Lots of gaming magazines reviewed it with great scores and comments, but no-one seems to know about 
 it.
  Please, forgive me the grammatical or spelling mistakes, still learning English xD
  
  In conclusion, you'll find yourself playing it almost everyday until you finish it, having 
 enjoyed the most of the fantastic story.
  
  It's a jewel lost in the middle of the desert, but if you would happen to find it while walking 
 on the sand, then give it a try and you'll be surely satisfied, 
  Or just buy it =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousGeorgesk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm 20 years old and I played LBA2 when it first came out and to this day I still haven't played 
 a game that sent tingles down my spine the way this does. Everything about it is sublime, the characters, 
 story, world, puzzles, music, graphics everything. It has the most original cast of characters 
 in any game. The story and the world in which you play are unmatched. It has the perfect mix of 
 action and puzzles and it has my all time favorite score. I must play it ever year and I never 
 get bored. This is a game that many people haven't played and many are missing one of the best 
 adventure games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KashmaNiaCi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely wonderful. I'm dissappointed by Activision because they should've done 
 a much better job of marketing this game. I bought Twinsen's Odyssey back in 1998 purely by chance 
 because it was on sale. I keep dusting it off every few years to play it because it's a classic 
 through-and-through.
  
  This game is one of the; if not THE best game in it's genre. It has everything a good adventure 
 game should have, and unlike most of the latest games; it has the perfect balace between fighting 
 enamies and solving puzzles.
  It's also good for the kids! So If you know a child who's complaining that their computer can't 
 run Half-Life 2: GET THEM THIS GAME! If they have any sense of adventure they'll love it.
  
  I'm sorry to see that today's computer game scene lacks well-detailed; fun, interesting and 
 quirky games like Twinsen's Odyssey and the old King's Quest series. This could very well be the 
 last of its kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamboo42
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  love it. i grew up with this game. i had so much fun with it. i found the CD for it the other day 
 and immediately tried installing it but i didnt work! appaerently u cant have a version of directX 
 better than 3 to play it or else it gets messed up. if anyone knows where i can download the full 
 version. TELL ME plz... lalalalala this has to be 100 words tra la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la lala la la lalal ala lala la la al la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la lala 
 la la la la la al al al al al al la la la la la la la la la la la la laaaaaa... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 22, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  It sickens me how little people know about this game, although this is truly a great game with 
 (at the time) good visuals, a great storyline and huge environment, NOBODY HAS EVER HEARD OF IT!
 
  
  The gameplay of LBA2 is truly superb. Regardless of what some reviews say, it isn't hard to aim 
 at all once you get the hang of it, and camera angles are hardly annoying at all because of the 
 ability to adjust the camera behind the character by pressing a button.
  
  Although the game looks cartoony, and looks like it was meant for kids, this game is actually full 
 of depth, and no little kid could ever complete this, I guarantee it.
  What amazes me is that this game manages to be quite serious at times, and at the same time have 
 very eccentric and humorous characters, trees shaped like a stick with a round circle on top, and 
 houses that are miniscule - but when you walk inside them they turn out to be a couple of stories 
 high with loads of space.
  Its a funny game that is cleverly designed and quite challenging, has serious moments, has utterly 
 absurd moments, and even squashes in some intense action too.
  
  The game is very varied, and in my opinion one of the most addictive Action Adventure's ever. (im 
 not saying its the best ever! just most addictive ever)
  
  I have had this game since the week it came out, 8 years ago. It was actually the very first game 
 I bought (im still quite young) . And I can honestly say I still play it today, and still get lots 
 of fun out of it. 
  You wont be able to buy this in shops anymore, so go to eBay or something and get this game right 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madhjo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 7:43 am PT
Review:  Twinsen's Odyssey - the second of the Little Big Adventure games. I thought the first game (Relentless) 
 was amaizing, but Twinsen's Odyssey is even better. This RPG was way ahead of it's time when it 
 came out and for me still is one of the best games of all time. The worlds are just beautiful and 
 the level design has immensly improved. You have so many objectives to complete and places to discover 
 that you just will not stop playing. The creatures in this game are so funny and beautiful that 
 you will feel so wam inside talking to them and belive me, there are many creatures to talk to. Don't 
 think now that this is just a talk talk and talk RPG, because it's not, it's full of action and 
 you will find very few places to relax. If you can still find this game somewhere.... buy it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
