-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Two Worlds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/twoworlds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge scope and setting.
 Smooth, simple RPG system that still allows for a lot of character customization.
 Great variety of quests.
 Nice-looking visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too sparse in monsters and fine details to fill up such a big gameworld.
 Default difficulty setting is way too hard.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 1,843 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Reality Pump
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 23, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Epic scale and depth of content make Two Worlds worthwhile. 

  A poor man's Oblivion. This description may seem a bit damning, but it puts the game in awfully 
 fine company when you consider the sheer greatness of Bethesda's role-playing game opus. Reality 
 Pump's RPG certainly has it where it counts in the aspiration department, even if, largely due 
 to some design quirks, the first-time RPG developer can't quite match the gold standard established 
 by Oblivion last year. With that said, the epic scale of the game, along with outstanding character 
 development, free-flowing action, and good quest variety, make it a worthwhile play for any RPG 
 aficionado.  

  In an exact reversal of the problems that Oblivion players on the PC griped about in 2006, Two 
 Worlds' biggest issue on the Xbox 360 is its PC-centric design. This is actually a welcome surprise 
 in some ways, as PC RPGs typically boast more depth than their console counterparts when it comes 
 to storyline, character creation, and sheer scope of the gameworld (and that is certainly the case 
 here) . However, this focus is a big problem in other respects.  

           Riding a horse sure looks majestic, but the damn nags are about as easy to control as 
 a unicycle on a tightrope.      

  For example, everything about the interface is geared for a close-up monitor. Even on a large HDTV, 
 it's nearly impossible either to read the minimap on the main adventure screen or to determine 
 at a glance what the icons are on the big map when you pull it up to full size. This can be a serious 
 problem, as the gameworld is so huge and the number of points of interest so tremendous that it's 
 easy to get lost or backtrack for miles without realizing that you got turned around somehow. Text 
 is so minuscule that it might as well be the fine print on a mortgage. Furthermore, the inventory 
 is a clunky affair in which you have to scroll across all of your items every time you want to 
 use a potion or swap out a weapon. You can pretty readily tell that the whole thing was designed 
 with a mouse, keyboard, and monitor in mind, not a gamepad and TV. Regardless, you do grow to tolerate 
 these drawbacks after an hour or two of squinting. The game beyond the interface is worth the eyestrain, 
 and if you happen to be playing on the PC, you won't run into any such issues.  

  The story is stock-standard for this sort of RPG. The backdrop deals with a war in the land of 
 Antaloor between man and orc that resulted in the imprisonment of the orcish god Aziraal in a magical 
 tomb. When the game opens, 300 years have passed and a dwarven mining expedition has possibly uncovered 
 the big guy's final resting place, which doesn't bode well for relations between humans and orcs. 
 You're a mercenary just trying to get by, one who is more concerned with rescuing his missing sister 
 than saving the world or even looking into what's got the orcs all riled up as of late. As with 
 most open world RPGs, you can dive straight into this main storyline and take on all of its quests, 
 or freely wander the world while helping people and killing monsters for fun and profit. It's important 
 to note that there is no level-balancing or similar gimmicks present here, which means that you 
 need to finish a fair number of side quests to gain the experience and equipment needed to send 
 Aziraal and his orc pals packing.  

  So the plot isn't going to set the world on fire, although the personal angle with your sister 
 and the overall character design and development are somewhat innovative. There are no classes 
 here, so after creating your male protagonist (there is no option to roll up a member of the fairer 
 sex) and customizing little things like hair color and arm length, you're left to place the attribute 
 and skill points awarded with level increases wherever you want. If you want a fighter, for example, 
 you have to buff strength and vitality stats, and increase scrapping skills like damage and critical-hit 
 chance. For a mage, you go with willpower and magical skills such as necromancy and the four elements. 
 Or you could try a jack-of-all-trades and distribute points all over the place so you can whip 
 out a sword or a spell depending on the circumstances.  

  There are no restrictions when it comes to the use of weapons, magical items, spells, and the like, 
 at least in comparison with the more closed D&amp; D-style systems. Nevertheless, most hardware 
 does have attribute requirements that limit the really good weapons to fighter types, the really 
 good magical staffs to mage types, and so on. On the other hand, all characters can use the alchemy 
 pot that forms half of the inventory screen. Items like crystals and plants can be gathered throughout 
 the game and brewed into health potions and various other elixirs that can buff your stats, or 
 even add poison or flame damage to weapons. Overall, this is a nice extra touch that opens up the 
 game and lets even a hardcore fighter play mage every now and then.  

           Enjoy that mead, little orc. It will be your last.      

  Fewer options are available 
 when it comes to developing your character in the game itself, because NPC interactions are pretty 
 blah. While it's refreshing that you're an out-for-himself mercenary instead of the usual RPG saint 
 or dog-kicking villain, there are few choices in conversations. You always hit up passersby with 
 the same bland questions depending on your location, and you always get the same canned responses. 
 When being asked to undertake a quest, your choices generally include only "Yes, how much?" and 
 "No thanks, not interested." At least the NPCs are designated with colored icons, which means that 
 all you have to do is look for green to know if they have anything of value to say before you even 
 start flapping your gums. Conversations also get right to the point, and can be skipped through 
 quickly if you've heard it all before. All lines are delivered by voice actors, which adds some 
 life to the chatter. Quality is all over the place, ranging from cheesy to dull monotone. You're 
 guaranteed to get some chuckles out of the action-hero quips of the lead. Lines like "Say hello 
 to death!" and sarcastic comments about the weather when it rains don't seem entertaining on paper, 
 but the bombastic delivery is so hilarious that they work in spite of themselves.  

  Combat in Two Worlds is similarly straightforward. The third-person camera (you can switch to first-person 
 on the PC, but only when you don't have any weapons equipped) allows for quick, button-mashing 
 action that doesn't require a great deal of thought. Melee fighters can take advantage of combo 
 attacks, although battles generally require nothing more than hammering on the left trigger as 
 quickly as possible until the bad guys fall down. The magic system is just as basic, with a default 
 attack that functions similarly to the melee option, and spells that can be quickly cast with cards. 
 But even though battles are simplistic, they're far from easy. The only way to succeed when fighting 
 on the medium or hard difficulty settings is to do a lot of dodging and running away, and to time 
 your assaults to land in-between enemy swipes. Of course, considering that the game features a 
 lot of combat, this sort of futzing around gets annoying fast. It's a lot more sensible to turn 
 the difficulty setting to easy (which is still very challenging) and not deal with this dart-and-dodge 
 fighting. Even then, you'll still get killed quite a bit. However, this isn't a hassle, given that 
 you respawn immediately at one of the many healing shrines scattered throughout Antaloor.    

   

  The monsters that you'll slay aren't quite varied enough for an RPG of this length and scope. While 
 scraps fly past so quickly that boredom will rarely be an issue, it seems like you're killing the 
 same packs of wolves, bears, and boars in the wilderness over and over again. And that does get 
 dull, because after the first hour or so of play, you've got enough experience and weaponry to 
 slaughter these beasts in mere moments. Other creatures include fantasy RPG stereotypes like the 
 goblinesque groms, as well as orcs, dwarves, skeletons, ghouls, and dragons, along with more esoteric 
 selections such as  Flintstones -refugee reapers, man-sized jackals, and giant bugs known as trachidis. 
 There seems to be a good number of monsters spread through the entire game; it's just that the 
 repetition of specific types in certain areas makes you feel like you're on a treadmill at times. 
 Reality Pump just hasn't filled Antaloor with a menagerie quite befitting its tremendous size. 

  Quests provide more variety. There are dozens upon dozens of assignments available, spread all 
 over the world. They range from standard delivery jobs to solving murders, from stealing underwear 
 to collecting herbs, and, of course, slaughtering tribes of groms and orcs. Most of the quests 
 are also set within a realistic backdrop of factions and interests. Groups in the game, including 
 the knightly Brotherhood as well as the guilds representing such disparate folk as merchants and 
 necromancers, hire you for jobs at various points. A consequence is that your reputation increases 
 amongst different crowds of NPCs. The world itself is tied together with realistic geographical 
 features and common teleportation platforms that let you take shortcuts after an initial reconnaissance 
 of the map. So you can take in some postcard vistas when you want to sightsee, and when you want 
 to just zip around, you can minimize aimless wandering with this magical transit system (or by 
 hopping on a horse, although the nags in the game are so tough to control that it's easiest to 
 just stay on foot) .  

           You have to kill so much wildlife during your travels that you start feeling sorry for 
 the poor boars and wolves.      

  Multiplayer gives Two Worlds a little something extra not offered by most RPGs. On the PC, Reality 
 Pump has given the game a basic arena-combat venue where you can go online and duke it out with 
 human opponents, but the real meat is in the quasi-MMO mode of play in which you can wander Antaloor 
 and take on quests with online pals. About the only major differences between this option and the 
 solo campaign is the lack of the story here and the ability to pick specific character classes 
 from lists of warriors, rogues, and mages instead of custom-crafting a hero with stat and skill 
 choices. This isn't quite the cooperative play-through of a full campaign that RPGers have been 
 dying for, but it's certainly an innovative idea. The only problem is difficulty. Even the introductory 
 quests are extremely hard, which pretty much forces you to group up with other players to have 
 a chance at survival. Co-op play is also an iffy proposition because there seem to be only a couple 
 dozen players online at any given moment right now. If the game gets more popular, this mode of 
 play could really take off.  

  At any rate, this multiplayer mode is miles above the dreary (and laggy) limited online option 
 available with the Xbox 360 version of the game. Instead of the cooperative campaign play that 
 RPGers have been dreaming of, all the developer has included here are dull host-or-join game modes 
 like deathmatch (deeply bland because of the simplistic combat system) , monster hunt (better due 
 to the addition of an objective, but still too repetitive to enjoy for long) , and an RPG option 
 where you develop a character courtesy of hacking and slashing through quests on one-off maps with 
 up to seven buddies. The latter pales in comparison to the multiplayer offering featured in the 
 PC edition of the game, as it features full server support that makes maps feel more like persistent 
 worlds, along with player numbers that roughly resemble what's available in MMOs. Anyhow, the only 
 distinction with the MP games here is a wide variety of set character classes, including specialty 
 warriors such as the blade dancer, as well as mages focusing on the elements and necromancy. Even 
 if you want to try these half-baked games, they're often unplayable due to frequent dropped connections 
 and serious lag that regularly turns combat into a slide show. Very few people seem to be taking 
 advantage of the online play at this point, which isn't exactly a surprise when you consider its 
 quality. Ultimately, if you want online RPG action, look toward the PC version.  

           one warrior who isn't always happy when it rains.      

  Visual and audio quality 
 aren't quite fully realized. The game's artwork looks great due to gorgeous mountain ranges, grassy 
 hills, detailed monster and character textures, and nicely varied city and village architecture, 
 but frame-rate hitches and loading pauses frequently interrupt the action on the 360 version. Quick 
 pauses during combat happen in virtually every scrap with more than a couple of opponents. This 
 doesn't affect the overall playability of battles, but remains awfully annoying nevertheless. Section 
 loads are also frequent, if brief. A little disc icon pops onto the screen every so often while 
 you're wandering through the woods, during which the game pauses for a few seconds. This can be 
 a little irritating, although it's certainly preferable to long loading times. However, sometimes 
 the game pauses without flashing the disc icon, which means that the game has either additional, 
 unadvertised loads or a few bugs. The PC version doesn't have any of these hitching issues. Much 
 of the experience is seamless, with area loads being barely noticeable. Best of all, everything 
 runs smoothly on even a mid-grade, single-core machine with a 6800-class video card. You need to 
 dial the graphics back to 1024x768 to avoid choppy combat, although this is a small price to pay 
 to get a game this big and attractive to run so well.  

  Audio quality is mixed. As previously noted, the dialogue is an amusing blend of cheese and action-hero 
 clichs. Atmospheric battle effects are generally excellent, if not pronounced enough to make you 
 aware of their presence. The same goes for most of the soundtrack, which is noteworthy only for 
 some ethereal odes  la Enya and the fact that it was composed by '80s one-hit wonder Harold "Axel 
 F" Faltermeyer. The only real standout tune is the ominous bass-heavy piece that eerily wells up 
 whenever your hit points plummet to near-death levels.  

  If you appreciate ambitious RPGs, seek out Two Worlds. It won't make you forget about Oblivion, 
 but Reality Pump's take on heroic fantasy adventure is good enough to consume many, many hours 
 of your spare time. Even though there are some flaws here, especially with the 360 version of the 
 game, this is a solid role-playing experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (122 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LOTR_conquest
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:14 am PT
Review:  After playing Oblivion and LOVING it I thought I would try two worlds to see what it was like and 
 as they are similar games I will compare them quite a lot.
  
  The basic story is simple in theory; rescue your sister - fine
  
  Your character; a bounty 
 hunter searching for his sister - fine
  
  now onwards to the game! - not so fine at all
  
  The tutorial consists of you being landed somewhere and told to hit a button to kill "groms" 
 and after that (considering you haven't been killed by the ridiculously hard - medium and hard 
 setting) you go off to the big bad world.
  
  the learning curve of this game is harsh and it will take you a good few hours before you have 
 any idea of what is going on. and after that it still won't make much sense.
  
  In Oblivion you are met with a huge world awaiting your discovery and ,although slightly daunting, 
 it always feels controlled. Two Worlds however is different. it seems you never really have a purpose 
 except running around killing stuff and although some of the few towns are interesting, they are 
 let down by the terrible voice acting and the characters in general - It appears that there are 
 about 3 actors within the whole of the game who repeat the same lines over and over again and after 
 a while you won't even bother talking to characters unless you know they will give you a quest 
 - completely unlike Oblivion. While there is lots of things to do in theory there is no real sense 
 of purpose in Two Worlds
  
  On to Combat - The basic system of combat is melee, range and the four schools of magic ( fire, 
 water, earth, and necromancy) . In addition to this you also have a skills list for you to upgrade.
 
  
  Melee
  
  There isn't much to say about melee; press a button to hit you opponent. Even after a good time 
 playing the game I still don't know how to block as THERE IS NO BLOCK BUTTON! and the manual doesn't 
 offer any clues. I know this may sound small but it becomes quite annoying. 
  
  Ranged and magic 
  
  ranged attacks are basically selecting a target and charging your bow 
 power and releasing
  
  The magic system in general is good and it is one of the games (few) commendable points with you 
 being able to upgrade levels in your preferred magic schools which leads to better spells (when 
 you acquire them - which can be quite a struggle) . You can use your magic spells by pressing a 
 button
  
  Inventory
  
  The inventory in Two worlds is good enough if sometimes confusing because everything is so unclear. 
 You can upgrade your skill points from the inventory and the skill point system is a good one with 
 you usually seeing the direct consequences of you upgrading a skill. You can also use alchemy here 
 but it isn't that interesting or good. A very neat idea that Two Worlds is that if you get an item 
 that you already have you can combine them together to make a better version. The one problem with 
 the system is that you'll only really be able to find lots of bad weapons to make good weapons 
 and a lot of the time you will just stick with your good weapon.
  
  A quick story to sum up this game - In one of the main subplots there are two groups; the house 
 of skelden (the big, oppressive baddies) and the karga clan (the heroic, rebellious goodies) . I 
 was given a quest to kill someone in the karga clan. I had no idea where to go so I just left it 
 but on one of many roaming travels I found a town in the middle of nowhere that wasn't on the map. 
 This was the karga clan. I wasn't sure who to kill so I talked to one of them (he was surprisingly 
 friendly considering I work for their big bad enemies) . He offered me a quest and I said no because 
 my boss wouldn't like it. I then set about killing everyone there as I had come all this way and 
 did not want to leave without something. I died a few times but when you die you just come back 
 at the nearest shrine. A few minutes later I realised I had killed the leader of the karga clan 
 and his sons. I was expecting a grand procession on my arrival at the house of skelden but all 
 I got was a note saying a couple of my quests had failed and that was it. The people still said 
 the same things about the now non-existent karga clan. That was it.
  
  During the whole game the graphics leave a lot to be desired
  
  You will probably find this 
 game enjoyable enough but you will definitely find Oblivion 100x better.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthfanta
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  Okay, I've played this game which was described at as being on par with Oblivion, and I'll honestly 
 tell you that there's only eight words really to describe it: this was the most worst RPG ever had.
 
  
  Why? First of all, what shapes a game was the plot, and I tell you, absolute rubbish. The main quest 
 was so boring that I found some of the side-quests brought more of the story than it did. Unlike 
 most RPGs, Two Worlds' in-game lore was poorly built, with not much of history regarding what's 
 really happening. As for features, there was none. No housing, storage (disregarding the horses 
 since they often die) , no romance, just NOTHING! You wouldn't find any features that you can find 
 on any other RPGs because it has NONE! Another fact to distinct was horse-riding. Like many other 
 RPGs, Two Worlds processed horse-riding, but heed my words carefully, it was hard as HELL! If you 
 are planning to run wild on it, you are about to be disappointed, because you won't be able to 
 get it walk/run a few steps away without stopping. I got trapped in an area full of undead once 
 because of it , and as a result, I died. Also, running uphill was impossible, prepare to dismount 
 if you want to travel around the hills. Teleporting with your horse was also impossible. Therefore, 
 the only reliable way to travel was really by foot. Overall, as commented before, the horse riding 
 sucks. As for the game A. I, it was too a nightmare. If you are planning to thieve like Oblivion, 
 heed more caution! The guards will only allow you a chance to pay the fine after being caught, 
 after that, the citizens and guards of the city will butcher you onsight, no matter what you do, 
 they'll still pursue you. The only way to stop them was to KILL THEM ALL! For some reason, the game 
 was also seriously bugged. In my personal experience, my horse got stuck to a bridge permanently. 
 For some funny reason, if you killed the final boss early in the game it permanently switches to 
 the ending cinematics without doing any main quests! Despite all the problems, Two Worlds' graphics 
 was excellent and if you really want to play it, I suggest you rent it first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadtoady
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised once I got into it. I've read a number of reviews from both the industry 
 and other players, and have noted the highs and lows offered by their views, but for the price 
 ($19.99 for the Epic Edition) , I couldn't really pass it by, being an RPG fan for many years...) . 
 Anyway, started to play it, and I very quickly found myself getting sucked into the game, despite 
 some of the (so-called) flaws that had been pointed out. Here's my take:
  
  The Good:
  
  - Huge, immersive world, beautifully well detailed with the varying terrains, both on the roads/paths 
 and off. Freedom to go just about anywhere.
  
  - Graphics are not bad at all (I have a higher end dual core machine with a good NVIDIA card, so 
 it looks really great on mine and runs smoothly) .
  
  - Expansive item/loot system, many, many (did I say many?) things to use, pick up and/or sell.
 
  
  - Utilitarian methods to upgrade weapons with add-on modes, only one type of mod to add to weapons, 
 but no limit on how high it can be modded.
  
  - Acceptable combat system, auto-aiming for spells and ranged weapons is very good.
  
  - (I'm 
 not much of a magic user) , but the magic system is very widely varied and offers a diverse type 
 of differing spells.
  
  - Melee combat is simplistic but certainly usable in the same vein as the Diablo and Titan Quest 
 series.
  
  - Many/many open quests taking you all over the place, and you're not stuck in a linear mode at 
 all. 
  Also the pointer/icon system cuts thru a lot of unnecessary contacts, indicating and putting you 
 in touch with the critical quest folks right away. Also the Map System does a pretty good job pointing 
 you in the right direction on most of the quests.
  
  - If you need it, the in-game designed cheat system is very helpful, and does not detract from 
 the game at all.
  
  The Not-So-Good:
  
  - Voice acting/script is defintely cheesy, but whaddya expect, it's a fantasy game, for gosh sake!!...
 
  
  - Physics are a bit weird at times, no damage taken from going over a shear drop and falling many 
 meters (or feet...) . And walking thru some barriers is weird as well.
  
  - Horse riding at lower skill levels is downright impossible at times.
  
  - Controls can be 
 unforgiving, hit the wrong key accidentally and attack a friendly person unnecessarily, and then 
 you've got an enemy forever (i. e., need to reload the last save..) .
  
  I've read where this game is considered a poor man's Morrowwind/Oblivion. Perhaps. I've played 
 Morrowwind for a while and found it ultimately boring in that if I didn't desert my family for 
 many hours at at time, it was difficult to get into the flow of that game. I do understand that 
 Oblivion has the state of the art graphics, and although I've never played it, hearing that the 
 same monsters in areas that you've already gone thru regenerate at higher levels when you go back 
 again (and you've levelled up considerably) sounds like an unnecessary cheat to me, and therefore 
 not that attractive.
  
  The bottom line is that I am, for whatever reasons, very attracted to this game, and am really 
 looking forward to about another 60-80 hours to complete it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtblackburn1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Burning Sea was hopelessly unbalanced.
  
  Age of Conan was released even though it is about two years away from completion (items were super 
 limited in graphical design often using the same illustration for many items that were supposedly 
 different) .
  
  WoW was good but is now behind the times and cartoonish.
  
  This game has an immense variety of weapons and armor. And due to the fact that it is stackable 
 you can stay with a lower level item as you progress, if you want.
  
  Great graphics and detail on world, player, and items.
  
  Very Large world with dungeons everywhere. 
 Many, many types of monsters to battle.
  
  Pretty Good primary quest, many other side quests, and due to the dungeons everywhere you can even 
 determine your own.
  
  It is not button mashing game play. Swinging a sword is far more like a First Person Shooter. That 
 is a lot cooler than older style RPGs.
  
  Only one downside: For single player you can only be a human male. My wife doesn't dig that so 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garnog
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I nearly passed on this game due to a dearth of positive reviews, and complaints 
 of bugs, glitches, lack of polish... you know the drill. Well, I picked up a copy of the Epic Edition 
 two days ago, and now my eyelids are turning to sandpaper from lack of sleep! No matter if you 
 score a game based on graphics, story line, immersion, sound quality etc. the final deciding factor 
 is simply this; is it FUN? Does it keep you playing long past your biological needs for sleep and/or 
 nourishment? Does your significant other HATE you due to lack of attention? The answer my friends... is 
 OHHH YES!!! Forget comparisons to Oblivion, for that lofty masterpiece occupies a transcendent 
 realm all its own. HOWEVER, if you haven't PLAYED Oblivion, you might just be raving to all your 
 friends how cool Two Worlds is! Graphically it is no slouch, although I am fortunate to have a 
 system powerful enough to render all the eye candy so beloved of us jaded grognards. The environmental 
 ambiance is very well done, with beautiful reflective lakes, waving trees & grasses, and a really 
 retina-burning thunderstorm from time to time. To wrap it all up, this is not a technical review, 
 as others have done that better and in greater depth. I picked up Two Worlds Epic Edition for a 
 measly $20, and I'll say it was money well spent! Do yourself a favor, try it out. I've found no 
 major bugs other than getting stuck on the odd object, but that's rare. Whatever issues plagued 
 the early versions seem to have been addressed. Sure, the NPCs are laughably wooden and it appears 
 the developers hired their friends to do the voice overs, but these are trivial complaints. Its 
 a BIG BAD BEAUTIFUL WORLD out there full of danger, dungeons and LOOT GALORE! So go have some fun, 
 because in the end, that's why we play. Don't make Mr. T angry, fool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is an RPG that features a wide world and a load of quests for you to do. The game has 
 its own look and charm but in no way is it a competitor to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion because 
 it has some glaring problems.
  
  A pure RPG in every sense of the word is Two Worlds. At the beginning you go through a basic character 
 creation process and from there you are introduced to its combat system. The mechanics work well 
 because they are basic for the most part with the  melee combo, 
 but as you gain levels you can upgrade combat to score bonuses like critical hits or even cheap 
 shots. While the melee combat is simple magic combat is more complex because you must obtain runic 
 cards that possess magical powers in order to use various magical abilities such as lightning and 
 meteors. There are other cards out there that augment your magic use in general or a specific magic 
 element. The card screen to tweak your magic attacks is quite complicated at first because there 
 are numerous slots to place cards in and while most of them fit sometimes they may not do what 
 you want them to do. Using magic is fun as it only takes one click to fire a fireball but actually 
 mastering magic may take some work. Each magic branch contains its own collection of magical effects 
 like necromancy using poison and health draining effects, etc. Another form of ranged fighting 
 is using bow and arrow, and while in general it is unspectacular it functions the way it should. 
 Combat overall is pretty unsatisfying but the magic is a much more enjoyable option of fighting 
 because of the loads of choices. And with these combat choices you have a few options about going 
 about playing. You can choose to be an up-front blood-thirsty maniac, you can be silent and deadly, 
 or you can be a mana-high wizard. And like most RPGs these days you can take multiple paths of 
 play, and so is the same case in Two Worlds. Unfortunately, no matter what path you choose you 
 will run into the game's ruthless difficulty. The scenario is either you have enemies attack in 
 large packs or you have a few enemies that seem to be extremely powerful knocking off 1/2 of your 
 health with each blow. And sometimes it will be a situation where a pack of foes have two spellcasters 
 that attack with overly-powerful magic force blowing away large chunks of health. Even a strong 
 player would have trouble with some of these foes. Though fortunately in Two Worlds leveling is 
 quite easy and after each level gain you receive a nice stat increase to distribute among your 
 abilities. You get about ten points to divvy among your attributes like strength and dexterity, 
 and you get two to a few points for special skills like magic and swimming speed. The world you 
 are in is called Antaloor; it is a big place. And fortunately there are numerous teleportation 
 portals placed liberally around the world and once you get close to one they automatically activate 
 for use. Thankfully, they work the way they should, unlike the absolutely irritating horse. An 
 early quest will earn you a personal steed which you can whistle for to come to you, though I have 
 no clue why you would want to ride the horse because it is a nightmare to control. From the moment 
 you mount your steed to the moment you get off you will feel like you just endured a long and unpleasant 
 form of tug-of-war. The horse will run, but it does not seem to want (or know) how to stop, stay 
 still, or take turns. Despite the fact you will in fact move faster than on foot it does not mean 
 you will go to where YOU want to go any faster. It is both pathetic and frustrating to know that 
 a considerably faster form of travel is available but due to "directionally-challenged" horses 
 it is easier just to travel on foot. Two Worlds features a ton of quests for the player to partake 
 in but unfortunately the provided quest tracker does not always give you the next objective and 
 to make matters worse-hardly anything is marked to indicate objectives. It seems the only time 
 you can actually see an objective on the map is when you are in close proximity to it. This mechanic 
 makes finding quests a serious task and often I find myself sidetracked because I cannot find the 
 darn objective. All in all Two Worlds' gameplay is tragic because it could have been a truly enjoyable 
 (and simpler) gameplay experience.
  
  Graphics in Two Worlds is another "it could have been great, but it's not" woeful tale. The problem 
 is that everything in the game looks amazing. The lighting effects are superb, distance rendering 
 is absolutely stunning, and character models are fantastic. Unfortunately, there are a few problems 
 present: it seems that when the game autosaves the game locks up for a very noticeable second. 
 This is bothersome and it disrupts gameplay. Another problem is the horse-once again. The horse 
 itself looks pretty good but the horse riding looks clunky as you struggle along trying to control 
 it. And during melee combat blood is often shown but it looks very cartoony. It is rendered to 
 a quality that does not fit the game's other immensely high quality graphics, and it does not look 
 like it should be there to be honest. Magic again is the best aspect of the combat graphics because 
 there are numerous spells to choose from in a wide range of magic schools. The effects range from 
 a simple ball of lightning to a hailstorm of meteors. Magic looks superb and it is exciting to 
 use. As I mentioned earlier on, the game starts wonderfully on each plank but there seems to be 
 always something to mar it. Out of all the elements of the game the graphics most definitely stand 
 out as the jewel, though the jewel is flawed.
  
  Two Worlds features a unique sound setup that I was pleased to see: not only is there a lot of 
 very well done voice work but also the voices are spoken with an Old English flair. The characters 
 themselves do not seem to try to over-accentuate any given accent like British English or American 
 English, they just speak in clear Old English. And since the game has a strong mythical theme then 
 this fits very, very well. Unfortunately, this Old English can get a little annoying during lengthy 
 conversations, and in Two Worlds there are plenty of them. Regardless, the addition of the Old 
 English is a nice touch. Sound during melee combat feature the appropriate "slash" of a blade or 
 the thunderous "thump" of a blunt weapon or the standard "bash" of a shield. And on occasion your 
 player will utter a quip like "Ah, that felt good." like after healing, etc. Overall sound is fantastic 
 because of the extensive and properly themed voice work.
  
  Two Worlds, in a nutshell, is a sound and safe alternative to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, but 
 in no way at all should it be considered a competitor. If you have never played Oblivion you will 
 appreciate Two Worlds more, but it is different for people who have played Oblivion. Forgetting 
 Oblivion for a moment, Two Worlds is a great game that easily stands on its own as a wonderful 
 game and it has great potential. Unfortunately, that potential is either not used to its fullest 
 extent or some of the game's more annoying mechanics suppress it-like the horse and difficulty 
 setting. Despite that Two Worlds is a decent and worthwhile RPG.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jambickie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Well I got this game of my friend for 10. First impressions: rubbish. The next day I tried to 
 get into the game and I found that it was worthwhile the 10 I spent on it. Its quite addictive 
 and theres always alot of quests to do. Unlike in oblivion when you sneak you can kill an enemy 
 in one hit, I found this pretty cool because in oblivion after one attack they turned around and 
 hacked me to death. Though still this game isnt as good oblivion, its still good though. The voice 
 acting isnt very good either the main character needs emotion. I did find that the graphics were 
 very awesome. Another good thing is that enemies dont level up when you do, It's just great to 
 kill a horde of groms in one shot. It's just Rpg fans should like this addictive game. Overall 
 7.5 I agree with gamespot. Good work south peak, lets hope you release a two worlds 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rascarin
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Most games, if not 'good', will at least have some redeeming features. Two Worlds is the exception 
 - I found it to be one of those few games that are completely and utterly without merit. Let's 
 look at why:
  
  The Difficulty; the best way to describe the game difficulty is "schizophrenic" (unfortunately 
 that wasn't an option in the difficulty classification above, so I settled on Very Hard...) . Enemies 
 you encounter will be incredibly over powered, and if you face more than two in any battle you 
 can usually expect to die (unless you got the special edition game with the super sword and super 
 armour, then you just breeze through most everything until the end of the game...) , which is annoying. 
 However, death in itself is no big deal in Two Worlds, as every fifty yards you'll find another 
 magical shrine that resurrects you with full health. Surely there must be some kind of penalty 
 for this, you say? Nope; the game just dusts you off, stands you up again and sends you on your 
 way until next time.
  
  The game continues in much this fashion until the first Big Boss Battle, whereupon the difficulty 
 curve mysteriously shoots through the roof and ends up somewhere in orbit. Heaven help you if you 
 DIDN'T get the special edition and its super weapons; even with them I was getting one-hit killed 
 every time I approached the enemy. After about half an hour of jogging from the resurrection shrine 
 and back to the Big Boss I had managed to shave off about a millimetre of his health bar. It was 
 about that stage that I closed the game, removed the disk from the drive, put it back in its box, 
 and there it has remained ever since.
  
  Boss Battles leads me nicely onto the combat system. It's less of a system, however, and more an 
 exercise in utter drudgery. Landing an attack is as simple as spamming the LMB repeatedly and hoping 
 for the best. However, enemies have an annoying tendency to mysteriously avoid the weapon you are 
 swinging wildly in their face, and always land their attacks first. Or, if they are an archer, 
 they will simply run away whenever you approach, shooting you from afar. They can ALWAYS run faster 
 than you, so the only way to kill them is to either shoot them back (which I found impossible) 
 or hope they wedge themselves against a tree or something.
  
  The levelling system is a disaster too; you start with a basic set of skills, and the only way 
 to gain more is to seek out some unknown plebs dotted around the various towns you visit. There 
 is no way of knowing which pleb offers which skills; you just need to find him and ask, and then 
 remember where you left him if you ever need to go back. Also, once you have actually found the 
 desired pleb, you have to fork out a crapload of your precious gold to actually learn the skill. 
 None of this is ever explained in the game, either; in desperation I finally trawled all the way 
 though the manual's character development chapter and eventually found the necessary information 
 added almost as an afterthought to a paragraph about skill points.
  
  The game, especially before the release (but even after) of the first patch, was riddled with bugs. 
 For example, if you go into trouble with the law in a town, the ENTIRE CITY will attack you. You 
 have no option to turn yourself in later, or to go away and hope to have things blow over before 
 your return. No, the only way is to kill EVERYONE in the town, leave, and wait for them to all 
 respawn. Of course, this causes problems if one of those people you have to slaughter is integral 
 to the storyline.
  
  Another bug that badly affected me was a problem the game had with a certain version of Windows 
 Media Player - the programme the game uses to display in-game cut scenes. As a result, no cutscenes 
 were ever played in my game. I didn't realise that I'd missed the opening movie until more than 
 halfway through the game, when it skipped through the second cutscene, leaving me in the middle 
 of some strange plot twist with absolutely no idea what had happened.
  
  After digging through the game directory and finding the missing movie files, the story STILL didn't 
 make much sense. I won't spoil it here, but when I finally figured out the gist of what was going 
 on, I was distinctly unimpressed. A good RPG has a good story (that is the law) - and Two Worlds 
 does NOT have a good story.
  
  Another thing that is important to me in games is the voice acting. Two Worlds features some thoroughly 
 appalling voice work. Granted, the lines the actors were given were unbelievably poor (seriously, 
 how often do you need to use "verily" and "forsooth"?) , but it sounded like they were trying to 
 record them from across the room, as each line was shouted back at you without any skill or finesse.
 
  
  I concede that the graphics aren't bad, but in this day and age ALL games have good graphics. It's 
 what you expect when you buy any game. And bear in mind I only said "not bad" - they're still not 
 good.
  
  
  So, lets summarise that; diabolical difficulty curve, shoddy combat system, atrocious levelling 
 system, riddled with bugs, crap story, awful voice acting and mediocre graphics. The game has no 
 replayability value - I couldn't even stand to struggle through it once, let alone more than that. 
 It's not fun at all.
  
  The only nice thing I can say about Two Worlds is that it came in a delightfully shiny box. I just 
 wish the disk hadn't been with it...
  
  My Rating: 1.0 (and that 1 is ONLY for the shiny box)
  My Verdict: Two Worlds? How about Two 
 Words; UTTER CRAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The game is about a mighty brother which wishes to find her kidnapped sister. The searches from 
 town to town leads him to clues to find the missing part of the family. The game is quite interesting 
 at first. You feel like playing Elder Scroll 4: Oblivion again. But you are wrong. The game starts 
 to become repetitive. When you across the lands in specific periods you will find bandits or other 
 wild camps. You see the same camp every few steps. Although the camps are different from area to 
 area but when you travel in a specific area you will notice the boring part of the game in which 
 you have to kill the same enemy, loot their belongings and continue to the next boring camp.
  
  The game has a lot of similarity with Elder Scroll 4. You can loot enemies, stealing goods, 
 making potions etc. The difference is the storyline is not that good. The story is what you expected 
 and nothing amazing happens. Another different part is that you can gain skill points by reaching 
 certain amount of achievements fro example by killing 50 monsters or lock picking 10 locks. This 
 will open your hand to gain a lot experiences in the early of the game just by walking in to jungles 
 and kill the generic monsters. However this will add to the boring part of the game which you can 
 kill your enemies very easily.
  
  The graphics also confuses you. There are lots of flaws in the graphics which makes you nervous. 
 For example your horse will not pass a location without any reason you should come down of the 
 horse and whistle it to come to you or just move in backward. If you are a fan of Neverwinter Knights 
 or The Witcher, don't expect too much from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  It seems that a lot of games which have decent graphics can get good score on gamespot even if 
 they fall short in other areas. That's fine; a lot of people only care about graphics. But if you 
 write about Two Worlds that it has "depth of content" then you are misleading people. 
  
  Remember Oblivion? Remember how some people complained about lack of depth and how that game got 
 boring soon? Well, Two Worlds is watered down version of Oblivion. Jumping on the bandwagon it 
 tries to lure you with good graphics and large world to explore. The problem is that you have very 
 little incentive to explore, because unlike in Oblivion, you don't have number of caves, forts 
 and etc to discover and loot. To make things worse, variety of monsters to fight is so limited 
 that every location feels the same. 
  
  Two Worlds could also use some more work on the difficulty rate. I was being sarcastic when I gave 
 it "just right": in the beginning it's too hard, later it becomes too easy so on average I guess 
 it's ok. :)
  I chose to be an archer and the beginning of the game looked like Benny Hill episode: I would fire 
 one or two arrows, then get chased around the house by group of monsters until I could reload at 
 which point I would fire again and repeat the whole process. When I got to higher level I gained 
 ability to fire multiple arrows, make one arrow go through multiple enemies... needless to say 
 game got too easy. 
  
  One thing I did like in Two World was the ability to stack items on the same type, creating more 
 powerful items. So if you have you favorite weapon you can keep improving it instead of having 
 to trade for something more powerful. 
  
  I also have to mention the voice acting: it is so bad that it's almost good (it was suggested that 
 maybe it was intentional) . The game tries to fake old English by making characters say words like 
 "nay" or "mayhap". 
  
  After playing the game for 10-15 hours it seems that it has nothing more to offer. I'm putting 
 the game on shelf and it's unlikely I'll ever return to it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hesam_Titan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  hi my friend
  two world it's very good game.
  
  Boy was I surprised. This game is so addictive that I have a hard time stopping to do my work, 
 and I know better to start it before my work is done because the work part won't happen. 
  
  The game seemed very difficult at first, and you are practically defenseless. But you need 
 to start picking up skill points by killing wolves and other critters. Even that is hard at first, 
 but if you stack your character wtih the right attributes, you can become the baddest guy in "two 
 worlds." That is the challenge. If you do it right, you will be roaming at will and clearing the 
 world of baddies.
  
  One of the things I love the most is riding around the huge world on my horse (I love my horse) 
 and discovering all the hidden locations. This is where you pick up money, and power, and fighting 
 ability. You can also get very strong running all the mercenary errands you find in the cities 
 and fromj people along the way. Horse riding is difficult at first, but gets easier if you assign 
 "skill points" to it.
  
  I highly recommend this game for chess player types and deep thinkers who love to organize their 
 characters, build strength and power and ... get lost for the 
  weekend.
  this game have good graphic and good game play, music and sound not bad and game is hard 
  but 
 anyway it's very good game 
  thank you hesam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XiresTetsuni
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe this. This is hands down the WORST game I've ever had the misfortune of coming 
 across. There I was in Blockbuster one day and I looked at the back of the case, thinking "Well 
 hey, this looks pretty good".
  
  ... what an idiot I was. Two Worlds is atrocious. I would rather give oral sex to a gun barrel 
 then be stuck forced to play this ****
  
  Character creation? Awful. You're allowed to make yourself a gorilla, a midget, a stick figure, 
 but none of that changes the fact that the entire world looks awful.
  
  Voice acting? Makes me want to claw my ears out. The main character is such a **** that he goes 
 around and says the stupidest stuff, like "Hmm... the door is locked..." when all they need is 
 to pull a Daggerfall-esque message box that says "You're not getting through". Every voice actor 
 is atrocious.
  
  Story? There's a reason people dislike fanfiction. The reason is because it's poorly written with 
 no sense of humanity in any of its characters that in the off chance that it isn't based in a high 
 school setting, will probably have something to do with an evil cult (which mind you, can be done 
 right) , an ancient family artifact (... trying to think...) and a god that was locked away for 
 all eternity planning to rise and destroy everything (So... Baldur's gate I guess)
  
  Game play? HA! Have you ever seen the 'Angry Nintendo Nerd'? I would rather play any of those games 
 in place of Two Worlds. This thing is so buggy, so poorly designed... it... god... The difficulty 
 is considered 'Very Hard' because it just is impossible. I died three times in the first fight, 
 and I've played through System Shock 2 on Impossible.
  
  Multiplayer? LAG! Lag and cruelty! Boring, uninteresting, and a solid block of lag. You'll be lucky 
 if you get a Red Ring of Death before the lag subsides, because even if it does, you'll find yourself 
 devastated by a level 99999999 player, who's voice will make angels commit suicide.
  
  Graphics? ........ yeah... it's like an X-Box port, from 2003. No.
  
  Overall? **** Stay away! 
 Please, for the love of god, stay away. I will get on my knees and BEG of you to keep away from 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pishon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  I am mostly a first-person shooter type of player, but this game has changed my genre preference. 
 I got the game by accident when it was shipped to me by mistake from an Ebay purchase. I thought 
 ... well, I really did not like Dungeon Siege much, but I'll give this a try. It's free.
  
  Boy was I surprised. This game is so addictive that I have a hard time stopping to do my work, 
 and I know better to start it before my work is done because the work part won't happen. 
  
  The game seemed very difficult at first, and you are practically defenseless. But you need 
 to start picking up skill points by killing wolves and other critters. Even that is hard at first, 
 but if you stack your character wtih the right attributes, you can become the baddest guy in "two 
 worlds." That is the challenge. If you do it right, you will be roaming at will and clearing the 
 world of baddies.
  
  One of the things I love the most is riding around the huge world on my horse (I love my horse) 
 and discovering all the hidden locations. This is where you pick up money, and power, and fighting 
 ability. You can also get very strong running all the mercenary errands you find in the cities 
 and fromj people along the way. Horse riding is difficult at first, but gets easier if you assign 
 "skill points" to it.
  
  I've read this game is not as good as Oblivion, and, if that is true, I will be in trouble if I 
 start playing that one. Do you think they'll let me play it in the court wating room when my divorce 
 comes up?
  
  I highly recommend this game for chess player types and deep thinkers who love to organize their 
 characters, build strength and power and ... get lost for the weekend.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedejico
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I'm reviewing Two Worlds 1.6 (official patch) . Hence the differences between 
 my review and Gamespot's official one, which are few but very significant  otherwise I wouldn't 
 bother to write this review to begin with.
  Two Worlds 1.6 offers great content with a massive sense of scale where it matters. The game features 
 a 33 km2 map which you may roam however you like; many foes -like giants, golems, ogres or cyclops, 
 to name a few- are three to four times your height; and quite often you'll be facing hordes of 
 enemies  literally. Battles against entire fortifications with dozens of enemies are frequent. 
 You'll be under the fire of six or seven ranged attackers -archers or magic users mainly- while 
 dozens of melee units try to surround and overwhelm you. In a few moments the battlefield will 
 be literally full of bodies begging to be looted.
  The game doesn't scale where it shouldn't, though  you won't be finding dragons where once there 
 were only wolves and skeletons just because you've done a lot of adventuring. Bandits won't become 
 superhumans along with your character. Since monster don't scale, developers can't mix up creatures 
 in all areas; otherwise, a low level character wouldn't stand a snowball chance in hell if she 
 adventured into the woods outside that little town and a big bad ogre happened to come across her. 
 Conversely, a high-level character would find most areas in the game awfully dull. Instead, you 
 get a nice sense of achievement whenever you go back to those areas you have had a hard time through 
 the first time around, and now mercilessly wipe all the critters you find -often with a sadistic 
 remark from your character.
  However, where this title really sets a new standard is in the looting aspects of the game. The 
 loot mechanics are brilliant- clearly some of the best ever, if not the very best. They're so good, 
 they make a somewhat story-driven, free-roaming RPG in the way of Gothic or Oblivion feel like 
 an action RPG or even a hack'n'slash title like Sacred or Titan Quest Immortal Throne. It's not 
 that looting is so paramount as in hack'n'slash games, where looting and combat are the bread-and-butter 
 of the genre, but it's so satisfying that you'll be looting quite a lot.
  To begin with, all loot is absolutely relevant. That's because you may power up any item by dragging 
 another item of the same type onto it. If the newly added item happens to have any boosts on it, 
 these boosts are transferred to the newly combined object. Hence, the first axe you might come 
 across may be absolutely serviceable thirty or forty character levels after  as actually was the 
 case with my first character. There is a nice inventory management system to go along with these 
 mechanics, since you do not have any room limit -you have an items grid in the way of Dungeon Siege 
 or Diablo, which at the same time is scrollable just like those in Oblivion or Mass Effect, giving 
 you access to the best of both worlds: no room limit but freedom to arrange items however you want. 
 You do have a limit on how much weight you can carry, which relates to your strength with a hard 
 limit of 100. Yet that's where horses come really handy.
  Before 1.6, horses were a real pain in the back. They were hard to handle and had an extremely 
 annoying tendency to get stuck in many parts of the terrain geometry. In 1.6 horses are so fun 
 they're a blast. And when it comes to looting they're invaluable. Something as simple yet so effective 
 as having a hotkey to call your horse, which will run to you provided it is close enough as to 
 hear your whistling, together with your mount's pack mule capacity, makes looting those heaps of 
 bodies from massive scale battles a breeze. You can loot the spoils of a huge battle in a matter 
 of seconds. Call your horse, loot a pile of bodies to your maximum capacity, access your horse 
 inventory, move to your horse storage all the stuff you won't be immediately using (up to 320 kg.) , 
 rinse and repeat: run to the next pile of bodies, call your horse, examine the bodies, etc. Since 
 all items are relevant, looting never gets old. It's really that good.
  But there's even more to it. There's no such thing as too much money in Two Worlds. Merchants may 
 have powerful items you may merge with your own, items which tend to be really expensive, especially 
 those with great bonuses. In so many other titles, merchants become useless either because by the 
 latter part of the game they have only lesser items in stock, or they are really low on money so 
 can't pay one tenth of your looted gear's worth, or both. There's none of that in Two Worlds. 
 
  To top all that, Two Worlds offers some more great game mechanics that prevent low-level areas 
 to become boring or uninteresting even after tens of hours of gameplay. Namely, you get one additional 
 skill point each time you achieve a certain number of feats  like killing 50 creatures and/or 
 enemies, picking 10 locks, or discovering 10 fast-travel destinations. Couple that to the loot 
 system, and you've got a game that really keeps key aspects like combat or looting absolutely interesting 
 throughout all stages of the game.
  So, how does Two Worlds compare to its most direct competition? It's a mixed bag, actually. It 
 would be unfair to say, or imply, that Two Worlds is better than Oblivion. You may say you enjoy 
 Two Worlds the most, but its production values, while showing great scale and breathtaking scenery, 
 fall short of those of Oblivion. However, if you dislike Oblivion's scaling system and useless 
 loot after hitting medium-to-high character levels, you may enjoy Two Worlds; besides, Two Worlds 
 offers dual-wielding and a fairly fine horseback combat system (on version 1.6, mind you) . The 
 Witcher, a heavily story-driven third person action RPG, sports a much more cohesive storyline 
 together with great storytelling and a more compelling plot, plenty of sudden twists that will 
 keep you on your toes most of the time. However, The Witcher offers little in the way of equipment 
 customization. Throughout the whole game you'll have access to only 4 types of armor, one of which 
 is only available in the intro. Weaponry is also very limited. Gothic 3 would be a more even comparison. 
 If you enjoyed Gothic 3 chances are you'll like Two Worlds too. 
  As a rule of thumb, if you prefer action over story but find hack'n'slash games too shallow, Two 
 Worlds may be a choice to suit your taste. Just don't expect top-of-the-line production values 
 as in Mass Effect or Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I had good feelings about this game when i recently started playing it. After some massive patching, 
 i loaded up game, all was smooth as silk and fast. 
  
  Opening story was... bit mysterious and unclear but I wasnt bothered about that. Game play seemed 
 quite good and detailed when i opened inventory and saw the concept of armor sets. 
  
  Graphics are really good. Game runs smoothly at 1280x1024 with 4xAA and 16xAF and highest details. 
 My only complain is that there are FAR TOO FEW character models.. Entered my first big town and 
 was shocked that streets were full of clones of basically 3-4 peoples. Even the names are similar 
 sometimes.
  
  Sound is also good. Music is generally pleasing. Voice acting is quite unique and i have to give 
 credit, fully unique spoken dialog is something to appreciate. 
  
  Things started going wrong as i realized a few things. 
  
  1: Targeting system is really broken. 
 Finding and targeting a certain npc in a crowded village is near impossible at first try.
  
  2: 80% of npc are copies of each other. 
  
  3: About 65% of world area is non essential 
 to gameplay. You can go explore it, but all u will get are a few herbs (which by then will prolly 
 be just cluttering your inventory too much) or a few wolves to kill. 
  
  [Game breaking deal] 4: There is no confirmation before doing illegal things. And unintentionally 
 doing the wrong thing is so easy. 
  
  Let me explain: You target a door by walking close to it. You open it by pressing SPACEBAR. If 
 its locked, u press SPACEBAR to LOCKPICK. Which is illegal and guards will see you and fine u 30000 
 gold or kill u if u dont pay.
  First few times this happened i was bit angry, after that i got sick of it and uninstalled the 
 game.
  
  I'm giving this game 5/10 for the sake of audio visual experience alone. Gameplay deserves no more 
 than 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zertos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I have been this game for a long time and now i thought i write a review while I'm having a little 
 break from it. To start off lets discuss the story line it's not a very interesting story line 
 refer boring really properly cause it's an old type of story line you know someone like a family 
 member or princess etc which i think most of us gamers have grown out of, i say most cause they 
 are still making games with this type of story line plus if you toke out all the side quest you 
 would only have a few hours of game play which isn't a good thing. The world in this is EPiC which 
 i really like which you can just ignore everything and just go exploring and kill everything and 
 it's lucky you have a map cause you would get lost in this world. the side quests add hours maybe 
 days to the game play in this which if you are someone ho loves to sit back and relax and loss 
 yourself in a game you will love this one. the problems i found with this game is the graphics 
 could have been better and so could the story line and more important the sound, the sounds in 
 this game is one of the biggest let downs in this game there just poor but to fix these problems 
 go to the insidetwoworlds website and download there control panel this little thing will improve 
 the game greatly with mods, graphic enhancements and bug fixes but sadly it doesn't improve the 
 sound which is a main problem with this game but if you can overlook the sound problem which i 
 know isn't easy but if you can you will lose yourself in this game and with beg for more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danpc
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It's like someone came up with a fantastic idea for a game, thinks about everything and pitches 
 a game that could change the face of the RPG genre forever, giving users the oportunity to reach 
 new depths of a gaming experiance. everyone likes it and the leader of the company says "i would 
 like to make just one change however"
  
  "Lets make it **** lets make the player have no idea what the hell they're supposed to be doing 
 after the first small quest, lets put **** juddering animations and a style of game play movement 
 that makes 1980's world champion robot dancer look as smooth as a freshly shaved baby coated in 
 vaseline. lets make it so controls are completely stupid as default and lets make it so you cant 
 change most of the ones you'd like to to anything that would help, lets make the combat just 2 
 buttons jump back and slash, utilizing this combination in such a repetetive manor will ensure 
 user will learn fast and honestly not get bored at all"
  
  on the upper hand however the graphics dont look that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torres_unix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game is the perfect RPG for players looking for simplistic, action-oriented combat, while 
 maintaining detailed character development and access to a large number of side-quests. 
  
  The graphics may not be anything to scream about, but the gameplay is very balanced. The game allows 
 you to approach each situation in a unique way
  and gives you the freedom to explore if you so wish (as in Oblivion) - you could be blocked by 
 bad guys and you could either take them on gun-ho, take them out long-range using archery/magic, 
 have them chase you into a magic replenishing spot and enjoy "unlimited" magic while taking them 
 out, or
  simply get chased by a bear and run into the enemy party and have fun
  watching them fight the bear while you fight them!
  
  The possibilities are endless in this 
 game, and although the main method of transportation, the horse can be a little difficult to control 
 a first, it's easy to get the hang of it after a few minutes of trying. 
  
  The game's difficulty is the sole factor that forces me not to give it a 9 or 9.5; it's a hard 
 game and only with strategy and RPG instinct can the challenges be overcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xisytenin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game at launch expecting "Oblivion on steroids", only to find that, if that boast 
 is true, it stopped taking the steroids, and has started to experience the muscle deterioration 
 and shrunken man bits that go along with that. Not that this is a bad game, as a matter of fact, 
 this game is pretty good. 
  I will start with the graphics, I was disapointed here, it isnt a bad looking game unless you take 
 into accout the terrible character animations which ruin the whole look of the game. The box boasted 
 about its combat system, which, in my opinion, well, sucked. In the beginning all you have to do 
 is time when you jump back correctly and you can defeat any single enemy with enough time. Unfortunatly 
 you are incredibly weak when you start the game so if there is ever more than one enemy in the 
 beginning, your dead, I could not ever get a hit in without taking a couple. On the other hand, 
 as you get stronger the enemies dont (unless you go south) which I actually prefer to Oblivions 
 scaling everything up as you get stronger, you can actually feel that your getting stronger in 
 this game. The voice acting is incredibly bland, there are alot of different voices, but none of 
 them stand out, none of it is horrible though. I could go on with the problems of this game but 
 I have nothing to add that hasnt been said a billion times, so on to the good...
  Even with the problems I said in the combat system, its not terrible, especially when I compare 
 it to other action RPGs that I have played (Curse you dungeon siege 2!!) and it stays fun enough 
 the whole time without getting too tedious. One thing that I LOVED was that you can pretty much 
 reset you character whenever you want in the game with enough money by going to guys in hoods (Title 
 escapes me) I did this 4 times I think, which is probably why the game never got overly boring, 
 Mage to Fighter to a Mix then back to fighter kept things fresh. The game world is HUGE there is 
 alot to do, exploring however is not as fun as it is in Oblivion, or Morrowind. Its not bad again 
 though, you'll always find some cave, or camp, or somthing to keep you amused.
  For this game to be fun you have to invest enough time to get your character good enough, when 
 you get pretty strong its amusing, and I would recommend it if you've played through Oblivion and 
 Mass effect, and are sick of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds is an attempt to beat Bethesda Softworks 'Oblivion' and whilst everything that Two Worlds 
 promises sounds great on paper and in theory, is great unfortuntely it simply does not work in 
 practice. Whilst it does offer some entertainment value to people who have already completed Oblivion 
 and other PC rpgs, players who are trying Two Worlds out for the first time should be very wary 
 of all the bugs, problems and various issues that plague it, at the very least you have to approach 
 this game with a very open mind and low expectations otherwise you'll sorely be disappointed and 
 frustrated by it.
  
  Problems with the game become very apparent early on such as the almost random combat - a few simple 
 words can easily explain it and thats - Button Mashing. Unfortuntely theres very little 'strategy' 
 or fluid combat here its just plain and simple attack, heal and win that is unless your fighting 
 the many insta-kill monsters out that which leads us to the next point, the frustration factor 
 in Two Worlds is high indeed.
  
  Perfectionists playing who want to keep a 100% combat rating need to literally save the game every 
 few minutes because in the wilderness you'll be attacked by wolves or boars almost every minute, 
 those are the 'filler' monsters and pose little to no problems except there a pain, the problems 
 arise with other mobs such as bandits especially Archers who have the annoying tendency to 'One 
 Shot' you at any time because theres no mob levels as such, you don't know what your fighting unless 
 you easily win or die many many times trying to beat your foe - in a nutshell the entire combat 
 system is borked basically, no balance what-so-ever. The other problem is you could face one of 
 the hardest mobs in the game who has 'one shot' abilitys but if he's alone, you're almost gaurenteed 
 to win because of the backjump button which for a brief period of time grants you immunity to damage. 
 
  
  The archery implemented is also equally terrible, I mean once you ready an arrow your essentially 
 'rooted' in place so unless you can 'one shot' something yourself you become very vunerable, and 
 the targetting system which I say, is dreadful doesn't help either, you have no, and I repeat no 
 control over the targetting system at all, any mob you want to attack but the targetting system 
 wants 'you' to attack something else and either you are forced to attack that, wait or just simply 
 forget about it, magic is the same way in unfortuntely.
  
  The horses in game are also terribly implemented, even mounted combat is badly done. The horses 
 move around so clunky and unresponsive and don't forget that you can only call your horse to your 
 side if your within about 10 feet of it... which means half your adventures are horseless because 
 of this and you can't teleport with them either which makes the horses in game, rather pointless 
 eye candy.
  
  The graphics are both good and bad, they are actually stunningly realistic but at the cost of frame 
 rates, quite often under a heavy load will everything go clunky and laggy even on very high end 
 rigs.
  
  All being said, Two Worlds does have a few solid postives going for it, because inventory space 
 is always an issue for many RPGS, Two Worlds approaches this with a unique method, and I honestly 
 wish others would do so as well, which is the ability to 'level' items up, just have an weapon 
 thats of the same 'set' and you can attach it to your current weapon in doing so increases the 
 damage and also gains any magical properties too, making for some truly epic items further in the 
 game.
  
  Other than that, that pretty much explains most of Two Worlds which others haven't already said 
 over and over. People considering Two Worlds needs to understand that this game tries hard to be 
 Oblivion and beat it but unfortuntely fails short in every area, I'm not saying that this is a 
 terrible game but its not great by any means either. If this had more development time and alot 
 more polishing especially to the lackluster combat system then this could have been a contender, 
 unfortuntely like many others before this, have been doomed to mediocrity.
  
  As of right now, i'm forced to restart the game due to some game breaking bugs, which after doing 
 some research (After I fell foul of the bug) seems to be an extremely common main quest breaking 
 bug, just mention "Dragon Whisperer Quest" and people shudder, essentially the quest has to be 
 saved many times before you do it just in case you screw up and do something your not supposed 
 too, which unfortuntely is very easy to do and unfortuntely breaks the game even without your knowledge 
 of doing so, these type of bugs in an RPG are not acceptable at all - come on guys!! Side quest 
 bugs can be tolerated but anything which potentially can break the game at all are not, learn to 
 make rpgs!!
  
  The other problem with the game is typical with many bad rpgs, at the start of the game your pretty 
 much weakling who'll be insta-killed many times over and things are slow and boring, but once you 
 start amassing some gear and figure things out, you can quickly become so over-powered its not 
 even funny, to a point you can create some totally ridiculious items, for instance a potion that 
 heals for over 6 million HP etc, in fact you can make items so powerful it actually starts to screw 
 up the stats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staraven
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  The first 2 times I played it was painful. The concept was good, powering up weapons and armor, 
 getting sets, were a nice twist. BUT, on an ATIx1950 XP SP2 2GB it was A DOG! Framerate has -5 
 - ok maybe not, but with nothing else running it was a dog. I'd get into a big fight with 6 or 
 more Orcs and it was a crapshoot if I'd hit any of them since they'd move after my 2 minute swing. 
 Pathetic.
  The ending is pretty lame as well. I played both endings and both suck. By the time the end battle 
 comes, you should be soooo bad nothing can hurt you. It took 3 swing and he was out. Lame
  
  I built a new PC with crossfire running 2 HD3850s. WOW. It was like a whole new game. I could 
 actually run and the game didn't pause. Slaying a band of Orcs became fun and not onerous! The 
 graphics were excellent. This doesn't change the fact that the ending is LAME, but at least it 
 was playable and enjoyable until the bitter end.
  
  I would recommend this game to FRP type players with a very up-to-date PC or have a lot of patience 
 with a crappy frame rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  For starters let me point out I feel this game is underrated. I really enjoyed a lot of aspects 
 of the game very much. For example I felt the weapon selection was ACTUALLY BETTER than Oblivion 
 (GASP) . Don't get me wrong I feel Oblivion is still a better game (in fact I'm playing it again 
 right now) but I also felt this was a good game... mostly because of the gameplay and the fact that 
 this game was stable on the PC platform compared to some of the others (Neverwinter Nights2, The 
 Witcher) that I've played recently. That said I beat this game without a hitch and GOT NO ENDING... NOTHING! 
 You get to choose who the last person you fight is I BEAT THEM BOTH AND GOT NOTHING. It just took 
 me right back to the title screen!
  
  I couldn't help but laugh at this I'm not willing to download some stupid patch or spend time troubleshooting 
 the issue at this point I just felt I should mention that.
  
  So that said I liked this one and would recommend it and will score it accordingly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mephistoau
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets start off by saying despite what a lot of people have said / are saying, this is actually 
 a good game.
  
  Now that we have that out of the way we'll look at the good and the bad.
  ---Good ---
  
  The games visuals are fantastic. The world looks fantastic, you have a huge draw 
 distance (distance you can see) , the lighting is great, although the shadows could have been a 
 little smoother, and provide from good HDR to completely burning-my-retinas HDR. The former is 
 better :) The weapons and armour are beautifully detailed along with basically any item / object 
 in the game.
  
  Now, talking about weapons etc - the level of player customisation is great - there are so many 
 different weapons and armour that you can use, and the way the drops increase in level wherever 
 you go means you are ALWAYS checking bodies to see if there's that one piece better than what you 
 have yourself. It keeps you stuck to the game wanting to play for 5 more minutes to kill the next 
 group for some loot.
  
  The magic system is quite well done: The spells you are able to use (after learning the skill for 
 that particular school of magic) are found via spell cards. These cards are stackable which allow 
 your spells to increase in damage / duration / healing level etc etc as you get more cards. Also 
 there are "booster" cards that you can apply to your selected spells that again, will increase 
 duration / power etc. 
  
  The combat system is ok, not fantastic. It has fluid looking movement and you can really FEEL the 
 hits with your criticals. There are also a lot of options for skills which is great, gives some 
 variety to your combat
  
  The quests are quite varied which is great - including some "faction" wars kind of quests - which 
 is good considering the game world is HUGE. Like, really really huge. As in good luck finishing 
 the game. Because it will take years. Including side quests. Eek. But it's great to have that size. 
 The enemies don't really vary enough, but occasionally you stumble on that one enemy that will 
 kill you in one hit - meaning you have to dodge every attack it throws and you and just pepper 
 it with blows.
  
  --Bad --
  
  Well i'll start off with the combat section i guess - while it does have its perks, it's not all 
 great. While there is a blocking system in place - you do not control it. Which can be a pain because 
 a lot of the time instead of backing out of combat you would prefer to just weather the blows until 
 you can strike back. The balance (not necessarily good) to this is you have a "jump back" button 
 - which you learn from early on to be vital to surviving this game. Also even on easy, combat to 
 begin with is HARD. It's amazing how quick you go down the first time because you just aren't expecting 
 to take that much damage so quickly. 
  
  The loot / backpack system is alright but nothing awesome - quite often you will only be able to 
 see half the item on the right hand side of your loot screen because it overlaps to a "next page" 
 kind of thing. It's annoying, especially for when you are trying to do alchemy. 
  
  All NPC's are named and are able to be spoken to "cinematically" (ie: it goes to a close up between 
 yourself and them with dialog options) - which makes things a bit difficult when you are trying 
 to sort out the important from the sheep - especially for quests.
  
  On the note of talking.... the worst part of this game. The script and acting. Oh. God. I don't 
 think i've encountered any game with dialog this bad. Yes. It's bad. No. I'm not over reacting. 
 It's horrible. 
  
  --Overall --
  
  In reality, this game is actually pretty damn good. As soon as you learn to ignore the crappy dialog 
 and various little niggly annoyances in the game, the quicker you'll begin to enjoy it. The combat, 
 loot and quest system will keep you stuck to the screen always wanting to play for that little 
 bit longer, finish that one last dungeon. I would recommend the game to anyone, especially those 
 that enjoyed oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Overall I really enjoyed this game. once you get the hang of what you need to do to survive in 
 the early stages (leap back being a very key skill to learn) , you won; t have any problem. 
  
  The visuals are absolutely incredible in this game: log lying fog, character models, trees, 
 dust devils, water, sand, shadows, everything is gorgeous.
  
  The game is let down by 2 aspects: really lousy writing/acting and the lack of ending movie (at 
 least one didn't play for me. I made my choice for good or evil, fought the respective battle and 
 boink: game over. Nada, nothing. in Oblivion you get to carry on exploring or laying waste as would 
 be your wont.
  
  Back to the writing/acting. It takes some getting used to hearing: foresooth, mayhap and other 
 bizarre pronouncements especially since the rest of the language is modern. No swearing like in 
 The Witcher though. The acting is mostly very flat with some interesting deliveries every now and 
 then.
  
  A middlingly annoying feature is that every NPC in the game has a name and can be spoken to. Even 
 if they have absolutely nothing to say and regurgitate the exact same options as all the other 
 people in that town (dialog does change in ton to town though) . 
  
  I also had to explore how to pick pockets since the manual only suggests standing right behind 
 someone. In reality, the camera angle (if in 3rd person) needed to be directly from above else 
 you would never actually pick a pocket.
  
  The magic system is similar to the equipment system in that you can "stack" gear and spells to 
 make them more powerful and this is really cool feature of the game. But in the spell system it's 
 almost like the game couldn't decide between being a real time RPG since it has 4 ten slot quick 
 bars. And a turn based game since you can only quick cast 3 spells at any given moment. If you 
 tried slotting other spells in, it requires you to pause and go visit your spell book, swap in 
 the spell you want, all the spell boosters you want, then back to the game, then use the quick 
 menu bar. You can; t cast from within the spell book. you can; t use the quick menu bar to cast other 
 spells: well you can but you press twice: once to load the spell (and it isn; t brining any of the 
 spell boosters that you really want) , then again to fire the spell. So a powerful magic system 
 let down by the trigger/casting mechanism.
  
  On the gear: as I mentioned you can stack equipment to make really powerful gear. this is critical 
 to success as you will meet some seriously tough monsters in this game. Stacking is as easy as 
 drag and drop. The gear conveniently lights up when you can stack stuff selected. You can also 
 put magiced gear together as long as you don; t get more than 5 different types of magic boosters 
 (more damage, protection, attribute boosting etc) . Really powerful. the other really slick feature 
 is you have 3 main weapon slots and a dagger slot (for sneaking and murdering) . Go into sneak mode 
 and the dagger is equipped. handy for that time when you want to slit a throat quietly. Oh wait, 
 there's the rub. you sneak up and kill someone with a massive amount of damage and instantly everyone 
 is alert and coming after you. Effectively negating the reason why you snuck around. It's just 
 easier to wade in. However overall the combat system is really effective with lots of special skills 
 you can learn such as shield bash, disarm, kick-sand-in-the-eyes, stun, arrow through a person, 
 multi arrows, arrow in the eye etc.
  
  So a great set of unique ideas that I would really like to see in more games (perhaps a sequel?) 
 that just need some playability assessments tweaked on them.
  
  highly recommend this game. 
  
  PS more stable than Gothic 3 before the 1.5 patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermes666
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok... Gamespot gave Gothic 3 7.6 and Two worlds 7.5. Thats not fair.
  The basic Two worlds looks pretty bad. It has ugly textures, ugly characters and silly voices. The 
 dialogue and the bad voices can make you think the game is made for kids between 10-13.
  The patches really fix a lot of game graphics, the loot system and changes the faces of every char.
 
  Two worlds is the type of game that makes you rise your eyebrown in the first hours, but when you 
 start go get some real loot you find it quite addictive."i have the chest, the gloves... jeee i neet 
 that trousers". And the game system kinnda make you get them... just be searching random loot.
  The gameplay is... intuitive. The moves done by our hero are real and nice looking, the way that a 
 mob/NPC falls is also well done... not quite real but it gives you a sensation of power. And makes 
 the hero lough.
  Should you play the game?
  CERTAINLY YES, if you are looking for FUN FUN FUN.
  If you want a good rpg play gothic 3 and oblivion (with 
 some mods that fix the Hud and map...) (hate that big ps3 designed HUD!!!!) :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PenthiusX
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  i cant even count the number of things i hate about this game ,
  ill try to keep it short 
  
  
  The games a big copy Oblivion ,, with a game like Oblivion alredy played by millions ,. the 
 develpers ought to think bout making the game ,OR AT LEAST make the game rmotely as good as oblivion 
 
  
  there is no atension to detail ,and some times i think the game developers totally skipped the 
 process game testing to save money ..
  The games full of glitches AND THE HORSE RIDE SUKS BIG TIME ..
  The bloody!! horse always seemed 
 to get stuck on every god dam obstacle 
  and the controlling system suked .. 
  I personally preferred to go on foot ..
  
  i dont kno why but i think the player runs like 
 a girl with the hands and legs stuck together , and the guy throys his wepon the same way every 
 single time.. some new unlockble movees should hve been given ..
  
  
  The magic suked , no good effects and FX . (Here i thought the game wus delebrately made this bad) 
 And ince u did a spell on urself u cudent dipell it.
  For example ,u get a neromany spell that acts as a shield by damaging anyone who comes near you 
 ... but when u go near a civilian that ud like to converse with .. WHAM ! he gets hit and the guard 
 get in ur tail ,........ and every time u du such a spell u need to remove all the time increasing 
 spell cards and wait it out !..
  
  THe Monsers are limited. with monster movement like plastic dolls ....
  
  The dungeons and 
 settlments are limited considering the scale of the map....
  
  the Towns are not well detailed as well and small
  
  the armour is limited with not much difference 
 between em ..
  
  and the bad stuff goes onnnnnnnnnnn an onnnnnnnn and onnnnn..
  
  i Seriously think tis game was a waste of my money and time .......
  and i dont think whysme 
 people like he game
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: v2580s
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Two worlds comes in a great box, it has great graphics, great variety of weapons and a huge map. That's 
 all the greatness you will get from the game...
  
  The first thing you notice is that you can't really customise your character, after that come the 
 bugs and glitches... and there are a lot of them.... You fight with a battle system that does not 
 exist by just clicking really hard and fast and you fight very tough enemies from the very beginning 
 while the tutorial is just to show you the (very basic) controls by killing two foes.
  
  To make long story short you are thrown in a very hard game from the beginning without a fair chance 
 to learn a little about the game. 
  Despite its great background graphics, NPCs just seem... wrong as is the move of the main character. 
 
  
  Two Worlds is a game that get's old and boring really fast and I blame the battle system the most 
 about this result. A lot of good and new stuff exist but are poorly designed and blended in the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalErr
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds started off on the wrong foot, when during installation, it required an internet connection 
 or an 800 number to call to activate it, which after doing so brought up another access code, which 
 I would assume is necessary for future installs. I understand that software companies are trying 
 to curtail piracy, but IMO if I bought the game off the shelf, then it should install and play 
 without ever having to "activate".
  
  The Graphics: The graphics were good but not great and they were also inconsistent. When viewing 
 the landscape and looking at the flowers by the side of the road, and looking down the road itself, 
 it was a very nice environment. It didn't look real, but that is ok, since it is after all a fantasy 
 game. That is until you come across water, in which the waves and depth shown in the water did 
 look real, which made it stand out in this environment making you wonder where it came from. The 
 inventory items looked good, but the NPC's looked animatronic.
  
  The Sound: The sound is good, and the voice acting I also thought was good. The NPC's voices seemed 
 to be consistent, which means that one dialog line wasn't really angry, while the next was giving 
 the impression that they couldn't be happier with the world.
  
  The Controls: The controls seemed fairly natural comparing them to many other RPG's. I was able 
 to re-map some of the keys to my liking, so this is always a plus.
  
  The Game play: This is the most important part of any game, the graphics and sound can be like 
 a retro Atari 2600 console game, as long as it is fun, and enjoyable to play. Fortunately I read 
 some of the reviews, both professional and player before I bought this game, so I knew that it 
 would be difficult at first and sure enough, doing the first quest to "kill the Grom's" I died. 
 Normally this would turn me off in a game immediately, but since I considered myself warned and 
 continued on. Then I encountered another group of wolves that I was running from when I had low 
 health and the game crashed back to the desktop. AARRRGGGHHH! Now I was reconsidering my purchase 
 of this game, but so far this has not happened again. 
  
  The action in 3rd person view took some getting used to since in some cases you could not see what 
 you were hitting, especially if you were killing a snake on the ground. When in this perspective 
 you have to be standing on top of chests and dead bodies to get the icon to open or loot respectively. 
 In all fairness, there is a first person view, but this is not available in combat. The map and 
 in-game map do not show enough detail, and do not show the people you have talked to such as trainers 
 or shop keepers. This would be very useful if you needed to find them again later. 
  
  One of the really good features of the game is that you can actually stack like items, like armor, 
 axes, etc. When you do this, the damage, or armor increases into the one item, without increasing 
 the weight. (at least not that I know of yet) . Riding a horse seemed awkward, but it could be that 
 I don't have enough skill in that yet to determine if it is a control issue, or just a lack of 
 skill.
  
  Even with all the issues that I had to deal with so far, I have found the game to be enjoyable 
 and pleasing to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  People bash this game waaay too much. Sure, it's not as good as many other RPGs, but I think it 
 still is worth playing. If you are patient.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  - The game world is large. Quite large indeed. Just a shame there isn't much to do in there. The 
 quests are mostly boring and repetitive. A good thing is that there is some much different armor, 
 weapons and items. I mean over 200 different pieces of armor. That puts Oblivion to shame. The 
 bad thing is, though, the there is no real difference between them. They are mostly alike, except 
 a difference of few damage points/armor defence... Too bad. The combat is really repetitive hack 
 & slash action. But for some reason, I find it really addictive. If you manage to play this game 
 to level 10 or so, you're hooked. The game IS addictive, if you are patient enough. Oh, and the 
 spell system is more fun than in most RPGs, IMO.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 5/10
  - You don't really feel like you are part of the gameworld, and the NPC's all have the same boring 
 generic topics to talk about, except those who give quests. Not nearly as good as in Morrowind 
 or even Oblivion.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  - Nice... Not nearly as good as other games released in late 2007 though.
  
  Sound: 3/10
 
  - Argh. The voice acting is just so... pretentious, with fake accents and alike. It's good that 
 they chose to have characters speak older English (eg. Who art thou, identify thyself!) , but it 
 just sound so forced and... stupid. Sound effects are bland, and music is just ok. Oh and the bears 
 sound like friggin retards.
  
  Physics: 4/10
  - Basic ragdoll, and only on some enemies. Meh.
  
  Replay value: 5/10
  - Well you *could* 
 play as a different type of character (mage, warrior, thief, assassin, archer) , but I doubt most 
 people would bother to.
  
  Value for money: 4/10
  - There are so much better RPGs out there, sold for so much cheaper. I recommend trying the demo 
 first.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 6/10
  - Aye, it is quite buggy, but nothing too big that would really annoy you. Performance is very 
 good considering that I can run this on all maxed out and I can only run Oblivion on medium. I 
 recommend downloading all the patches before starting the game.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Simply: No.
 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone wanting a decent RPG experience. You must be patient though. I recommend buying this instead 
 of Gothic 3 for example.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickgio
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is an Action - Role Playing Game. Though at the begging the game may seem awfully familiar 
 to Oblivion i think is much different from it. I'd say it has the basics of Gothic 3. Who knows maybe 
 cause the two developer teams are both german....
  
  So lets take things from the begging. You are a mercenery one of the few
  remaining in the region. One 
 rainy day a strange looking man with black armor and a red cape kidnaps your sister. Well the story 
 isnt so interesting but gets better as you continue through the game.
  When the game starts u come to the customazitaiton character screen. Though they give many options 
 at the end the characters wont seem too different beetwen the players. Interesting part is where 
 u adjust the length of the arms torso and back.
  The world is huge that will give u many hours of gameplay. The Mosters won't respawn like oblivion, 
 though at night their ghosts spawn where u need to kill them and thats where spawning stops.
  The main part is the gameplay main u kill monsters take xp and reach a 
  ceratin point where 
 u lvl up. At each lvl u take 2 atribute point and 5 skill points the skill points are for the character 
 class u spend everywhere u want. Of course there are other way to gain point. The inventory isnt 
 so big and u will have a weight problem often, thats the only major problem i found. Many choices 
 in armor and weapons sets that will make u staring at ur character alot. Thougth id like also some 
 full set bonus or something.
  A last thing id like to mention is the trading option ull have to make alot of money 'cause the 
 vendors will have alot of interesting things on them. Thats because if u have an item in your inventory 
 with the same name as the one u get u can combine too boost their efficiency!!!
  
  I could go on and on about so many things about the game (community, horse riding, quests etc) 
 but and wouldnt make much difference. Well thats all for now, i made this review because i enjoyed 
 playing the game much and as an opening for the opcoming expansion.
  
  Until next time enjoy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: Very immersive making the world feel quite believable and full of mystical moments of 
 magical wonder like when one comes across a shrine or sees rays of sunlight caressing the landscape 
 through the clouds. Creatures stand out well and have their own art style to them so you dont feel 
 your playing some other rpg with the same graphic style. Npcs are varied in body shapes from fat 
 merchants to lean mean bandit machines. World architecture captures the medieval look perfectly 
 with protective looking castles and walled cities surrounded by buetiful forests with abundant 
 wildlife and plants to survive on.
  
  SOUND: Npc voices are very unique with all of them speaking olde english which is a great change 
 from the modern sounding tongue of other rpgs. Really takes one out of ones reality and into the 
 fantasy of TWO WORLDS. Effects for nature are nice and makes one feel they are walking in a wilderness 
 of varied terrains. Ones own character is also full of spoken dialogue which has more then once 
 had me laughing especially during combat.
  
  COMBAT: Fighting is done very well with the ability to use sword and magic at the same time just 
 like other rpgs such as OBLIVION which keeps things comfortable in the gameplay department. I have 
 yet to see any of the complaints others have mentioned about battles being too hard from the very 
 start of the game. If one uses the proper acttack run acttack run method one will have no problem 
 during battles. Being instantly ressurrected also avoids the tedium of waiting for the game to 
 load. Maybe its because am using the 1.6 patch that I have not seen this problem or as someone 
 mentioned in another review so called experianced hardcore players will find it easy while those 
 green to rpgs may find it a little overwhelming.
  
  MUSIC: The music for TWO WORLDS is some of the most buetiful music I have heard for a rpg. Not 
 since DIVINE DIVINITY have I heard such haunting soothing music that feels just right and not over 
 powering.
  
  A must have rpg for those who are into fantasy simulations like OBLIVION, MORROWIND along with 
 hack and slash similar to DIABLO and HELLGATE LONDON. Just make sure to use the latest 1.6 patch 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds is an anoyingly addictive game. Not as good as oblivion, of course, but still an good 
 RPG. The best thing about this game is the graphics. The graphics in this game are stunning. But 
 there are still many things thta let it down. 
  
  The good...
  Two worlds is an addictive and fun game. It has great graphics and a huge variety of quest and 
 guildes you can join and complete. Decent RPG fighting technices including both magc, range and 
 close combat along with fine character custimisation. A variet of wepeons including hailbird, double 
 swords, great swords, daggers, magic staffs. bows and much more. The music is ok along with the 
 storyline. The online is also enjoyable and it is something different that you dont usally do in 
 other RPG games.
  
  The bad...
  For some reason, there seems to be more bad than good which is the main thing that lets this game 
 down. First of all, your character is stuck in third person mode, the only time you can go to first 
 person is just to look around. This games defult diffuctly settings is way to hard forcing you 
 to use cheats to get your character started. When i first played it and got out of the first tutorial 
 dungeon area, i died before i even reached my first main quest. That is what i mean by hard. The 
 storyline can become confusing and weird. To many cutseance in which random people talk to you. 
 The tutorial for this game is hopless it only tells you the basic stuff. Even when you get your 
 first main quest, you will have no idea were to go. You have to go aroudn and discover everything 
 for yourself which is the worst thing about this game. There is no arrow or map marker, nothing. 
 Consideing this game is so hard, they should provide more hints and cheats to make the game easier.
 
  
  This game is pretty cheap now, so if you see it discounted it is worth buying although it has alot 
 of let downs. Once again another RPG fails to stand up to oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbandu
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The mediocre reviews this game received made me decide to wait until 1. A patch was released for 
 the PC version; and 2. The price dropped by 50% (or more) . So when I saw it advertised at Best 
 Buy for only $20, I went ahead and picked it up. 
  
  I can't recommend buying the game at its original price point of $50, or the Xbox 360 version at 
 $60, but at $20 Two Worlds for the PC can ACTUALLY be a FUN game. Yes, it has plenty of flaws, 
 but I found myself engrossed in it despite the problems. Maybe I'm a masochist, but I've had fun 
 with flawed titles in the RPG genre before (anyone remember 'Soulbringer' [2000] and 'Summoner' 
 [2001] ?!) and this game is another entry.
  
  I have to agree with the reviewers who liken this game more to the "Gothic" series on the PC than 
 TES: Oblivion. It's not designed to be as accessible to the player as Bethesda's title. Two Worlds 
 is very much an Old School RPG, with no parallel leveling between the player, his equipment, and 
 adversaries. You will indeed spend the first 5  6 hrs of the game running, like a chicken with 
 its head cut off, from humble boars and wolves. You'll find that most of the weapons and spells 
 you collect in the early stages of the game will have to sit in your inventory because you are 
 too low on the feeding chain to use them. You'll discover that more than a few quests are simply 
 too hard to complete until you achieve higher levels, but you can't determine this until you actually 
 try to take on an Ogre and find yourself snuffed in one blow.
  
  If you're patient and have a sense of humor, the game does become more rewarding despite its flaws 
 and quirks. But be warned you'll need to suffer all kinds of indignities for the first 5 or so 
 hours. After that you rapidly become a lean, mean, killing machine and you can slice and dice your 
 way thru most encounters. The gameworld opens up, the quests become more fun, and the vast array 
 of weapons and armor become much more gratifying to use.
  
  The other reviews here give a good overall picture of the game; I will just add my own thoughts 
 on the strengths and weaknesses of Two Worlds. 
  
  Strengths:
  
  -no load screens after first loading the game (there are brief delays of a few seconds in-game 
 while a new level is loaded; all you'll notice is a small CD icon popping up in the lower left 
 corner of your game screen) . The long load times (that draw complaints in Bioshock and The Witcher) 
 are utterly absent here.
  
  - interactions with merchants don't require laborious skill point allocations, they have no limits 
 on the amount they can spend to buy items from you, and the pricing you see, is the pricing you 
 get - no maneuvering slider bars to try and eke a few more sheckels from their tight fists, or 
 spending 3 hrs searching for the lone talking Mudcrab on an island in the middle of nowhere that 
 pays full price for items. Every village has at least one merchant , and they are willing to buy 
 everything in your inventory.
  
  -a bit of careful maneuvering can often induce different groups of enemies to fight each other 
 while you stand back and watch the carnage and then pick off survivors.
  
  -after the initial 5  6 hrs of grinding, leveling comes more rapidly. Lots of skill areas to exploit 
 (although many are rather ineffectual) and you can pay gold to have them reallocated if you are 
 unhappy with the direction your avatar is taking. 
  
  -alchemy is a simple click and drag matter; no need for retorts and alembics in your inventory 
 or periodic conferences with Trainers. Some cool potions (some with permanent effects to stats) 
 can be assembled simply by stopping to pick up the right plants while on your journeys. 
  
  -there's an autosave option, and when you are killed you spawn at one of many shrines (akin to 
 Bioshock  style Vita-Chambers) , with all your stats and gear intact.
  
  -some of the levels and maps are quite striking and show what could have been achieved with more 
 dev time.
  
  -Two Worlds was made by a Polish dev team that in all likelihood didn't have 200+ people devoted 
 to the game (like Bethesda had for Oblivion) . Two Worlds was rushed out to meet a ship date and 
 needed another three months of work before release, but I am willing to bet Reality Pump's next 
 game will be a very good one.
  
  Weaknesses:
  
  -even with the 1.6 patch the horseback riding is an exercise in utter wonkiness - tried once and 
 gave up permanently thereafter.
  
  -graphics remain mediocre, with major hitching and framerate drops turning even simple movements, 
 such as running down a trail, into an eyeball-wearying exercise in Poor Coding. The first-person 
 POV is so bad that you can't use it and must rely on the third-person POV, which gets to be very 
 annoying for identifying NPCs when there are more than a 1 or 2 of them onscreen.
  
  -Numerous small glitches indicate inadequate QA / QC and Playtesting.
  
  -the dev team failed 
 to recognize that the Cliff Racer Effect -- placing bunches of wild animals or bandits or goblins 
 for every 15 yards of trail  becomes very annoying after the first 10 minutes of playing the game.
 
  
  -the onscreen minimap is so small as to be useless, and the main map lacks the easy interactivity 
 necessary for such a large and open-ended game space. 
  
  -melee combat is a simple clickfest. Archery and ranged spellcasting are basically useless after 
 the first strike, because the game's combat design almost always sends large numbers of enemies 
 mobbing at you, and you have to stand still to use ranged attacks.
  
  -stealth gameplay (sneaking, backstabbing, lockpicking) comparatively underdeveloped and not worth 
 more than a few skill point allocations.
  
  -overall, the game lacks what the professional gaming media reviewers term 'polish'. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmollea
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  I approached this game with the same interest and expectations I had for Oblivion. Luckily on my 
 now low-to-mid machine, I could get a decent framerate and visual quality for tis title (Oblivion 
 was far slower and worst looking) .
  The story gets you quickly and some interesting features this game exposes (such as immediate respawning 
 after a death, and the teleport system) are a nice thing to have.
  The rpg system is easy though enough for the game needs and the world, although less detailed and 
 interactive than Oblivion's, still compels the player to wander around and discover places and 
 things to do.
  NPC AI (such as guards patrolling cities) is enough to remember you of the consequences of actions 
 such as lockpicking in sunlight or stealing.
  Quests aren't so difficult (mostly run-of-the-mill take this there or kill a monster and bring 
 me back the loot) , but they are quick, many, and the NPC factions system gives you quests that 
 will be mutually exclusive thus imposing choices.
  Conversations aren't so deeply detailed (no long conversations with twists and dead ends such as 
 in Neverwinter Nights) , but they are just fine and decently voiced.
  Combat is a bit of let-down, resulting in just clicking wildly the mouse button to strike at enemies, 
 though the magic system is complete and the summonable pets adds an interesting way of fighting. 
 Nonetheless, combats aren't easy at all and require a bit of wit in overcoming some of the difficult 
 ones.
  
  Gamespot's right, the world's maybe a bit too big, but as I said, the teleport system and the horses 
 make it manageable.
  
  And, should be noted, with version 1.5, the game's really stable (Oblivion had some bugs and nuisances 
 here and there that were annoying) . Only thing: don't alt-tab away from it or you'll have to re-initialize 
 the graphic engine and that takes a whole couple minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranthon007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Game is just OK. If it were possible I would have spent my money on something else. I liked it 
 at first but then the story went nowhere and the world become predictable and empty.
  
  If you like to kill things - grab stuff - sell stuff and repeat, then this is the game for you. 
 Thanks to a lack of social depth and a generic story with very boring side quests a this game falls 
 way short of its potential (oblivion is better but even it has similar shortcomings) .
  
  The basics for a good game are here. An interesting world, great graphics and artwork, neat weapons 
 and armor, cool looking monsters, and an easy inventory/travel system. However, the game is incomplete 
 in terms of how it was filled to make it immersible and keep the story moving. 
  
  There is not much in the world to make it an true RPG. Perhaps they will do better next time around 
 since the critiques are pretty much the same across the board. 
  
  The game is not as bad a some suggest nor is it as good as other say. Most people who like this 
 game are probably younger and have never played a real RPG like Baldur's Gate, and those who hate 
 it are probably just irritated that there hasn't been a great RPG for the PC since console gamers 
 have dumbed down game play for PC gamers. 
  
  In short this game is a good example of a watered down "RPG" that seeks to sell as many copies 
 as possible across gaming platforms. In order to do that game play has to suffer -- it just has 
 to look good while doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds. A 3rd person hack and slash marathon with Oblivion like comparative aspects melted 
 together with a touch of Diablo, a spray of other RPG's and a hint of it's own originality.
  
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Two Worlds uses a keyboard and mouse control for it's hack and slash 
 based combat system. In which you just mash that mouse key to perform enough fast strikes to take 
 the other guy down before he slashes at you. Tho, there is also the trick of jumping backwards 
 to consider, to avoid being hit by the enemy. The game also has an Oblivion esque magic system 
 in which you learn and advance spells and use the right mouse button by default to cast them, and 
 without the games rather odd "lock-on" system you'd probably miss most shots. 
  
  Later on in the game you get the ability to use mounts ranging from the casual barnyard horse to 
 a dragon like being, on top of each you get a bonus fighting infantry. But I find it nearly impossible 
 even with the latest patch to steer the things. I ran through an entire orc camp swinging wildly 
 left and right to not have even hit anyone in my run and hit myself into a tree. One rather useless 
 or unfinished feature in the game would be shields, you're better off not having one, as they don't 
 have any effect unless you stand still. Now it may just be me but that does not make any sense.
 
  
  
  
  Now the basis of everything else. As in any RPG you get quests, experience, level up, repeat and 
 repeat. Stop by some towns on the way, get better gear to do it with and repeat again. While there 
 is a main storyline there are 2 problems with it, for one the story isn't all that worth while. 
 And for two when you beat the main quest the game will end and you need to start over if you want 
 to freeroam. So either just stick to the secondary quests or run through the game twice. Not too 
 many of the characters you meet will be memorable but one thing surely will that sets Two Worlds 
 apart from the rest. The old fashioned medieval talk in the game. Thee shalt not have upon thy 
 ears cast the slang of modern time but instead tongue of olde, for pray tell what knay would speak 
 in modern tongue, as most RPG's so graciously have decided to do. So that's a nice bonus. The quests 
 in the game are nicely varied, from simple errands to long battles or roaming around the world, 
 which in itself is fairly big. How does one traverse such a huge realm? 
  
  One can walk, one can ride and one can ... teleport. Yes, instead of the Oblivion esque fast travel 
 you locate teleporters across the world, which you can use to teleport to another teleporter on 
 the world back and forth. These little fellas are conveniently placed and easy to access and pop 
 up just when you need them. Perhaps too conveniently at times. And they sure as heck beat having 
 to steer a mad horse through half the land running down every tree on the way. Or running with 
 packs of wolves on your tail, as the games wildlife is quite hostile and in large numbers. You 
 can start a business with hides you could get from the hundreds of animals you have to slaughter.
 
  
  Enemies are fairly varied. From the usual goblins to the clich orcs, to dragons and bandits and 
 so on and so forth. Tho there could be a few more beings to fill the huge world. It can seem rather 
 repetitive at times. And the huge loads of murderous forest animals isn't helping.
  
  The game features a nice alchemy system in which you stack up various attribute featured items 
 and combine them into a potion or enchantment item, the latter of which you can equip to your sword 
 or weapon of choice, giving it either fire, ice, spirit, electric or poison damage bonuses.
  
  And while we're at it, you can also "stack" items of the same kind ontop of each other in your 
 inventory, to improve them. Say you find a sword with 20 damage, and another one just like it, 
 if you combine them your sword would now give 25 damage. This makes finding the same item, worth 
 it. It also allows you to just stack a kitchen knife 100 times to become a deadly weapon.
  
  Also, if you get bored of hiking about alone then you can go online with up to 8 friends, against 
 the whole world of Two Worlds. Yup, you can. And altho I have yet yo be able to do so myself. I'd 
 expect it to be quite fun. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Well graphically, it's hard to decide... at times it looks quite good with nice views from huge 
 mountains... but at times there's just those eyesore things such as jagged terrain, or unfinished 
 patches of the world. Those things just give the impression that the game is a Beta. Even with 
 over a gigabyte of Patches, there's still a lot that needs fixing. You do have to give them credit 
 for even bothering tho, most would just give up and let it go. 
  
  The shadows are probably the games weakest point, as they don't look all that great and the game 
 looks (and runs) better with them off. The HDR seems to me as more of a bloom feature. The rest 
 is pretty good on the eyes. From props to characters. Tho there is some slight clipping issues 
 with certain armors.
  
  Sound:
  
  Now if there's one thing Two Worlds doesn't have enough of, it's sound. 
  
  While there is 
 a fairly good main menu theme there are only a handful of tracks in the game which you barely if 
 at all notice. The voice acting is solid but battle sounds are a repetitive "thwack thwack swoosh 
 swoosh". 
  
  The wildlife sounds manageable tho, birds, crickets. But again it doesn't really sound alive, it 
 sounds generic.
  
  
  Overall:
  
  If you're looking for a good budget RPG and you're able to excuse some flaws and download a huge 
 ton of patches... the game will grow on you. And it'll be a good way to kill some hours. 
  
  I give it henceforth a 7.0 of 10 - GOOD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doc2daMAX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  I am not in the business of comparing two games. However, this game does strike me a similar in 
 game experience with a multiplayer version of Oblivion. It's not the BEST experience of multiplayer 
 that I've experienced, but it does have some cool traits. It's one of those games that you can 
 play your character a LONG time, and still have some fun with it. Although, I must say that they 
 need more lands to explore, and many more different types of quests, animals, and monsters to slaughter.
 
  
  I have to say though that the armour here is VERY COOL! Not only are there MANY types, but they 
 did an extensive job with making them look cool, with the stats that would best match your playing 
 style. The way a player can 'ride' in this game is really cool too.
  
  It's got its graphical lag issues, with the server trying to make sure that everyone is syncronized 
 (who the hell cares if Joe is sycronized with me while I'm trying to slaughter a monster) . But, 
 if you have two faster connections together, the game is relatively smooth. They did some tweaking 
 to correct this, but it's still not entirely fixed. Had they fixed this problem, I'm SURE that 
 more people would enjoy this game.
  
  The Alchemy is very advanced in this game, but one should update their alchemy skill to max before 
 actually ivesting the ingredients that take so much time to collect. What's even more cool about 
 it, is that your recipies can be named, stored, and used again in the future, should you come up 
 with one that makes something REALLY good. - good idea
  
  The weapons in this game are neato too. Their are a lot of them, though not enough it seems, especially 
 if you're a mage. Also, they need to have a good solid crafting system with trades (example: weaponsmith, 
 armourer, bow maker, tanner, scholar in magical arts, etc) , in order to keep more players hooked, 
 and to be able to invest more time leveling up to craft the best weapons and armour.
  
  Having said all that.. this game is simply fun. And if you're more of a single player kind of guy/gal, 
 this game definitely allows more of that... but with the option of being able to communicate, and 
 sometimes quest with real people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed about this game is the cheesy voice acting, it has to be the worst I 
 have ever heard in a game. For me personally it makes the game unbearable, I simply cringe whenever 
 I have to talk to someone. The second thing I noticed is the absurd inventory limit, I am sure 
 there is a cheat out there for that, as is you can carry very little. The combat is simply a click 
 fest, button mash until dead. The graphics do not look good to me at all with everything maxed 
 out, looks like and feels like a game that would have come out a few years ago. I have to be honest 
 when I say I have played very little of this game, I have to give it a tough score because after 
 playing RPG's for so many years I have yet to touch one that has failed to grab me as much as this 
 game has. There are games out there that got much worse reviews which at least held me for an hour 
 of play time. Maybe if I give it more time, but right now I don't see the point in that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuitChicken
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is EXTREMELY hard and confusing when you just start. you'll have no idea how to play 
 at the beginning since there is no tutorial or anything. once you figure out the basic controls 
 you'll probably see some wolves or boars and say"oh, look, an easy kill" but then you'll get your 
 butt kicked, and boars and wolves are the easiest enemies in the game. basically the only way to 
 level up at low levels is to make the enemy follow you to a shrine so you'll be constantly healing.
 
  
  but once you figure out how to play and are a high level the game will start to get quite fun. 
 you'll be able to enjoy the great graphics and the large fantasy world. you'll be able to do things 
 like riding horses, which is quite fun once you get used to it. it can be pretty hard at the beginning. 
 there are many fun quests you can do.
  
  and also one more thing, playing online sucks. there is lag ALL THE TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mulishaman187
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Take everything you love about RPG's and break it. That's what playing Two Worlds is like. By far 
 the worst game ever. If I could give it a lower rating than a 1.0 I would. The voice overs remind 
 me of a made for TV movie on the Sci-Fi channel, the character looks pasted into the game world, 
 like he doesn't belong. The quests are somewhat confusing at first and boring later. I had big 
 hopes for this game and when I got it and popped it in, after about 5 hours I wanted to return 
 it. Don't buy this game!!! Go get Mass Effect for a better RPG experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marsp
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds for me is the right game at the right time... something that I was expecting a long time... After 
 games such as Oblivion, Morrowind, Gothic 2 and Gothic 3 a combination of all them came... An enjoyable 
 and a big game.....
  The bad... that you can start main quest while you are.... nothing... something that reminds Oblivion 
 and for me that wasn't so good in both games.... One more bad for me... you can't choose races.... elves 
 dwarves humans etc...
  The good... Options of what you will be (warrior, mage, assassin, thief... combination of them? 
 and if so, which combination of them is better?) moreover development of the character is good considering 
 that you can and you have to do many things that a fighter a mage an a or a thief would do and 
 not so much clearly the one from the other... A game that needs. a lot of search and research... Furthermore 
 it will take a long of time of running to escape from bandits and all that creatures (groms wolves 
 bears etc) that you meet on the road.. So maybe you are the ONE but... not immortal... and you have 
 to prove that many times..... The difficulty of the game is just right.... An open world is there 
 to be explored with many side quests and things to do....
  Graphics are excellent with a good simulation of the real world and if you don't face some bug 
 issues then world of the game is just... enjoyable.... Story is fancy... little bit expected after 
 some time but also well defined... a war, a conspiracy, fights between great houses, mystery and 
 generally with a normal rate of moving along from the one quest to another and as the game says... two 
 worlds... you have to decide sometimes in which side you are.... although that you do things for 
 both sides most of the times and that also is good and smart for the story... if you can keep on 
 talking to everybody (that's good but also another minor issue of the game cause it can be very 
 tiring) ...
  For me it was a very good surprise this game.. amazing, enjoyable and for all that consider as classic 
 RPGs series such as Elder Scrolls, Gothic, etc.. then that is another classic role playing game... I 
 strongly recommend it to all rpg fans that don't want to play a game that finishes after 1-2 days 
 and to all that enjoyed playing Morrowind and Gothic 2..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baton69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  Everybody says this is a bad game, why?
  
  Graphics: This game has great graphics (if you have a good rig of course) . I think it looks better 
 than Oblivion, in almost every way. And Oblivion look great.
  
  Story: The story doesn't really live up to the RPG-standard. Fun sidequests though.
  
  Gameplay: 
 The combat system is fun to play when you reach higher levels and have more options for magic. 
 And it's some skill needed for knowing when to dodge, when to attack, and when to flee. Fighting 
 from horseback is cool, though quite frustrating. In the 1.6 patch they fix some horsesteering 
 things, which is good. And another thing, great weather graphics.
  
  Sound: Nothing special, good.
  
  Well that's about it. This is my first review...
  
  Only 
 one thing, I have seen some people talking about that's there no horseback fighting in Oblivion. 
 Well download this mod: http://www. tesnexus. com/downloads/file. php? id=8273
  
  READ THE README!!!!
  
  Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alsport14
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  A graphicaly fun game, enviroments are well done. Have not put much time into it yet ,story line 
 is a little dull, I wish you can fight in first person mode. The fighting on horse-back is a nice 
 bonus, I wish you could have done this in Oblivion, but horse controll needs to improve. It is nice 
 not to have to pick a class of warrior, but kinda useless to customize your charactor for a linear 
 role. I consider this game a great cross between Obilvion and Gothic 3.
  All in all fun game game to play, and would the a great buy if it was 10.00 less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I played the single player for about a day then turned to the multi-player. It was difficult at 
 first. You have to limit your kills to just wolves, and slowly work your way to harder monsters. 
 Up to about level 10 your well on your way. There is way to many exploits in this game. Power leveling, 
 stacking your armor, and weapons is more addicting than the game itself for me. Just re-enter the 
 town, and keep shopping. That's if you have enough money to consistently buy. Getting loads of 
 money isn't hard either. At my third day playing I met a person who knew how to dupe items. Then 
 it was all over. I just sold one massively insane duped piece of armor that was given to me for 
 about 30 mil. Yah. Thats all it takes. Ask a duper for a duped item then sell it. There. You're 
 rich. Then you can buy a crap load of armor and what not. So there's duping/power leveling/vendor 
 farming. That pretty much ruins the game right? I have a legit character that I level, and stack 
 items normally, and I have a insane duped character with a level of only 87. Just by power leveling 
 you can get there in no time. Many of the people that want to have a death match with you are usually 
 duped characters (most of the time for me) ... so there's not really any fight involved. Just one 
 hit kills. That's if you're not duped yourself. If you are it's a alchemy fight. Who gets there 
 "root" spell off first wins. So if you're about to death match make sure it's a fair fight, or 
 you'll find yourself quiting many duels. Most people that start playing this don't know that having 
 a router will make it almost impossible to join a players game they created. There's directions 
 on how to resolve this on their website. So I found myself many times waiting for an hour at least 
 to get someone to join, or find someones game TO join. I'm not behind a router so I don't have 
 to change any settings in game or with router. There are many glitches in this game.... to many 
 to list. There hasn't been a patch to fix these exploits, nor glitches as I know of. In my eyes 
 this game is WAY TO EASY even without cheating. Just hacking and slashing, and picking up everything, 
 and selling it will still make you a healthy player in game. It's redundant. The multiplayer is 
 broke up into stages like Diablo. You have different cities that have sub-city starts. You complete 
 so many quests which unlock the next area. So when those are all complete nothing left to do but 
 hover around doing what I said above. Helping new players, or dueling/stacking, or what not. I 
 find the horse racing kinda fun. The ONLY thing that I see that isn't easily worked around to contest 
 your skills. Other than the PVP. Which there's a trick to THAT also, and you'll be most difficult 
 to kill. Graphically the game seems very crisp, and detailed. In my eyes it seems kinda better 
 than Oblivion at times. Oblivion seems to be more flushed, and un-textured. Don't get me wrong 
 I LOVE Oblivion, but it just seems the graphics are more clearer/fine in TW. Music is wonderful. 
 Orchestrated nicely. I did kinda feel the woman singer was kinda dorky though at times at the main 
 menu. It's definitely good to buy, but I'd wait til the price drops. The price of this game should 
 have been $30 to start with all the glitches/exploits. IDK. The game mechanics is alright with 
 spell casting with a mouse click on a hot-key bar. (Getting magic is as easy as buying/looting 
 magic cards... funny you can be any class, and be a mage! at the same time) The one thing that would 
 have made it an Oblivion wanna be is the Parry. You can't manually block. It automatically dodges 
 for you (No shield) . I think your parry just absorbs some of the hit when damaged. You don't really 
 need to do anything if your skill is maxed for parry. I can just sit there, and you swing at me, 
 and my character will dodge each time. MAN... there's so much to SAY.... I'll stop. Buy the game 
 cheap, and stack your items/magic to high hell that's all I have to say about TW. Sorry for long 
 incomplete review. Hope it makes some sense, and describes some of the difficulties in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norwegicus
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The voice actors are terrible, seriously, you would think they could spend a little money on that. 
 Or just stick with text if it get this bad.
  
  You cant walk 30 seconds with out running in to a wolf, wild boar, wolf again, over sized lizard 
 with wings, another wolf and another wild boar.
  The enemies and creatures just seem a little out of place, it get annoying having to cut through 
 hundreds of pigs and wolves when your just out for a short stroll.
  
  Very nice graphics and ok music, i just dont feel it.
  Especially when the voice actors sound 
 more bored than i feel playing this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: croydcrenson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game and it was frustratingly tough at first but a lot of fun once I got some 
 levels. Similar to Oblivion with a beautiful and huge open style world. Not as much content but 
 superior in my opinion in terms of character customization with a near infinite variety of leveled 
 weapons and accessories and player defined spending of skill points after leveling. You can even 
 get skill points back if you aren't happy with how you spent them. Magic did not seem powerful 
 enough to me to waste much effort on but I am looking to see after shaving some skill points off. 
 RPG of the year in my opinion!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosu178
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I reserved this game because I saw screenshots and the trailers and the game looked like an amazing 
 achievement for South Peak. When it was delayed three times I thought the game would be amazing. 
 But it sucks!!!!!
  I bought this game and found lies on the box., it said Oblivion on steroids. More like Oblivion 
 on crack. The games combat system sucks and most of the time the combat feels like Morrowind which 
 means you can hit ****. You die a lot because of the combat system AND the difficulty level is 
 insane and the gameplay just sucks. The graphics is one of the best things in the game though but 
 the game still sucks. It has a multiplayer component which is really fun untill it starts to lag, 
 A LOT!!! The box was more appeasing than the actual game. This game is so terrible that it should 
 be burned and buried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltodd124
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Regardless of how the first of this review may sound, I LOVE THIS GAME!
  I know I'm fighting Orcs, and that's about as involved as I have gotten with the storyline. It's 
 boring, longwinded, and cliched. I haven't given the story a chance, and as many times as I have 
 to hit the space bar to advance through voice-acted dialogue, I never will. As soon as you get 
 an objective, a simple explanation is in your quest log, and a colored dot appears on your map. 
 Kill everything near the dots on the map that won't talk to you, and the quests seem to complete 
 themselves.
  
  The perspective is 3rd or 1st person, like the Elder Scrolls games. The layout of the world, the 
 harried encounters, and the looting all feel like the Diablo games. You find a HUGE variety of 
 weapons and armor. Items with the same name, though the stats are different, can be stacked to 
 create an even more powerful version of the item. I've got hoards of armor and weapons that 'look 
 cool' that I'm siting on hoping to find other versions so that I can stack them and make better 
 equipment than I currently use. I play on a Quad core with a 8500 suing Vista, and the game looks 
 great. I have Neverwinter Nights 2, and Elder Scrolls: Oblivion currently installed, and when comparing 
 them based on the graphics, Two Worlds looks the best. First, I think NN2 doesn't compare graphically 
 with ES4: O or Two Worlds. The enviroments, weapons, armor, and mounts all look better in Two Worlds, 
 while the character models, especially faces, look better in ES4: O.
  
  The sound is well done, and the accompanying music is the best I've heard in a fantasy game, for 
 whatever that is worth. I enjoy it enough that I haven't turned the in game music off, and I can't 
 remember that last time I didn't mute the music within 15 minutes of install.
  
  After the lackluster reviews and direct comparisons to Elder Scrolls, I avoided getting this game 
 for a while. It's great fun, and I expect it will stay on the hard drive long after I've completed 
 the storyline.
  
  The game offers co-op and competitive modes of network/online play but I have yet to try either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmansimmons
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  ok so i just beat twoworlds i was enjoying the game thinkin this is no fable or oblivion but its 
 just as good well **** that my opinion completely changed as soon as i beat it, so i beat and was 
 expecting the normal watch the ending maybe all the credits and keep playing only to be brought 
 back to the main ****in menu, what the **** was south peak thinkin when they made this ****in game 
 they could have at least made a better ending. guess what the end cutscene was......... the very 
 fisrt cutscene in the game with slighty different dialouge which is **** cuz i thought the begining 
 sucked ass........ so to sum it up if i ever by some crazy ****in chance ever manage to come across 
 south peak hq or someone who worked on the game i will kill you i hate that game so much i will 
 kill the developers you **** for all the swearing but if u havent noticed im angry) ....... so who 
 ever else has played the game please let me know what you think id really like to hear everyone 
 elses opinions........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSeptim
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect, better than oblivion, more complete, more beautifull places, armors, weapons, 
 is excellent.
  Icant find an error.
  Good compatiblity.
  The internet play is optional.
  much pleople says that is too hard but you have to be good player, 
 to experienced player is easy, to initiates, hard. You know that if the initiate get good on this 
 game, he will be no more initiate, he will be a good player.
  Now, the monsters, good ones, i like all of them, everyone whit him place, whit him powers, etc. 
 The places are like in real life, i love to see the water out of quinadaar in a afternoon, good 
 variety, mediaval places, arabic, japanesse places.
  Great variety of skills, you can be whatever you want, mage, assasin, warrior, thief, etc.
  Combat 
 style is ok, is fast, without disadvantages, real life combats, including the skill to avoid a 
 hit of a slow creature.
  The water is the most perfect one i had seen, including the swim.
  I love the variety of horses, dependig on the likes of the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seligman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  The summary pretty much says it all. Sure it has occasional rough edges... but I am really enjoying 
 this, and think it's an incredible achievement. it will likely give you more hours of pure RPG 
 fun than any other game I've seen this year. They did some things better than Oblivion did -- for 
 example, they have replaced the useless details of knives and forks with an amazing variety of 
 available weapons and armor. And the continuous world is really nice, with rare loading screens 
 only necessary when going into dungeons. The game does a good job of helping you keep track of 
 quests, marking their locations on the map in case you pile on too many. It takes place in a huge 
 world, with many cities, wilderness areas, and small dungeons and castles. If you enjoy games like 
 Gothic and Oblivion, you should definitely get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaWeitzel
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Make your own way through the world and play whoever you want to be - be it a villain or sweet 
 angel. However being 'good' has got nothing to do with japanese-like rpg (take Fable for instance) 
 - ruining somebody's business or making sure someone does not deliver certain package on time can 
 be an extremely good thing to do....
  - graphics is superb (grass much better that in Oblivion for example) and less resource - consuming 
 than in other games. It is as detailed and complex as in Oblivion but also dark and mysterious 
 as in Morrowind.
  - many quests with different solutions - freedom of choice
  - excellent mapping and quest identification system
  - feel the world and shape it (you HAVE 
 the influence on people's lives) without even starting the main quest
  - travel and fight on horse, swim, run or use your own teleports
  - alchemy system completely 
 innovative, magical system easy to use and implement
  - great dialogues - some of them remind classics like Fallout - being sarcastic and dark-humoured
 
  - the quick slots might seem awkward in the beginning, but once you get the meaning, it's easy 
 to use the hit-and-run technique or simply hack and slash through while healing extensively.
  
  !!! DOWNLOAD THE 1.5 PATCH !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don16086
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  They release games like this so they can show off how cool the graphics are but the rest of it 
 is just crap, they promised good multiplayer and that didn't happen. I do like the inventory system 
 and the ability to improve items when you collect two of the same item but the rest of this game 
 is crap. You can too easily mess up a quest by traveling to an area and picking up and item and 
 losing it and messing up the quest. Also the quest log is a nightmare, if you don't listen to what 
 someone is tell you what to do and you forget you are up a creek. You finish quests you don't know 
 you have sometimes and keeping track of them is impossible. The quest markers are almost useless 
 and you can't see them very well. Don't get me started on how impossible it is to ride the horse, 
 the dang thing gets stuck all the time and won't even climb hills.
  
  Don't waste your money on this game unless all you care about is eye candy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carton_of_milk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Alright let's get this out of the way first, don't expect oblivion. But DO expect a good RPG overall. 
 What it has to do with oblivion is it has a rather huge gameworld (rumored to be bigger than oblivion's) 
 and it's open ended. Reminds me of the Gothic series a lot (but bigger) . Germans developer too. 
 It's funny they advertised the fact that they had like a hundred different voice actors doing the 
 voices because 1- if it's true, most of them sound the exact same and 2- the only worst voice actors 
 i've heard were in Gothic 2. Oblivion's voice acting come across as professional and engaging compared 
 to this. And unfortuantely, while sometimes funny in it's lameness, it doesnt reach the sometimes 
 hilarious heights of the Gothic 2 voices (i'd compare it to the more recent gothic 3 but havent 
 played that and probably won't now) . At one two or three points in gothic 2, get this, the person 
 reading the main character's lines would actually COMMENT on the lines he was reading. No joke. 
 Like once he corrected a word saying this sounded more appropriate. And another time said he didnt 
 even know what a specific word meant.
  
  Like Gothic 2 also, i hated the game the first 30 mins or so. The difficulty is steep in the beginning. 
 Which is ALSO true with the gothic series (germans like punishment?) . You'll constantly be outnumbered 
 by a lot and in the first few hours if you dare venture into caves or farther on the map than you 
 should, you'll encounter a myriad of enemies who will kill you in a single (well, ok, sometimes 
 two) strike. Enemies aren't conveniently levelled to suit your progression like in Oblivion (which 
 is you know, more logical this way) . But after a few hours you'll be strong enough that eventually 
 you'll only seldom meet enemies you can't easily stand up to.
  
  The fighting system is rather limited, it's mainly about hitting as fast as you can while hoping 
 the enemy doesnt get the time to hit back or misses. But at least your character does combos and 
 even has nice fancy anims when you draw or put away your weapon and there are skills you can learn 
 and use during combat but overall these aren't terribly interesting and really you can get by just 
 as well frantically hitting the hit button. You can only play first person when your weapon is 
 not drawn, which i find annoying, but at least the third person view has better anims and plays 
 better than the awful Elder Scrolls series 3rd person (which i only ever used to check out how 
 cool my character looked) . You can bow fight but you can't move while shooting making it only good 
 at the start of a fight, when an enemy is coming at you.
  
  The horse riding while on paper sounds good (you can fight on your horse) is actually the worst 
 horseriding ever seen in a game to date (for good horseriding see Shadow of the collossus, and 
 for awesome horseback fighting see Mount &amp; Blade) . Basically being on a horse slows everything 
 down rather than speeding everything up. Because your horse constantly gets stuck in the scenery 
 or worse, struggles to climb up even the most ridiculous of hills. Which is you know, an issue 
 when about 70% of the map IS hills. Sometimes you'll get stuck for apparently no reason and you 
 won't even be able to turn and all you can do is go back... if you even can. Still you will get 
 used to it eventually (even if you'll still hate it) and get used to recognizing where your horse 
 will or will not go and because the gameworld is so big, you pretty much need the horse anyway. 
 It can also carry a lot of equipment which makes it a requisite cause you'll want to sell loot 
 for money. Otherwise though, you can use teleporters.
  
  The graphics are not on par with oblivion although they are pretty good. The draw distance is farther 
 (and with a nice blurry out of focus effect for everything that's farther away) but you'll not 
 always get to notice because the day-night cycle is too short and it's too often night or foggy. 
 The magic system is serviceable while uninspired. The alchemy system is much better however. And 
 close or as good as the one found in oblivion. You can make potions that will permanently improve 
 your stats. By a lot. So a good tip: max out your alchemy skill as soon as possible.
  
  The character costumization is mainly where it's at. Except for the fact that while you can customize 
 your face before starting, no matter what you do you'll look very much the same because its mostly 
 about changing the size of your facial features and not what they really look like. You're stuck 
 with one face texture. There's a lot of skills to mess with and some sound pretty cool, most affect 
 combat though. There's sneak, pickpocketing and lockpicking but they seem to be put in as an afterthought 
 more than anything. You barely ever get an opportunity to pickpocket and most of the times ive 
 tried sneaking while lockpicking i still got busted. If you're not happy with how you've been distributing 
 your skills or attributes points after a while, in some towns you can pay specific NPC's that will 
 get you to unlearn for a minimal fee which basically means some of your attributes and skills points 
 will be removed so you can redistribute them elsewhere. If you're rich enough you can actually 
 unlearn until your attributes and skills are all at 0 and redistribute everything.
  
  You can chose to favor skills in the wizard/mage category but you're better off being a fighter 
 AND magic user. In fact i can't see any advantages in not wearing a full armor since it doesn't 
 affect your magic anyway. There's a lot of armors and weapons to be found though and that's by 
 far the best part of customization. There's in fact so many armors that after just only an hour 
 in I probably had changed my outfit about 10 times. It makes the Oblivion designers appear really 
 lazy when it comes to weapons and armors. Tons and tons of them and a lot cooler looking than most 
 of what can be found in Oblivion. And in very nice touch, they seem to have made most pieces of 
 armor more or less fit with one another. What i mean is you'll rarely have to chose a piece of 
 armor based more on it's aestethics than defensive values as unlike morrowind or oblivion, you'll 
 never feel like, for example, your greaves are completely mismatched with your armor or boots (but 
 maybe im the only rpg gamer metrosexualish enough to care about such things) . Also, once you get 
 the dual wielding skill well... you can dual wield (duh) . Which is, you know, cool although most 
 big (and hence good) armors won't let you dual wield anyway.
  
  Something that doesn't make much sense but is rather cool else, if you find the exact same piece 
 of armor or weapon, you can combine them and it becomes more powerful. It levels up. So it's often 
 a good idea to keep decent armor or weapons even if you have better ones because you might get 
 to level those up. And it prevents the game from being just about always looking for the better 
 piece of armor or weapon and ditching the ones you were using because if you level a slightly inferior 
 one enough, you might get it to become really powerful. This levelling system works with magic 
 too. If you buy the same magic twice, its two times more powerful. You can also sorta enchant weapons 
 with stones that will either give your weapon extra lightning, fire, cold, spirit or poison damage. 
 But you can only use one kind of enchantment per weapon.
  
  There's lot of side-quests and the gameworld mythos is decently fleshed out (not anywhere near 
 the elder scrolls series but you know...) although at first you either can't understand much of 
 what's going on or can't seem to care that much. As with every fantasy game, the story and universe 
 always has a pretty strong feel of been there, done that . Overall, even if flawed, it's still 
 a really fun and engaging game. While waiting for Elder Scrolls V anyway. Which is probably a long 
 way off. RPG of the year for sure, at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodmcintye
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this one with baited breath and open wallet. Paid the premium New Release price. Got 
 it home, ripped it open in a frenzy of frenzied-ness.
  
  And thus the problems began. Zuxxes, Zaxxos, Zixxes, whatever. Not happy. I am in little NZ, so 
 after install I got a message This game will not run in your region, contact Legal@Zuxxes. com or 
 something like that.
  
  LEGAL ! OMG !! Anyhoo, had to change the region on my PC to even make it work.
  
  Then it began. 
 I soooooo desperately wanted to love it. But the voice acting !! Uuurrrggg. It hurts's, it burns 
 us !
  
  Yes, very beautiful to look at, and move around in. But, bleh, its wierdness, aweful voice acting 
 and vastly underwhelming story line just left me coooooold.
  
  Really, it kind of felt like an Oblivion clone done by three hugely talented 14 year olds. They 
 will do great work when they get a bit older. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely meant to be a clone of Morrowind. Well, maybe it's just the way the rpg 
 genre has gone. There haven't really been many released (remember games like Might and Magic where 
 you controlled an entire party and combat was turned based) . Since Morrowind, which I played out, 
 your only options are MMORPG's or Diablo clones. The latter I find very impersonal and not very 
 customizable. The former are a larger investment and there are lots of potential problems or things 
 that can go wrong there, too. Anyway, the limited RPG market made me hopeful. Unfortunately, the 
 game is not very good. I think the idea was good, but the mechanics are very lacking. Combat is 
 frustrating: you move very slowly, often miss, can't back up very well, and skills are dificult 
 to use and ineffective. Archery is pretty worthless, since it does little damage and you can't 
 move and shoot. Magic is also difficult and requires high level. Other skills also seem pretty 
 worthless, since monsters attack in groups and your only real strategy is to hack away and hope 
 you hit. Graphics are not great. Even though I have the draw distance set to the max, the terrain 
 is barren beyond about 20 feet. Voice over is awful, as usual with games anymore (excluding Bioshock 
 and World in Conflict [the one with Alec Baldwin, I think] ) .
  
  The default hotbar is not customizable, which is a pain. Stuff like that is emblematic of the ineffectual 
 mechanics in this game. Maybe I'll see if it gets better with time/practice, but I doubt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-1024
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I've played many RPG's in my lifetime but very few have had me completely addicted to it. The last 
 one that comes to mind would be Diablo II Lord of Destruction. D2 had me coming back for more almost 
 every day for several years. It was the constant gear chase.
  
  Two Worlds continues that tradition and has me coming back for more and more and more. Everytime 
 that I pop into town Im off to the vendors to do some serious shopping to get that next great item 
 or to find a duplicate item to what I already have to stack it.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are solid in Two Worlds. The environment is aboslutely stunning. The dynamic weather is 
 done up to the 9's. You can quit playing the game one day where you have parked your character 
 at the top of a mountaintop in a quaint village and it will be all sunshine and you can see for 
 miles and miles. The next time that you load up the game you may find that it is overcast, foggy 
 and raining down cats and dogs. The lightening flashes are done so well as are the thunderclaps. 
 The environment and dynamic weather really add to the overall immersion factor in the game.
  
  The actual landscape abounds with details. Masses of different types of grasses are all drawn 
 out in front of you for what seems like eternity. Pine trees that are swaying in the breeze allow 
 you to see the finer details such as the individual pine needles on the branches.
  
  Of course there are some oddities with the graphics, for example if you look at the top of trees 
 you'll note that many trees have a very odd branch sticking out at an angle, but really, how many 
 times do you plan on craining your characters neck to look at the top of the trees? Another oddity 
 you will likely to find would be that you may be in an area where it is all foggy and you walk 
 into a building and find that the fog is also inside the building. This would make perfect sence 
 if the building was in extreme disrepair and had holes in the walls and was missing part of it's 
 roof, but this is not the case, its more the case that the games weather can not recognize that 
 walls and roofs are to keep the weather out.
  
  The colors in the game are quite subdued and border more on reality than on fantasy and the textures 
 used for the players armor is done exquisetely well. I highly suggest armor set #345 The Hero's 
 white armor as it is highly detailed when viewed up close with scroll marks carved into the breast 
 plate. Chain mail looks like chain mail, plate armor has a certain reflection that when viewed 
 in face to face dialogue events you might catch a tree reflecting in the armor. The game abounds 
 with little details like this everywhere for the gamer to discover.
  
  Character animation is done extremely well and looks actually quite natural. The only oddity is 
 when your character is standing at idle with his weapon drawn, he appears to stand at a rather 
 odd angle and you might think that he's trying to pinch off one in his suit of amor. Other than 
 this, both the character model and the animations are top knotch.
  
  Gameplay
  The game does suffer from what I term Easyitis. Even on the medium difficulty you will find that 
 the game gets progressively easier as you continue instead of getting harder. Thankfully the developers 
 have released their SDK and people are cranking out mods for the game. One particular mod is called 
 The New World 1.5 that supposedly raises the difficulty of the mobs that you encounter by aproximately 
 400%. This is just what is needed to top off the vast encounters that you will come upon in the 
 huge world of Antaloor.
  
  You may find yourself combating Ogres, Cyclops's, wolves, bears, boars, Younger Groms, older groms, 
 necromancers, wyverns, dragons, skeletons and a host of other creatures. All of which in my opinion 
 have been meshed and animated beautifully.
  
  Attacking has not been dumbed down to the point of click once and hold to continue attacking, so 
 be prepared to for a twitchy cick fest. You will need to click or double click to activate each 
 swing of your weapon. You will also be making extensive use of either your right click to shoot 
 out a spell or throw yourself a healing spell. It all depends on how you setup the hotkeys and 
 what spells you place into the hotbar. Speaking of which, there are a total of 4 hotbars in total 
 in the game, of which you can use 3 of them. The F7 through F10 keys will activate your hotbars. 
 The F7 hotbar is game controlled so you will not be able to add anything to that hotbar, but you 
 still have 3 more hotbars to utilize offering you up to 30 slots to place things such as healing 
 potions, spells, mana potions or simply place your personal portal stone.
  
  Much like Diablo II had the scrolls of recall, in Two Worlds they have given you up to 3 personal 
 portal stones that you must quest to be able to get them. Once you own them you can recall youself 
 using your personal portal stone to any portal in Antaloor. This greatly reduces the amount of 
 time that you would normally spend running for great distances that many MMORPG's have you doing. 
 If your inventory is full, simply place your portal stone on the ground and activate it to quickly 
 get to a town where you can sell off your new found loot.
  
  They have included horses in the game but to be quite honest, horses are not one of Two Worlds 
 strong points. You may find it quite likely that you will park any horses that you find next to 
 a portal in a town and use it for nothing more than one of your personal storage containers.
  
  Npc's abound in the game, you may visit such cities as Cathalon with a vast amount of Npc's 
 wandering the streets or the large number of different vendors that are willing to sell you gear. 
 The higher your rating with the Npc's faction the cheaper the price. And while you may not become 
 all lovey dovey with All of the factions in the game, it is pretty much assured that you will be 
 at the highest rating with at least one faction which will offer you steep discounts on their goods.
 
  
  You can approach the gameplay in two ways, either as the type of person that enjoys doing the fancy 
 footwork with their character and will jump back and sidestep the damage meted out by the enemy, 
 or you can approach it with the brute force method and attempt to just beat the tar out of the 
 enemy. It's entirely up to you, and both methods work equally well. I use the aproach of standing 
 toe to toe with my enemy and continue to beat the living daylights out of them until they are defeated.
 
  
  The dropped loot is not exactly Two Worlds strong point either. Rarely have I seen dropped loot 
 that is equal to vendor bought loot, but with games such as Diablo II, where you were constantly 
 killing to find the best gear, in Two Worlds you will be constantly killing so that you can afford 
 to buy the best of gear and there is plenty of it to be found on the vast amount of vendors in 
 the game.
  
  Features
  The game offers some novel features two of which I shall touch on here. One is the alchemy system. 
 It's quite refreshing to be able to create my own health and mana potions or to tansform some earthy 
 minerals into gems that can be applied to the weapons in the game, or create your own traps to 
 subdue the enemy while you can stay at a good distance away out of harms way beating them down 
 with your magic spells or using your bow and arrow. The alchemy sytem is quite epic in and of itself.
 
  
  The other nice features is the stacking of gear. You can virtually continue stacking any form of 
 armor or wapons in the game for as long as you like, which is one of the problems that makes the 
 game so easy. But if you have any self restraint then you should be able to say, enough is enough 
 and stop stacking your weapons or amor at an appropriate level where the game will still maintain 
 somewhat of a challenge for you. But how cool is it to go to a vendor one day and see that he is 
 selling an identical chest piece of armor, you purchase it for a couple thousand gold and can then 
 meld it with your existing armor to make your armor even stronger. You may find things like quivers 
 of arrows that offer you so much more than just damage when fired. For example you may find some 
 quivers of arrows that offer you lightening protection or extra points to your mana. Quivers like 
 armor and other weapons can also be stacked as can rings that your character wears on his finger. 
 Stacking is probably one of the best features in the game which is why I have mentioned it, as 
 long as you use it in moderation and with self restraint to avoid overpowering your character.
 
  
  Magic system and classless sytem
  The magic system is comprised of multiple schools of magic. You have fire, earth, water, air and 
 necromancy to do with as you will. You can concentrate on one school or you can mix and match to 
 your hearts content. There is a total of 72 spells that you can use in the game. But you will need 
 to continually put your skill points that you gain from leveling up as well as completing certain 
 quests in the game into the schools of magic to gain access to better spells in each school.
  
  Do you wish to play a pure fire mage, or a battlemage? A necromancer or a warrior? How about 
 a little bit of this and a little bit of that? All is possible in the open ended classless system 
 that they have provided you. Go ahead and mix and match the spells from different schools of magic, 
 or stick to just one school and become the uber fire mage that you have always wanted to be. It's 
 up to you to decide how you will form and mold your character. It's substantially less of a challenge 
 if you create a warrior that is in the heat of every battle standing toe to toe with the enemy 
 if you allow him to use the fireball spell, but try out a pure mage that is only allowed to wear 
 cloth robes, and no leather and can only utilize a dagger or stave. Now you've substantially increased 
 the difficulty of the game. No leather or metal helms, gloves or boots. Only a flimsy cotton cloth 
 robe to protect you, combined with a summoned creature or two. It's entirely up to you to decide 
 how you wish to play it.
  
  If you wish to roleplay a thief, you can do that too. So many little things that people often overlook 
 in this game are those that are so subtle and enjoyable once you find them.
  
  Sound and Music
  Neither voice overs nor music is exactly the strongest feature of Two Worlds, 
 however some of the music is absolutely a delight to listen to. The main menu music is one of the 
 best in the game. The voice overs are okay, they are not great, and they are not terrible as some 
 reviews have intimated. The one unfortunate voice over that is the worst happens to be your main 
 character. He is quite monotone and seems rather lifeless. But many of the NPC's in the world (with 
 the exception of vendors and a few random Npc's) have some great inflection in their voices. You 
 may also find through exploration that you will come upon a few Npc's that have a story to tell 
 you about Antaloor. They are not there to give you a quest, but rather to flesh out the story of 
 the land. This is a nice touch and something that many reviewers completely overlooked in their 
 reviews.
  
  The sounds of fighting are done very well as are the little things like footsteps as you run along 
 kicking up dust at your heels. Horses sound rather like the Monty Python movie where they use coconut 
 shells to simulate horses running along. But as I have mentioned, horses are not a strong point 
 in Two Worlds. Perhaps they will get better in a future patch but that is pure speculation.
  
  Bugs and other ugliness in Two Worlds:
  Don't be mistaken by what you read, the PC version 
 of the game is substantially better done in both singleplayer as well as multiplayer. While some 
 people who play the game on the Xbox 360 suffer extreme framerate stealing lag, the PC version 
 of the game is not so. The singleplayer game plays as smooth as silk on a good computer with mid 
 range double digit frames per second. When all of the details are turned up as high as they possibly 
 can go, Im still getting over 30fps. And that's with all details turned up to the maximum where 
 you will see vast fields of different grasses, and the shadows of trees dancing on the ground. 
 Textures that easily rival many other RPG's of recent years and often surpass them.
  
  But there are known issues that have been addressed in the 1.6 patch which is due out shortly. 
 Such as extreme lag caused by griefers who do nothing but plague the multiplayer community by joining 
 gaming sessions to do nothing but spawn kill the other people in the session. They apparently have 
 been running some sort of exploit that allows them to lag everybody else in the session extremely 
 hard where they cant even take one step. Once you die and the player killer is out of view the 
 lag is completely gone. Once they return into your view the lag hits you again. I believe that 
 1.6 patch has addressed this.
  
  The horses are to me one of the worst of the uglies in Two Worlds, with absolutely no AI brain 
 power. You will likely find that your horse will continue running straight off of a road and through 
 the bushes, instead of following the path that you are clearly on. I assure you coming from someone 
 that has ridden horses for over 36 years, real life horses will follow a road that you are on with 
 minimal human intervention.
  
  Multiplayer
  Unlike the game that so many people are fond of comparing Two Worlds to, this one does have multiplayer 
 game for you. But be prepared that you will only have access to play through the internet servers 
 and NOT on a home LAN.
  
  Currently the multiplayer part of the game is seriously flawed with dupers, and exploiters that 
 are using mechanisms to lag out their fellow gamers. But if you play with your own friends and 
 lock your gaming session you'll find it to be quite a fun experience. You wil however find it to 
 be even more fun once the 1.6 patch has been released that will offer you the ability for your 
 entire party (up to 8 people) to gain experience for the kills and quests that you peform. Currently 
 it's the first person to complete the quest that gets the credit for it.
  
  Multiplayer consits much like Guild Wars, where you choose which town to start out your adventures 
 with up to 50 other players, but then you either create your own gaming session or you join somebody 
 elses and then go out adventuring into the vast world of Antaloor which has been broken down into 
 several individual maps due to memory constraints and you will find that you need to unlock the 
 next map by completing aproximately 3 quests in each map. After you have unlocked all the maps, 
 you can choose which one to play on as you like.
  
  There is PVP in the game as well in the arenas, so if thats what you like, then you've got that 
 too. I believe that the game does still need some major tweaking to the multiplayer aspect of the 
 game but also believe that with the 1.6 patch soon to be released it will be greatly improved and 
 can only be improved more by the devoted developer house through even more patches.
  
  Im not a PVP player so I really can't comment on that aspect of the game, but I will say that when 
 5 of my online buddies got together to have a go at multiplayer we found it to be quite enjoyable, 
 as well as substantially more difficult than the singleplayer game which was a welcome change.
 
  
  Your characters are stored on the server so you will not be able to bring your singleplayer character 
 into the multiplayer enviornment which is both good and bad. Obviously many people put a lot of 
 time into their singleplayer character and would enjoy using it online, but there are also those 
 that will use all sorts of tricks and exploits to overly buff their character to where there is 
 no longer a level playing field. Think back to how enjoyable Diablo II's close battlenet was compared 
 to it's open battlenet and you'll have an idea what I mean. Sure open battlenet was fun for a while 
 for me, but when people brought on their hacked characters it turned into a right mess of a game. 
 And I spent the remainder of my time playing the closed battlenet. Much like when I am completely 
 done with singleplayer after what I will guess to be several hundreds of hours (since I enjoy trying 
 out different types of character builds) I will then migrate over to the RPG side of multiplayer 
 and play with my known friends as well as any new friends that I may encounter in the game.
  
  Beware the griefers though until version 1.6 is released because they do exist in the game 
 for no other fun but to spawn kill you as you enter into a RPG session which has been addressed 
 in the 1.6 patch to where friendly fire is no longer usable in the RPG portion of the multiplayer 
 game.
  
  Conclusion
  Overall, you'll be hard pressed to find a game that can offer you the amount of hours that you 
 can put into Two Worlds. But it's how you want to play it. If you are the type of player that has 
 the desire to explore almost every nook and cranny in the world, then you may find that each character 
 that you create may end up with well over 100 hours of playtime on them. On the other hand, if 
 you wish to rush through the game, you can complete the main quest line in as little as 12 hours. 
 But it's entirely up to you and how you wish to play. There are over 150 side quests in the game 
 for you to try to complete, many players that rush through the game in under 20 hours have completed 
 no more than 25 to 50 quests which is not what RPG's are all about. Perhaps there is another genre 
 of game for this type of player but RPG's is not it.
  
  If they had offered horses in a better fashion, this title would have earned a 10 for me, sure 
 it has it's problems, but overall it's been an extremely enjoyable RPG to play on the PC with beautiful 
 environments to explore, a good diversity of mobs to kill, plenty of shopping to get the best gear 
 you can have and so so much more.
  
  Bottom line is, if you wish to find fault with the game, you will likely do so. If you wish to 
 enjoy the game then you will likely enjoy the environment, the combat, the magic system and so 
 much more. It's entirely up to you to make the kind of character you wish to make in the classles 
 system that they have provided us. If you wish to do nothing for an hour but stand ontop of a mountain 
 overlooking the valleys far far below you while the trees around you sway in the breeze you ca 
 do so. If you wish to kill every NPC in town and thus alienate yourself, you can do that too. Theres 
 so much to do in the game that i't's often mind boggling. And if you wish to run through the game 
 concentrating on only completing the main storyline quest in less than 12 hours, or you wish to 
 explore everything and spend over a hundred hours in the game world, it's entire up to you, you 
 will get out of the game what you are willing to put into it.
  
  Game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-box-player
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Well at first Two worlds can be seen as an unbelievably frastrating game as the map system is terrible 
 and pretty much everything else is hard to get the hang of. Of course eventually you do learn everything 
 and the game feels like 2nd sense to you. The online though is the biggest letdown which is actually 
 a big problem because alot of people got this game just to play online with their friends. It is 
 extremely laggy, the framerate is terrible and the quests are annoyingly repetitive. The funnest 
 thing on it is just leveling up and ganging up on cool monsters with your friends to try and take 
 them down. The storyline is very fun to play through though. there are multiple endings to it that 
 you influence with your choices and theres a cool boss battle at the end with the grand enemy. 
 Also ofcourse one of the strongest elements of the game is the enormous and variated map. This 
 makes exploring unbelievably fun and you can spend hours just doing that. The basic thing is that 
 if you truly like rpg elements and you are patient you should definitely get this game but if you 
 like getting straight into the fun with games and you dont look past little things like framerate 
 then you might wanna rent it first before spending your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persiankurosh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Two worlds is a good game but not great. The game starts with an awful demo that shows that someone 
 kidnapped a mercenarys sister and you are the mercenary. Just let me to skip this, because the 
 story has no depth and meaning if you have been played Oblivion. I think developers just want a 
 story that players follow that but they put two endings (a bad and a good) to show that their story 
 have something teach.
  Graphically, the game can not compete with greatness of Bethesdas role-playing game that it is 
 again Oblivion. I do not mean its graphic is bad. It is just tolerable. Texture is alright and 
 landscapes are great but water is not as realistic as in Oblivion. Spells look fine when they are 
 casted but Fire does not look good.
  The character has been modeled nice. For example if you run and jump from a height you will land 
 with bending knees. Your enemys animation, especially monsters arent so realistic. This will 
 be more reveal in fighting. When you hit them they just show a poor reaction.
  Fighting system is neither dynamic nor realistic. Just think about the movements with weapons. 
 They are just fantasy you can never kill a troll with these kinds of movements in real world. AI 
 is a disaster your enemies just want to kill you they do not escape and they dont want to kill 
 you from back. They just head toward you. There are just archers that if you get too near to them 
 they escape to shoot you from another place.
  Riding is more realistic than Oblivion it take time to increase your horses speed and you can 
 also fight when you are riding. It would be a great succeed if collision detection wasnt so sensitive. 
 If you ran into a ground with a high gradient (you can pass this place with out horse) , your horse 
 will stop.
  There is a problem that if it wasnt, it could make the game sweeter. You cant use teleport when 
 you are riding. It is a great mishap to lose your horse especially when you are at the beginning.
 
  The gameplay is easy and simple and is good for beginners. There is again a problem you dont 
 know the skills. You should find trainers and pay money to learn a skill. In real I think we can 
 all sneak or pick pockets. It could be better if the level up by practice like Oblivion.
  Alchemy is good. I didnt use it a lot but it was nice. You could find ingredients to make your 
 weapons more powerful by mixing them.
  At last I want to mention the biggest problem that is the ending. At the end there is no way to 
 continue, I it really ends. You cant follow other task. It is really a great mistake for an RPG.
 
  On the whole, the game worth playing but Do not expect Oblivion. It is much lesser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds could not have been more aptly named, as it is the software incarnation of bipolar disorder. 
 Every time something cool happens, something not so cool will offset it.
  
  Graphically, the game looks like a mediocre melding of Oblivion and Gothic 3. Landscapes can be 
 breathtaking, though the amount of plant life crammed into areas just looks downright messy at 
 times. Trees look realistic at a distance but are a bit funny up close. Water regions are tolerable, 
 though the textures are not up to modern standards and, as far as I can tell, are limited to the 
 surface only (i. e. no diving) . Characters look fine during regular gameplay, but conversations 
 result in a zoomed-in cutscene-ish view that makes the artwork look like it was done ten years 
 ago. The spell effects are very nice, but the blood effects are terrible.
  
  The game's animations are also on the fence. For example, if you jump from a certain height with 
 a running start, your character will engage in a beautiful full-motion leap, landing solidly and 
 bending his knees before returning to an upright position. However, if you don't have sufficient 
 height or attempt to jump while standing still, your guy will immediately and rather unnaturally 
 return to a standing position with no transition animation, almost like they forgot some frames. 
 WTF? It's quite ugly.
  
  From a performance perspective, I have had no problems with the game, and I'm running at widescreen 
 resolution. If nothing else, hats off to the developer for at least optimizing the engine, a luxury 
 I kept wishing for in Gothic 3 but never received.
  
  Audio ---- eh ... well, it's passable. Fighting sounds are generic. Magic sounds are ringy and 
 ambient. Fire sounds like fire. Nothing special, though there's nothing that necessarily detracts 
 from the immersion (except the lack of sound when you hit a wall or something) .
  
  The voice acting ranges from stellar to canned fantasy cheese. Fortunately, the cheese can usually 
 be overlooked, because some of it is actually funny (even when it's not meant to be) .
  
  What I find consistently annoying is the constant stream of actors with American accents speaking 
 in Middle English. For starters, the Middle English just sounds ridiculous, like the writers were 
 trying too hard to reinforce the fantasy setting; I don't think even British accents could have 
 saved the voices from this problem. Secondly, sans British accent as the voice work is, why force 
 something like Middle English on actors who clearly are not equipped to deliver it? I would much 
 rather hear Modern English delivered well than hear Middle English delivered poorly or with an 
 American accent.
  
  The gameplay itself is fairly straightforward: WASD to move, left-click and right-click to fight, 
 E to jump and Space to use items. And everything is assignable, of course. Great, right? Wrong. 
 Assigning skills and inventory items to hot-keys is a pain in the butt. There is no key for walking 
 or sprinting. You can sneak for stealth, but this is hardly an efficient or realistic way of taking 
 a stroll.
  
  Like Oblivion, Two Worlds features horses that the player can ride, and there's the added bonus 
 of being able to fight on horseback. Great again, right? Wrong again. Horses are nearly impossible 
 to control. And when I say impossible to control, I mean don't bother. If you don't heed my warning 
 here, you will soon find yourself utilizing four-letter words as your animal wildly runs off the 
 road, into the open wilderness, through hapless groups of enemies waiting to murder you, finally 
 coming to a halt once you are so far off course that you must use your map to see where your insane 
 animal has carried you. Seriously. It's that bad. It's even worse when you do what I did and waste 
 skill points on horseback fighting in eager anticipation before you have a horse, only to be devastated 
 to learn of the futility later on. My advice: stay on foot. And this is depressing, because horse 
 combat was sorely missing from Oblivion, and I had hoped Two Worlds might deliver. So much for 
 hope.
  
  Plot-wise, the game revolves around a mercenary (you) whose sister is kidnapped, and your main 
 task is to find her. As expected, there are numerous side-quests with various factions, which can 
 affect your reputation with the different groups. The map is pretty big, and there's an underground 
 region that effectively doubles its size, so you've got plenty of ground to explore if that's your 
 thing.
  
  Despite the retarded problems, Two Worlds runs well, has a lot of content to offer, and is mostly 
 fun to play. Though not the replacement for Oblivion it was hyped as, it's definitely less buggy 
 than Gothic 3 and is worth a try if you like computer-based RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockmore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I might have disagreed twice on a GS game review, and I'm not sure I can remember the last. I would 
 like to see Two Worlds pushed up to an 8, maybe an 8.2. At level 68 I can find no faults with all 
 of the rpg elements. If I had to complian it might be too easy, but if you just want to explore 
 and see what this world has to offer, it is nothing but fun. We complian a lot when a game comes 
 out unfinished, and this game is polished. I can sit down at any time and knock out two hours of 
 play. I regret that the 7.5 might keep some players away. I know Oblivion is good, but eventually 
 you just get lost in the plot and missions. This game stays clear from the start, and even thought 
 the main mission is easy, once done you realize you've only see 20% of the world. RPG's are few 
 and far between. I think this one deserves it's due. I think the makers of this game died when 
 they saw the 7.5. It deserves room on the shelf. I hope the score does not deter expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Sorry, but it just kind of happens when you've been playing Two Worlds as much as i have. The old 
 English just keeps flying off your tongue, and even though you realize how corny you sound - you 
 just can't help it. Yes, i picked it up from the in game voice actors; sure they can be a little 
 cheesy, but most of them put in a good effort regardless of how ridiculous they sound, and sure 
 a few of them just do an awful job, but at least every character's lines are voice acted, even 
 if i choose to skip through it.
  
  But i digress, i shouldn't have so promptly dove into reviewing parts of the game; i completely 
 skipped my customary intro paragraph! So, here it comes.
  
  Two Worlds is most often compared to games like Oblivion, Gothic 3, and Fable. This is probably 
 because of the overall look of the game, but in all honesty, and as other reviewers have pointed 
 out, the game play actually ends up feeling more like Diablo from a third person perspective instead 
 of the traditional action RPG isometric view. Honestly though, if you liked any of those games, 
 Two Worlds is certainly the kind of thing that would be up your alley. It may not be the very best 
 RPG of all time, but it's definitely one of the strongest entries this year for the genre.
  
  Let's start out with me pointing out some of my favorite features of the game.
  
  Graphically, 
 Two Worlds is a 4 out of 5 star title. The graphics are really on the same level as Oblivion's; 
 very good overall. The only real differences here are in the character models and animations. Animations 
 in Two Worlds are a little cheesy - instead of Oblivion's Havok engine based rag doll deaths, Two 
 Worlds uses the same static death animation for each kill. It's not something you notice too much, 
 except for when you kill some of the larger creatures several times in a row. As well, the lip-syncing 
 when you talk to NPCs is way off, probably because the original lip-syncs were designed for the 
 native language of the game. (German?) In general though, looking out at the environment and most 
 of the creatures contained in it is a breathtaking sight. Magic spells range from gorgeous effects 
 to completely plain, but there are plenty of animations for physical combat, and literally thousands 
 of different armors and weapons to equip, which will all change the look of your character. All 
 in all, very pleasing to the eyes.*
  
  In the area of sound, Two Worlds generally excels, with the only downside really being the aforementioned 
 ridiculous Olde Englishe style that most of the NPCs attempt to deliver. Most of them just come 
 off as sounding funny to me, but sometimes there are believable ones, and sometimes there are ones 
 that sound so cheesy i nearly break out in a hysterical laughter. Luckily, most of the major characters 
 have decent enough voice actors, so most of the conversations are bearable - and if they are not, 
 you can easily just read the text and skip through the audible delivery.
  
  When it comes to sound effects, i would say the game is generally right around average. There are 
 enough sounds to keep combat from sounding extremely repetitive, but there still isn't as much 
 variety as some games have. The generally quality of the effects tends to be good, the slicing 
 sounds make me believe someone just got cut, as do the bashing effects. Monsters generally only 
 have a few sounds that they trigger though, so in large fights you might hear the same squeals 
 over and over again.
  
  But in the sound department, where i think Two Worlds really shines is the music. Generally this 
 topic is of mixed opinions, as varied as some people saying it's the worst music, and some like 
 me saying its some of the best music, so perhaps your opinion will vary as well, but I just adore 
 the musical track in this game. The style of the music might be what made it so great in my opinion 
 - It's not just your typical fantasy music, it mixes fantasy, Gothic, mid-east, and even a little 
 metal and trance all into one truly unique blend. The title music is absolutely gorgeous in my 
 opinion, and the music that plays through the various parts of the world is great to set the mood, 
 and never becomes too repetitive, because there are plenty of areas to trigger new music with slightly 
 different styles.
  
  And now to the last, and probably most important of the features i was impressed with - the sheer 
 size of the game. The game world is easily twice that of Oblivion's. There are probably hundreds 
 of side quests to participate in, and lots of unique places to explore. While the main storyline 
 probably won't win any awards, it is at least different enough to hold your interest in it, and 
 the main story is fleshed out to seem even more real by the various side quests you can take and 
 NPCs you can talk to, who will generally reveal more details about the history of the world, which 
 eventually makes the world feel just as real as any before it, just as much as any Elder Scrolls 
 game, and that is certainly something to be proud of. Two Worlds is an epic title, and can keep 
 you busy for a very long time.
  
  And now for the things that i wasn't so fond of.
  
  Long distance traveling. As i just stated, the game world is huge. The only way to travel long 
 distances really comes down to teleporters that are spread throughout the world, that are only 
 activated after you have visited them once. Now, that really isn't a huge problem, because once 
 you've been somewhere with a teleporter it's fairly easy to return to - but sometimes they can 
 be hidden because of time of day or just placed in an obscure place, and you waste lots of time 
 running back and forth when you could have just teleported. Now, that really wouldn't be too huge 
 of a problem - in fact it's fairly minimal, if it weren't for the inclusion of horses. Yup, thats 
 right - horses made the cut, and this time, you can fight while you ride! Unfortunately, they are 
 nearly impossible to control. If you're not on a nearly flat straight chunk of path, they just 
 stop dead in their tracks. Essentially, unless the developers issue a patch to correct horse problems, 
 they are useless. Now combine the lack of horses with the very wide open game world, and you will 
 be taking some VERY long trips, that really should not have been so long if the horses worked correctly. 
 Well, at least you can still use those teleporters!
  
  The combat system is a little brain dead, and over-challenging at the same time. Even on easy, 
 the game is insanely difficult. This too should be addressed in a future patch, because some creatures 
 just deal way too much damage and tend to always engage you as a mob which can make combat extremely 
 difficult. And when your fighting creatures you can actually handle, the only real options you 
 have are swing and dodge, or use magic. It's really similar to the Oblivion swing and block system, 
 but a little simplified because you can't vary your attacks - but you can, however, adjust the 
 direction of your swing on the fly. Basically the combat system isn't too horrible, its just that 
 with the difficulty of the monsters it can become too repetitive. Diablo and Titan Quest click-fest 
 lovers will probably have fun with the combat, but if you liked Oblivion's combat, you'll be a 
 bit disappointed.
  
  All in all, i think Two Worlds is an excellent game. There are a few aggravating features, but 
 in general it comes off as an excellent game, and any RPG fan would do well to pick it up. In general, 
 all the parts of this game come together very well and make a great game. A game that could have 
 been excellent - even GOTY worthy, had it only received a little extra polishing and patching before 
 it was released.
  
  My addendum to an earlier paragraph:
  * [Additionally, computers that could barely run oblivion are ending up able to play Two Worlds 
 at fairly high settings - even though the graphics are similar, there seems to be considerably 
 less work on the CPU and a bit less for the video card, which is quite impressive - if you had 
 a computer that could run Oblivion on high settings, you can easily modify Two Worlds to nearly 
 double the maximum view distance allowed by default and still not experience any slowdowns.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trafalet
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  The game is not bad at all. It could have been great but because of the bugs is just good. The 
 graphics are splendid and I don't find the Ageia Physics so awful like others do. But the music 
 is too repetitive and the dialogues totally uninspired. Is not a disappointment, at least not for 
 me, but it seems like Reality Pump lost their enthusiasm in finishing the game. The story is inspired 
 from games like Gothic or The Elder Scrolls therefore is not too original, and a little boring. The 
 combination of Gothic and Diablo has some good parts: the level up is fast probably because the 
 gameplay is concentrated on hack and slash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokiddjr
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  At the core this game had a chance to be a classic. The outdoor environments are easily as good 
 as Oblivion's and the character models are better. The game just lacks polish and the main issues 
 still have not been fixed in patch 1.5.
  
  The map is huge and there is a lot to explore. There are so many areas to discover outside of the 
 main quests and towns. Whats better is the engine draws far and clear enough that you can distinguish 
 landmarks (towers, houses, graveyards...) well before they show up on your mini-map.
  
  Unfortunately, the game's cut-scenes are terribly painful to watch. The graphics quality of cut-scenes 
 should be at least as good as game-play. Normally these are rewards for getting past milestones 
 in the games, but in Two Worlds it feels more like punishment.
  
  Mounted riding is in someways more realistic than other RPGs (i. e. Oblivion) . The horse takes time 
 to accelerate, decelerate and turn. You can use the steeds saddle bags to store your loot and can 
 also fight while mounted. However, the collision detection for the horse is way too sensitive. 
 You almost have to slow to a crawl to walk through somewhat narrow openings (Town gates, around 
 boulders....) . Mr Ed. will just veer off to the left or the right when he would easily make it 
 past the obstacle. It would also be nice if you could take your ride through teleports, but I can 
 understand why it might not be as realistic. 
  
  The alchemy portion of the game was a great addition. Playing with the endless combinations of 
 ingredients to improve your character and equipment was a nice touch. Some combinations are so 
 powerful that it is really like a built in cheat. I wish they would add books to give you in-game 
 hints about different combinations.
  
  The fighting interface is not as dynamic as they claimed. The enemy AI is piss poor and you can 
 outrun any opponent in the game. Instead of manually controlled blocking, you could just jump out 
 of the way of attacks. Since all enemies give a clear indicator of when they will attack, fighting 
 is way too easy. Simply hack, slash, dodge, the hack some more. I was killing off Demons and Giants 
 at a very low level. The only real difference between adversaries was the damage they do when I 
 am lazy enough to get hit. The somewhat challenging fights I have are when there is a mix of archers 
 and melee foes.
  
  Like I said, at the core a great game which means overall it had a chance to be a classic. Unfortunately, 
 it fell short of its potential. They need to add more dynamic dialog, a better fighting interface, 
 a more visible impact on the world around you and some better movies before this game can be mentioned 
 with other epic RPGs.
  
  ************** ENDING SEMI-SPOILER*****************
  Its not really a spoiler in terms of story, but the ending to the game was terrible. No real explanation 
 of what you accomplished and what effect all your effort had on the world. I've tried ending the 
 game two ways (good and bad) and both are let downs. Worst of all, the game abruptly ends after 
 the main quest is finished (IMO this should never happen in RPGs) . The game should continue to 
 see how the world and NPCs change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadyJade
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The story of two worlds dates to an era when orcs and humans were at war for a long time. Aziral 
 the god of war, and the god of the orcs was slain in a great battle. The winners refused to surrender 
 Aziral's body to the orcs and trapped it in a divine seal that can only opened with an ancient 
 artifact.
  You are a mercenary riding with your sister when all the sudden you realize she's wounded and go 
 to search for herbs to heal her wound. When you get back you realise that your sister has been kidnapped 
 and there begins your main quest to free your sister Kira. The main storyline is short from my point 
 of view and i really got angry at the end of the game when you have like 2 choices: Either let 
 Aziral take over your sisters body or not. After that choice the game shows a short cinematic and 
 it ends. I was really expecting a longer game but i was really disappointed. No Aziral to fight against 
 or to fight for. The world could have been populated with even more quests because they're a little 
 few if you would ask me. The in-game sounds are nice but just nice. Graphics look pretty good and 
 i think it's the best thing in the game. You can even ride a horse in this game but i really urge 
 you not to do it. The horse control is the kind of thing that makes you slap your monitor cause 
 it's awful. I liked the armor models in the game and the weapons also. I can say about the fighting 
 system just that it's pretty simple one of the easiest i ever saw in a role playing game but it's 
 efficient despite that thing. May i also say that the game is unplayable without the 1.5 final 
 patch cause it has allot of bugs and conflicts with allot of video drivers. Despite being short 
 Two Worlds is a game worth playing because of the good graphics and engaging quests. I should ad 
 that by my point of view could have been much better if it wasn't so rushed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda024
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is really great, Only had it for about 6 hours now and I feel I made a good choice 
 on buying it. Hear is my little break down.
  
  1.] Graphics: These graphics are solid, great texture's and lighting. If you max it all out, including 
 resolution this is a beauty.
  
  2.] Sound: Now this isnt the games strong point. When you hit mobs with you sword it sounds like 
 your punching them in there face, Voice over work is good and timed well, I like the old english 
 tone. Music trys to set the mood but dosnt go well sometimes. Magic sounds nice though.
  
  3.] Gameplay: The hack and slash combat reminds me of dioblo, Thats a good thing, I love the free 
 motion swing, you can just move from difrent badies on the fly. Evry style of weapon has a diferent 
 combo. Magic is nice, You can only have 3 magic spells active at once kinda in a little deck layout, 
 You can change them just like you would in fable, just pause the game, change em, alas a new spell. 
 You can make your own potions elixer and give em a name and save the potion so you know how to 
 make it agian, Now thats awsome! Horse riding [ there had to be a bad part somwere] You will have 
 a hard time to get your horse to go were you want it to go, You will probobly do circles instead 
 of going through a gate like I did, But hey it beats walking. O yea you can make your own spells 
 buy dropping cards on each other and mix and match effects... FIRE ICE BOLT!! lol.
  
  4.] Value: What great value, You can go for hours on end not even touching a quest because the 
 world itself will keep you busy, you can join factions or guilds, do quest for them cheaper items 
 ect, This is a must buy for diablo fans or hack in slash rpg gammers, with a bigger world then 
 most .
  
  Well folks there you have it a game that should please any and evry type of rpg gammer out there... plz 
 dont listen to the haters ... I cant tell you why they say the game sucks... or the graphics are 
 bad, How about get a real computer and get off your E machine. or try plaing a game longer then 
 10 mins. Thx for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  There are some bugs in the game , I'm with the patch 1.5 and it still has bugs , thats pretty sh**y 
 , but at all the graphics are not so bad and I allsow don't like very much the sound system but 
 the story of the game is very nice , but a minus for this game is the horse riding - when you are 
 on a horse the movement keys becomes very ugly to use , but after all I like the game because of 
 the story and the good graphics . Anyway in the begining sometimes the game crashes don't know 
 really why 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bcrankshaw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game for about 14 hours and its excellent .Firstly lets discuss the Technical 
 aspect of the game. People lambaste the game because of Bugs .I loaded the large and latest 1.5 
 Patch and I havent had one crashthat is an amazing development considering all the hype I heard 
 about the perceived instability of the game .The graphics are breathtaking and the AI I found 
 very advanced .For example you can run away from powerful monsters and lead them to other creatures 
 who then starting killing each other its fun seeing your enemies tear into each other Now the 
 RPG aspect of the game .It really is better than Oblivion in some respects .The Alchemy skill lets 
 you experiment with any ingredients, you have a comprehensive variety of weapons and armour and 
 many ways to strengthen your attack and defence .They have an excellent way of enabling new skills... for 
 example to learn some schools of magic you need to find the appropriate trainer .Its rewarding 
 to be exploring some town or wilderness area and then meet some mysterious person who unlocks new 
 spells for you that up to now you could only read about There are hundreds of quests and sub quests 
 that let you explore the world, you can also choose a path of relative good or evil based on your 
 own moral view. The primary quest really keeps you captivated and your sister is really hot !!!
 
  I recommend this game to any lovers of traditional RPG .I predict this game to be one of the greatest 
 RPGs of 2007 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Picaso
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I've played Morrowind, Oblivion and Gothic 3 and this game rates right up there with Oblivion and 
 beats it in many ways. A lot of the reviews I read on Two Worlds had me worried, so I came into 
 this game expecting much less than I got.
  
  Number one, the graphics beat all the games mentioned above, Oblivion has great graphics but they 
 are cartoon like compared to two worlds. I can run the game with high settings on a fairly average 
 system, 1280x1024 AA1x with everything maxed. P4 3.0Ghz, 3 GB Ram, Nvidia 7800 GSOC, Windows XP.
 
  
  The fighting is really fun and I love the combo moves. Even Gothic 3 fighting was better than Morrowind 
 or Oblivion. The game just looks and feels more real than the others.
  
  I am totally overwellmed by the size of the game world, Its much bigger than Morrowind and probably 
 5 times the size of Oblivion if not more. Exploring is actually fun because there is so much out 
 there to find out in the wilderness and you really never know what you are going to run in to. 
 After nearly 40 hours I am still running into new things, try going to that Star shaped city way 
 down in the south or explore one of those wierd pointy towers off in the distance, these are some 
 of the creepiest things I have run into so far.
  
  The armor and weapons are totally awsome, there is much more selection and the detail is much better 
 than oblivion. I like having to work my way up to being able to use some of the better weapons 
 and armor.
  
  Some of these cities are absolutly huge and they are very realistic. Sizes of objects, buildings 
 and distances just feel right. I forgot the name but the huge city south of the gate looks exactally 
 like what you would expect a Roman city to look like 2,000 years ago. It's really cool to be able 
 to ride your horse right into the cities and towns and most of the cities and towns are varied 
 enough where they don't look so similar, better than oblivion, more like Morrowind.
  
  Loading times are short, the game runs great with above average settings on my fairly average system 
 except for when I get into the big cities.
  
  I've seen complaints on the horse riding, it is not as easy as oblivion but the controls and feeling 
 are more realistic. The only problems I have had are when the horse does not cooperate because 
 I try to turn him to quickly or ride him where he does not want to go, like down the side of the 
 cliff or when I try to turn into a gated area too quikly but horses will really do that. I alos 
 like being able to control the speed, Oblivion just offers walk run and stop. The ablility to fight 
 form horseback is also really fun, where as in oblivion you have to stop and get off your horse 
 to fight.
  
  One small gripe I have is that the caves and underground areas are very few and small, but then 
 again having huge complexes spralling for miles underground like Oblivion is not very realistic.
 
  
  Another gripe is no ablility to store things or have houses to display things like you can get 
 in oblivion. (Correction here) , I just learned that you can move into any house by killiong the 
 owner or find an abondon one, you can use the storage chests in the house and even store 500 lbs 
 worth of stuff on any of your horses.
  
  Another gripe I have is that you can't aim a bow, the targeting uses an automatic lock on type 
 system that doesn't always lock on right.
  
  Another gripe is that the voice audio cuts off the last few words during conversations.
  
  
 I would say that this is one of the best games of this type to date, and it may be a long time 
 before somthing better comes along. Whe I was off the trail exploring the other day I thought that 
 this game is what I was expecting the Age of Conan to be like. If it had a little more polish it 
 would have beat Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightowl224
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok, but the developer and publisher did something I never would have done, and that 
 is force the install of Ageia Physics just to run the game. This alone is garbage, no game or publisher 
 should force or has the right to force Ageia Physics just to install or play the game. I honestly 
 what is wrong with the developer and publisher for forcing Ageia Physics on people, that is totally 
 uncalled for.
  
  If Ageia Physics is not installed the game will not run, and will crash.
  
  I will be voting 
 with my pocketbook, and taking this junky game back to the store I bought it from within 3 freakin 
 days. Combat sucks, as does customizing weapons with jewels that do fire damage and jewels are 
 few and far in between.
  
  In the end, the publisher should make the developer go back, and recode the game without Ageia 
 Physics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jozabade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Only con I have with the game is I want more control over Character creation. Stats ,class and so 
 on.
  Pro- Unlike other games that show you pretty back grounds in this game you can go to any place 
 you see.
  I remember standing on top of a mountain and looking across a valley and seeing a giant tower. 
 I was wondering if it was a picture or could I go to it.
  Its was awsome all you see in this game you can go to it unlike those game where you see things 
 in a distance but they are not there when you get there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haseeb1122
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  game is cool only if there were no bugs in it and its not merly hard one oblivion was truly an 
 effort requiring game but this one only require a bow and arrows both upgraded to about class 20 
 and then no dragons to worry about not a dam monster can take more then two shots if used muliple 
 arrows same time although graphics were far better then oblivion but engine was not upto the mark 
 nothing more too say play and u see it ................  
 ....................... ................. ..................... ........  
 ..................... ............ ................... ......... ................. .................. 
 ...................... ........ ...... ......... .......... .......... ........... ........... 
 .... ...... ........................ .... .......... ................ .......... ............... 
 ................... .................... . ............. .............. ........................ 
 ................. ............... ......... ....... .......... ... ....... ........... ............. 
 ..... ........  ..................... 
 .................... ............. ................... ......................... ........... ......... 
 ................. ...................... ....... .................... ........... .................... 
 .................. ......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  First I gotta say this game does not have a tutorial. The intro is pretty damn bland as well, not 
 really telling you any of the controls, or features or anything from the get go it just throws 
 you into this massive world to fight it out. My first impression really had me lost, disappointed 
 at first and wanting to throw Oblivion back in. Well I didn't and actually very happy with the 
 purchase. I bet this is the most underrated game of the year already as its gotten some bad reviews.
 
  
  Let me start off on graphics, they're great, no it doesn't have all the newest technology to date, 
 but its definitely impressive on a higher end rig. I play with textures all the way up and anti 
 aliasing and its beautiful without being maxed out at 1024x768. Just ordered a new 640mb 8800gts 
 so I really can't wait to get my hands on it and boost the resolution. Sound is pretty damn good 
 compared to other games, nothing extraordinary but the environment sound effects are worth noting. 
 The acting is actually really good, and much better then Oblivions whole 5 different voices. People 
 talk and you actually care about what they say.
  
  Gameplay, now this is where it gets interesting. Theres a massive amount of things to do here, 
 and a very large world to do them in. Regarding Quests all I have to do is say WOW. There are some 
 boring quests some unique ones and some better then average ones. From what I've seen from the 
 unique ones, I'm still highly impressed, and I only discovered about 25% of the world so far. Combat 
 styles are some what boring with nearly the same combos for each weapon type (they are different 
 but repetitive) . However if your good you will have all types of weapons with you, a staff, a long 
 sword, a short axe maybe, and a big big hammer of some sort. The weapons are great, I've seen over 
 100 different weapons, all unique looking. For instance one of my best weapons in the begining 
 was a Table Leg broken off, boy did I smash some skulls with that. Add some lighting damage or 
 fire damage and man you level up fast. Basic combat can get boring and thats where the magic comes 
 in. Theres a ton of spells in this game, whether its basic shooting fireballs or summoning a Octragon (Devil 
 look alike) to do your fighting theres a massive amount of options, and I'm surprised gamespot 
 didn't dive deeper in to this. You can summon dozens of creatures to fight with you, cast hundreds 
 of different spells and switch through them easily by hitting the x key. As far as enemies go, 
 you'll battle it out with the best of them, whether its a regular Orc a few Wolves or a Giant Ogre 
 thats nearly ten times your size, the fun of exploring, and conquering is there. Theres massive 
 amount of potions to be created and you can tell the developers went into great lengths. Upgrading 
 your skills is a very nice part of the game along with upgrading your weapons which is very important. 
 It actually matters what you do and where you upgrade. One thing I noticed was Lockpicking skill 
 is extremely useful. I recommend upgrading your lockpicking skills so every chest you come across 
 can be opened with ease as thats is where I found the best items so far.
  
  The rpg elements are solid, and more impressive then Oblivions, in which you just put a couple 
 points here and there and noticed little to nothing. Here its necessary to upgrade your character 
 to your liking, if you want a heavy combat character, upgrade strength and strong hand so you can 
 wear the heavy armor you find, if you wanna use magic upgrade your willpower. WHERE IT FAILS TO 
 IMPRESS
  
  There are a few areas that needed heavy improvement. One being a tutorial, like I said it just 
 throws you in this massive world and tells you absolutely nothing. This is one game I actually 
 recommend you reading the user manual.
  
  Creating a character is very very limited. Theres actually really nothing good about it. I think 
 theres 4 different hair styles, a few eye colors, a few different skin colors but nothing really 
 impressive about it. They definitely could of done better here and it is a huge kick in the a** 
 for cusomization. This game is quite buggy. The 1.5 patch is slightly more then 1 gigabyte to download 
 but it fixes major issues, and improves graphics in a few areas which is surprising. There are 
 some stability problems still, I have a decent computer and notice FPS drops on recommended settings, 
 and even when i reduce recommended settings from turning anti aliasing off, cutting the view distance 
 in half, along with turning shadows off I still notice FPS drops. Another patch is in the works 
 so I'm not too worried.
  
  The main story isn't the best ever, its something different compared to most Save The World games, 
 the side quests are actually a ton of fun though and worth checking out.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone, but I also recommend you try it for a few hours and get used to 
 everything before you give up. When you die it quickly respawns you nearby unlike Oblivion where 
 you have to reload everytime, especially if you didnt save.
  
  I give it a 9, if it wasn't buggy and there was more character customization along with different 
 combat combo's it would get a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudguts
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  The game looks Great, but thats it, the voice acting is horibble, the game controls are poorly 
 laid out and the control is lacking. Oh and dont even bother trying to use the horse, it gets stuck 
 on just about everything.. It had a chance of being a great game, but only made it to So So . On 
 the plus side there is a great selection of armor and weapons, with a multitude of combinations, 
 also the alchemy, though difficult to understand lets you customise your set up just about any 
 way you like. From Fire based swords to poison seeping axes, you decide. The spell casting also 
 came upa litle short, while the spells look great, the targeting and effectiveness of some spells 
 if very disappointing.
  
  If you looking for a game with curb apeal, This ones got it. If you want a game with Substance, 
 forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds is another new gen rpg. When I say new gen I say, a lot of monsters, loot, a really 
 large map to explore and good gfx. But you wont find a solid story, a compelling adventure or an 
 intriguing atmosphere.
  There are no secret places with unique monsters or items to find.
  All is level scaled (I HATE THIS!!!) . So it's useless to explore remote areas looking for strange 
 things (I've reinstalled Might and Magic VII just to remember the joy of exploration)
  After some hour spent to roam the forests and the deserts looking for your next mission objective, 
 well, you'll finish to find the whole experience boring.
  - Graphic is good (good textures, environment, etc)
  - Animations are a little bit clumsy and 
 unnatural.
  - Sound effects tend to get repetitive.
  - Music is good.
  - Character development system is unbalanced.
  - Item stackablity could be better implemented 
 (could be a really strong point.... )
  But... I continue to see how the gameplay tends to become flat and empty.
  Ok, you can be looking 
 for a Diablo clone in 3d/first person..... well, the item stackability and huge number of weapons/armors 
 are a good point.
  But you wont find unique items, rare items, or set items. You can't forge new weapons and once 
 you enchanted an item it will be locked forever with the power you used on it (if you put a fire 
 stone on your sword, you are forced to enhance only the fire magic on the sword) .
  Worse. The game tends to get unbalanced when you start to brew potions. Your stats will rise over 
 the normally expected and you'll end to kill everything with a single blow.
  The interface is bad implemented with terrible inventory optimization.
  
  My advise. Wait for 
 a price drop and play something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxracing1313
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  Initially I ripped apart Two Worlds before deciding to play it until level 15 based on advice from 
 some of the forum members @ insidetwoworlds. com. Its a game that definitely grows on you and that 
 was summed up perfectly by the Gamespot review. Despite all that I still think it should have been 
 given a 6.5 by Gamespot because for once I think they were TOO generous and I will explain:
  
  Gamespot:
  1) Found the graphics to be very good
  2) Found the dialogue to be laughable 
 / entertaining
  3) Looked around many of the bugs in the game.
  
  In reality:
  1) Textures look straight out of PS2.
  2) The dialogue/voice acting is AWFUL, kills immersion 
 in game.
  3) Most people will NOT look around the numerous bugs.
  
  Basically what I'm trying to say is that if you like RPGs in general and/or can play the game without 
 being skeptical of everything and GIVE IT LONGER THAN 1 HOUR you will enjoy it immensely. I did 
 enjoy it more after playing 10+ hours but still not enough to give it a 7.5 because i did NOT find 
 the dialogue funny and I just can't overlook bad coding.
  
  6.5/10 is what I believe the game is.
  
  4/10 if your impatient/can't overlook flaws
  
 
  8/10 if you are forgiving/like well thought-out RPGs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds delivers a poor first impression. The combat seems very simplistic with only a single 
 combat animation per type of weapon. The interface feels awkward. The balance feels like it's not 
 there due to things like brewing potions that permanently increase your prime attributes. The frame 
 rate is quite choppy on anything but a relatively cutting-edge video card (though it is playable 
 at a low frame rate) . There's a hackneyed feel to the script thanks to the choice to insert occasional 
 Old English words arbitrarily into the dialog. Overall, it's not hard to see why many people played 
 Two Worlds for less than an hour before putting it down and uninstalling it from their system forever.
 
  
  That's a pity, because given some more time and experimentation, these people would have learned 
 that there's more to this game than initially meets the eye. The combat becomes less simplistic 
 once you pick up some abilities, learn the importance of dodging, or start getting into the magic 
 system with its staggering variety of 75ish customizable spells. The interface makes more sense 
 with practice and old fashioned RTFM. The balance is not broken, just very loose, with a nearly 
 unlimited level cap that allows you freedom to build an extremely powerful character (including 
 repicking old choices at the cost of gold) . The Old English dialog isn't a real big deal, and you've 
 the option of skipping any line with a simple right-click.
  
  Then there's all the nifty things you never would have encountered in the first few hours of the 
 game. Great sweeping tracts of land with cities, villages, and other outposts - not all of them 
 friendly - that have reasonably good detail up close and personal. An elaborate political system 
 of several factions. The use of traps and a fairly good stealth implementation. Even the overall 
 presentation of the artwork is endearing after you get used to it - this is a noticeably magical 
 world you wander.
  
  My main critiques of Two Worlds are mostly technical in nature. The low frame rate is not justified 
 given what is delivered, and this suggests the engine has less optimization than it could. I predict 
 I'd need at least a GeForce 8000 series card or equivalent to really play Two Worlds smoothly at 
 a high resolution (it's a good thing it's playable at a low frame rate) . Horse riding is a bit 
 of a pain, those pesky nags having tunnel vision even without blinders, often resulting in my having 
 to slow the horse to a stop to turn it the right direction or else getting off and calling it over 
 to where it needs to be. The quest markers are sometimes completely absent, making it difficult 
 to figure out where I need to be to finish them. Crimes are witnessed even when there's no one 
 around.
  
  Still, when taken as a sum of its whole, Two Worlds is a pretty rewarding experience. I may not 
 be riveted to it, but I am enjoying the single player campaign and look forward to giving the multi 
 player mode a shot after completing it. Two Worlds may have nothing on Oblivion, but Oblivion has 
 nothing on the Gothic-like charm to be found in Two Worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spraynprey
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I have played rpg games since the first Ultima release on a colecovision. I have not had this much 
 fun playing a RPG in about 15-20 years - since Ultima 7 or whichever that was many years ago.
 
  
  I do not know what the reviewer was talking about when he says this game is too hard. If I had 
 any complaints it would be it was not hard enough for medium settings and that there isnt enough 
 variety in mobs.
  
  I have died 5 times total and I am level 50. So, I have no idea what the reviewer on Gamespot is 
 talking about. He must have specced his toon in such a manner that he rendered it gimp.
  
  For those of you who enjoyed Oblvion this is a must play. For those of you who enjoyed the potential 
 of Oblivion but never got into it, also need to give this a try.
  
  I have enjoyed it so much that I have neglected most of the main story just to explore all over 
 the immense world. I do not pass up a single fight.. Its been a blast.
  
  Take it from a 25 year veteran of gaming, this is indeed a great singleplayer RPG that surpasses 
 all of the weak reviews and scores everyone seems to give it. No way is this a 7.5 game. Its at 
 the very least a 8.5 game. Of course I am only speaking on the PC version as I did not buy it for 
 xbox360. This type of game is best enjoyed with the best graphics possible so that you feel totally 
 immersed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmissile35
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is by no means the game of games -- or the RPG of RPGs for that matter. However, it seems 
 to contain elements from all the great RPGs of the past: the vast world, the huge array of weapons/armor/spells, 
 the varied quests, and the choices you can make.
  
  There is so much to do in this game that it can sometimes be overwhelming. You can go through and 
 try to do every single side quest in each town/village/city, which is a LOT of fun. Every quest 
 has a little story behind it that can sometimes be pretty interesting.
  
  You can also choose to be a heart-less SOB, and go around slaughtering the inhabitants of each 
 town/village/city, which can be pretty fun too. Either way you gain experience and level up!
  
  So basically, you have a lot of freedom ---it's a true role-playing game in the sense that it 
 feels like you can pretty much do as you wish -- and that the things you do bring consequences (short 
 and long term) .
  
  Nothing in the game will totally amaze/floor you ---however, it really is a great well-rounded game 
 offering hours and hours of fun. This is especially true if you have a good sense of humor. I've 
 laughed so hard playing this game -- for instance, just the way your character will chuckle or say 
 Pathetic! after you've slaughtered an entire city (so maybe I have a diabolical, sick sense of 
 humor...) .
  
  The only legit complaints I've heard so far are about the voice-acting -- it's a bit bland sometimes, 
 and over-the top at other times, but it makes me laugh so I like it.
  
  Other complaints I've heard are about the horses -- just get a better horse! The first horse you 
 get does suck, I agree. But if you find a better one that is more trained you'll be happy.
  
  So in conclusion -- no the game is not perfect -- but I give it a little higher score than GS did, 
 just because it has kept me entertained for longer than most games have in the recent past... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_87
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  As i said, the AI needs working on. And also the story telling. I didn't even get any idea of who 
 I was and what I was supposed to do in this world?! I had a few ideas about this Oblivion copy 
 of the story but it didn't fit. Instead I ran around a village hoping to find a guy who can explain 
 to me what the h**l i was doing there. The graghics was actually really good. But the animation 
 of how other characters move in the enviroment destroyed some of the happiness. So, to say this 
 out loud, if you want to experience this type of game, buy the whole set of Oblivion! this is&acute; nt 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoChild
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Great looking game that takes place in a large living world. Early dialogue labourous, but improves 
 with game progress.
  
  The story (so far at least) seems like fundamental RPG fare (i. e. save this person / find these 
 objects) , with lots of urban centres with people living in them.
  
  What I noticed that this game does is take the annoying interface quirks of previous RPG and fix 
 them. The most annoying to me was in Neverwinter Nights the lack of an auto-arrange option for 
 your inventory. Dungeon Siege did fix this, but Two Worlds with a scope as large as Neverwinter 
 the improvement was most welcome. Also, the quick use bar at the bottom of your screen for spells 
 and potions is ingenious in that it selects the appropriate kind of healing / mana potion for you 
 to use based on your health / mana bars (i. e. if you have only 1/2 health left, the potion that 
 fills half a bar is selected for quick use, if you have 90 percent health the potion that fills 
 10 percent of a bar is selected for quick use) . This is so simple yet makes the player's life so 
 much easier since they don't have to call up the inventory screen to select the appropriate potion.
 
  
  There is a wide variety of armour, weapons, spells, and potions a la the Neverwinter Nights series. 
 These items are quite customizable, making for unique gameplay. This a great game if you take the 
 time to play it and get immersed. The graphics and third person gameplay of Oblivion, with the 
 character development and item variety of Neverwinter Nights. Only thing missing is that the story 
 and world is not as deep or fully realized as the previous games. Ah well, not every game can be 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadofett
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  A lot of people try and compare this game with Oblivion, but personally the look and vibe feels 
 closer to S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl.
  
  Simply put...
  Let's say there was a rock band called R. P. G. They release an album with two great singles called 
 Oblivion and Neverwinter Nights 2. Two Worlds would be the rest of the songs on the album. They're 
 decent, but they'll never make radio rotation. And that's what you have here. The game has a lot 
 of potential, but needs a few more hours in the recording studio.
  
  I think Gamespot's review was right on target, though I disagree somewhat with calling it a poor 
 man's Oblivion. Player reviews are mixed which is understandable. This is a game that you'll either 
 love or hate. There's not much room for middle ground.
  
  My advice is this...
  If you like RPGs and have grown tired of Oblivion and Neverwinter Nights 2, then this is the game 
 to get. It will at least hold you over until the next epic RPG comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torresmatt
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  First off, it IS playable. If you like RPGs and you want a new game to barrel through just so you 
 can feel good about leveling up a character (I really think this is the real reason a good number 
 of people even play RPGs) , then this is for you. It runs, it works, you'll be able to click a lot 
 and fight monsters and win . Having said that, that's about all the game has going for it. Combining 
 armor and weapons into more powerful items is cool (though I don't quite understand how it's supposed 
 to actually be happening in the game world, you just kind of magically drop things on top of each 
 other in your inventory) , but other than that I didn't really see much all that ground-breaking 
 in this game. The game feels to me like a really polished (no pun intended) mod or side-project. 
 Graphically, it is pretty with HDR on and depth of field and all those goodies, but graphics do 
 NOT make a game in my book. If I wanna see pretty computer graphics I'll go watch a CGI film or 
 something. I've seen a few people here saying if you like Oblivion you'll love this! . Well, if 
 that's the case then I must be weird because I loved Oblivion and I did not like this. Oblivion 
 was a clean, polished finished product that had an engaging plot and combat. This honestly just 
 struck me as a way to spend 30 hours of my time gawking at pretty-ish landscapes and fighting strangely 
 voiced monsters. My sights are now set on the Witcher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmscumpelu
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  well, it's funny seeing everybody giving this game a score like 9 or 8 , well first things first 
 i finnished this game in april 2007 , about 5 months ago , and this game is .... first it has good 
 graphics i'm not saying no but have you noticed that it moves very bad , very low fps , although 
 the graphics aren't great at all and this game was released in spring 2007 , although it is similar 
 to oblivion it is way worse , i don't remember much but i do remember that is is incredibly easy 
 because at some point in the game i was dealing damage 300000 and had a life of about 70000 , well 
 the guys who played the game know that that damage is enough to kill the las boss with one hit 
 i think also lack of in depth gameplay very repetitive game the gameplay is not very good at all 
 , and the rpg customization is low my opinion is medium id's say but stil the thing that you can 
 stack up items to grow their level is bad because you will end up to use only one sword all the 
 game because it will be incredibly powerfull if you get that sword to be lebvel 30 it really bugged 
 me playing this game , i still don't know why i played it it's like that all flash no substance 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1sexysixpack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  If u're patient enough to get past the interface, u'll love to explore &amp; enjoy the combat (use 
 the jump back button to avoid getting hit when u see your enemies winding up for an attack!) --tons 
 of items &amp; customization of items (treasure system like Diablo II) makes for a great &amp; 
 addictive game like Diablo with Oblivion's character development &amp; exploration + MULTIPLAYER 
 similar to Diablo2-MMORPG-lite !
  
  Give it a chance &amp; u'll grow to love it! Graphics: Excellent! Almost as good as Oblivion Gameplay: 
 Great.. action-rpg where u can dodge swings, jumping back or sideways, challenging monsters, HUGE 
 world, tons of stuff to do like Oblivion
  
  Sound: Funny, sarcastic hero 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lt411
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  When I read that they hired over 200 voice actors for this game, I bought it for that reason alone. 
 Seeing the face and hearing the voice really brings the game world to life for me, instead of reading 
 text. My first hour of play was very frustrating. I kept getting killed, couldn't figure out what 
 I was supposed to do in combat besides click the left mouse button over and over, and had a hard 
 time finding trainers.
  
  I started a new game on easy mode, found a strategy guide online with maps and locations of trainers, 
 and have been having a blast ever since.
  
  I have a high-end system with all the graphics cranked up. It's amazing to see the shadows of the 
 leaves from the trees moving across the ground as the branches sway in the wind. The ambient sounds 
 are well done. The dungeons, ruins, and caves are well designed and not repetitive. The combat 
 is enjoyable with jumping in and out of reach, choosing a quick strike vs combination, and a variety 
 of special moves.
  
  Riding horses is thrilling for me. They have a mind of their own, avoid obstacles, refuse to be 
 run into objects, and have a variety of well rendered speeds. Best of all, I can fight from horseback.
 
  
  The weapons and armor are realistically drawn. Archery is well implemented according to my taste. 
 I like to start a fight with a cheap shot from afar. Arrows slow the opponent when they hit, so 
 you can get off quite a few shots before they close with you. The magic system seems reasonable 
 to me, although I'm not a mage; I do use the healing spell a lot.
  
  I think a lot of the complaints about Two Worlds are because it is the first version and is a little 
 rough around the edges. It's clear to me that the game designers put a tremendous amount of work 
 into creating a beautifully rendered world and I hope it does well.
  
  Bottom line, there is a good game in there, worth playing; if you can get past the rough start. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyger70
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  the first 10 minutes into this game i felt so let down and wanted nothing more than to just exit 
 the game and forget it, but seeing as how i had waited so long for this game, i decided to at least 
 play into it for a bit longer. a few quest later and some exploration out of the way and i fell 
 in love with the game, i think that what most are finding wrong with the PC version is that it 
 did not live up to the high standard they everyone placed upon this game, Oblivion killer this 
 game is definitely not. although it is a really fun RPG on its own merit and has some very fun 
 exploration elements to it. the visuals in my opinion are excellent, the sound and music are nice 
 (the voice acting you will either love or hate, i like it but also see how many others may not 
 like it, just depends on the individual) , the controls are efficient, definitely a lot of content 
 to play through, and i dont seem to have the same problem with frame rate that some others seem 
 to be having, maybe just different PC setups. I will say the animation is off by a good bit and 
 the horse riding is just not really practical as the horse dictates where you go instead of the 
 player and leads to quite a bit of frustration, theres also quite a few annoying little bugs here 
 and there but they arent game breakers, at least not any i have encountered anyways. the biggest 
 draw to the game for me was after i was able to look past the minor flaws the game has as well 
 as throw expectations i had for it out the window, i found a truly immersive RPG which has a great 
 story/backstory and plenty of depth while being simple at the same time. this game may not be for 
 everyone but if it you like RPGs and do happen to try this game play into some quest and lvl your 
 character a little before passing judgement too early on, maybe you will see what i have seen in 
 the game, or maybe you wont, but theres my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopenator
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of hope for this game. Being a fan of the Gothic series (except for 3) I was hoping 
 to find something that was a good mix between that and Oblivion. Which this is.... if you take the 
 glitchy and annoying parts of both games, throw them in a shoebox, and shake it. The combat system 
 is clunky and gets repetitive very quickly. The voice acting is mediocre at best. The scenery, 
 while pretty to look at, more often then not gets in the way during fights. And the storyline, 
 while potentially intriguing, leaves you hanging at a couple points, free to wander around the 
 countryside aimlessly and be eaten by whatever wayward creature crosses your path.
  If you saw the trailer that was on XBOX Live and were hesitant (as I was) , learn from the mistakes 
 of others. If you have a 360, rent the game. If you have a PC, borrow it from one of your friends 
 who was unfortunate enough to buy it, or wait a few months and sift through the bargain bin. Trust 
 me, you won't lose anything by waiting (might in fact save yourself $30) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lutrian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  First, to qualify my review, I've only been playing for a relatively short time, maybe about 12-15 
 hours, so haven't gotten overly deep into the game as of yet. However a few things to clarify.
 
  
  First off, this game is not an Oblivion clone, contrary to what some have suggested. If there is 
 one game or game series that it's similar to, it would have to be the Gothic series, namely Gothic 
 3. Graphically, it's not as good as say, Oblivion or Gothic 3. The graphics seem slightly less 
 impressive, and there are some quirks. The water reflection seems a bit overdone, making it look 
 like it's made of mercury, and vegetation sometimes blinks in and out of existence as you travel. 
 On the other hand, entering or walking through shrubs actually rustles them, making them (when 
 they're not acting weird) seem a bit more substantial then other games. The somewhat lower grade 
 graphics does allow the game to run faster and better on more hardware. If you can run Oblivion 
 with most options set to high, with playable but not totally smooth frame-rates, you probably can 
 run Two Worlds with everything just about maxed smoothly.
  
  As far as the character development, it looks awesome with a stat area and a skill area to assign 
 points at level-up. Unfortunately in the single player game, you're limited to a male human character. 
 Various sliders and options can allow one to change appearance, though hairstyle and hair color 
 options seem somewhat limited. So far, I've not tried the multiplayer, but I assume there is far 
 more flexibility at least insofar as selecting gender and possibly other races. In other words, 
 to qualify this review, I've not played the multiplayer yet. I tend to hold off on multiplayer 
 until I see more of the single player game, and I prefer playing multiplayer with friends, rather 
 then strangers. I also prefer to wait for more patches to come out to make sure it's stable in 
 multiplayer. In fact, with a multiplayer component like this, I do hope Southpeak comes out with 
 an editor and/or a set of mod tools so that modders can play around with the engine and make some 
 original content.
  
  As far as the story, which I'm not that far into so far, it doesn't seem overly interesting so 
 far, but hopefully it will pick up as I progress further into it. The voice acting is kinda uninspired, 
 sounding a bit like that of the Gothic games. The combat system is simple and seems to work well. 
 The magic system is interesting, and the use of booster cards to change or alter spell effects 
 does add some originality to the game. As for the overall presentation, it seems to work well, 
 except the action icons at the bottom are a bit small and I really wish I could make that larger. 
 I have poor vision which makes 800x600 resolution more comfortable. Other then the tiny icon bar 
 which I hope I find an option to help enlarge, everything else seems to be large and easy for me 
 to see, including the dialog text so I can follow along if the actor is being drowned out due to 
 a thunderstorm or something.
  
  Overall, I'd rate this game as good, but not great. I wanted to give it a 7.8 rating, but the slider 
 seems to only go in .5 increments. I hope Southpeak and Reality Pump support this game further, 
 adding patches, content, maybe an expansion pack to hopefully improve on this first effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merlanni
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Two worlds does many things right, but not enough. It stands in the shadow of Oblivion. the fighting 
 is somewhat better but the other featrures are worse. Once opun a time a mercenary walks into town. 
 it is a big town with massive buildings and 3 whole people in the street of which one is a questgiver, 
 and two merchants. After meeting 25 people, of which 20 are merchants with basic stuff he quests 
 into the wilds to retrieve large triggers from huge catapults. A vital mission. Whit his mighty 
 steed he reaches the fallen castle to battle two types of monsters for the items. In the 3.5 walls 
 of the castle he finds the triggers in a small box. Is this it??
  
  alchemy: take two lightning items and you get poison damage???
  story: strait as a line
  voice 
 acting/dialogue: terrible and stupid.
  
  I can go on and on, this is budget stuff. Just an other gamemaker that thinks that graphics and 
 fighting is enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syzygy027
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  The first thing that I will say is that everyone is right about the crappy voice acting. It blows 
 in such a major way that it's just not even funny, and sometimes you just can't bare to listen 
 to the monotone speech everyone gives you. That brings the game down in points a lot, but I can 
 get past it. The spell system is also not too great, but that's just because I compare it to Oblivion's 
 great spells, much of which are actually useless. I started the game expecting to be a cool necromancer, 
 but soon changed to a Spell-sword because the armor looks so cool. Yeah it pisses everyone off 
 that when you wear heavy armor you can't swim or use a bow, but I think that's very realistic. 
 Besides who wants to use a stupid bow when the swords look so much cooler. Generally speaking though 
 I put this game right above Gothic 3 and quite a bit below Oblivion. And I tried the online a little 
 and it seems really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalFist
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Simply put its an amazing game once given a proper chance lets see now people have been givin it 
 1.0s without real valid clauses, I mean cmon with all the bugs and considering you are no rpg fan 
 the least u can give it is a 7.0 nuthin less than that i give it a 9 because it has something more 
 to offer than oblivion did ,even oblivion has sluggish fights and as far as the story is concerned 
 sure it aint a good novelty product but it still can really pack a punch now Im glued to it its 
 got some good gameplay moments and the weapons are simply terrefic and the fighting on the horse 
 is new. The horse controls are a bit diferent but they are not in any case bad.
  And the hype is sure to be believed if you are an rpg fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I will completely admit that I didnt get more than 3hrs into this game, and that was spent at someone 
 else's house on their pc.
  
  However, this game (to me) seemed like a wanna be clone of Oblivion and came no where near any 
 of its aspects.
  
  What I did play was tedious, boring, and very buggy. Graphics to me were nothing we havent seen 
 before.
  
  I can generally tell if I am going to enjoy a game or not within the first couple of hours... there 
 was nothing about this game that kept me from turning it off and thanking myself for saving $60. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thcloco
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  Although it's definatly using Oblivion as a template, the details that are unique to it are done 
 great. The loading times are short, alchemy is done elegant and easy, spell system is fresh, the 
 world to explore is massive and here is truly quite a bunch of weapons and armor to find.
  
  On the bad side, there is a lot of character animation glitches ( but still better than Gothic 
 3 ) , riding takes a lot of getting use to since the horse sometimes seams like it has its own agenda 
 and editing the looks of the character is done quite shallow.
  
  It has some Gothic 3 in it and a lot of Oblivion but all in all it is a good game, The most epic 
 RPG of all time as the banner said is definatly an over-statement but if you are an RPG fan, you 
 will, without question, enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  As a gamer who has played a lot of RPG games over the years i must admit that i was genuinely exited 
 about the concept behind Two Worlds but having played the game for almost 6 hours all i can say 
 is that the game is not as great as i expected it to be.
  
  Ill start with the bad points. The story is as horrible as it can get. clearly the people who came 
 up with it were not successful in creating a story that can compete with other RPG games that are 
 available. There are also major issues with the 3D objects as it seems that the people in 2 worlds 
 can actually walk through walls and sometimes even through other humans. You can imagine my surprise 
 when i saw an archer whom i cornered onto a wall was able to walk though the wall and shoot at 
 from the other side :-O. The AI of NPC 's are at a all time low in this game. For instance many 
 enemies will run at you when they see you and just walk away without even looking at you. There 
 were also many instances when people would just ignore a dead body lieing around as if it isn't 
 something important. And Dont even think of getting onto a horse. Its a absolutely horrible game 
 play experience.
  
  Going onto the Good points. The Graphics look great. And the environment is wast. The world of 
 Two Worlds is open so you can explore almost anywhere from the very begining of the game. Stackable 
 items, magic spells and the ability to create potions is also cool. Fighting is not too bad but 
 it could have been better. And thats just about it. Everything else is just pretty avarage leading 
 to the reason that this game only gets 5.5.
  
  My advise: Unless they give you a patch that solves all the above issues dont play this game its 
 just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rengetsu08
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  I have a great pc
  
  the specs is in the games recommended list
  
  however, the game sure is not letting me play for a unknown reason
  
  AND I DON'T LIKE FIXING 
 IT WHEN I'VE SEEN LOTS OF THING YOU NEED TO DO TO JUST RUN IT PROPERLY AND IS IT REALLY OKAY TO 
 SPEND THE MONEY ON THE CD AND YOU HAVE TO FIX SOMETHING FIRST JUST TO PLAY, IT LIKE NWN2 IN THE 
 FIRST DAYS OR ITS RELEASE LOTS OF BUGS AND ERRORS
  
  however i've played this one to the store owner, it got me interested to play. especially the spellcasting 
 part
  
  so i can say i give it a FAIR SCORE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Dedicated console gamers who loved the easiness of Oblivion will not like this game -- its not 
 particularly pretty to look at and the game can be difficult if you dont spend some time thinking 
 about your character's skillset. If you loved Oblivion because you could build an uber-slayer character 
 in a few hours and run around and kill everything, seriously, you wont like this game.
  
  Unfortunately Two Worlds has some noticeable faults and I would suggest to anyone to wait for an 
 updated demo before they decide to buy it or not. The current demo is old and doesnt represent 
 the game with the latest 1.5 patch. The game's story is nothing special at all, but happily the 
 world is open and very large. There's more than enough variety of places to explore and enemies 
 to destroy. There's underground dungeons and indoor environments though neither are very big. Most 
 of your questing is outside. The graphics are not as bad as some say. The engine can handle large 
 distances without being sluggish, and there's some nice texture work, especially on the city buildings. 
 The recent 1.5 patch upgraded the textures of faces and it was a huge improvement. The armor and 
 weapons look great (I dare anyone to say otherwise -- there's a huge variety in the look of the 
 armor and weapons) . Ulimately the game is all about running around and acquiring cool loot. It 
 bears mentioning that this RPG is at its best when you are making decisions about building and 
 equiping your character. At first in the game, its easy to upgrade your character, but eventually 
 spell upgrades and weapons cost more. You also dont have an unlimited number of points to upgrade 
 your character physical attributes, so you have to make some interesting choices about what your 
 character will be good it. There's the usual sub-quests along the way that will have you killing 
 bandits or goblins for optional loot.
  
  Spell-casting is a bit more interesting and tactical than melee weapons, which is basically clicking 
 repeatedly with the mouse. Archery is also fun once you gain more archery abilities. There are 
 lots of options including the ability to diable auto-aiming of magic spells and you can alter the 
 keyboard and mouse controls to your liking. Overall the game's RPG gameplay reminds me more of 
 the sadly failed recent PC game Gothic 3 than any other game. 2 Worlds is a VERY action-based RPG 
 and it lacks some depth with regard to NPC charcaters and quests. You wont remember much about 
 the game after you've finished it, but personally I enjoyed the large explorable map and building 
 my character to defeat more and badder foes. If you look at the game for what it is, it certainly 
 deserves better than the low scores some are giving it here. Hey gang, at least play an RPG game 
 for 5 hours or so before you diss it? And folks who review the whole game after playing the old 
 demo? not cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustintv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  The first time I started playing I have to admit I was not super into it. I played the demo for 
 like 30 mins and couldn't really figure out how to do anything. I started playing some other games.
 
  
  The next day I picked it up again and got pretty into it. I learned how to fight and how to ride 
 a horse right and I realized that it was a really good game.
  
  needless to say I picked it up and have been having a blast! This game is really really good. There 
 are almost no load time and the ones that do exist take about 5 secs to load. It is truly amazing 
 to me that with a world so big there are not really any annoying load times.
  
  I was not into the combat at first, now I love it! I usually don't like third person games but 
 they really did a great job on this one. The combat is fluid and challenging! The magic system 
 is one of the best I think I have ever seen. there are a TON of spells and each can be upgraded 
 threw a really awesome card system.
  
  I have yet to mess with the thief/assassin part but it looks really awesome as well!
  
  The 
 scenery is AMAZING! there are huge lush forests and everything looks beautiful!
  
  There are TONS of quest I have been playing for like 9 hours and I have not done anything really 
 on the main quest.
  
  I am having a blast with this game. I would HIGHLY recommend it for any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airshocker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Making it's launch in early July in the EU, Two Worlds has been one of the most talked about up 
 and coming RPGs this year. Reviews of the EU version said the game was unoptimized, buggy, and 
 just wasn't fun. Other reviews claimed, despite the bugs, the game was still very fun.
  
  Being released late August in the US, I find the game to be enjoyable, but a little buggy at the 
 same time. This review will go over what the gameplay is like, the storyline, the bugs, and what 
 I think about certain aspects.
  
  You start out as a Bounty Hunter from the southern parts of Antaloor trying to find your sister 
 that was kidnapped as you fled unknown foes. You quest starts you off in the city of Komorin inside 
 a dwarven stronghold. You immediately find that the combat system is somewhat strange: In most 
 hack and slash RPGs you can actively block, in this one you can't and must resort to back jumping 
 and killing your foe quickly. I was discouraged by this feature at first, but as I played I got 
 used to it. I find the gameplay mimics that of Diablo, a much more beautiful looking Diablo for 
 sure.
  
  As you continue you find your main quest line involves a long lost family relic, and though you 
 want to clobber the snot out of your sisters captors, it's a bad idea! (Trust me)
  
  The class system is based around putting points into different skills. Skills like Necromancy, 
 Water, and Earth magic all have to be trained to be able to use their spells, just like the melee 
 skills that you have to train. I suggest figuring out what you want to play and work towards that 
 goal since skills and magic schools begin to cost A LOT when you get to be a high level.
  
  As in most RPGs you collect quests and finish them, though this one strays away from the mundane 
 collect this and that, kill a number of these, and goes for a more detailed quest line, which I 
 find refreshing and easy to get into. Unlike Oblivion or KoTOR 1 and 2, you don't have a lot of 
 choices for conversations. So if you are expecting to be a cold hearted ruthless monster (like I 
 want my character to be) , you will be sorely mistaken.
  
  Cities are nice, but I find them lacking substance. For instance, there are no taverns, no where 
 to stable your horse, no shops (just wandering merchants) , and in some of the bigger cities it's 
 extremely hard to find a vendor for certain items you are looking for.
  
  I find having played through the game that even though it tries to provide you with a sense of 
 accomplishment, the game's story and mechanics don't really show it. The legend you are claimed 
 to be is unenthusiastically depicted through NPCs conversations, and you don't really see the world 
 changing too much with your actions As a Death Knight, which I have classed my character due to 
 his Necromancer and Fire magic schools and combat skills, I don't really feel evil, even though 
 I would like to be.
  
  I have heard complaints that mobs are too hard, or too easy, but I have attributed this to not 
 following the quest chain. I admit it's easy to get ambitious and power through town after town, 
 but you have to reign yourself in and take your time finishing all the quests. If you do this and 
 wisely upgrade your weapons and armor, you should have NO problem throughout the entire game (That 
 coming from someone with over three thousand mobs kills and one death) .
  
  I haven't tried online play yet, so I won't comment on it.
  
  Without spoiling much of the 
 storyline, it is pretty predictable. Find all the pieces of the relic and return it to the people 
 who have your sister. I suppose I should tell you more of this, but what good is a spoiler review?
 
  
  All in all, Two Worlds is a fun game but doesn't provide the type of depth that Oblivion has. I 
 don't find myself playing through the single player over again like I found myself doing in Oblivion. 
 The game is good, but not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fulber
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Love the game! Fighting is fun once you get the hang of it and get some more skills. Magic is outsatanding. 
 Graphics and Sound very good too! And doesnt have the scaling like Oblivion. Ran into an orc camp 
 at low level and got my butt kicked. Went back at higher level and kicked their butts! Great sense 
 of accomplishment! Thats what makes working hard to go up levels great! Other than a few more bugs 
 to get worked out with sound issues its an overall very good RPG. Give the game at least a few 
 hours and I think youll feel the same! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l337Bossman
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is a game that is the epitome of the Grows on You classification on Gamespot. Two Worlds 
 is an open ended RPG, a cross between Oblivion and Diablo. If you go into this game expecting Oblivion, 
 you are going to be horribly dissapointed. If you go into this game expecting Two Worlds, you will 
 be pleasantly surprised.
  
  When I first loaded up Two Worlds, I played for about a half an hour before giving up in disgust. 
 The animations are choppy, the voice acting was atrocious, and the story didn't seem too stellad. 
 Then, a few hours later, I loaded it back up to give it another shot. Six hours later, I found 
 that I was truly enjoying myself. When you first start the game, it seems as if nothing meets your 
 expectations. The voice acting for the primary character seemed awful at first, but with time you 
 realize that that is just his voice. Not everyone in the world sounds like a hero, some of us just 
 sound like normal people.
  
  The graphics in Two Worlds are hit or miss. The armor and weapons are very well done and the game 
 features lush foliage. The view distance is outstanding although there is severe popup at even 
 the largest draw distance. The animations seem very choppy at first but they grow on you.
  
  At the beginning of the game, combat is awful. The animation for one handed weapons looks more 
 like a man demonstrating some flashy tricks than it does someone fighting for his life. Once you 
 get into the dual wielded weapons or, my favorite, two handed weapons combat becomes enjoyable. 
 It is very simplistic with your left mouse button performing combo attacks and the Q key mapped 
 as dodge backwards. Soon however, you will find yourself enjoying the many skills that the game 
 offers, like the Deadly Pirouette move that swings your weapon in a circle around you damaging 
 all of your opponents. There are several support and debuff skills, like a skill to kick dirt into 
 your opponents eyes, bash them over the head to stun them (does not work on opponents with helmets) , 
 or ripping their shield out of their hands with your axe.
  
  This game is VAST. The gameworld is HUGE! Luckily you will have some mounts and plenty of teleports 
 to keep you moving quickly around the landscape. A design decision was made to have your mounts 
 behave realistically. While this sounds neat, you will find your mounts very difficult to control 
 at first as they refuse to charge headlong into trees or down steep declines. After awhile, like 
 everything else in this game, the mount control system is bearable if not outstanding.
  
  Overall, this game is just downright fun. There's always a better weapon around the next corner 
 or a monster you have never seen before. The number of different weapons and armor is incredible 
 and there are multiple ways to customize each of your various items. If you gave Two Worlds 30 
 minutes or an hour of your time and then gave up, pop it back in and give it a second chance. Me, 
 I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud__
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  This review is just for the single version of the game, not the multiplayer version.
  First off i want to state that i finished the game, i did&acute; t just play two or three hours 
 and then give it a review.
  I got this game here in Europe a few months ago (i guess it just came out a few days ago in America)
 
  It took me about 60 hours to complete, i did most of the side quests i found
  
  The game reminds me of Gothic more than any other game, i have played all three Gothic games plus 
 the one expansion (night of the raven for Gothic 2) , i&acute; ve also finished oblivion and to me 
 its much more like Gothic than the TES games (but it also has some Diablo feeling to as well) .
 
  Out of the box version was lightly to say broken, i only got to make a character and when i started 
 a new game it crashed, but after the first patch it ran ok.
  I have very mixed feelings about this game, it was entertaining enough to play till the end, and 
 it started off quite challenging but through half of the game it became way to easy, mostly because 
 you can combine weapons and armor of the same sort together to make them more powerful and on top 
 of that you can also pile effects on the weapons/armor (lightning, fire, poison etc.) , so when 
 you&acute; re half way through the game there is no way you&acute; ll find a weapon/armor you&acute; ll 
 want to swap for the one you&acute; ve already have equipped, since for me one of the fun parts 
 about most role playing games is finding better and more powerful equipments as you continue to 
 unravel the story of the game.
  One of the worst aspect of the game was the horseback riding, it was to say the least irritating, 
 it is supposed to be as close to reality as possible but it is horrifying to try to control the 
 horse, like when if you got your horse up to an ok speed and since it took some time for it to 
 turn there were a whole lot of chance that you&acute; d run into a tree, and if that happens it 
 takes a quite a time to back the horse up and continue on, even a little rock on the road or a 
 little hill was sometime enough to get your horse stuck, so i after the first few hours i just 
 stopped using the horses an instead decided to walk.
  
  The story of the game was ok, far from the best out there but enough to keep you wanting to keep 
 on playing.
  
  Graphics were more than fine, can&acute; t complain there.
  
  Overall sound was ok, but the voice acting was mostly of a low quality (though there were a few 
 characters that were ok in the game) .
  
  Also i was quite disappointed with the ending of the game, not to say that it had a bad ending 
 just that for me the end came surprisingly quick.
  There are at least two endings to the game depending if you want to be good or bad, which should 
 add to the re-playability of the game, but that is not the case here since you can decide which 
 ending will occur in the last few minutes of the game.
  
  Overall the game was pretty fun, a bit too easy for my standards but for those who like playing 
 a god-like creature this is a must play.
  Since most reviewers compare this game to Gothic and Oblivion i must say that &iacute; liked this 
 game more than Oblivion but it&acute; s way behind the first two Gothic games (Gothic 3 was ok but 
 it came in third of the series)
  
  thanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turel5
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, a game comes by that redefines it's genre. Nowadays those games don't come 
 by very often, but Two Worlds is a game that, to me, does something entirely different. I'm saying 
 that this game is not in any way a brilliant and stunning addition to the genre, but after playing 
 for well over 10 hours it does have some elements that I don't see in any other game that I ever 
 spend money on. Many are an acquired taste, and others should have never been brought into existence, 
 as I will explain by my experience of Two Worlds.
  
  The main reason I bought this game was me having the impression that the game would be like TES: Oblivion, 
 just with multiplayer. I didn't find the average review up to then that conclusive about what it 
 would be like. Anyway, after a smooth install I booted up Two Worlds. The main menu was a pleasing, 
 but slightly unoriginal sight of the game world, accompanied by some nice music. For my first game, 
 i asked a friend who bought the game 2 days sooner, to play a PvM multiplayer game. The game stated 
 that, at the time, i needed to download patch 1.4, which apparently fixed a lot of balancing. While 
 creating a character, i couldn't help but notice the scarcity of races choosable, namely just human 
 and elf. I of course being used to the variety of races in Oblivion, this was sort of dissapointing. 
 Class selection seemed promising, although i found it a bit akward that some skills i would take 
 for granted, like parrying, were not among any basic list. We entered a game server that was eerily 
 devoid of other dutch players like us, and crammed with german players chatting and jumping around, 
 so i decided to play around a bit to test my abilities out, and take in the graphics of town, only 
 to find out I had to actually create or join a game to test the relatively diminutive needles (short 
 swords) i was
  given for being a sword dancer (comparing to the bodyheight multi-teethed gargantuan cleaver-like 
 bastard swords some people were carrying, which actually looked real nice) .
  
  So I joined my bud's game and started playing. We both have starting characters, but he had played 
 the single player for a while now, so he already had his character set on a specific strategy, 
 namely archery. We found ourselves inside some unremarkable tiny village, and a minimap with a 
 load of green spots, which were quests. So we set off activating a few quests, and went on our 
 merry way. About 50 feet out in the wilderness I was almost killed by a small pack of wolves, and 
 encounters like this, or wild boars and bears followed at 50 feet intervals, with each animal racing 
 in a straight line to our characters. I began to notice a bit of repetition here, and soon found 
 out I could jump up rocks after which the animals had no clue as to how they had to follow me there. 
 I also noticed that my character's attack animation was the only animation that combination of 
 weapons (dual weapons) was capable of, it seemed. This dissapointed me quite a bit, especially 
 compared to Jade Empire's martial arts, but even compared to Oblivion's fairly simple fighting 
 animations.
  
  After figuring out the multiplayer playing field is contained within a small area, We went ahead 
 with a quest to eliminate some undead. This turned out to be in a whole different league than the 
 animal packs, and i was instantly killed by a single blow by a ghoul, just to respawn at some respawn 
 point without any further death penalty whatsoever. Why have we been given a quest to kill a monster 
 that seemed to be three times the levels of our combined character levels? I mean, how could it 
 be any fun? Anyway, we went on to try our hand with other means of attack, and the only effective 
 way to kill it was for me to keep distracting it, dying each time, and for my bud to slowly perforate 
 it with countless arrows. So, i found myself in a sort of grinding situation, where a far too powerful 
 monster gave a reward hardly worth the effort. We returned to the village with our hard earned 
 levels and gold, and bought ourselves some equipment. It was then I noticed my bud was totally 
 making my presence absolete because he turned out to have upgraded his bow, making it unbalancingly 
 powerful. Now i actually began to understand why he was aiming for archery: a bow sufficiently 
 upgraded combined with specializing in exclusively bow skills, he could really get all-powerful. 
 I decided to experiment with the game to see why it could be so. I was fed up after playing a few 
 games together, me dealing nowhere near the damage he was dealing. For crying out loud, shouldn't 
 melee attacking deal much more damage than a bow?! I went to play a single player game, hoping 
 for a change of pace.
  
  I was shocked by the choice of character the single player game provided, namely exclusively human 
 male, and very little appearance tuning, which in the end didn't make any positive and/or major 
 change to his standard appearance (as of v1.4) . In other words, the only viable option was to just 
 skip it and proceed with the campaign, because he wasn't going to look any better. I later found 
 out there was to be a cinematic at this point, which for some reason was skipped on my Pc. Anyway, 
 I found myself in a dungeon, which actually did look real nice, just a little small. I dispatched 
 the enemies efficiently and got outside. There, my character started a conversation with some peasant, 
 and I was instantly horrified by the emotionless and generally bad voice acting. I was already 
 fed up with the constant uninspirational tough remarks my multiplayer character made during combat 
 and everytime she revived. Being used to Legacy of Kain games style voice acting, I immediately 
 muted voice sounds to make the game bearable. So I went on, doing some quests, and found out how 
 horrible looking the character's sister was comparing to the box art. This was in complete contrast 
 to the environment, which were at least as good as Oblivion's environment. the main quest soon 
 propelled me far southwards (as you start in the north) , but I wasn't entirely ready to go, because 
 of the load of quests remaining in the vicinity. I also wanted to test a few strategies of dishing 
 out massive damage, and before long, regrettably, I was able do finish off large groups of enemies, 
 half a dozen at a time, with Fireball, a quite low level spell, and combining it with various percental 
 damage boosting effects. This, I felt, happened just far too soon into the game, so I switched 
 to other means of attacking to keep the game interesting. Note that in single player, the enemy 
 encounters seemed far better balanced to character level than in multiplayer, which was in itself 
 a relief. Skipping ahead a bit, at level 20 my character got noticeably overpowered, having damage 
 scores with my axe and spells, that killed every regular enemy in a single shot. I even had a spell 
 that, without failure, could kill any undead in the game up to very far among the way. I also tried 
 my hand on riding horses, but the controls were just so akward, and it kept bumping into every 
 pebble it found, just to stand completely still afterwards. Dissapointed with the posed challenge 
 (just about none) , and not even finishing the main quest, I went back to multiplayer, just for 
 the hell of it. My newfound knowledge of engineering the perfect character was actually even easier 
 to put into practice in multiplayer than it was in singleplayer, as I found out. Starting a new 
 multiplayer character, I noticed the money I had from my previous multiplayer character was somehow 
 available. I used the gold to cheaply buy additional skills (buying skills, wtf? that easy?!) , 
 and before I knew it, my Air mage was dealing double the damage a barbarian could, with an axe, 
 at level 1. Talk about balancing the game, that was just so wrong! Taking enjoyment to the flawed 
 combat system, amusing myself with the ease of clearing multiplayer maps in under 30 minutes, I 
 decided that i would not use the character to play alongside other players anymore, as that would 
 just too easily ruin any small bit of fun they might be having. As for myself, I stopped playing 
 after seeing the balancing system screw up time and again.
  
  Concluding, I found Two worlds to be nothing like I expected. I've never seen a game that was this 
 easily cheated without using codes or trainers, and it was something I'm happy to have tried, and 
 to never try again. Summing up, the voice acting, character creation, combat animation, game balance, 
 quite a few bugs, and the 'living up to expectations' aspects of the game I found either uninspirational, 
 dissapointing or humorous in a bad sense. On the other hand, the environments, the wide array of 
 enemies and the selection of weapons and items, were various and good looking, just didn't provide 
 any gameplaywise impact. In the end, you can only choose not to overpower your character, and deny 
 your character's full potential if you want a moderately nice gaming experience. Or you have to 
 learn to appreciate, experience and take enjoyment out of the flawed game mechanics, as it isn't 
 common for a game on this scale to be this broken...
  
  I gave my copy away to friends to see the game for themselves before they would spend any money 
 on this. As for me, I regret paying for it, as it would have been better spent on something like 
 Overlord. It's definitely a rent before you buy, or wait until it's cheaper to buy than your afternoon 
 snack. Did I mention dissapointing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devils35
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  I tired so hard to like this game but in the end the voice acting and combat system make this game 
 unplayable. Not even woth a rental the worst game on the 360 or pc. Why why why? this game had 
 such potential. The voice acting is worse that a B movie the combat is very hard to attack the 
 enemy with a sword the fist enemy wich i could not even tell what it was had to be killed with 
 magic, when setting up a character the ask for color of eyes that you can not even see??? the game 
 is BAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok forget Oblivion, its nothing like that really. Much more like Gothic even though the graphics 
 are not as detailed which I thought gothic had better graphics by far than Oblivion which just 
 repeated the same models/textures too much. But on with Two Worlds. I've read a few reviews, and 
 they were pretty uninformed it seems. Often the reviewer didnt take time to learn the game. Such 
 as comments on Archery. Sure you can use a bow, but you cant hit a target unless you LEARN archery 
 from someone. Also combat is fantastic in that there are so many types of modifications you can 
 do on every type of combat, you can mix gems with weapons to apply a variety of fx. You can learn 
 a variety of abilities to mix with each fighting style too. Magic is the best Ive seen so far. 
 5 different schools, and with every spell you can apply these different booster cards you find 
 to any spell, like 3 slots for boosters on every spell! And move them around if you want. Like 
 a booster might make a spell cast higher lv, or use less mana, But some abilities have negative 
 effects too. There seems to be a unlimited variety of combinations you can create. I cant express 
 enough. Take the time to learn the game before criticizing it, there are all kinds of things to 
 tinker with in you character sheet to modify you character in the game. Its wild the combinations, 
 and finding loot is always interesting cause theres so much you can do with the items, you can 
 combine the same weapons to make more powerful versions, you can make traps. Its very detailed. 
 Its wierd too, I mean not like a standard american game. But just give it time, not all games have 
 to be standardized to fit a common mold, and nobody should ever hope for such a curse in game design. 
 The graphics are strange too, physics are kinda wierd. But not too bad. Textures look kinda low-res 
 and uninspired. Its better than Morrowind in looks, but not as good as Oblivion, but that could 
 change as I get farther. But gameplay far makes up for it. Also the main unique thing is, This 
 is multiplayer!! Think of the fun with Diablo, but in a fully 3D open gameworld! With great real 
 time combat. I havent tried multiplayer yet. I hear they are making a patch so Im waiting for that. 
 But when thats worked out, having many players in the same gameworld will be extremely exciting. 
 With all the abilities, and combinations of spells, boosters, melee, archery, and in 3D open world. 
 Itll be a blast in PVP and different modes of teamwork. Sound is really good too, And the dialogue 
 is fine. Yes theres alot of Mideval wording. Ye shall and all. But its voiced well, and while not 
 like a movie actor, its as well spoken as normal people. And I like how NPCs move around and run 
 into each other and start a conversation, and they notice the player and greet him, or sometimes 
 stop you to talk. Its a pretty well lived in world. Its just wierd graphics in places, but that 
 should never be a priority in games, the plot seems good, theres lots to do, the gameworld looks 
 huge, TONS of NPCs to talk to, with lots of options when in conversations. Tons of experimenting 
 with Alchemy, Spells, Archery, Thievery, Item customization, Booster Cards, And really I've only 
 been playing a few hours. So theres alot more to learn. But theres more in this in those few hours 
 than 100 hours in Oblivion which you've pretty much seen everything it has within the first Hour. 
 Ive only barely touched on things in Two Worlds. Ive barely got any spells and there seems to be 
 hundreds since theres tons of slots for new spells open. You can see a huge page of abilities to 
 learn too. Im just really impressed with that rather than just letting wonky graphics turn me off. 
 I learn the game first. And Im very happy with it! And will be anxious to try multiplayer. Also 
 Ive had no problems with the game so far. I got patch 1.1 before starting to play and everything 
 seems to work ok. Oh I also think its great being able to lure a Bear into town and watch the anarchy 
 break out since they are very tough and the some people scream and run and others chip in to fight 
 it off. THen if you jump in and hurt it enough, the bear gets angered and goes after you until 
 someone else angers it. Its great to experiment like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Centurion
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds tries so hard... but just can't seem to get it. When I first saw this game's previews, 
 I thought it would take the ideas of Gothic and Oblivion and mesh it well together into a tight 
 controlled beautiful masterpiece. I was mistaken.. Maybe I held this game to too high a standard, 
 but their marketing team definately insinuated that it would be rich textures and beautiful game 
 play.... Neither happened. The landscape is wonderful, but the character models would have seemed 
 dated 3 years ago. Oh did I mention it has bad voice acting too... Very bland.
  
  Overall, the game isn't that bad though, some fights are fun, and it's opening title soundtrack 
 sounds very good. However, it is still a disappointment to all those who expected it to be Good 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Do not, DO NOT even bother playing this game even it was free DO NOT GET IT. Save yourself the 
 frustration and the dirty feeling u get from playing this game, and run back to Oblivion.
  
  The graphics,... They look pretty darn good in the screenshots but in the game gah they are 
 not so great. The animation is horrid. The Voice acting... uh... LOL well its almost as if they 
 all sat down and said OKAY lets make the cheesiest dorkiest dialogue we can, I mean comon if your 
 gonna use MAYHAP and TWAS ever other word AT LEAST HAVE AN ENGLISH ACCENT FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, 
 srsly its just laughable.
  
  Bottom Line, horribly ungratifying, not fun at all, I mean come on people will over look ALOT of 
 flaws in a game if it is fundamentally fun to play, which this is not, and i dont think any number 
 of patches will fix it, not even the massive 1+ gig one they just released. Sound .... dime a dozen 
 sound affects, you can tell the creators of this game just didnt really try.
  
  RUN, RUN BACK TO OBLIVION and bury this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willisj13
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  The game was very beautiful but game play was a little jittery and i have only played the demo 
 which did nothing to make we want to get the game horses are cool but hard to control and mounted 
 fight ing while nice is not all that. There is no real explanation as to how the armor sets work 
 or the gems or even what does what the game does have potential maybe threw patches the can fix 
 some of the issues. It would be had press for me to buy this and play over mmo's that are far better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alecard
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  As a side note, can people please stop comparing this game with Oblivion.
  (IMO Oblivion sucked) there was nothing new with that game, i came from Morrowind and Daggerfall 
 to it, and compared with those games it sucked.
  So I thank god that its NOT like oblivion.
  
  Now to Two-Worlds:
  
  Graphics-the graphics 
 are nice, especially in the distance, ( theres no mismached pixels or such, everything looks smooth) 
 also the armor and weapons look awesome, like real armor and weapons. I also like how the ncp models 
 are made, there are fat people there are skinny people.
  
  Gameplay-Compared to other people I like the combat (it reminds me of Gothic) 1 mouse click is an 
 atack, continous clicks starts a combo. also the the control is really easy, with a 2-handed weapons 
 u make wide swings (so u can catch more than 1 enemy.
  
  Also a cool thing is that enemies DONT level with you, they are static, so after 20+ levels u start 
 felling like a god :) )
  
  I have no problem with there being only the male model u can use in the SP game, if you used any 
 other gender or race the story wouldnt make any sense. In this its the same as the Gothic games.
 
  
  I also love that theres no class system and you can be whatever you like, it makes for some really 
 nice combinations, with different tactics.
  
  Sound-Also some people talk about the bad dialogue, i love it, its how english was spoken 600+ 
 years ago, with words like methinks, verilily But you have to know a little history to get that. 
 I love the dialogue because it works great with the middle-ages feel of the game.
  
  The music is really nice, it reminds me of the music used the movie gladiator if some of you guys 
 dont know what im talking about its something like Enigma 
  ----
  
  All in all I think its a good game, its a 100+ hour game for sure (thats a good thing for me)
 
  
  The only think i can say is go with an open mind and DONT try to compare it with other games.
 
  
  The only game Two-Worlds compares with is Two-Worlds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I have played both Oblivion and Gothic 3, invested about 200 plus on each. Both are great game 
 with their own plus and minus. So, yes, upon setting my eyes on 2 Worlds, I expected something 
 similar or better.
  
  So, what is there in 2 Worlds? To sum it up - a beautiful, detailed world, with dull, uninspiring 
 characters, lack luster main quest, side quests, enemies and a horrible combat system  reminiscent 
 of Gothic 3. Auto-spawning, similar to Bioshock, the enemies health is carried over so you can 
 retry a billion times if you wish until you kill what ever you were trying to kill  risk = 0, 
 penalty = 0, fun factor = 0. There is nothing here that hasnt been done on better, bigger, more 
 immersive games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoachV
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is supposed to rival Oblivion, but in reality it's on a level all its own - the bottom 
 level, that is. The game is terrible all around, with clunky, difficult controls, simple combat 
 that is complicated only by aforementioned difficulties with controls, poor storytelling matched 
 only by the the accompanying story, and graphics and sound of less-than-average quality. Even performing 
 a sneak attack is strangely difficult, as you must exit stealth mode and enter combat mode to perform 
 an attack. This game attempted to improve on points where Oblivion left off, adding mounted combat 
 as terrible as it is on foot, but has forgotten entirely to match the very basics of that successful 
 franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeKing9mm
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty excited about this game, until I played the demo. You start off on some path, with 
 nothing but a sword, run a little further and you start fighting goblins. You will immediatly notice 
 the muddy textures and sluggish feel of the game in 2 seconds. Combat is quite boring, with no 
 tactical skill required, you will know that you have no chance of winning a battle within seconds 
 but by then its too late and your dead. The interface is terribly confusing. The voice acting is 
 god awful. I laughed. Good luck using the map, you really have no clue where you are in respect 
 to the whole world or even what town your in. Plus unless you have a fresh computer, dont even 
 bother downloading the demo. Good try but its seems like it was made a small group of kids and 
 should be downloaded off the internet for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McJugga
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  WOW, this is by far the absolute worst game ever made, 1: the voice acting is so terrible, every 
 second in the speech they say mayhap or some crap like that, wen you talk to someone and you choose 
 not to say anything your guy just sits there with a retarted look on his face as if he is constapated, 
 if you talk to someone in a house it will show you talking to a door, there is no expression e. g 
 for one mission u talk to a guy, h tells you a problem and then you plainly so your dead wife haunts 
 u in a dream. Every time you are lockpicking something (which you can do while ppl are stabbing 
 you and they kindly wait till you are done) it says hmm lets have a look, or some crap like that, 
 and when he uses magic he says oowoo when you kill someone, he says not so tough now in a very 
 poor voice.
  
  2: The horse is so glitchy, it took me about 30mins to get my horse, then i ride him for 2 seconds 
 and then he gets stuck in the ground, i finally kill some green things, and steal there horse, 
 and then in all of a sudden runs on a wall vertically and i am stuck there forever.
  
  3: The ending is whenever you choose it to be,
  you can easily kill the guy in the black armor 
 if you have been play for around one hour, and then you win....
  
  4: Eventually you get invincible, after around 3 hours of playing even less if you really try, 
 then you can kil anything in one hit.. and kill entire towns of ppl with no problem, if you use 
 crystals on anything it sells for about 50000, and then you can buy absolutely anything, i had 
 20 million after 3 hours,
  
  5: you can combine weapons, if you have 10 sabres you can combine them all and make an ultra cheap 
 weapon. same goes for armor and jewels.
  
  6: the magic spells look so terrible, the graphics are terrible and the gameplay is terrible, yet 
 it stills lags on my pc, ( dual core, and a x1650 pro)
  
  7: if you are wearing pretty much any armor you cant use a bow.... e. g if you were certain boots 
 you cant hold bow.
  
  8: Nothing bad can happen, if you die you just respawn 3 seconds away, you dont loose any experience 
 or items or anything at all.
  
  9: The AI is terrible, they dont kill your horse unless it is an accident, they get stuck in walls, 
 or the ground, or sit there and dont attack you while you are killing them, they are too easy.
 
  
  10: if you buy this game you are wasting money..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farscape1812
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Certainly a worthy role playing game to be played. I have been looking for a good RPG ever since 
 Oblivion, and although it is not as good (graphically, detail or story) , It is certainly a game 
 to be played.
  
  I am probably 3 quarters of the way through the game and love the way the developers made the deferent 
 landscapes within the game. I also like the leveling in this game. One thing I have not tried and 
 am looking forward to is the Network playing. Online play, by itself, makes this kind of game worth 
 playing. For anyone who likes RPGs, this is worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frok1nz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Alright, I haven't played oblivion but who cares, this game is good and based on zero facts and 
 zero intel oblivion is garbage. People randomly give their input on games and give their opinion 
 on the internet all the time. It doesnt mean **** Play this game for yourself. I've played diablo/2 
 and wow and would give this game an 8 of 10, diablo and wow both deserve an 8.5. Fun game, good 
 graphics in comparison to no games whatsoever because why compare when u have the ability to see. 
 This game is a modern diablo in a nutshell, immersive, fun and online. Gear and characters look 
 sexy. yeaaaa boyyy fun game. Just read peoples reviews bashing this game... their borderline retarded. 
 give it a chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yzzycz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  After 10 hours of playing i really got into it. Who liked Oblivion or Gothic must buy this one too. What 
 really suprised me is how many different weapons and armor you can get. It is almost like in Diablo. Also 
 every weapon or armor is highly upgradable!!! Now i have 2hander Kiss of death mace! It does honor 
 to her name. Horse combat is little bit difficult so mostly im on my legs. That is little minus in 
 my eyes. This game is a must for all RPG comunity! Don't listen ppl who rated this game 1 or 2.... No 
 way! The trying to protect Oblivion by trowing dirt on Two Worlds and that is a bad thing cause 
 many players read rewiev and buying game acording to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL41
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out with a guy trying to save this girl he was protecting, and she got captured, 
 so you're thrown into this town looking for her, but instead the evil' people find you. The dialogue 
 is pretty much written by a 2 yr old, and is good if you want to read something stupid. The gameplay 
 makes it nearly impossible to attack enemies, esp if you're trying to run away from bandits, it's 
 dumb. Dont even bother trying to use a bow, it just doesnt cut out unlike Obilvion. The hores looks 
 pretty nice, but it takes several tries to get on, and the controls of the horse are useless, it 
 crashes into anything it walks through, like a bush or pile of rocks. At fast speed you can't control 
 the horse such that you rather run by yourself, cuz once you leave the horse it runs away. What 
 sounds cool, is your inventory allows you to merge same items to make them stronger, at no cost. 
 But you'll find yourself switching items a lot and it literally becomes pointless. Also if you 
 try to uninstall the game, you must rememberto delete the registry files, or else the directory 
 folder will keep appear after delete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digdongsegadead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds if i were to give you a preview, and ask you to read the tea leaves. I'm sure your response 
 would at best be jeez i dont know. Well good news is its a nice little game once you give it a 
 fair shake, a less convoluted storyline decisions that actually effect the game world. a nice combat 
 system thats a little rough around the edges and a nice graphical look and feel makes it a nice 
 game. The only real nocks is production values are low, and the setting is cookie cutter fantasy 
 Dragons and Orcs and what not as it is id say its not Bioshock good, and its not going to floor 
 us like Mass effect but you could do alot worse than this game in the RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Story: Save your sister. Or something lame like that.
  
  Graphics: Decent for PC but not the greatest.
  
  Audio: Hilariously Bad Voice-Overs
  
  
 Missions: Your common RPG Quests.
  
  Controls: 3rd Person RPG controls. Nothin' New.
  
  Features: Teleporters, Uber Weapons, Etc.
  
  A. I.: Run at you, Attack you, usually die.
  
 
  Loading Times: Average.
  
  Multiplayer: Cool MMO-Ish Servers that allow you to carry over your single player character, fun 
 with friends.
  
  Requirements: Medium to High.
  
  Weapons: Swords, Staves, Axes, Spears, Pitchforks, Etc.
  
  The Good: A decent and large RPG.
 
  
  The Bad: Another RPG.
  
  The Ugly: Your enemies. They ugly.
  
  Replay Ability: Low to Medium.
  
  The Bottom Line: This is what Gothic 3 should have been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lios1
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is nowhere NEAR Oblivion's level, as far as polish, design, and fun goes. The only thing 
 Two Worlds has on Oblivion is that it's a hell of a lot more stable than that bloated mess know 
 as Oblivion. I have never had a single crash or problem with Two Worlds, whereas in Oblivion, I 
 CTD every other hour, or day, or minute... depending on however it feels like it. Stuttering like 
 freaking crazy... Having said that, Oblivion was a great game. I enjoyed it a lot more than Morrowind, 
 but then this post isn't about Morrowind vs. Oblivion. It's about Two Worlds and why it's inadequate 
 as a sandbox RPG, but barely competent enough that it is at least is enjoyable to play. Where do 
 I begin? I'm going to try and sum Two Worlds up without mentioning Oblivion past this intro. Hard, 
 huh?
  
  It's funny how people say that graphics don't matter. Graphics don't make the game. Sorry, but 
 graphics really DO make the game when it's a long game that is going to stretch past the 20+ marker. 
 When you play a long game, as great as the plot and everything is, if the game is an eyesore, then 
 the enjoyment will be marred. And as far as Two World's graphics are concerned, the game is drop 
 dead gorgeous... at least the environments are concerned. The draw distance, field of depth, villages, 
 castles, and dungeons are incredibly rendered. The HDR makes everything look fantastic, especially 
 when it comes to the sunsets, sunrises, glowing flowers, and so on. The armor is greatly rendered 
 and the water looks amazing. The trees and the animals are beautiful. Two Worlds succeeds at making 
 a believable looking world. Even the horses have incredible looking fur on them. Having said all 
 of that, the biggest problem with the graphics are the character models, close-up textures of buildings, 
 and the beasts and monsters. The monsters look pretty terrible and uninspiring and the animals 
 look half assed. The people are reminiscent of something from 2000-2002. The character models are 
 pretty uninspiring. For example, look at the woman, Kira. She looks horrific with her large, receding 
 hairline and boring facial expressions. And the weather effects: The snow was impressive, but when 
 it rained, the scene looked pretty lackluster. The fog effects where pretty nice. So, as far as 
 graphics go:
  
  Pros: Magnificent backgrounds. Decent weather effects. HDR used in a great manner.
  Cons: The 
 character models are horrid looking.
  Rating: 7
  
  Now let's get to the sound effects. What do you expect to hear? Swords clanging, monsters roaring, 
 and birds in the background. The music in the game is pretty uninspiring, minus the title music, 
 which is pretty nice. The sound effects are good, as are the ambience of the animals in the background, 
 the sound of wind when it's a windy day, and the weapon sounds are good. The downside to this is 
 that, we can clearly see where the effort on sounds went. It certainly wasnt on the voice actors. 
 With a game that's fully voiced like TW, you'd expect the VA's to be at least to be decent. However, 
 in this game, the voice acting is pretty awful. I mean most of the villagers sound like they grabbed 
 a random intern, shoved him a line or two, and said 'have at thee'.
  
  Pros: The title music is beautiful. The sound effects are good. Cons: God-awful voice acting. Meh-music.
 
  Rating: 5
  
  Combat is where most of these games tend to make or break and in the case of Two Worlds, the combat 
 is pretty uninspiring. Granted, it's not completely terrible, but at the same time it's nowhere 
 near as good as other games. The combat is repetitive hack and slash with little in the way of 
 tactics. Bow shooting requires near maxed out fast shooting to be effective and no matter how well 
 you build yourself, you will constantly face leveled enemies that either one hit kill you, or enemies 
 that you one hit kill. The fighting system seems like it's nothing more than a mash of mouse pressing. 
 The only real areas of interest in this game are the outright combat and the magic system. Combat 
 goes by quickly because it's hack-hack-hack-kill-kill or die. And magic is so blatantly abusable 
 because of the terrible AI... which I'll get into in a moment. Don't bother trying to become a stealth 
 assassin. Once anything is hit once, everything is all over you. Also, it's near impossible to 
 even approach an enemy and backstab them without out alerting his six million other friends. I 
 do like how there is a pro and con to the different weapons you use.
  
  Pros: Variable weapon skills. Nice passive and active abilities.
  Cons: Boring hack and slash 
 gameplay. Useless backstab. Rating: 5
  
  Now I'll get in depth with the AI. In a sandbox game, it's impossible to make dynamic working AI 
 that is representative of each enemy, friend, or otherwise. But at the same time, there needs to 
 be a basic means of AI and the AI of TW is pretty uninspiring. It's not that it's outright stupid 
 and useless... but that's exactly it most of the time. The enemies use whatever pre slotted skills 
 that are on them, according to their levels, and such. It definitely makes fighting enemies that 
 much harder. Archers run away when you run after them and melee chase you down. However, in the 
 case of beasts and such, monster AI is stupid. A grizzly bear goes through a long slashing animation 
 that you can simply sidestep and watch for a good 4-5 seconds before it attacks again. And then 
 after that hit, it takes a good 3-4 seconds more before it swipes at you. Enemies just stand there 
 and swing. They dont react to dynamic changes... unless you summon a monster. Summons are mostly 
 useful as decoys while you spam magic or slice and dice. My personal favorite example of stupid 
 AI was going into a demon dungeon where everything can one shot me, and casting earth magic chains 
 OR using a golem as a distraction while I snipe it to death with my Ultimate longbow of death with 
 a strength of 1346 and a spirit energy of 1500. Another example: Stand near the entrance to the 
 dungeon and the enemy will stop chasing me and will walk away, giving me free shots at it while 
 it stands there like a blithering dolt.
  
  Pros: The Enemies react...
  Cons: ... barely.
  Rating: 2
  
  So with AI and combat out of the way, let's get in touch with 
 the gameplay itself. The game is your standard boring, J. R. Tolken swords and sorcery drivel that 
 you'll find an R. A. Salvatore book. The quests are your standard Fed-Ex, assassinate, etc quests 
 that really have been done to death before in games that do them SO much better like KOTOR, NWN, 
 Morrowind, Deus Ex, and OBLIVION (I lasted THIS long before saying the dreaded O word) . The characters 
 are so bland that you don't really care what goes on with them. Baldur's Gate had the Mensc guy 
 that everyone creams over. KOTOR had memorable characters like Bastilla Shan, Mission Vao (SP?) , 
 Carth, Darth Malak, Darth Treya, Atton, and HK-47 and so on. Morrowind... well... it had M'iaq the 
 liar, Vivec, Almalexia, Cauis Cossades, Dagoth Ur, and a few others who were worth mentioning. 
 Oblivion had... Martin and Sheogorath. That's really it as far as memorable characters in that game. 
 Deus Ex had Tracer Tong, Maggie Chow, Nicollette, Gunter, and so on. This game has NO ONE worth 
 mentioning as far as memorable characters go. Your sister is about it and even then, she's boring. 
 I'm including the story, immersiveness, quests, and such as all parts of gameplay. The villagers 
 are generic, dime a dozen, and are all men. I kid you not. Out of the many places I've been, I've 
 only encountered 3 women: the daughter of a fisher, a female prisoner, and your sister. That's 
 it. All of the NPCs are 30 year old men who look the same. No old people, children, women, teenagers, 
 etc, etc. Just 30 yr old white men. Their quests, as I mentioned before are pretty drab. At least 
 they band together when they see a threat coming toward the village. The immersiveness of the game 
 becomes very hard to stay in. When you explore the wilderness, you feel a part of the game world. 
 However, when you go into a village, asides from how rustic and quaint they look, they come off 
 as lifeless and boring, minus the small scheduling that the developers have put into the NPCs. 
 All and all, the game is at its most fun when you roam around the countryside for no real reason 
 other than to find crap and kill crap. It becomes at its worst when you do quests or, god forbid, 
 actually do the story missions. And my, what a story... that sucks so far...
  
  Pros: Immersive background...
  Cons: ... that's marred by the lack of diversity and boringness 
 of the actual quests.
  Rating: 5
  
  The story... is terrible so far. Save your sister from an evil man named Reist who wants to do something 
 that if I continue to mention, will spoil and otherwise lame storyline. The morality of good and 
 evil in this game really doesn't come off as good or evil because of the lame voice acting, terrible 
 dialogue, and so on. The story, as far as I've seen in my 9+ hours in, is pretty crap compared 
 to other, more epic games. Hell, if an action-adventurer like Gold of War can make a worthwhile 
 story, then why can't this game? Oye. The O-killer indeed.
  
  Pro: It ends.
  Con: ... but you have to suffer through it. &gt;.&gt;
  Rating: 3
  
  I've saved the last part 
 of my little tirade/review for the horse itself. I have never ever seen a horse handle as poorly 
 as the one in Two Worlds. I had more responsiveness from the Morrowind mod If Wishes were Ponies. 
 Oblivion does not have horse combat. A mod called Deadly Reflexes adds execution style finishing 
 moves, dodges, shield stuns, and horse combat. That mod does a better job at horse combat than 
 a game that actually has it built into the engine? The movement on the horse is almost non-existent. 
 When you press forward, it takes about a second before the horse goes forwardand even then, it 
 moves automatically, like an auto run. So, in theory, when you start a horse, it goes into autopilot. 
 Next, the horse has three modes of auto-run: Trot, Gallop, and Sprint. Again, you have no control 
 over the horse other than pressing the forward butting the amount of times it takes to get it in 
 one of those three modes. To stop a horse quickly, you must press the action button, attack, or 
 activate skill. The horse does stopa second later. If you want to turn the horse aroundbe prepared 
 to fight with your controls. There is a severe lack of responsiveness that presents your ride from 
 turning around in a timely manner. That, and the horse gets stucka lotbetween rocks, teleports, 
 hills, buildings, etc. The horse is so badly broken and implemented, that it's not worth using. 
 Also, the game has many glitches that detract from its fun, such as enemies being about to run 
 backwards through a wall, or hill, or a fence while you cannot. Pro: The horse looks good. That's 
 it.
  Con: Driv3r handles better than this horse.
  Rating: 1
  
  So, in summary, Two Worlds would have been an amazing game I could look past the bugs and uninspired 
 parts in... if this was 2002 and it's only competition was Morrowind and Daggerfall and Deus Ex. 
 This is 2007 and Bloodmoon, KOTOR, Oblivion, and such have upped the ante. Two Worlds delivers 
 on some things and fails miserably on others. The biggest problem with Two Worlds isn't how badly 
 certain things, like the horse, fail. It's that the game, as a whole, is uninspired, tedious, drab, 
 dull, and overall forgettable. That and the whole you cannot die, ever thing, kills any real overall 
 challenge. That and the lame one hit kills you OR the enemy can do on each other.
  
  So, in my opinion, Two Worlds Deserves a 4/10.
  
  0 = It burns, it burns! (Big Rigs) 1 = Horrible. 
 (Extreme Paintball)
  2 = Bad. (Driv3r)
  3 = Not very good. (Daikatana)
  4 = Below-average. (Red Dead Revolver) 5 = Average. (GUN)
  6 = Slightly above-average. (Pariah)
 
  7 = Good. (Counter-Strike)
  8 = Great. (No One Lives Forever)
  9 = Excellent. (Resident Evil 4)
  10 = Perfect or damned close. (Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of 
 Time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USAFA2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I have only played the demo, so it is possible that the finished game 
 is slightly different. However, the demo lets you play more or less the first hour, hour and a 
 half of the game. Thats plenty of time to get a feel for it.
  
  The game first starts with you creating your character. You can choose hair style, hair color, 
 eye color, and then it goes into a whole bunch of customizations for facial features and body proportions. 
 There are only 4 or 5 different hairstyles though, which is kind of a bummer, but there are probably 
 more in the full version. You can only be a human male, but as I understand it, that part is required 
 for the story line to flow correctly.
  
  After creating your character, you're loaded onto a hill side without a real tutorial of how to 
 play. Again I'm assuming that the full version would have some type of tutorial because it was 
 a little disorienting at first, however it wasn't extremely difficult to pick up on the controls.
 
  
  As far as first impression visuals go, you're expecting Oblivion and what you get is definitely 
 NOT Oblivion. Oblivion has a washed-over, soft graphical look to it. Everything is very lush and 
 flowing and all that gorgeous beauty-ness. Two Worlds is the opposite. Instead of being lush and 
 soft, it is stark and crisp. It takes a moment to realize just how detailed it actually is. Especially 
 if you're used to Oblivion, the game is going to look crappy until you realize its different.
 
  
  Once you get used to the graphical system, you see that it tries for a realistic approach instead 
 of a perfect fantasy landscape. You can still look around for miles and see lots of stuff. Everything 
 has realistic shadows, and most NPCs are well textured. The highlight of the graphics comes in 
 the mini-cutscenes with each interaction with an NPC. The background goes to a straight up CG background 
 instead of a game-engine one and couple that with the close up character models and you get a pretty 
 damn good picture. However there is still room for improvement and it could be sharper.
  
  When I played I had everything up on high and the resolution to 1200x800 with anti-aliasing at 
 4 and I didn't experience any frame rate issues, even near the water. Speaking of which, the water 
 boasts a realistc reflection and, get this, there is CURRENT to it. That means if you're swimming, 
 you need to aim further up than where you want to land to swim straight across. I was blown away 
 by this. I started to cross the lake and realized i was going sideways. So i stopped swimming, 
 and sure enough, the cross-current was pulling me down river. This makes sense though, considering 
 the game had me install extra physics software before I could play.
  
  As far as audio goes, Two Worlds definitely hits the mark. In previews its said they brought in 
 over 200 diffrent voice actors for the game. And in the short hour that I played, interacting with 
 about 20 odd characters never yielded the same voice. Plus your character has a voice too! It still 
 has a conversation system similar to Oblivion, except your character will occassionaly talk depending 
 on the event.
  
  The plot line seems to present a decent story too. An ancient power has vanished and The Dark Brotherhood 
 is going to try and find it for its own uses. You and your sister are the only two people left 
 who are able to touch a relic that would reawaken this power though, so they kidnap your sister 
 to get you to cooperate. You then search for the missing pieces of the relic and bring them together 
 to try to free your sister. From what I understand though, thats not even half the game. It really 
 is supposed to start to pick up after you've made the choice to reawaken the power or not. Kinda 
 brings in the classic good/evil choices that develop your character, whom is also highly customizable.
 
  
  Your character has a bunch of different skill sets as well as magic schools that he can use. In 
 the demo you start out with a fire spell and a healing spell, but you can advance later to water, 
 earth, air, necromancy, and lightning as well. Thankfully you can pick up any weapon and use it, 
 you don't have to learn each weapon skill. However, you must meet the requirements for that weapon, 
 such as a certain dextarity, strength, level, etc. Gaining levels is also relatively easy. From 
 killing each creature you gain XP, though its not displayed onscreen, you can track it in your 
 character window.
  
  So its diffrent from Oblivion in that you don't have a core set of skills which then improve your 
 over-all level. Your basic stats for improvement are health, dexterity, strength, and willpower. 
 Just four. These control your HP, ability to use weapons, damage, and MP/spell abilities respectively. 
 Each level up you also get a few talent points to put into skills such as leveling up fire magic, 
 or your block chance, etc.
  
  The combat system is real time, just as in Oblivion, so you can play however you want. You can 
 stick to melee or magic, or ranged, though the ranged attacks seemed to be the least developed 
 of the three. The enemy's health bar is shown in the top center of the screen and your target is 
 represented by a targeting reticule.
  
  The overall difficulty (on medium, the default) wasn't too bad. About what you would expect from 
 an RPG. However it did seem easy to encounter extremely powerful foes without warning (i. e. the 
 grizzly bears that kill you in one hit, even at level 6) . It can be tricky when facing multiple 
 enemies, but simply run out of their attack range and they don't pose a problem.
  
  Dying also was not a big deal. You simply respawn at the closest health fountain. No penalties 
 or equipment damage or anything, which is nice, but at the same time you can endlessly throw yourself 
 at something until its defeated, because the enemy's health doesn't shoot back up right away. Thats 
 another thing, there are health and mana fountains all over the map. And the map is GIGANTIC! Definitely 
 an Oblivion scale map, though not neccessarily as big.
  
  Overall Two Worlds is a great game. Those that aren't hardcore RPGers may not like it, as it can 
 be more difficult to pick up than other games. However once you get going, by only having 4 areas 
 to upgrade, its really fun and easy to get a character you want instead of maybe regretting not 
 investing in one area or the other. The visuals are solid once you take-off the Oblivion blinders 
 we've all been accustomed to. The difference is like that between WoW and LoTRO. WoW is a fantasy 
 landscape, where is LoTRO is more realistic looking. Same difference here, Oblivion is more fantasy-esque 
 while Two Worlds is more real. Audio is superb, as the voice-overs are definitely first rate. And 
 the gameplay in general is fun. If you've played Oblivion and loved it, chances are you'll love 
 this new adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kartraith
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  When playing Two Worlds, the parallels to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is quite apparent. Both 
 feature a rich world full of life ranging from critters to NPCs that you can interact with. The 
 story of Two Worlds is rather plain, you and your sister (you have no choice but to play as a human 
 male) are mysterious descendants of a family guarding an artifact that the bad guys want to lay 
 their hands on, and in the opening cinematics your sister is kidnapped by masked assailants. A 
 few years pass between the cinematic and when the game starts, and your character is now a mercenary 
 who is looking for his sister while completing requests from clients he encounter in the different 
 villages he visits. The strong part of this game is not the graphics, although the wilderness can 
 look pretty damn good sometimes, nor the audio, as the horrific NPC voiceactors all speak in an 
 annoying dialect that is best described as old english spoked by americans, resulting in alot of 
 Nay and T'was . The best thing about this game is the wide array of skills that is offered to the 
 player. It is a skillbased game, and you can choose alot of skills ranging from ones that improve 
 your critical chance with melee weapons, to mixing potions using herbs you can pick up in the wilderness 
 and from looting containers, or the utterly useless horse riding skill. Horse riding is frustrating 
 to say the least, as while it is fast to ride around on your horse, it is often prone to get stuck 
 on the slightest of obstacles, causing it to refuse to take another step. This can happen even 
 while travelling roads.
  Another thing was how overpowered Archery and Alchemy was. Archery utterly demolishes your foes, 
 or you if your enemy is an archer if you're not careful, while Alchemy has a high level skill that 
 lets you mix potions for permanent stat increases, which you can cook again to double its effect.
 
  
  The game features a few factions which you can get a better standing by completing tasks and quests 
 for the appropriate NPCs, however not only is it hard to keep track of which faction the quest 
 will give faction increase with, after a small number of quests, you max out the standing in that 
 faction.
  Depending on which faction you choose there are a few paths you can take in the game, one example 
 is allying with either the ruling house or the rebels who seek to take over the kingdom. Other 
 factions include bandits and mages guild, and merchants guild which gives you a discount from most 
 vendors.
  
  Another nice feature is the ability to combine weapons and armor. How this works is that every 
 piece of item has a specific I. D., and if you find another item with the same number, you can combine 
 them to create a slightly better one. This could be abused in the build I played and create ridiculous 
 items that did massive damage and had insane stat increases, and sold for millions to the vendors.
 
  
  To this games defence, I tried it when it was just out in Europe, and alot of the annoyances I 
 experienced may be fixed in the august release. To sum it up, this game is a time killer, but just 
 about anything it does can be found in similar games such as Oblivion. Glitches and bugs littered 
 my copy of the game, and the bad voice acting and lack of immersion made this game a real disappointment. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
