-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tycoon City: New York
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/tycooncitynewyork/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Very attractive-looking graphics.
 Detailed tutorial.
 Pretty good interface.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much challenge or depth.
 No tension or conflict as you vie for business against AI-controlled entrepreneurs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.7, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 602 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Deep Red
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Feb 21, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tycoon City New York does a decent job at unleashing your inner Donald Trump with an attractive, 
 albeit easy, city simulation. 

  City and business simulations are nothing new for developer Deep Red, whose previous efforts include 
 games like Vegas Tycoon, Spring Break, and the well-received Monopoly Tycoon. Their newest effort, 
 Tycoon City New York, is another decent entry to the genre whose strong suit is its excellent and 
 detailed graphics. The interface elements in the game are also fairly well conceived, but the overall 
 package suffers from gameplay that doesn't offer much challenge, eliminating any sense of tension. 

          Tycoon City New York's graphic detail makes it one of the prettier games in the genre. 
     

  The game offers two gameplay modes: sandbox, which lets you build with complete freedom on a clean 
 slate, and the "build New York" mode, which is a more structured campaign. The latter will have 
 you working to re-create Manhattan island borough by borough, starting with the bohemian hangout 
 of Greenwich Village on up through other famous areas like Soho/Tribeca, the East Village, and 
 midtown. The first couple of levels of the game are basically an extended tutorial that teaches 
 you the basics, from how to move the camera to more esoteric details, including all the interface 
 tools you have available to you. This tutorial is presented at a sensible pace, not overwhelming 
 you with too many things at first, and interjecting with further details as you need to learn them. 

  The premise is that you're a business owner looking to develop the city. You can build everything 
 from housing to restaurants, grocery stores, clothing shops, nightclubs, bars, and even cultural 
 centers like museums. The point of the game is to grow the city by satisfying the needs of its 
 residents, which are represented via bar graphs any time you click on an apartment building. This 
 method of distribution means that the game's focus is very area-specific. In fact, any time you 
 place a business, you'll see a sphere of influence pop up around your shop that highlights the 
 demand for that type of business among the nearby residential buildings. This makes smart placement 
 of your shops fairly intuitive. The game also gives you bonuses for placing buildings of similar 
 purpose near one another; in this way, you can create subdistricts within each area, such as a 
 shopping area full of secondhand clothing shops and cafes, or a nightlife area with several clubs 
 and bars in close proximity. The more successful you are at smart placement of your business, the 
 more foot and vehicle traffic you'll see.  

  The amount of detail you'll see in the city as your neighborhoods grow is the best aspect of Tycoon 
 City New York. Once you've got a neighborhood in full swing, it's pretty fun to stop and watch 
 the people walk down the street and into your stores, or sit down at your cafes and have a meal 
 on an outdoor patio table. The buildings all look great, with details ranging from stone steps 
 to row houses, neon-lit store facades, and iron fire escapes from multistory apartments. As you 
 zoom into the action, you'll hear the din of conversation and vehicle traffic, and even some random 
 chatter from the passersby about the quality of living in the neighborhood or their opinion about 
 a store. There's also a day/night cycle that gives you a different look for your city as transitions 
 between day and night are made.  

  The shops you control are customized via an upgrade system that lets you add decorations and additional 
 features to shops that can increase capacity, improve service or value, and beautify a business. 
 The exact effect an improvement may have on your business is represented before you place the item 
 down via another bar graph. In this way you can more wisely decide if adding a fruit display in 
 front of your grocery store would do you more good than adding a sign on top that could expand 
 the sphere of influence of the business (thus allowing it to serve a larger radius of residences) . 
 While it costs money to place a shop, improvements are governed by a point system, so this encourages 
 you to constantly tweak your businesses to maximize the profit they bring in. Would that coffee 
 shop do better with an extra waiter instead of more tables on the sidewalk? You can just swap those 
 improvements out without fear of wasting money.  

  The game does stop short of asking you to manage prices on your various shops. The profit you make 
 at each business is instead a product of how satisfied the surrounding populace is with that shop, 
 and thus, how much traffic it can attract. This takes some options away from you as far as competing 
 with the various computer-controlled entrepreneurs who will create businesses around the city to 
 compete with you. You'll instead have to compete based on location and the type of improvements 
 you make to your store, or simply buy out the competition if you're really in a pickle.  

          Unfortunately, the game lacks the depth to back up those good looks.     

  The ultimate 
 problem with Tycoon City New York, though, is that it's just not that difficult. As long as you're 
 reasonably intelligent about the types of businesses you create and where you place them, making 
 money is never a real problem. You'll have challenges thrown at you from time to time, which you 
 can beat to earn special points that you use to create famous landmarks. But these challenges are 
 never all that difficult, and it's really only a matter of time before you beat them. While the 
 massive, working city you help create is fun to look at, the satisfaction of creating it is ultimately 
 lessened by the ease with which you'll get your achievements.  

  The game's ease is not necessarily a bad thing if you just want to have fun watching a living, 
 breathing virtual city. For newcomers to the genre, the game's not a bad choice in spite of its 
 many layers of menus and reams of available information. The detailed tutorial and tips system, 
 as well as the game's attractive presentation, make it a decent choice for those who want to delve 
 into the simulation genre. For veteran simulation players, though, Tycoon City New York probably 
 lacks the depth and difficulty to be satisfying for very long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TylerMeyer88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Nice.
  That's the keyword. You can build New York City from near scratch, and who doesen't want that?!? 
 The strrets are built as close as possible to NYC, and there are many famous landmarks already 
 there or available to unlock. You can "talk" with the people on the street and watch as the sidewalks, 
 buildings, and parks become more and more crowded with YOUR people. At times, it does get tough, 
 and you might have to use a cheat or two, but overall, it's "just right".
  
  And now, the graphics
  Wow. The graphics are amazing!!! If the graphics are set on high, not 
 one thing is blurry, you can tell if someone is rich, old, young, or gothic from pretty high up 
 in the sky. And at night, it's extreme. All of the lights come on and you can realx (at times) 
 and watch the city that never sleeps.
  
  And it all starts with a coffee shop, of course. 
  
  Overall, I love this game, and can't stop 
 going back to it. I bought mine for $9, so it's completely woth it.
  
  TMeyer88 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is similar to many city-builder games, most city-builders have almost the same goals, 
 so naturally they would be very close. But there some different aspects, different types of social 
 class, businesses, and also the graphics are a little better off than most of the rest of the lot.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  At first it was fun, but become old fast. I jad expected this game to last a little longer - compared 
 to the many games I still play. It was also full of creative new buildings, shops, there were many 
 different types. Shops wouldn't satisfy, you had to place a certain type!
  
  Graphics/Sound
  At first the looks were very impressive! The attention to every deatil in the 
 game is just cool :) You could zoom-in so far, it would look like you were stalking passer-bys 
 from the third floor of a building :P The sound was okay, the music was nice too.
  
  Although being very similar to its competition, that doesn't mean its bad. But this game got boring 
 fast, I'm not alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCFusion
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Very little in the way of a challenge, more of a 'sandbox' city builder. Almost impossible to lose. 
 Micro-managing funds does not exist. Pretty much a plop-until-you-drop game, which is a little 
 disappointing. While you can plop certain buildings to create a gorgeous skyline worthy of a screen 
 shot, you will probably quickly tire of the same repetitive tasks and limited ways to 'dress up' 
 each building. One of the features I look for when buying a city builder is how much can I customize, 
 decorate and create what I consider a great, wonderful looking city. This game fails at that. Like 
 I said, It's pretty much a plop-until-you-drop city builder, but after so many building 'plops', 
 you get bored.
  
  Unfortunately, I never finished this game - I might go back and finish it one of these days because 
 it was entertaining to a certain degree, but nothing like Sim City or City Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmcneill777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't get much better than this! It has great graphics, great objectives, awesome districts, 
 cool buildings, and Sandbox mode. I like how you can upgrade all the buildings and homes to make 
 them look better. I also like how you can build all the cool landmarks throughout NYC. When I looked 
 at all the nasty scores and reviews on Gamespot, I kinda doubted it would be good, but I don't 
 doubt it any more! The cool thing is that you can get it at your local Gamestop for only $9.99! 
 I hope you buy it, because it is SO awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samrulez91
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Tycoon City: New York is a fun game, but, there's something missing, most noticeably, lack of variety 
 and the game is relatively easy.
  
  Being a fan of skyscrapers, I would like to be able to build massive non-existent skyscrapers, 
 but unfortunately, the tallest building you can build is the Empire State Building, and even then 
 it's only one and can only be built in a fixed place.
  
  The games shines on graphics, but sacrifices it for gameplay. The game can get a bit laggy in built-up 
 areas with lots of people and cars. The gameplay is a bit repetitive, it's build and upgrade over 
 and over. The variety of shops is good for most NYC districts and them all being the same name 
 and names like Souvenir Store isn't exactly imaginative.
  
  The game does have a lot of real-world advertising, but for a city like NYC, that's OK, especially 
 in Times Square. This game only really has the building aspect from SimCity from then again from 
 that point of view, it's limited.
  
  If you want more control over your city or cities, go for the latest SimCity, SimCity 4 or maybe 
 even City Life (I am yet to try that out) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: driver64
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  TYCOON CITY: NEW YORK
  
  Tycoon City: New York is a great game and Ive spent countless hours building up New York City 
 just the way I want.
  The graphics in this game are amazing, each building was carefully created, the cars look really 
 nice, etc. I would recommend this game to people who like games like Sim City, City Life, games 
 like that. However, I think Tycoon City: New York is somewhat different from those games.
  
  Overall this game is gorgeous and the game play is great, buy this game, its worth your money.
 
  
  Codes:
  
  Ctrl+Alt+A  Increases your population by 10,000
  Ctrl+Alt+C  Gives you $1,000,000 (Doesnt work after $10,000,000)
  
  Driver64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibacala
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This was a very interesting gmae. It had its up's and down's. When you first put it in and you 
 get to the starting screen. You get two chocies of play. Build New York. Or sandbox. Having only 
 two chocies was one of its downfall. It gave only a small variaty in game play. Now when you start 
 the game, you start in Greenwich Village. They give you some history on the area which i liked. 
 Then you beging. You have to complete quests so its kind of go on your own game play. I noticed 
 in the first 15 min. Exactly smae game play as Monopoly Tycoon. You have competitors. They have 
 their buissness and you have yours. when you build a building it is instantly built. Then you had 
 to upgrade buildings. Which seemed neat but got very boring fast. It took alot of time to go into 
 all these buildings and upgrade them. Now another problem was that you would constantly run out 
 of space. Having to deystroy buildings to make room. Espically when it came to build HQ's for your 
 buissness chains. Then when i tried to build them they would build even if their was enough space. 
 That ended up making some missions impossible to finish. Tough that is prety much all the problems 
 with the game. Its a really good tycoon buliding game. I really prefere those type of games. Good 
 graphics. Plus the best intro song in gaming history. Buy this game if it is around 20 dollars 
 no more no less. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 22, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  A quite interesting game, yet has a lack in gameplay. After about only 3 hours, you find yourself 
 doing the same thing- build, upgrade, build, upgrade. Although it is exciting to be able to control 
 how New York City goes up, and how Atari did a wonderful job giving the game that "New York" feeling, 
 it just doesn't have the pizazz that other tycoon games have. So maybe rent it from your friend 
 for one day, and then give it back after you've built a couple buildings. This game had a lot of 
 potential, but it just doesn't make the list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denizz1991
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Nice, but a little bit more variaton could be good.
  Sound: Sometimes very annoying, the customers are saying not much more then: LOOKS LIKE EVERYTHING 
 HERE WAS MADE FOOR ME!~11, and that sometimes three times at on one moment.
  
  And then the most important factor: the gameplay. The first 10-20 hours are fun, but then the game 
 gets more and more the same. However, afther that it will be fun to play for 2 hours or so, but 
 not the whole day that I did the first two days. The game gets a little repetitive then. But it 
 is very fun to see a almost empty city grow to a very, very living city! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tipexcom2
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  The whole game idea sounds great - building up one of the world's infamous cities, what more could 
 a gamer ask for? 
  I love city building games and I thought this was to be Sim City 4 but in New York, now I regret 
 buying the game and not trying the demo first. 
  The graphics and sound are fine but everything else let's the game down; the game lack's substance, 
 after buying a few buildings what is there left to do? The games wants players to upgrade individual 
 buildings and cater for the citizens but also brags building up an entire New York. Surely you 
 have to remove the internal management of tiny shops when dealing with the health of a whole metropolis.
 
  After playing it twice you'll run out of patience for (what I found was) a poor camera system. 
 A great opportunity for an excellent game but it was wasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheval52
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  It is a little intimidating to have to put together an entire neighborhood of the size found in 
 the opening scenario and still not feel rewarded. Sort of like being asked to replicate the Cistine 
 Chapel and being handed a single airbrush. Honestly, boredom prevented me from continuing on past 
 3 hours of actual gameplay. This Is a shame since the overall layout and graphics were quite pleasing.
 
  
  Had Atari thrown in a transportation system option like SimCity4 or even a simple dockyard it would 
 have made for a more enjoyable challenging game. I pray that there is a Patch or Expansion Pack 
 coming soon which could help alleviate the problems of a game with so much potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuhrer
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun for only about an hour. After the initial hour you realize that the game 
 doesn't offer anything else. 
  
  Once you complete few districts its all the same with some new buildings. And it gets very boring 
 especially upgrading all the buildings one by one, they should have at least gave an option to 
 save an upgrade and then just click a button and have upgrades for buildings of the same kind.
 
  
  There is absolutely no re-play value.
  
  The sound for this game is the worse I have heard for a really long time. At times I found myself 
 in total silence. Once you zoom in you start hearing more sounds the people and shops but you have 
 to zoom in pretty close for that and its not easy playing like that.
  
  I recommend you get this game once the price falls down its not worth spending all that money 
 for it right now. I'm surprised how people can give such good reviews for this game on here, especially 
 for the sound - which is almost none-existent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  I have been waited a long time for this game, and in some ways it was not worth it. Its an ok game, 
 but its like the same happend again and agian, like when you upgrade your bulidnings.
  
  The good: Its relly cool to build New York in your way, and see your buildnings and money grow. 
 And the feeling that you are creating something big. The graffic is not bad either.
  
  The bad: You will get sick of it over time, and for me this is a one way game, that I would only 
 played true it, and complete it one time. Its also a lot of the same things that happen, like upgradning 
 and upgradning.
  
  
  So if you like tycoon game, the I would not say that you will not like this, but if you like that 
 things are happening a little quicker, and don't want a game that you play true one time, and uinstall 
 it, then am not sure if this game are for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kc1222
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Tycoon City: New York is a game worth playing dough it has some negative aspects. 
  The game is fun, but the music is very poor. Why couldn't the add some good tunes to the game? 
 However this game has a really original idea, but I think that this idea could be much more explicated. 
 The game is definitely too short and it doesn't really trow a real challenge.
  Nevertheless this game is really fun to play and the graphics are really spectacular. Another good 
 thing about the game is that it can run even on a very old PC.
  So it's a cool game you should most definitely try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshel_007
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  this game is really impressive when u start if for the first time. It has really great and very 
 well done cut scenes, normally not found in simulation games. When playing the first time, u get 
 attracted to it. but after sometime u know that its a very monotonous game. u got to do the same 
 thing in the whole thing over and over again. Build, then upgrade. the main reason that this game 
 is simple is just because money comes in very easily. even if u own 3 or 4 businesses, u could 
 have a profit of abt 20,000 $ per day.... which makes the game very simple. cos u earn money quickly 
 and that way u tend to build more businesses, and earn even more money. other than that, great 
 sound and graphics, and really nice cut scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joggler4
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  Hi, after playing for several hours I have come the following conclusion.
  Graphics and Sound are both mediocre there are no surprises in the gameplay, you get the standard 
 new shop when you advance but it still comes down to "upgrade" this destroy the fun.
  The special assignments are ok, but you can select them when you want to, so you can build the 
 requirements before accepting the job, therefore it is not hard to complete.
  
  The many types of shops are the positive about this game and some may say that the removal of micro 
 management is good, but that is up to each individual.
  
  If you like to build stuff, then buy this game when you see it at half price, then will not rip 
 out your hair for wasting you money as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks the graphics are totaly awesome and when i play the game i fell like im really 
 in new york city i mean its like your in the crowd and also see what people do in their averange 
 lifes but what is still needed of this game i that eventough the graphics are good there also still 
 a little slight
  
  The people behave adsive there like real people and u get to make new york city your way like which 
 building i can put its totaly great i mean your like the goverment of the city controling everything 
 since anyway this game is good it really is belive me if u play it youl fell like u really are 
 there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natria
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Tycoon City: New York boasts of the ability to track thousands of individuals, and lets you build 
 dozens of different stores, homes and businesses however, it gives you little reward for doing 
 so. 
  
  The interface is intuitive and the tutorial quite good and in a matter of minutes you will be plopping 
 down restaurants and coffee shops all over. However, that's all you will ever really do. After 
 just 20 minutes of playing, you come to realize that this game is only about clicking on empty 
 lots and placing a store in demand. 
  
  Place a restaurant down, upgrade it a bit with some plants or extra tables, and then use the profits 
 to buy another store. TCNY is not only too easy (it's practically impossible to lose money) but 
 there's no real competitive element.
  Since money is really just a question of time, and your competitors are really non-existant. This 
 game could have been so much better had it been more of a business game than simcity. You can safely 
 avoid this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  When I started this game, I was a bit hoping it would be like Monopoly Tycoon. That's one of my 
 favorite games, especially over the network.
  The menu was on my screen and was looking all great,
  I thought: hmmm, this is my first time, 
 let's begin with the Sandbox mode.
  The game loaded and there was a big New York with only streets and important building on screen.
 
  Not long after that I figured out that I had to click on a field within streets and select what 
 I wanted to build, like an Theater or restaurant.
  The number of buildings was more than I expected, but when I filled up a field, and looked at the 
 people walking in and out of my new buildings,
  I was missing something: DEPTH.
  The game is just about placing builings on empty fields in NY!
  That's not what I was expecting 
 and not what I was planning to do for a few more hours!
  The graphics of the game are in contrast beautifull!
  People on the street can be zoomed fully 
 onscreen, and you can look within the buildings you build, but this doesn't add any extra gameplay 
 elements!
  The sound are the normal city sounds and a very irritating background song.
  Some Simgamers who want something (very) easy to play with, will be very satisfied. Me on the other 
 hand want something like Simcity, where you have to think about a lot of things, and not only about 
 placing buildings.
  They just to extend the gameplay some more, that's all what keeps this game from beng a good game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royvanderhoorn
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Just played the game for 3 days, but I am actually getting quite bored of building streets, then 
 upgrade it. Put some plants in front of a store or house and move on to the next one if you have 
 enough money. At the beginning you will think : what the hell is going on, why are there that few 
 buildings? But after a while you and your opponents will build the biggest apartments and shops.
 
  A large variety in stores, from grocery to book stores. French restaurants to cab firms. Graphics 
 are good, but can be better. It's pretty good with all the people walking down the streets and 
 buy clothes or going to the cinema. With the sound is nothing wrong, but nothing special here. 
 The menus are simple, within 10 mins you will know how the system works and in no time you will 
 own some stores and houses. 
  But that's about it. There are missions along the way, but there is nothing new in gameplay there. 
 Just build this, then this etc. After a while very boring! My conclusion: Only buy this game if 
 you like building, buildings, and NEW YORK! If not, better spend your money on some other game 
 ;) Duhhh :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martinmet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  I thought the game was fantastic and by far the best city builder ever.
  there is so much to see with the exceleent graphics and sounds Tycoo City: New York is a feast 
 for you senses. there are 12 districts all together so there are a lot of hours to be played, usually 
 when i get a game it is completed within a week but im on my way to completeing this one.
  Its so easy to get right into, the little tutorial tells you everything you need to know and sets 
 you on your way to build the greatest city on earth. the customization opportunities are endless 
 with all the shop, services and club down to the palnts and stands outside your buildings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobLyon123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  TC: NY is a very enjoyable game to play - build a wide variety of businesses and personalize each 
 one to fit the distinct neighborhood it's in. At first blush I forsee problems down the road keeping 
 things fresh - after the first few neighborhoods you've got the sequence down - build, upgrade, 
 tweak and fill in the missing businesses - and it's really easy to make a profit - don't see how 
 you can "lose" this game. 
  
  A ton of effort went into this - the evidence is in the myriad details associated with every little 
 aspect of the game - I just worry that the game itself may not have "legs," as I'm already a little 
 bored with the process. 
  
  New Objectives in each neighborhood help to spice things up, and as long as the Objectives continue 
 to be as interesting and challenging as the first few, there's hope.
  
  Quick note - I'M TOTALLY FED UP WITH "GAME MANUAL ON DISC"! Enough already! Shell out the extra 
 10 cents per copy to print it up yourself, game developers! I shall no longer sit quietly by! What 
 if I want to read the manual on the can - which I do?! Gotta spend my own hard-earned pennies on 
 paper and printer ink? End up with a bunch of loose sheets too big to handle easily? I think NOT! 
 Make me a manual, dammit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Some call this game boring, but they also called The Sims boring, and it just turned around and 
 became the Worlds best selling game. Just like a lot of Sim style game, the game is what you put 
 into it. There are many things to do in the game if you just understand the concept of the game.
 
  YOU ARE NOT THE MAYOR OF NEW YORK. So you cant just go in and start designing streets, and building 
 fire stations, if you want that boot up Sim City. This game isnt a Sim City game ether, Sim City 
 is a god building/Mayor sim, this is more of a business building Monopoly style game. Something 
 that Donald Trump would really get into.
  Now that we got that straight, the game is a beautiful design, sim of New York. The graphics are 
 awesome, the buildings are very well done, the traffic, and the people walking around are all very 
 well done, and diverse. The game sounds are also very well done, giving a very good feel of what 
 a city of this size really sound like. The voiceovers are well done, and very New York like, the 
 cut screens are well done, if not a little too over done, and there isnt a way to end them fast.
 
  The game is very open ended, and I think thats why people are so lost in it. Kids now days, if 
 not told exactly what must be done, just dont have a clue, and have very little creativity. 
 
  If you looking for a Sim City game, then for God Sake, boot Sim City up, but if you want a game 
 that toss in a little Monopoly, The Sims, and awesome graphics and sounds, then this is for you. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stan_hg
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  When i get NYC: Tycoon for first time i expect game with much depth and complexity, but for my disappointing 
 it was not. The gameplay is mainly - build some building , than upgrade to be more beautiful and 
 attractive and move to the next one. The problem here is that you can't lose money. The only difference 
 between the good player and the bad player is speed of money earning. The game have some sort of 
 plot but is actually the same of above. AI is not challenging and the feeling is that i am in my 
 own world - not good at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfc_Meanstreet
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  So you think you can do it better than Trump? 
  
  The games starts you off with letting you pick either the Sandbox mode or the Build New York mode. 
 
  The sandbox gives you the entire island of Manhattan, to do what you want with - with the exceptions 
 of the loved landmarks and parks. 
  
  It's up to you if you want competition or just play around forever in your pace. This is a nice 
 feature but does get a bit boring in the end. Especially the ristrictions with what buildings can 
 be in what areas is annoying, and quikly made me stop playing that mode.
  
  The other part is the main game "Build New York". It starts you off in a small area and guides 
 you just enough to get started. The games works by You chosing a buisness, a home or an office 
 building and puts it in an empty area on the map. You do not decide how the buildings look - and 
 the amount of different buildings are very limited. But you can give the buildings personality 
 by customising it with differnt signs and upgrades. 
  This works fine at first, but when you have to do it to the 1000s of different buildings it quikly 
 get's to be a boring chore. 
  
  The computer doesn't really compete with you at any time. What it does is it fills up the empty 
 areas along with you. If you build a shop it builds a house, if you build a house it builds a shop. 
 It never tries to compete with you, only help. This makes it's almost imposible to fail, and does 
 leave a lot to be disired. Especially when you have the sandbox mode, incase you just want to relax.
 
  
  What it all comes down to is a very easy and at times a bit boring game. 
  This is no way a Sim City killer, not even close. But it does give you the opotunity to create 
 New York City the way you like - as long as you like it with a very limited amount of different 
 buildings. 
  
  Basicy it not a bad game at all, it's visually beautiful, when you zoom in to streetlevel it really 
 feels like New York. And the different areas does have the different personalities we love or hate.
 
  
  It is fun to play Donald Trump. What drags it down is the very limited amount of options, and the 
 very easy gameplay.
  
  Personly I like it a lot, but I would strongly surgest playing the demo before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4co
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  My first opinion of the game was positive, the game looks nice, atmosphere is good, nice story 
 line and a lot of variety of shops.
  It is definitely an improvement of Monopoly Tycoon.
  
  But there are some points i think the game still need to be improved.
  First to start with 
 the lack of competition. There are competitors but they built very slowly and if i want i can buy 
 all of their businesses ( even those who are very important for their company ) and they cant turn 
 my offer down.
  The computer also does not have the ability to buy any of my shops.
  
  Second point is the lack of being enabled to change the prices your stores are asking, so you can't 
 have price wars to win in a particular branch.
  
  Third point is that it isn't possible to go bankrupt.
  
  Fourth point is that there isn't a 
 multi-player option.
  
  Conclusion :
  A good improvement of Monopoly Tycoon but, there is definitely much to improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunark
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Maybe the problem is that it's just too easy. You really can't do anything wrong. You build a few 
 businesses and wait for them to slowly make money. Then you build some more businesses, and they 
 slowly make some more money. You never go bankrupt, you never lose money. There's no strategy, 
 no challenge, no thrill here. The difference between playing well and barely playing at all is 
 the amount of money you make (either enough or a lot) . That's it.
  
  Sure, looking around from street level at the busy neighbourhood you've built is great. Hundreds 
 of people milling around, street signs flickering... the ambience is great fun. But ambience can 
 only take a game so far. After two or three hours, it all starts to feel kind of bland and uninteresting.
 
  
  It's like a nice looking move with no plot. Half way through you realize you just don't care, and 
 you walk away from the TV to find something more interesting to do.
  
  I'm really disappointed. Aimless, open-ended games are generally my favorite genre. Tycoon games 
 have been among my favorite -- from Railroad Tycoon to Rollercoaster Tycoon. But this game just ain't 
 it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
