-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UberSoldier
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/ubersoldier/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Graphic engine looks nice--if you can get it to run.
 You can stop bullets!.
 (unintentionally) Campy story and dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game engine is a major system hog.
 Brief campaign is a snooze.
 Very high system requirements.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 6.1, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 561 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Burut Software
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date:     Mar 31, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Massive system requirements, a by-the-numbers campaign, and no multiplayer make for a first-person 
 shooter that doesn't have much in the way of redeeming qualities. 

  UberSoldier exemplifies almost everything that people hate about first-person shooters. The game's 
 story is pretty terrible, and it's delivered in numerous cutscenes with voice acting that's so 
 bad, it's almost campy. Meanwhile, aside from one unique game mechanic, the brief single-player 
 campaign is almost wholly unremarkable, and massive system requirements will keep most people from 
 playing this at an acceptable resolution or frame rate. The lack of multiplayer also hurts what 
 little intrinsic value the game had to begin with.  

          Achtung, mein Fuhrer! Your zombies are ready!     

  UberSoldier's story is something 
 taken out of a bad science-fiction novel. German scientists traveling to Tibet during WWII have 
 discovered an ancient technique for reincarnation. Conveniently, the reanimated zombies have supernatural 
 powers and will obey the first person that speaks to them after they rise from the dead. As the 
 war in Europe rages on, Nazi researchers work feverishly to refine the process of reincarnating 
 dead German troops to create a unit of undead supersoldiers. You play the game as Karl Stoltz, 
 an elite German soldier killed in an ambush by French Resistance. The Nazi scientists reincarnate 
 you, but just before you awaken, a raid on the research facility takes place, and the first person 
 that talks to you ends up being a member of the rebel raiders. Thus, the Allies gain their own 
 supersoldier, and you take up arms against your former comrades who have turned you into something 
 of a monster.  

  As an UberSoldier, you have the unique ability to put up a bullet shield around you, which stops 
 bullets in their tracks, much like Neo in  The Matrix . This ability is powered by a meter, which 
 is charged up by accumulating headshots on enemies in quick succession. If your meter has enough 
 power, you can actually reflect the bullets right back at the enemies who shot at you. It's actually 
 a pretty-looking effect, with a blue shimmer that holds individual bullets up in midair. This special 
 effect tends to feel overpowered at times though, even if you can't shoot out of your own shield. 
 Moving from one piece of cover to another is a trivial matter with this bullet shield, and recharging 
 isn't overly difficult in the many missions where you're armed with sniper rifles. These missions 
 let you score headshot after headshot against enemy artificial intelligence that isn't very bright. 
 Or you can simply charge up to groups of enemies and empty automatic weapons into them at close 
 range. There's another special ability where you can gain health by knifing three soldiers rapidly, 
 one right after the other. But given that enemy soldiers drop health when they die (and it's so 
 much easier to just shoot them) , there isn't much motivation to take advantage of that particular 
 play mechanic.  

  Aside from the slightly interesting bullet shield, there's really not much to UberSoldier. While 
 the mission objectives may vary in name, and you can man a U-boat at one point, the game mostly 
 boils down to moving from point A to point B, blasting everything in sight, and making liberal 
 use of the quick-save and quick-load buttons. The missions will occasionally have you working alongside 
 some AI-controlled cohorts, but they're no smarter than the enemy soldiers, as they take cover 
 on the wrong side of debris and generally act as cannon fodder. If you can stomach the monotony, 
 it shouldn't take you more than six or seven hours to finish the game, counting reloads for the 
 times you forgot to hit quick save. Depending on the computer you have, you're liable to spend 
 a good percentage of that time just waiting on load screens, as the loading times in this game 
 are horrendous.  

          At its core, UberSoldier is a typical shooter that we've seen and played many times before. 
     

  On the plus side, UberSoldier includes a good number of authentic World War II rifles, pistols, 
 and submachine guns. The campaign will take you across the usual slate of secret research facilities, 
 bombed-out cities, military bases, and the aforementioned U-boat as you work on behalf of the Allies. 
 The weapon models and environments in the game actually look pretty good, with a great deal of 
 detail and texture sharpness. Character models can look a little generic and plastic-like though, 
 and the rag-doll physics in the game go overboard with contortionist positions. The main issue 
 with the graphics is that the performance is terrible unless you have a powerful computer. We had 
 trouble getting the game to run at a decent frame rate on a Pentium 4 2.4GHz, with 1GB of RAM and 
 a Geforce 6800 overclocked video card, even at a modest 1024x768 resolution. Turning down graphical 
 bells fixed the frame rate issue to an extent, at the cost of graphical fidelity, and later levels 
 didn't seem to suffer as badly. But UberSoldier is still somewhat of a system hog, and while the 
 graphics can look nice, the payoff isn't exactly on the level of many other pretty graphics engines. 
 Unfortunately, the sound doesn't do much for the presentation either. While the gun effects and 
 explosions are generally decent, the voice acting in the game is flat-out awful, making us wonder 
 at times if placeholder voices were never switched out. The actor playing Stoltz is completely 
 wooden, and many of the other lines of dialogue are delivered with exactly the wrong intonation 
 for a given situation.  

  If UberSoldier had a multiplayer mode, there may have been some salvation to be found, but surprisingly 
 for a PC first-person shooter, there's no multiplayer mode at all. Since the presentation and single-player 
 campaign leave you wanting, there's really not much reason to play UberSoldier... unless it's for 
 the story and voice acting, which are so bad they're almost campy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ShooterSammy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is great. i finished it yesterday ^^. it was long but not very long, it was a bit hard, harder 
 at end, and now i'm waiting for UberSoldier 2 ^^. i think it will be great like this one, but don't 
 know why gamespot gave 4.6 for this game.
  
  Graphics 8/10: the graphics looks great, some details stinks but it's not pretentious for PC
  
 
  Gameplay 7/10: the gameplay is pretty good i give for gameplay just 7^^
  
  Sound 8/10: the sound in this game is pretty good but when there are many sounds you can't hear 
 the weapon. i think is an error, but the sound is still good
  
  this is just my opionion you don't need to belive me
  
  the photos don't show you much about 
 this game so buy it, it's not a worth of money. this game is great  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Story: You are Karl. You are an UberSoldier, created by the Nazis to kill Allies but now you switch 
 sides to help them defeat Hitler.
  
  Graphics: Not bad.
  
  Audio: Horrible Voiceovers and Dialogue.
  
  Missions: None really, kill all enemies, push a 
 button, save a person.
  
  Controls: Average FPS controls.
  
  Features: You get an awesome shield that blocks bullets. That about it.
  
  A. I.: Stand, shoot, 
 get owned by explosive barrels.
  
  Loading Times: Frequent, long.
  
  Multiplayer: Lame.
  
  Requirements: Medium.
  
  Weapons: All your WWII weapons. MP-40, Walther, 
 .45, ST-44, Panzershreck, etc.
  
  The Good: Nice Idea, but over-used.
  
  The Bad: Story, Voiceovers, Enemies.
  
  The Ugly: How many times you've killed Nazis.
  
 
  Replay Ability: Low to None.
  
  The Bottom Line: Don't play this unless you want just another WWII shooter with one cool feature. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zapp222
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  Yeah, the voice acting is crappy... I agree with Synthfreak [by the way learn some grammer and spelling] 
 they do sound like hillbillies, but the voice acting is as bad as Farcry and that didn't stop me 
 from enjoying the game. It seems that Germans are afraid to be Germans.... I paid 10 bucks for the 
 game and I'm having fun with it. Other than that, I feel the game play is adequate, I've played 
 worse games... Bloodrayne, anyone? and I feel that I got my money's worth. If your rig can't handle 
 it...... Bloody upgrade! So it is written, so it shall be done .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  So - what did the developer hope to achieve with this game? Its not like World war 2 hasn't been 
 covered before. It takes a whole new idea or new game mechanics to add something to that setting 
 (like Company of Heroes)
  
  And its not like the story hasn't been done before - &Uuml; bersoldier? Even the title suggests 
 that this game borrows more than it can handle from Return from Castle Wolfenstein. In fact, when 
 playing through this game there are only two things that really stands out from the sea of blandness...
 
  
  1) Beautiful graphics.. at times. Nice texture work and complex objects make this game better looking 
 than the gameplay. As with the rest of this game, this is not a constant pleasure, though - the 
 character models are so - so, and the animations are as stiff as they come. But especially the 
 submarine mission has some of the better graphics I've seen.
  
  2) Horrible, horrible voice acting
  
  It would be funny, if it wasn't so sad.
  All the germans 
 have american accents when they scream at you. Which is ridiculous, considering the amount of german 
 people involved in the project.. It is as if all of the Wehrmacht suddenly were replaced by american 
 football players. The main character, Karl, has the worst voice actor - and the worst voice acting 
 - I have ever experienced. Completely devoid of feeling and totally out of touch with the story, 
 he manages to deliver all his lines as if he were reading aloud from a newspaper... to himself. 
 But don't get me wrong, all the other voices are horrible as well.
  
  The rest of the game is a substandard shooter with a few nice touches, but generally with a lack 
 finesse to drive it out of the pool of B-games out there. The game is over rather quickly - and 
 only the bad autosaving system (and very slow 'quicksave') will slow down your progress.
  You have a bulletshield at your disposal (as an &Uuml; bersoldier) which is a nice little feature, 
 unfortunately this is the only thing that can be called original in this game; and the story will 
 probably give you a few laughs - as it must have been written on the backside of a toiletpaper... 
 as an afterthought.
  
  I did finish the game, so it must be worth one run.
  
  On the plus side - the game is easy to play, the weapons are detailed and somewhat fun to shoot 
 with and for some, generic shooters may be what they are looking for. Involuntary fun dialogue, 
 bad voice acting gives the game the right B-movie atmosphere. Well, if you like bad movies, you'll 
 appreciate this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang_rider
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  -Gameplay: the default keys are almost the same as the other FPS game the mayor problem is when 
 you gona change your weapon or aim.
  
  -Graphics: Graphicly the game is well made in a P4 2.4 or 3.0 RAM 1Gb Video card Geforce 6900/7 
 or Ati x550/x1950 run smooth i have a shappire radeon x550 an it run smooth with high texture the 
 effects can be noted the shalders the only minor problen is the particles effects that looks a 
 little bit old effects.
  
  -Sound: the sound isnt too bad and not to good its just fine
  
  Conclusion: Not a bad game, But is short, Worth playing it? thats your choise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I wish I had more time to devote to actually dealling with the inaccuracies of this game. The overall 
 graphics, texturing, and shadows where good. However, having every mental patient look exactly 
 the same, is disappointing. The accuracy, and damage reality of each weapon is completely off. 
 No matter how many times, and no matter where you shoot the soldier, mental patient (I can understand 
 the zombie aspect) , guard, medical intern, etc. each bad guy has a fall down twice rate. Meaning 
 you can shoot all day long at the model, emptying all of your ammo, and the model will not die 
 until it fallas twice.
  
  I always thought, being in the military, that when you shoot someone in the head with ANY automatic 
 weapon/machine gun, that thing pretty much dies instantly... Not in this case.. good luck killing 
 anything with one shot in this game. Completely unrealistic physics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorJay
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually much better than Gamespot's review, based on my opinion. True, it has some 
 major problems as mentioned, such as the long loading time and the multiplayer part. However, assuming 
 that u are mostly interested into the single player missions only, it could still be called a good 
 game. Indeed, I can see that the producer did put an effort in making this game, unlike some others 
 who just rip off money by making games with the least amount of resource. First about, the graphic 
 is merited to have a score between 7 to 8. I have seen games with poorer graphic while gamespot 
 still gave a higher score. Some particular parts are actually quite amazing, such as the stopping-bullet-effect. 
 Secondly, although the AI is not as smart as the best one u saw from a great game, it could still 
 be called OK . Thirdly, the game takes about 10 hours to finish, which is merely a bit short. At 
 last, the story is rather quite interesting, but unfortunately it didn't have a nice plot development 
 so lot of potentials are wasted. I have played many great FPS games such as MOH, Battlefield, F. E. A. R, 
 etc. Still, I find this game worth playing. It seems to be that when a game has a few serious problems 
 (which may or may not be important for some players) , Gamespot tends to downgrade every aspect 
 of the game. I rather find it unfair and therefore I post this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SynthfreaK
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 25, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Ubersoldier... waste of a good name!!! Not worth the $9 to $20... I wanted an alternative to Call 
 of Duty and Wolfenstein only to fool myself with wounderful gem. There is nothing like the real 
 thing and in cutting corners I wasted both time and money. Story is utter hollow and stale embraced 
 by the worst voice acting with Germans sounding like they are from the Confederate States. This 
 is when I actually wish I could turn voices off and delete the story. Furthyermore the game engine 
 is pretty much broke with bonus for head shots yet many times I busted a cap in a Hill-Nasiz's 
 @$$ only to not get the credit nor the one shot kill. The meelee attack is pretty much without 
 the sense of intensity that you would expect... however not every game can match the hand to hand 
 aspect of Fear &amp; Halo 2. Regardless I killed many of these stupid bad guys only to never really 
 to feel that bloodlust sensation that we tend to have when playing an FPS. The only possitive is 
 nice graphics with a good frame rate provide you have a good perfomance vid card however this dosen't 
 dismiss the fact that the loading is as bad as Tomb Raider for Sega Saturn that came out nearly 
 10yrs+ ago. Even with 2 gigs of ram I could microwave something get a drink and then maybe... maybe... it 
 would be ready. Hell F. E. A. R. loads in mere seconds WTF!!! What tops this is NO MULTIPLAYER IN 
 A FPS.... what is this that's like Peanut Butter with no Jelly, Ham with no Burger, Witney without 
 Bobby (oops that happened) !!! To finally get to the point save the money get the games that you 
 know are good or wait until something better comes. Play the games you already own and don't buy 
 junk just because you have the money 'cause when you are running low on food you'll think DAMN 
 I bought Ubersoldier!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  first of all, there is no multiplayer. sad in today's videogame market to design a game without 
 multiplayer. *sniff*
  
  the voice acting is so incredibly bad that it is humorous
  I laughed every time on of the npcs on my side would see bad guys and whisper I see nazis! I couldn't 
 stop thinking of the movie the 6th sense and I see dead people. 
  
  the game looks great, even with a geforce 7800 I could make my card really work. the ability to 
 swap out weapons at any time and carry the weapons complement of your choice is great. the flamethrower 
 is a blast and the flame graphics look good. In addition to which, when you torch nazis they take 
 a long time to die, all of which is spent in screaming agony. the panzershrek is also fun to play 
 around with
  
  the bullet shield is a neat trick, and it is fun to let it soak up a fullisade from a full squad 
 and then turn it off and fire every thing back in one salvo. if you use the shield correctly it 
 stops enemy bullets and then fires them back when you turn the shield off.
  
  so all told... buy it in the bargain bin if you see it and really want to play a new shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  I thought this game will bring a new breath to the WW II historic shooter genre. But it brought 
 bull"shait"..... Absolute non sense what is going on in this bloody game industry. So now once again 
 I relasied that there is no way that I am going to cought by the hype. 
  
  Better if you don't as well. You will definitelly disapointed in this game from the start. May 
 be game got really good graphic ther is no doubt about it but man we are talking about highly fast 
 and really good WW II shooter which should smash the all way round, not just stuck in one corner 
 and wait for stupid enemies to come and you could kill them, of course if you will be able to. 
 
  
  Controls of the game is worse ever. So this is just saying the word about this game. 
  
  Really 
 shame for such a waste. It could become good game. BUt it didn't.
  Anyway..
  
  This is what I thought about this game.
  
  It is now up to you enjoy or wether do not. :)
 
  
  I didn't!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gphilli15
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game lacked quality when it came to voice acting and the excessive amount of cutscenes, however, 
 the game did what it was supposed to in satisfying my need to kill nazis. It was overall a below 
 average game, but I felt that it was an appropriate game to enjoy for only but a short while. The 
 game also suffered from frequent, and annoying programing problems when it came to the A. I. More 
 frequently then not, I found myself waitng for the A. I. to do something in order for me to advance 
 on the further stages of the game. I picked up the game for cheap, so I feel I'll enjoy it for 
 the money, but for the price I should've paid, I would probably break the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  well i like this game because its just awsome but i cant believe gamespot rated this game so low, 
 but any way i rate it a 9.7 becaase i love this game and i think i rated it right so if you dont 
 like it go play some other game alright because somepeople like alright now ok well i like this 
 game because its just awsome with all the action and gameplay or whatever you call it i thought 
 this game was great it really depends on what kind of computer you have to have a high graphical 
 computer to play this game the way you want it to and like i said i love this game i play it all 
 the time so keep it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattler
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  I don't know why so many gunners dont seem to like the game but as an avid FPS player I think the 
 game is creative, lotsa action... maybe the graphics could be better but they certainly arent any 
 worse the MOHAA and just plain fun to play. Maybe you guys just need a system runs the game better. 
 If you like blastin away with machine pistols, subguns, fraggin, snipiin and just trippin on the 
 graphics and scenery then you'll enjoy this game for sure. I picked mine up used for nine dollars 
 and I having more fun than I spend on some games costs 5 times as much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkerswill
Rating: 2.4
Date: May 11, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  rip off, rip off, rip off, rip off, I rather roll in broken glass than play this rubbish game again. 
 Are there any ethics in this indusrty , when the hype before the game was released. Indicated itis 
 a great game that will be loved by all. the resulting discuss as shown by the playing public, has 
 indicated this game as being cramp and I wholy agree. I think I deserve a full refund and compensation 
 for the trouble I went to, too obtain this pathetic game. Get a copy of call of duty 2 and learn 
 what a great game needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  Ive bought UberSoldier and it rocked. The action is very bloody. But the voice acting is terrible 
 the funniest line was : Anton:"Good to meet you Karl you are a real. I hope we are not in vain" 
 Karl:"I hope we are not anton".
  The graphics are very impressive but the system specs are MASSIVE!!!!!! But my Pc is : 1,7 Ghz Amd 
 athlon,899 RAM, Ati radeon 9600Xt 128 mb. And i played with Medium quality and with all shaders 
 and i had no problems with the preformance.
  Well the story is weak i dont know who ANTON, Claus. There are lots of weapons The mg 42, panzershreck, kar 
 98k (very powerful) , MP 40, BAR, Bf-42, Walter PP, M1911, Stg 44, PPsh 41, SVT (SNIPER RIFLE) , My favorite 
 Phoneix (flametrhower) .
  The best part is the TELEKENETIC SHIELD. Shot 3 headshots in a row your shield power is increased. When 
 the sield turnsblue you can only sto bullets. But when the shield is white you can use enemy bullets 
 against them lock on the enemy and turn off the shield and the bullets will fly throw the enemy. The 
 best is also the ragdoll phisics. The game is very realistic. If saw the the movement of enemys, and 
 your allies you will see that they are very poorly animated (they didn't use motion capture) .
  My final word is: THE GAME IS GREAT IF YOU WANT IT BUY IT
  WARNING: This game has no MULTIPLAYER, and 
 it has 12 campain missions.
  So like i said if you wann it yo buy it.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  10 hours off intense shooting!!
  Sorry for my english :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 4
Date: May 5, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Well I got it thinking hey alot of hype on gamespots part so I picked it up for the cheap price 
 and ofcourse I shoulda known. 
  The Good:
  Graphics
  Long Single player
  The Bad:
  A. I. Stupid
  Story is based on a stupid nazi zombies
  You need a good comp. ( maby thats y 
 its so cheap)
  Sound... wouldn't kno it blew my $80.00 sound card.
  The Controls are hard as hell to get used to.
  
  So basicly this was a waste of money on my 
 part and the devolpers so its what I would call a lost cause of a crap shoot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noxsiem
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  On the negative side, the character models are badly constructed and overly repetitive. The voice 
 acting sounds like the cast of "Barney and Friends" took laxative before performing, and the background 
 music is dull, contrasting to the theme of the game. The only thing good that Ubersoldier has going 
 for itself is its graphics, which isn't really a good thing in itself, considering the improper 
 rendering of special effects, causing the game to slow down on even the most powerful machines. 
 The model animations are sloppy and outdated, and the AI is by no means creative. On the positive 
 side, Ubersoldier have some of the best looking weapons I have seen in any game thus far, and that's 
 about it. Overall I recommend that you do not waste your time or money on playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naserc
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  It's hard to describe Ubersoldier in a nutshell. The plot is pretty basic - you were a German soldier 
 till you got killed and put in a a secret program that turns dead Nazi soldiers into undead killing 
 machines. Catch is that these super-soldiers (Ubersoldier) will obey the command of the first person 
 to talk to them after resurrection, and that person, in your case, happens to be a female French 
 Resistance fighter. And so the game begins.
  
  Before long, you will find yourself mowing down Nazi soldiers left right and center without any 
 discrimination. Enemy soldiers are capable of doing more damage to you than you might be used to, 
 but the game is also very generous with med kits, which are strewn liberally throughout the game. 
 
  
  The weapons in the game are kind of nice without being really impressive. The model detail is good, 
 reflecting real weaponry of the WWII, but you may be disappointed a little by the lack of variety. 
 Character models are good without truly being great, and they might end up reminding you of the 
 models from Far Cry due to their texture. The same could be said for the general environment details.
 
  
  Sound sadly fares worse, with some of the most horrendous voice acting you will ever hear. Once 
 you manage to swallow the fact that all of the Germans and French soldiers during WWI spoke in 
 perfectly decent English to each other with a splash of terrible make-belief accent, everything 
 else will continue to need you to be more forgiving than you might want to be. 
  
  During the course of the game you will be going to all the different types of locations that you 
 would expect from a WWII shooter with an underlying occult theme as opposed to Call of Duty, for 
 example. You have your bombed out bases, factories, and submarines, and although all these locations 
 look and feel different, they fall just short of feeling unique. And therein lies the problem with 
 the game. 
  
  Its not that Ubersoldier is a bad game. Its just that its not a terribly good 
 one either. The game tries to vary the gameplay a bit by putting in small sequences where you have 
 to fire an anti-aircraft gun at a door to open it, or fire off torpedoes from a submarine to sink 
 a few ships, but these sections feel tacky and as if someone put them in there simply to vary up 
 the gameplay rather than add any real fun to it. And of course, theres the big shocker  
 this PC FPS title has no multi-player component, which is pretty much suicide in todays 
 crowded shooter gaming market.
  
  Even if you are willing to overlook that, you will then have to contend with a single player campaign 
 that is ok at best, but runs out of steam and to the end sooner than you would expect. Combine 
 that with very little replay value and it ensures that you wont be spending too much time 
 on this game. 
  
  To put it all into perspective, this is a game that could have been much better, but sadly wasnt. 
 Any number of things could have probably redeemed this game  a multi-player component, or 
 a longer and richer single-player experience, preferably both. If you are ok with you FPS game 
 being short and with no online play, this might be worth a shot. For the rest of you though, wait 
 for this game to hit the bargain bins. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baljanus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why Ubersoldier is getting so much bad comments. It has a lot of strong points i think 
 but also some very big flaws but these flaws are compensated by the good stuff. First off all the 
 graphics rock, no doubt about that.
  Everything really looks stunning the weapon models, the character skins and not to mention the 
 enormous destructability you can do to the map. The sound in the game is good when we are talking 
 about the weapons but when we are talking about the voice-over ok then we got a problem. OK i must 
 admit, i am not a fan of nazis who aren't talking german but who the hell cares about such a lame 
 detail it's about the gameplay not the voice over, so to be honest it didn't bother me that much 
 that the nazis talked english. Then we got the gameplay, to be honest, i found the game highley 
 addictive i don't know why but i just kept playing and playing. The AI in the game well it wasn't 
 to bad i thought but as usual in first person shooters i could be better. And then ofcourse the 
 very nice price makes up for all those little flaws in the game. I hope ofcourse like what happened 
 to Unreal the awakening, a good game but no multiplayer that the developers decide to add a multiplayer 
 variant that would really rock and then the game would have so much more to offer
  
  I say, who likes to play fast paced FPS games and don't bother those small flaws like english voice 
 over for Nazi's. THIS IS A MUST HAVE GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: almost superb. Very complex outdoor scenarios, very detailed weapon models. Characters' 
 models aren't very expressive tho. Gore implementation is quite good, but not top notch (no dismemberement, 
 blood squirting, etc.) .
  
  Sound: extremely convincing gunshots and explosions, but voice acting is horrible. As a sidenote: 
 I would have preferred nazis yelling/speaking in german.
  
  Music: always off.
  
  Story: **** (at best) .
  
  Gameplay: could have been better. Since Ubersoldier has very few 
 tactical aspects and it's based on quick action, something is missing: quick granade throw, leaning, 
 good mele action (currently this is awkward and can only be conducted via knife, but enemies can 
 also hit you with the back of their guns...) .
  The environment interaction is quite limited except for explosions and movable stuff you find between 
 your feet while walking. No way to pick things up, move (in a asensible way) , throw or stockpile 
 them.
  Enemies AI is very lame.
  For some unknown reason, schizoid dudes in rags hurt you worse than a gunshot with a slap...
 
  
  Overall: very straight and linear shooter, but well made. Some ingenuous aspects, but you can skip 
 on them.
  
  What I hated most: framerate drops in some moments (expecially during chain explosions) . The anti-air 
 mission on top of the submarine: idiotic. The final mega-monster concept borrowed from some old 
 80s platform. The game is somewhat short.
  
  What I liked most: physics engine, gore, fast action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  
  I JUST GONNA SAY POOOH ITS NOT REALLY A GAME ITS A JUNK IF YOU BUY THIS GAME YOU JUST WASTE YOUR 
 TIME YOUR MONEY AND YOUR MIND .LETS TALK ABOUT GAME: YOU HAVE ALLIES IN SOME MISSIONS AND THEY 
 EVEN CANT FIND THEIR way AND ALSO KILLED BY ONE SINGLE SHOOT THEY ARE ALSO TOO STUPID .YOUR ENEMES 
 ARE VERY CLEVER AND its really hard to kill them. one good point on this game is the graphic system 
 but i personaly think graphic is not the important thing always. good game must be good at everything. 
 i tell you my opinion about this game but maybe you like it and enjoy of playing it. you are free 
 to chose
  
  at the end i promise you this game is not a game try to find a better games like call of duty 2 
 or black.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  i dont agree with many of those who just come along and say this game suck or has a terrible storyline. 
 no way; we should appreciate the effort those developers did to create such horrible game.
  
  the game delivers some really well made graphics. and its not that hard to run, i mean it worked 
 on a FX 5200, what could be worse than that.
  
  the story itself is much retard, its about resurrecting you after dying to be the ultimate solider 
 or Ubersolider, supposebly you will gain so much power after you die and get resurrected, well 
 then how can they kill you again.
  
  the voice acting reminds you of porn, mind me, but i cant find more **** actors than that.
  
 
  but i have to admit i spent so time playing that game, i mean the idea of freezing bullets sounds 
 interesting, but before you get all excited its not like Neo does it, you dont move your rest asking 
 bullets to stop instead you like cast a shield around you that stop bullets from entering or exitting 
 it.
  
  which means while your doing that you cant shoot enemies or get shot, but still you can shoot some 
 bullets, freeze them and run ahead your enemy and the frozen bullets in the air will kill him .....!!!
 
  
  another thing the game has is the melee attack, using a dagger or a knife you slash your very very 
 very close encounters.
  
  bonuses come when you get three head shots, or three knife kills in a period of time, very short 
 and very undo-able.
  after all the ads we have seen and all the videos we have downloaded the game came out to disappoint 
 many of us.
  
  dont waste your time and go play condemned. 
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaylaw84
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  the cinematics are dumb the game play is dumb strory line was dumb grafix ok but its like playing 
 a good looking dumb game, if i compaired this game to fear i would say this is 1/16 of the game 
 fear, if my foot had a controler it would be more entertaining and free to play. it was a short 
 game with no end game content to be proud of after completing the game. dont waste your time please 
 unless you are curious of how dumb this game is. and belive me ill save your time now and say its 
 just dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: builtman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  As previous previews have had a hard time running the game due to processor, ram and video card 
 deficiencies, I have not. I am running a x2 64 3800 processor, 2 gig of DDR Corsair ram and an 
 ATI 1900 xtx video card. The graphics are good and the game play is fun (blast em and shootem up 
 style) . I have had some bugs and thus game does not deserve a higher rating. Hey, it isn't Fear 
 or COD 2 but for 29 bucks it isn't bad. You will have to reload the game on a regular basis due 
 to bugs and remember to save alot... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biteme12345
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I read a bunch of stuff on this one before I bought it, and it seems that no one had anything 
 good to say!!! Problems with the Disc verification software and a "lack of anything decent" as 
 on person said. Well, here's my take; This is NOT F. E. A. R. or UT2007 or any of those... keep that 
 in mind when you buy it. What it is, on the other hand, is a good, shoot the crud out of anything 
 that moves, and then shoot it again to be sure game! Yes, the voice acting is SO bad, that is becomes 
 funny at points, and yes, if your system isn't up to par, the graphics will chop up. But my suggestion 
 is that if you simply want to shoot things, use the configure function before starting the game, 
 ignore the bad voice acting (I almost wet myself laughing) and enjoy shooting everything! Once 
 run properly the graphics are decent and the game play is very enjoyable, as long as you aren't 
 anal and expect something ridiculously amazing (which we can't expect all the time!) My only beef 
 with this game... is that it wasn't longer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Ubersoldier is a "Historical Tactical Shooter" from an obscure developer called Burut Software. 
 Its not particularly "historical" though, because it seems to be set in some kind of screwed up 
 alternate reality of WWII. For starters, you are a so-called "Uber-Soldier" (that has to be the 
 most awesome name ever) and you are stronger and more powerful than all other soldiers because 
 of some silly plot involving genetic modifying, and some other crap. Oh, and you have a weird blue 
 shield that freezes bullets before they hit you when you press a key.
  
  My point is, FORGET the storyline - it doesnt make much sense, and isnt particularly interesting. 
 If you are going to play this game, play it for FUN. Theres lots of over the top fun in this game, 
 and if you ignore everything else, you'll appreciate how exciting this game can be.
  
  The first time you kill someone, you will smile at how grimly satisfying it is. They drop their 
 weapon, their helmets fall off , all grenades and everything else they are carrying goes flying 
 off them/blowing up, and they slump to ground in a magnificent show of the ever-loved ragdoll physics. 
 Sparks fly off surfaces when you shoot them, bullets fly everywhere, things explode.... If only 
 the rest of the game was so damn good, this could be one of the best first person shooters in years.
 
  
  But alas! There are numerous problems with ubersoldier, not just the storyline. Thats the least 
 of your troubles. Because this game is plagued with the inevitable curse of budget games... Bad 
 voice acting. Oh, yes. You will experience some of the worst voice acting ever in this game. I 
 think I could have done a better job, and ive even never done it before. The main character in 
 particular sounds bored, unsure how to pronounce certain words, he doesnt even seem to care if 
 he does well or not. There is just no effort in his voicework at all. Its the same for just about 
 every other character, but strangely, the main character is the worst. There are one or two good 
 voices in this game. But they are overshadowed by the bad ones. It actually reminded me of The 
 House Of The Dead. If anyone remembers that game, the voice acting was "so bad it was good" in 
 a sense that it was simply hillarious to listen to. This games voices arent bad in a good way though.
 
  
  Also, the game is very short. I think it took me about 5 hours to complete on easy setting. And 
 the ending is totally uninspired.
  
  One thing in this game that stands out above everything else - even the gameplay... is the graphics. 
 Apart from F. E. A. R, this is one of the best looking games ever. With everything on highest settings, 
 you will be drooling over how good this game looks. The weapon models and character models arent 
 much to look at... But everything else is superb. Two things though, for maximum performance, turn 
 "Shaders 2.0 For Levels" off. It doesnt make much of a noticable difference in this game, but makes 
 a HUGE impact to your overall frames per sec. And you need shadows turned on! Nomatter what else 
 you do to your graphics settings - leave shadows on. This game is nothing without shadows.
  
  -----------------
  Final Verdict
  -----------------
  
  If you can look past the dreadfull 
 voice acting and storyline, and general cheesyness of...... well.... everything - and focus on 
 the gameplay and graphics, then this is a good game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero_Zero
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  When I saw UberSoldier's action-packed gameplay video, I saw to it that i had to get my hands on 
 this FPS. Only after I started playing, I realised that the video only scratched the surface. The 
 video didn't show flaws that were present in the game. These flaws have ruined what could turn 
 out to be an exciting FPS.
  
  At first glance, the game looks incredible. ( That is if you guys posess a monster PC.) Character 
 models, enviroments, gun models can even rival F. E. A. R ! Unfortunately I FEAR that the graphics 
 is the only thing in the game that deserves an A+.
  
  True to its title, UberSoldier sports uber lousy voice acting. Judging from his voice, the hero, 
 (insert name) , is emotionless. OK, he may be a zombie, but come on, heroes are supposed to sound, 
 you know, heroic! The other characters' voice acting are crap. Actually, EVERYONE IN THE GAME sounds 
 like crap! Its like the developers decided to do the voice acting themselves.
  
  Gameplay is even worse! There are inovative ideas such as holding a gun and a knive at the same 
 time, a. k. a. Metal Gear style, and err, psychic powers but thats about it. The grenade system is 
 uber crap. You have to equip it before using it, and you can't cook the grenade like other FPS 
 games. Coupled with the extremely short range, they make the grenade a really frustrating weapon.
 
  
  Last but not the least, there is absolutely no gore in the whole game!!! No blood! No gibs! No 
 nothing! Gore is the way a game tells you that you're doing damage to an enemy. It's also where 
 we gamers get our excitement.
  But nooooooo, this game takes it all away. 
  
  All in all, if you're looking for an FPS to thrill you, look away from this one. This is one roller 
 coaster ride gone bad. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn_Patrol
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  I liked the idea of this game from the get go (the storyline I mean) . My only worry was that the 
 controls were going to be pretty lame. But thankfully they were pretty good. Character movement 
 is good, and in this type of game it needs to be. I hate games like this where your character moves 
 as if he has a lead weight tied to each foot. That is a fun killer, but thankfully it's not to 
 be found in this game.
  
  The atmosphere in Uber Soldier is along the same lines as Return To Castle Wolfenstein. That is 
 probably why I like it so much. I love the WW2 atmosphere especially when it is mixed with a movie 
 like atmosphere as well (like in this game and RTCW) . I think this style of atmosphere draws you 
 into the game more than say Call Of Duty 2 does. I like COD2 as it is thrilling at times. But I 
 dont feel as immersed in it as I do this game and RTCW.
  
  Character Voices - this is probably the only "major" flaw in the game that I personally have found. 
 The Germans sound like US soldiers would when shouting commands, or warnings. They dont sound like 
 Germans at all (their voices dont have that Germans speaking English accent) . It's a shame really 
 as this stops the game from equaling RTCW (in it's own way) .
  
  If you can get past some of the graphics on display (I dont think they are bad, but some might 
 if they prefer graphics over game play) You might find here a game that you can enjoy for an hour 
 or so at a time. I play it for 2 to 3 hours at a time when I have the notion to do so. I look for 
 atmosphere and game play over flashy graphics, every time. This game has what I personally look 
 for in a game. It's not the best of the FPS bunch, but it is worth owning I'd say. I have it and 
 I dont regret buying it either.
  
  Here's to another Uber Soldier or Return To Castle Wolfenstein title, long may this type of game 
 live!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonphil
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  First, you start out with beautiful textures on the models and level design. On par with Doom and 
 Fear, You then grab your first weapon which is a knife, The knife does bring some action to close 
 combat, Once you get your first pistol and shoot a psycho path you will see blood and a bullet 
 hole, how cool is that, You will not see that in Call for duty. After the 15 miniutes of Eye Candy 
 the shooting becomes boring, Nice weapon design though.
  Your squad that helps you, Gets killed pretty quick so you are on your own.
  Buy this game if 
 you want a new shooter. The graphics will blow you away with a High end graphics card. If you don't 
 want this game buy Tomb Raider Legend it is a great game A++++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceargon
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  I admit it, it was an impulse buy. I've been hungering for any decent 1st person shooter experience 
 ever since playing FEAR. Well, this Uber-bad shooter isn't even decent. After I got home I installed 
 it and THEN checked the reviews. Wrong order, my "second" mistake. Impatience is getting to be 
 a character flaw for me rather than an occasional aberration. I tried to find any review that would 
 justify my purchase, to no avail.
  
  Upon running the game the opening cutscene clipped and glitched throughout. Just enough that I 
 thought it may have been intentional for effect. Once the poor voice acting and lame scripting 
 finally ceased to add to my graphical misery, the game began WITH the same cutscene stuttering 
 and clipping. I was getting a bad taste in my mouth and a gut ache in my stomache over this sub-par 
 shooter -- and I would never get past the "sour schnitzel" appetizer to the main course. Which, based 
 on the reviews, is likened to rat-turd and sawdust filled hotdogs on moldy bread. Add the video 
 problems to the terrible script and voice acting and you have a recipe for an uninstall. Fortunately 
 I can trade the game at our local used game store. Thank the gods of second chances because I'll 
 get an equitable trade price and hopefully I have learned my lesson. But then again I did buy Starship 
 Troopers a couple of months ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Total let down, the people look like animations from the 1990's. You can only go one way and one 
 way only. Absolutely no interaction except for the occassional elevator or machine gun. Just stupid.... 
 writing this right after the boring end of the game. I need one hundred words to express something 
 not worth one hundred pennies. The game looks like a castle wolfenstein gone completelly wrong. 
 12 levels of nothing to look forward to. OMG is it still not one hundred words I can not believe 
 this. The voice overs from the actors are the worse. The heroe has the tone of voice of an elevator 
 announcer if there is ever a job like that. "You are now at lobby", "Going down". A completely 
 unfounded love story develops at the end. Just horrible for a game you have to pay for. I wish 
 that like any other software you could return games so I can return this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_J
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Ubersoldier is a very sophisticated game, with its unique headshot and knife kills with its stunning 
 graphics with a bit of gore added in makes one brilliant game, the storyline is quite good and 
 the game length is average it is definitely one to buy, the realistic ragdoll physics also add 
 more brilliance to the game and the gunplay is shockingly beautiful, This is an excellent WWII 
 shooter and a little similarity to Return To Castle Wolfenstien. Although some of the sound is 
 not that good, the grpahics keep it in the good books, with lots of rich, detailed, enviroments 
 to go through sometimes inside, sometimes outside but both are great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigjames11
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  To be fair this game turned out to be a little bit different than most other WWII shooters. Its 
 uses an excellent reward system for different types of killing including headshots and melee knife 
 kills. Unfortunately this was just about the only positive thing the gameplay had going for it. 
 More of the same weapons and a sometimes infinite number of bad guys turns into a repetitious shooting 
 experience. The shield was a nice touch, however it is mostly unnecessary for the better part of 
 the game.
  
  The thing that made this game worth sticking to were the visuals. I did not have high expectations 
 for it to start however I was pleasantly surprised to find the levels large and well put together. 
 The graphics turned out to be a large reason for the game being worth while. As good as they were 
 however, they could not overshadow the worthless voice acting. Its possible that these people had 
 no previous training whatsoever. The movie clips became hard to watch because of the horrible voices 
 and instead of trying to cover it up, it was like they put more in whenever possible.
  
  All in all this game has some playability but just didn't deliver like it could have. AI was questionable, 
 amazing at some parts, incompetent as others. With the same graphics and some better weapons and 
 gameplay put to work this could be a solid buy. However at $30.00 it still may be a bargain for 
 some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  As published on loadedinc. com...
  
  Not much is usually expected from budget titles, let alone shooters. In a genre where games like 
 Half-Life 2, F. E. A. R. and Call of Duty 2 have established lofty standards it is foreseeable that 
 some titles would not be able to measure up. Such was the expectation for UberSoldier. Luckily 
 expectations can be changed in short periods of time. While its far from a gaming masterpiece, 
 UberSoldier does have its strengths that make it enjoyable.
  
  One of the main issues with the game is the localization. Given that it was created by a Russian 
 developer this is not completely unexpected. I knew I was in for an English treat when the first 
 level Psychopathic Hospital loaded up. Grammatical errs are prevalent in the games dialogue 
 and mission synopsis. Any mistakes there, however, fail to achieve the cringing-effect of some 
 of UberSoldiers spoken dialogue. Sentences sound chopped with the player being unable to figure 
 out what is going on in a scene until its finally spelled out for them. Accents are just plain 
 wrong with both British naval officers and German sentries possessing a bit of Western U. S. twang 
 in their voices. For comical effect you can always look for the games lead, Karl Stoltz, to deliver 
 his lines in an emotionally devoid state. Bullets ricocheting off of debris in front, bodies exploding 
 all around, and Stoltz talks on his radio with all the emotion of a posh London socialite during 
 Sunday brunch.
  
  But you must also consider that a voice actor is only as good as the source material theyre given. 
 A German officer raised from the dead, given supernatural powers and ready to settle a vendetta 
 against the scientists who interrupted his eternal sleep doesnt sound like the most convincing 
 of concepts. In fact, from mission to mission youll see what could have been developed into a 
 convincing story be passed off as a weird series of coincidences. Stoltz himself is treated like 
 an obedient dog throughout some sequences with supporting characters blatantly talking about how 
 theyre manipulating him in front of his face. It doesnt help the player think theyre fighting 
 as a noble character and instead makes him seem like a hyped-up errand boy. It is a bit understandable 
 though since he came from a Psychopathic Hospital.
  
  What the game lacks in its premise and sub-par acting it makes up for in other departments. UberSoldier 
 itself is a visual treat with some areas looking downright beautiful. Characters are modeled crisply 
 with eyes, noises, fingers and other small features crystal clear. Damage is represented with actual 
 bullet impact holes on corpses. Leaning down to a German soldier and seeing a shot that went clear 
 through the eye gives off a satisfying feeling. Gear from soldiers uniforms including shovels, 
 ration bags and assorted paraphernalia spill to the ground. If there are any complaints its that 
 wounding animations look the same as those for death. Soldiers consistently slump to the ground 
 after a hail of bullets only to get back up three-to-four seconds later.
  
  The games structures possess clear textures that convincingly show every brick, blistered paint 
 chip and bullet hole. Levels will range from large, expansive factories to small and enclosed submarines 
 where a leaky hull will have you clamoring for the nearest water-tight hatch. Visual options are 
 extensive and everything from gun models, characters and antialiasing are scalable. The result 
 is that UberSoldier will play on a number of different hardware configurations and still look great 
 no matter what.
  
  Gameplay parallels the games graphics in that, for the most part, youre getting some great action 
 but it does bog down in a few areas. The most notable quirk is Stoltzs special power, a temporal 
 shield. It stops bullets in mid-air and suspends them, creating a bullet-wall in whatever direction 
 you were being shot at. Said bullet wall can then be walked in to enemy soldiers and gives them 
 a severe case of deadness. Its an incredibly useful power and may save you from a few restarts 
 here and there but never feels like more than a gimmick. Youll never feel the need to use it because 
 you can but only because youre heavily outnumbered. That distinction alone prevents it from being 
 great.
  
  Complimenting your shield is the developers self-titled emotion-driven gameplay that comes in 
 two forms. Getting three headshots in a short time span will boost the power of your temporal shield 
 while melee killing enemies with your knife three times will increase your maximum health bar by 
 two points. Headshots are easy to come by but enemies are downright dangerous if they get close 
 so knife combat should be reserved for weak or single baddies since, when it comes to the AI, there 
 is strength in numbers.
  
  While one soldier is giving covering fire another may throw a grenade at your feet or shoot at 
 some nearby explosive barrels. Such is the brilliance of UberSoldiers AI. If there is a corner, 
 doorway or other obstruction, like a box, then the AI will hide while occasionally peeking out 
 to fire off a few rounds. It slows the pace of the game and gives it a more tactical feel. But 
 every coin has a flipside and while you may be gritting your teeth for some good firefights there 
 are times when youll marvel at the ease of it all. In long corridors and wide-open areas the AI 
 will simply rush forward, guns-a-blazing with little regard for their own life. No matter what 
 theyll always be tossing grenades like its their hobby. A lack of a distinct enough clinkala 
 Call of Duty 2makes them dangerous since all you have to go for is your eyes. Grenades cause a 
 lot of damageand knock Stoltz off his feet in factso youll find yourself moving from one firing 
 position to another.
  
  UberSoldier does a lot to mix up the gameplay. Youll have machine gun sequences, be tasked with 
 detonating bombs at different locations, and even command a submarine to take out several ships. 
 They occur at just-the-right intervals between routine gunfights as to not seem monotonous. When 
 youre fighting you wont be alone either as youre given squad-mates for some missions. The game 
 lacks a command system so theyll run around doing their own thing. If one of them has a rocket 
 launcher they may last a while but more often than not youll lose everybody in the first few firefights.
 
  
  Theres also a decent number of weapons that feature. Rocket launchers, sniper rifles, sub-machine 
 guns and flamethrowers are just some of the death-dealers youll get to toy around with. Players 
 have five equipment slots, one for each type of weapon. That means you can only have one type of 
 pistol, sub-machine gun, support, heavy and grenade at a time. If youre carrying a rocket launcher 
 youll need to give it up if you want to start a barbeque with a flamethrower. It keeps your character 
 from being too powerful and reminds you in the final boss fight that accuracy is key.
  
  In conclusion, UberSoldier strives to be a fantastic gaming experience. Theres too little there 
 though to make it stand out much from the FPS pack. That said, fans of the genre will find a lot 
 to like here and given the budget price may find something worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorDave
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Nazis. I hate those guys -- almost as much as I love first-person shooters. So when I heard about 
 UberSoldier, it sounded like just the game for me: lots of Nazis to shoot, plus a bit of weird 
 science to make World War II seem a little less familiar. Like Return to Castle Wolfenstein, on 
 a budget price. 
  
  Now that I've played the game, I have to confess -- it wasn't as good as I hoped. But it WAS better 
 than most reviewers are making it sound. True, the voice acting is bad. I mean, really, REALLY 
 bad. Almost as bad as the text, which seems to have been (mis-) translated from Russian. In one 
 particularly painful cutscene, your character receives a radio transmission from a submarine captain 
 of the "Royal Fleet," who is supposed to be British, but has a noticeable eastern-European accent. 
 Maybe he was an officer in the Free Polish navy.
  
  It's also true that the story makes no sense. It starts promisingly: Nazi scientists are re-animating 
 dead German soldiers to create a secret army of undead super-soldiers. You are Karl Stolz, recently 
 deceased German soldier, and recently re-animated super-soldier. The problem is your uber-power: 
 you can create a blue force-field that stops bullets. Now, to be fair, that's a pretty cool uber-power, 
 and it can be quite useful during the game: the bullets just hang there in midair, and kill any 
 Nazi they touch, as if you'd shot them yourself. But -- why a force field? And why do the other uber-soldiers 
 have DIFFERENT super-powers? And why is this your ONLY uber-power? And what's all this nonsense 
 about "being forced to obey the first person who speaks to you"?
  
  Well, whatever. This isn't Shakespeare: it's a shooter. If you're like me, you bought this game 
 to shoot Nazis and blow stuff up -- and that's just what you're going to do. The game provides many 
 different varieties of Nazis to shoot, most of whom did not exist in real life -- just like the "German 
 Resistance" fighters who help you shoot them. But again -- whatever. 
  
  The shooting is fast, furious, and quite challenging at times. As in Castle Wolfenstein, you start 
 out with just a knife, and if you keep using it to stab people in the head, you earn extra life. 
 (Don't tell Jack Thompson) If stabbing people in the head is too difficult or too personal for 
 you, the game provides a good assortment of World War II-vintage firearms, most of which you've 
 seen before (though the PzB-41 anti-tank rifle makes a surprise and very welcome appearance) . Most 
 of the guns are German, which makes sense, since you're a former German army officer, fighting 
 other Germans, with the help of German resistance fighters: yet, for some reason, there are some 
 Soviet and American weapons lying around as well. (Seriously -- they're just lying around, waiting 
 to be picked up.)
  
  By now, you should know the drill: shrug and say, "whatever -- they kill people, right?". Right! 
 In fact, Nazis die some pretty spectacular deaths in this game. UberSoldier makes good use of physics, 
 and the frequent explosions really send things flying: at one point, I shot at a Nazi on a rooftop, 
 hit something explosive, and watched amazed as his flaming body was launched into space and rag-dolled 
 down to the pavement. At another point, during the U-Boat mission, I was shooting at an attacking 
 aircraft. It blew up in mid-air, and part of it actually FELL ON ME. You don't see things like 
 THAT in Call of Duty!
  
  In fact, some of the set-piece battles, late in the game, are quite spectacular: Allied aircraft 
 are bombing and strafing, everything is blowing up, and you and your German-resistance buddies 
 are shooting every Nazi in sight: good stuff. The graphics were very good -- surprisingly good, in 
 fact. The framerate staggered once or twice when there were too many barrels exploding at once, 
 but otherwise, the game ran surprisingly smoothly from start to finish. If only all full-price 
 shooters could say the same. The environments are very convincing, both before and after they've 
 been demolished. The AI is not great, but no worse than average. It took me about ten hours to 
 complete, on Medium difficulty, and I'll definitely want to play it again.
  
  Overall, UberSoldier was much better than any other budget shooter I've ever played. That's damningly 
 faint praise, I know -- a game doesn't have to work very hard to be much better than Mob Enforcer 
 or Codename: Outbreak. But seriously, this is a good game for the price. If you still haven't quenched 
 your thirst for Nazi blood, and you can overlook the silly story and atrocious voice acting, then 
 you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakes731
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Whats better than a headshot followed by a pool of ?
  
  or maybe...
  
  How about missled from a submarine? 
  
  Whether its on foot or a rail mission this game goes 
 everywhere. underwater above water whatever. The gameplay is solid and is fresh. The game is to 
 difficult though. The first level is like the last level in some games. Its on par with F. E. A. R. 
 in terms of difficulty. Except the A. I. is good and cheap.
  
  The graphics are beautifil and the gunplay is glorious.
  
  The best part is the gore. Headshots 
 are rewarded. The more violent you think the better you will do in the game.
  The game is clever, you have shields and flamethrowers. Yes flamethrowers. A rare find for FPS 
 fans.
  
  This is a great game for fans of FEAR, Doom or any other dark FPS.
  
  The downside is the story. The voice acting kills the story, to the point it is funny. But besides 
 that the game is great overall. It takes time getting used to, and the difficulty level might be 
 upsetting but the game is fun enough to keep the gamer wanting to try over and over again.
  
  Great Game, and for the price of $30.00 you are garenteed 30 moments of fun at the least. Thats 
 an enjoyable moment every dollar 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
