-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UberSoldier 2: The End of Hitler
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/ubersoldier2theendofhitler/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addictive RPG upgrades give you tangible benefits on the battlefield.
 You can have a lot of fun with the time shield.
 Stylish comic-book-inspired scenes tell the story between missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story and voice acting are so bad it's funny.
 Limited arsenal of weaponry.
 Autosave system is almost useless.
 Repetitive trial-and-error gameplay.
 Extremely shallow multiplayer .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Burut Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Jul 22, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World War II has been done before and done better, but it's never been done like this. 

  In World War II games, not all Germans are bad. As ubersoldier Karl Stolz in the appropriately 
 named UberSoldier II, you lead the German underground resistance against a dying Nazi regime with 
 its back against a wall. With Soviet and Allied forces closing in on Berlin, the remaining Nazi 
 leaders have fled to a secret base in Tibet to plan a devastating counterstrike. Outmanned and 
 outgunned, only you can save the world from... oh, you know the rest. While UberSoldier II's story 
 is so nonsensical and outrageous that you will openly laugh at -- not with -- the game during almost 
 every cutscene, some fun gameplay twists and a bargain price make this shooter worth a look.  

 
           Use the time shield to queue up a head shot or two or seven.      

  Initially, you're not all that uber, and the game immediately comes off as just another generic 
 World War II shooter. Where UberSoldier II finally grabs you is at the end of the first level, 
 where you can distribute experience points in a simplistic role-playing game upgrade system; there, 
 you'll slowly transform Karl into a supernatural force of destruction. For reasons revealed in 
 the original UberSoldier, Karl has several supernatural talents, such as the ability to deploy 
 a time shield, a bubble of energy that surrounds his body and freezes all incoming and outgoing 
 bullets in midair. A self-charging energy meter powers the shield and acts as your stamina when 
 sprinting. This shield can be upgraded with experience points so that you can fire all bullets 
 back toward your enemies. This means that you can fire a bullet into your own shield, where it 
 will wait in stasis until an enemy pops out his fascist little head, and then turn off the shield 
 to score a headshot. Additionally, because any frozen bullets that make contact with enemies are 
 deadly, you can use the bullets as a form of melee attack by running at your opponents.  

  Balancing the shield use with Karl's other supernatural abilities, Ubersniper and Berserker, is 
 the key to success in UberSoldier II. By scoring four headshots over a brief time period, you trigger 
 Ubersniper and replenish your health. Ubersniper is slow-motion bullet time, and enemies and items 
 such as health packs are brightly colored and more visible. If you make four consecutive knife 
 kills, you trigger Berserker mode, in which you are invincible and slowly replenish your health 
 with each successive knife kill. The key is that each series of three consecutive headshots or 
 knife kills rewards you with experience points. There's no limit to how many you can earn in one 
 level, so the game becomes a balancing act of survival by killing enemies, or earning XP by killing 
 them in style. Your time shield allows you to get in close for knife kills, or queue up eventual 
 headshots. You can still play UberSoldier II as a straight-up shooter, lobbing grenades and taking 
 cover while unloading the contents of your MG42 into enemies -- but you'll die a lot and won't have 
 nearly as much fun.  

  After each mission, you spend XP on increasing your health, energy, accuracy, emotion time (the 
 duration of Berserker and Ubersniper) , and stasis shield. UberSoldier II starts off fairly easy 
 if you're using your shield effectively, but the difficulty ramps up quickly. If you don't work 
 for headshots and knife kills, your UberSoldier will never reach the required level of uberness 
 to deal with the deadly, 10-foot-tall, rocket-launcher-wielding Ubermacht supersoldiers found deep 
 within Tibet in later missions. Because you earn XP yourself, rather than being rewarded a set 
 amount after finishing a mission, UberSoldier II's upgrade system is rewarding and quite addictive. 
 It's a shame, then, that developer Burut Creative Team failed to build an immersive or engaging 
 game around its unique mechanics.  

           "The end will be quick and beautiful like the touch of an angel."      

  The enemy 
 AI performs adequately, making use of cover and throwing grenades to flush you from cover. There 
 are only a few different enemy types and, outside of the hulking Ubermacht soldiers, they all act 
 the same. A battle with entire divisions of female Gestapo troops plays out the same as it does 
 against leather-clad officers or lowly foot soldiers. Your strategy, then, remains exactly the 
 same throughout the entire game: Shoot everything that moves. Unfortunately, the weaponry at hand 
 is limited, from the basic selection of WWII-era pistols, machine guns, and rifles. Don't expect 
 any exciting prototype firearms to spice up the combat. The environments are equally bland, and 
 neither a jaunt through Africa or a descent into a hidden Tibetan village will rouse much excitement. 
 This is mostly because the levels are so linear in nature, and though it may take you an extra 
 minute to find a key or locate a crawl space, there is only one path to take through UberSoldier 
 II. Be sure to use the quicksave feature often because the game autosaves very rarely, and you'll 
 lose hard-earned experience points when Nazis magically spawn behind you for a cheap death.  

 
  The atmosphere could have been improved had the artists committed to the comic-book style that 
 it utilizes during cutscenes. The environments have an almost cel-shaded appearance to them, but 
 the effect is so subtle that the visuals appear unremarkable. One exception is the final level, 
 which could only be a secret missile base: It appears as if it were taken straight from the pages 
 of a moving comic book. It's a shame that this vibrant art style was not used throughout the entire 
 game; otherwise, UberSoldier II would've separated itself from the host of generic shooters on 
 the market. The comic-book-themed cutscenes infuse UberSoldier II with some much-needed flavor. 
 But these are soured by the ridiculous dialogue between Karl, his love interest Maria, and the 
 evil enemy masterminds. Fans of campy adventures will get a kick out of the unintentionally funny 
 storyline that is so bad, it's almost good. Almost.  

  The music is just as ridiculous as the voice acting. The grating rock-and-roll riffs intended to 
 increase the gravity of a challenging battle do just the opposite and pull you out of the action. 
 Instead of knuckling down to take on a regiment of genetically enhanced enemies in a WWII setting, 
 you'll be trying to figure out which '80s TV show the soundtrack was inspired by. On a positive 
 note, the music does raise the unintentional-camp factor.  

           You're not the only one with a sweet purple time shield.      

  UberSoldier II features 
 online and LAN play, including 16-player Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and "Uberknife Fight." Strangely, 
 multiplayer features none of the strengths of the single-player game, including the time shield 
 or RPG upgrades in single-player. What's worse, the sprint mechanic is missing, forcing you to 
 circle-strafe your enemies as if in slow motion. If you do manage to trigger Ubersniper or Berserker, 
 you'll become invincible and move much faster. But good luck getting three consecutive knife kills 
 without a sprint button. The multiplayer component of UberSoldier II feels like an afterthought, 
 and an opportunity was certainly missed by not including the core mechanics that enhance the single-player 
 game.  

  The RPG upgrades and shield abilities help separate UberSoldier II from the wealth of other WWII 
 shooters on the market, but even at a budget price tag it's still not uber enough to be recommended 
 without reservation.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm very familar with this series as I have played the first game as well. Really, this is a bargin 
 bin shooter due to the games linearity, short campaign and voice acting that is so poor it's funny. 
 
  
  When the first game was released in 2006 many players gave it poor ratings because of the above 
 mentioned facts. The voices were really funny especially Karls - the main charactor in the game 
 but hey, that's not what makes a game it's just a small part of the puzzle. 
  
  US 2 takes place after the events of the first game at the very end of WWII in Germany. Karl now 
 has a female side kick - a women from the first game to help him along in certain areas of the 
 game. This makes the game more interesting as the original Uber Soldier you basically had cut scenes 
 with her in them but no one helping you in the game. 
  
  This game to me was more interesting this time around. The levels are diverse taking place in locations 
 like a underground compound or on a runaway train which is my favorite mission. The weapons are 
 your standard WWII affair, MP 40, BAR, M 14, etc. with some super weapons thrown in like a flame 
 thrower that will be familar to players of World at War.
  
  The graphics are dated now since the game designers re-used the same engine from the last game 
 though there are some new effects such as flames and explosions that heighten your gaming experience. 
 Sound and voice acting still need some work but overall sounds better this time around. You still 
 have the corny voices from the first game which is what turned off most players from this series 
 to being with.
  
  Lasting game appeal is low for Ubersoldier 2 because its a extremely linear ride on rails but the 
 story plot and fact you have super powers such as a force field you can activate to ward of bullets 
 along with other powers make this game worth playing. You can buy this cheap from Strategy First's 
 online store at $20 if you have interest. The game campaign is short taking roughly about 4-6 hours 
 to make it through the first time around but with the newly added multiplayer function you can 
 play other players in modes such as Team - Death Match, CTF, etc.
  
  If your looking for something to play to fill your time between major game releases and dont take 
 these games too serious I recommend downloading this especially since its a cheap game to buy. 
 For many people who played the first game and didn't like the voice acting and game play then I 
 would pass because its really a rehash (remix) of the first game with different levels, a new story, 
 weapons and some new graphical special effects. Good luck and happy gaming! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
