-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UEFA Euro 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/euro2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 28, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     May 4, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
UEFA Euro 2004 boasts only a fraction of the teams and features found in FIFA 2004, but it's sufficiently 
 different to make it a worthwhile purchase. 

  Like the World Cup, UEFA's Euro tournament takes place every four years -- pitting 16 qualifying 
 teams against each other in group and knockout stages until only one remains. Also like the World 
 Cup, which was last held in both Japan and Korea in 2002, this year's Euro tournament has been 
 deemed worthy of its own game by EA Sports. UEFA Euro 2004 might have only a fraction of the teams 
 and features found in this year's FIFA offering, but the gameplay and options it offers are actually 
 sufficiently different from those found in FIFA 2004 to make it a worthwhile purchase.  

          UEFA Euro 2004 is your chance to reenact the tournament, which takes place every four years. 
     

  The primary mode of play in UEFA Euro 2004 is the tournament itself, which allows you to assume 
 control of any of the 51 European teams that start their campaigns to qualify for one of 16 places 
 in the tournament finals around two years before they're actually held. The game boasts a number 
 of refinements on the pitch that we'll discuss later, but what the Euro 2004 mode does extremely 
 well is make you feel like you're actually the manager of an international soccer team involved 
 in a major tournament. This is primarily achieved through the game's all-new player morale system. 
 This system is similar to the one found in Konami's Winning Eleven series, but it's superior in 
 many ways.  

  As the manager of an international soccer team, your job entails not only qualifying for major 
 tournaments but also making sure that your entire squad is in the best shape it can be in before 
 the team's first match. UEFA Euro 2004's player morale system, which is represented by colored 
 bars of varying lengths next to players' names, allows you to easily determine which of your players 
 are in top form (because their morale is affected by their performances on the pitch) so that you 
 can take action when necessary. Some players, for example, will become depressed if they don't 
 make it into your starting 11 or get stuck on the substitute bench for a period of time, whereas 
 others will think their worlds are coming to an end if they're involved in games where their teams 
 are defeated or if they receive bookings from a referee. All of the players in your squad have 
 different expectations, and it's up to you, as the manager, to decide whether you focus solely 
 on your first-choice players or try to keep the entire squad happy by ensuring that they all get 
 some playing time at some point. Some players will get morale boosts for doing nothing more than 
 sitting on the subs' bench during a match, but, for the most part, a majority of your team members 
 will need to have played an active part in the game.  

  In addition to on-the-pitch performances that are directly influenced by you, player morale will 
 occasionally be affected by events that you have no control over whatsoever. Your star player might 
 not be performing well for his club side, for example, or perhaps he has just lost a major sponsorship 
 deal. Thankfully, not all of the things that happen in a soccer player's life are bad, and from 
 time to time you'll see your players getting significant morale boosts without any help from you. 
 It's difficult to say exactly to what extent player morale affects performance on the pitch, once 
 you start playing, but it's definitely noticeable. As a result, you'll find yourself using the 
 friendly games in between qualifying matches as opportunities to both rotate your squad and involve 
 players who might otherwise never need to put their shoes on -- just as many managers do in real 
 life. By giving the less skilled members of your squad a chance to play in this way, you'll not 
 only reduce the risk of having your star players injured during matches of no consequence but also 
 you'll ensure that if you do ever need to call upon one of any of your reserves, they'll be in 
 good shape and won't have forgotten how to kick a ball.  

          Euro 2004 lets you go with the existing teams or, if you want, you can draft new ones. 
     

  The Euro 2004 gameplay mode is the only one that employs the player morale system, but other modes 
 available include friendly games, home and away matches, practice sessions, penalty shoot-outs, 
 custom tournaments, situations, and fantasy teams. The situation mode allows you to create a scenario 
 by choosing two teams, how much time is remaining in a match between them, the current score, and 
 how many bookings each team has received. It's unfortunate that the game doesn't offer any predefined 
 scenarios based on previous tournaments or anything, but if you have the inclination, you can at 
 least set up some interesting ones for yourself. The fantasy mode, on the other hand, is a great 
 addition to the game, and it's one that we fully expect to be imitated in other soccer games in 
 the future. The fantasy mode basically allows you and a friend (or the CPU, if you're playing solo) 
 to assemble fantasy teams starring players from all over Europe. You basically draft one player 
 in alternating turns, much like you would if you were playing in a school yard. The option to play 
 with fantasy teams is, of course, nothing new, but the system used to select members for them is 
 not only fun but also ensures that, unlike many soccer games, you don't end up with two identical 
 teams playing against each other.  

  On the pitch, UEFA Euro 2004 features a number of refinements over FIFA 2004 but also retains many 
 of the faults that made that game less than perfect. The camera angle changes for corners and free 
 kicks, for example, still take too long to return to normal once the set piece is over, and when 
 you perform even a perfectly timed sliding tackle, your player will often take so long to get back 
 to his feet that he doesn't actually retain possession of the ball. UEFA Euro 2004 also employs 
 the same corner kick system as FIFA 2004, which sees you assuming control of a single player in 
 the box so that you can jostle for position with a member of the opposing team. The system sounds 
 realistic and kind of intriguing on paper, but, in practice, it really doesn't work very well. 
 Another problem with the game, which appears to be a bug present in all three versions, is that 
 when you make substitutions at halftime -- which would usually see your new players emerging from 
 the changing rooms to kick off the second half -- the changes don't actually take effect until the 
 next game stoppage. This is more than a little frustrating, and you'll most likely end up resorting 
 to deliberately kicking the ball out of play so that your substitutions can be made. We certainly 
 did.     

  When you're in possession of the ball, particularly if you're playing against the CPU on any of 
 the game's four difficulty settings, the key to success is to pass the ball around and to always 
 be on the lookout for players making surging runs forward. As in FIFA 2004, you have the option 
 to exert varying degrees of control over off-the-ball players. But while tapping a single button 
 to send a nearby player on a run works well, trying to control that player directly -- using the 
 right analog stick -- without having your original player lose possession of the ball just isn't 
 worth the effort. Fortunately, the game offers something of a happy medium by allowing you to tap 
 a button to send a player off on a run and then letting you just tap the right analog stick in 
 the direction you'd like the run to go.  

          The key to success is to pass the ball around.     

  The FIFA games of old used to 
 make it quite easy for you to have a single player run the ball from one end of the pitch to the 
 other, employing various tricks en route. Drag-backs, step-overs, and suchlike are still a feature 
 of the game in UEFA Euro 2004, but, thankfully, they're not nearly as effective as they used be 
 and require some semblance of skill to execute successfully. Ironically, you can actually keep 
 possession of the ball very easily when playing against the CPU simply by standing still with it. 
 If you have the ball and stop moving, the opposing players invariably do the same. They won't stand 
 there like statues forever or anything, but the time it takes them to actually make a move for 
 the ball is generally plenty long enough for you to make a pass to another player, and, if you 
 really want to, you can have the pass recipient do the exact same thing.  

  Even though sliding tackles are a little problematic, playing defense in UEFA Euro 2004 is actually 
 pretty easy because the regular tackle button is very effective. The game's goalkeepers are generally 
 up to the task of saving all but the most well-placed shots, and although they rarely move off 
 their lines to claim balls automatically, they perform the task adequately when you ask them to. 
 The only real complaint we'd level at UEFA Euro 2004 when playing defense is that the player selection 
 invariably favors players who are closer to the ball rather than those with a real chance of making 
 a tackle or an interception. For example, if an opposing striker is running toward your goal, you'll 
 often gain control of midfield players who are chasing him rather than the defenders who, despite 
 being a little further from the ball at the time, are perfectly positioned to charge the incoming 
 player.  

  If you've played FIFA games before, you won't be surprised to learn that all of the players in 
 the game are instantly recognizable and well animated, that the stadiums look great, and that the 
 presentation throughout is of a high standard. The visuals in the PlayStation 2 version are noticeably 
 inferior to those on the PC and Xbox. The PS2 version contains some pretty major drops in the frame 
 rate, both during matches and when navigating menu screens. In fact, despite the fact that the 
 Dual Shock 2 controller is the best equipped device to cope with the game's complex controls, the 
 PS2 version of UEFA Euro 2004 is the hardest of the three to recommend -- mainly because it faces 
 competition from Konami's Winning Eleven series and doesn't support the online play that was present 
 in FIFA 2004. The Xbox version of UEFA Euro 2004 doesn't support online play either, but neither 
 did the Xbox version of FIFA 2004. The PS2 version is also very slow to save games, requiring at 
 least a full minute to perform any memory card operation.  

  Fans of previous EA Sports titles also won't be shocked to hear that the audio in UEFA Euro 2004 
 is some of the best available in a soccer game. The commentary, which comes courtesy of the BBC's 
 John Motson and Ally McCoist team, can get a little repetitive on occasion. However, it is well 
 voiced and, for the most part, very accurate. It's unfortunate that the commentators have no concept 
 of how much time has passed during a match or a tournament, though, because this can result in 
 anomalies such as last-minute goals being described as what "could be the first of many." Additionally, 
 sometimes Motson and McCoist tout that teams who win their first qualifying matches might be "sure 
 to progress to the finals."  

          The PC version of UEFA Euro 2004 is the only one with online support.     

  Provided 
 you have a suitable controller and Internet connection, the PC version of UEFA Euro 2004 is the 
 easiest to recommend. Not only are the PC visuals the pick of the bunch but also the PC game is 
 the only one of the three to offer online play. Like all sports games, UEFA Euro 2004 is best enjoyed 
 with other players, and so, if nothing else, the EA Sports online service offers plenty of people 
 from all over the world to play against. Your profile, which is the same for all EA Sports titles 
 with online support, tracks all of your current statistics and makes it pretty easy to match up 
 with players of comparable ability. Once online, the game works well, and this adds a significant 
 amount of replay value to the PC version of the game.  

  All things considered, UEFA Euro 2004 stands as one of EA Sports' better soccer games to date. 
 The issues we experienced with the PS2 version are particularly unfortunate given that its game 
 faces more competition than its PC and Xbox counterparts. But regardless of your current soccer 
 game of choice, UEFA Euro 2004 is worth a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: milan1133
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 6, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  well what can i say it is cool at the start but gets a bit boring. You dont get clubs you only 
 get international teams i know it is euro, i dont they should sell eruo games beacuse i hate footy 
 games with no clubs it is so boring, ok there are some new things added e. g new skills like: nutmegs, diving 
 headers and bicycle kicks but apart from that nothing has changed from the other games like that, 
 oh and the graphics has improved. Personlay i think that even super mario is better then this. 
 So if you dont have this game take my advise dont even buy it although it is quite old now and 
 no one will buy it what a relife! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamirganbaatar
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The pictures and comercials were incredibly nice and I believed that this was a great game. But 
 when i bought it, dissapointment hit me. The players' movement which means graphics is bad and 
 the players move so sloppy like if they are dizzy. 
  
  And this game doesn't give you the feeling you should take from a good game. Well if you are a 
 big soccer fan and always watch this Euro competition, it might be interesting but for gamer like 
 me who just know the names of the teams and players, it is a total bore.
  
  If you are going to play this with your friend, it might be fun. Well, every game is fun when you're 
 playing multiplayer mode with your friends.
  
  All in all, this game is just typical, has no innovation in it and its a total dissapointment for 
 the gamer fans like us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  EA's major soccer game franchise is its FIfa series. However, every now and then, EA tried to milk 
 more cash out of its success formula by bringing out sub-franchises. Some of them were successful 
 while most failed miserably. However, the Euro series, with two games till date, is surprisingly 
 wonderful! I remember, way back in 2000, I was playing Euro 2000 more than Fifa 2000. In the same 
 year, there where two other soccer games from EA as well, FA Premiere league and Spanish Primera 
 Liga. Among all of them, Euro was a remarkable exception, both in terms of graphics and gameplay. 
 Now in 2004, EA has repeated the magic once again. After a dismal show with Fifa 2004, EA is finally 
 on the verge of regaining its crown for making the best soccer games.
  
  Gameplay and Game Modes 9/10
  
  Gameplay of Euro 2004 is a combination of Fifa 2003 and Fifa 
 2004 gameplay. It took the good things from both games, and kicked out all the bad stuff. It's 
 got a couple of good new game modes, which are really great. The dream match option lets you create 
 your own dream team, consisting of the top players of Europe. Ever thought of making Owen and Klose 
 partners? You can do it in this game. The sitation mode is cool, too. You can start the game with 
 2 goals behind, with 15 minutes time to get level. it is possible to start a game with several 
 such unique conditions, which is a good bonus mode for the Fifa veterans, who often complain about 
 the lack of replay value in FIfa games. Theres also the good ol tournament mode, which lets you 
 create custom tournaments. However, the most impressive and highlight mode is the Euro 2004 mode. 
 It is possible to win the tournament with any European nation that plays football. You go through 
 a number of friendly matches before the qualifying round starts. Once you qualify, you get to play 
 the tourney. Theres some strategic aspects in the season mode, too. Theres a morale and fitness 
 issue with the teams. If you dont monitor these things, your players will start playing weakly. 
 Theyll miss simple passes, theyll miss goals, etc. Thus a 97 skill level for Pavel Nedved doesnt 
 assure you that hell convert every good pass into great goals. If his fitness and morale is low, 
 hell become 68 skilled player. All these features make Euro 2004 a wonderful game. 
  
  Now lets talk about the gameplay. Some nice tweaks over the Fifa 2004 engine have made this game 
 better in every aspect. The passing model got improved, 
  
  
  Sound 8/10
  This game doesnt focus that much on music, as it was done in FIfa 2004. Yet, the soundtracks suit 
 well with the game. The commentary is as usual, top notch. However, I noticed a few incorrect comments. 
 The goalkeeper saved an attempt, and the ball cam back to the midfield, yet John Motson was saying 
 this might be a great chance, whatta great save, etc. So theres sometimes a lag problem. But thats 
 not something big when youre indulged in the gamewho gets the time to listen to what theyre 
 saying anyway? 
  
  Difficulty Settings 7/10
  There are 4 difficulty setting, which is quite nice. Even the amateur setting is quite challenging. 
 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  This is one of the best things of the game. They graphics is excellent, and most star players are 
 easily recognizable from the character models. The stadiums, as well as all other elements look 
 marvelous, even on a 2 year old ATI Radeon 7000 card. However, there are a few minor glitches, 
 like the crowd animation sometimes gets a bit weird. Theres also day, night, overcast, day+rain, 
 night+rain, etc. weather effects, which makes the game even better.
  
  This game is a must have for Fifa fans who were disappointed with Fifa 2004. I think the PES3/WE7 
 crowd should also try this game out, because it has the license, which Konami aint getting too 
 soon. The only disappointing thing about this game is the shortened team roster, with only European 
 nations. No clubs, no Brazil, No Japan, No Nigeria, but yet, the game isnt supposed to have those 
 teams anyway. A must buy game for every Soccer game fans. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucianoJ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2004 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I have not touched the Winning Eleven series but have bought the FIFA games for the last four years. 
 Each new version is an improvement over the last one, which anyone would hope for. This game made 
 me wish FIFA 2004 had turned out this good, but was not an over-the-top great game like NHL 2004, 
 Madden 2004 or even NBA 2004. The AI is better than FIFA 2004 but not by that much. The custom 
 tournament formats are easier to set up and play through than FIFA 2004's career modes. The games 
 are realistically low scoring.
  Euro 2004 looks about the same as FIFA 2004 with the one obvious improvement being the physiques 
 of the players. There are more star players faces, but the same generic FIFA 2004 faces appear 
 on the lesser known players. The stadiums in Portugal look good, but the crowds look washed out. 
 The commentary and the sound effects are fine. The menus are a bit slow to deal with and get a 
 bit sticky. The game has crashed a few times but I think that relates to more of an issue with 
 my video cards and its drivers. 
  Overall the game is a good deal at the price but makes me wish FIFA 2004 had turned out more like 
 Euro 2004 to begin with and hope EA Canada designs FIFA 2005 to match their other great games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovegreen
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 20, 2004 4:36 am PT
Review:  The Euro Championship in one evening:
  
  20.19: Denmarks first qualifying game agains Bosnia. Groenkjaer seems rusty, Jon Dahl Thomasson 
 is completely invisible on the pitch. 0-0 after 90 minutes.
  
  21.33: Denmark finally finds the form agains Romania in an aweinspirering 5-0 victory. I cheer 
 at the first couple of goals, but later only a condescending laugh escapes my throat, as the ball 
 is flicked past the Romanian keeper. Graversen winks at me from the pitch. 
  
  23.17: After a series of vitories and defeats Ebbe Sand rockets Denmark into the Euro Championship 
 cup with a monstrous kick from 30 metres out. The dream from '92 lives!
  
  23.22: The last tones of the Danish national anthem fades out, and the Danish Dynamite gets ready 
 to counquer Portugal. First game results in a 2-1 victory over Sweden, with fantastic goals by 
 Ebbe Sand and Jon Dahl.
  
  00.45  Denmark is through to the final rounds!!! I'm running around in extacy in my living room, 
 and find myself singing the terrible danish Euro-footie song Where'r We From? (We're from Denmark) . 
 
  
  01.08: Quarter finals. Spain ruin Denmarks' championship dreams once again. A sharp cross to Raul 
 is transformed to a golden goal with icy precission. My girlfriend asks me if I'm coming to bed 
 soon - and after a while if it is tears I've got in my eyes. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
