-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UFO: Aftermath
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ufoaftermath/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.1, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 506 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Cenega Publishing
Developer: Altar
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 15, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite some bright spots, UFO: Aftermath isn't a fitting sequel to X-COM, and, on its own merits, 
 it just isn't a good tactical combat simulator. 

  Few games before or since have gotten players as intimately involved as the 1993 classic, X-COM: 
 UFO Defense, which dealt with defending Earth from an alien invasion. Managing men, organizing 
 top secret bases, and prying funding away from tight-fisted governments let players feel like they 
 were actually in charge of a desperate attempt to save humanity. Add to that a gripping turn-based 
 tactical mode where soldiers attacked ET on his own turf and looted crashed flying saucers, and 
 you had a game that few could put down. So it's surprising that UFO: Aftermath, a spiritual successor 
 that began life as an unofficial sequel to X-COM -- and designed by the original team -- is so different. 
 ALTAR Interactive has changed the focus completely, diminishing user involvement to the point that 
 the game feels much emptier than its predecessors. The biggest problem is a stripped-down design 
 that makes the player more of a generic commando than the commander of a paramilitary organization. 
 Combat has also been stripped down to the bare essentials, with missions and maps that lack interactivity 
 and challenging artificial intelligence. Despite some bright spots, this isn't a fitting sequel 
 to X-COM, and, on its own merits, it just isn't a good tactical combat simulator.  

          Alien species are hideous and none-too-friendly.     

  On the surface, there are strong 
 similarities between UFO and X-COM. You are still defending the Earth against alien invaders. You 
 are still waging this war with small teams of soldiers who are sent to attack alien strongholds 
 and sent to ransack crashed UFOs for their advanced technology. You are still researching terrestrial 
 and extraterrestrial technologies for ways of chasing ET back to his own area code. Even the main 
 map screen is a mirror image of that in the original X-COM, complete with a rotating globe, clock, 
 and ticker, detailing available missions. If not for the post-doomsday storyline and a ticking-bomb 
 subplot about an alien biomass that is slowly killing off planetary life, the games are nearly 
 identical.  

  However, the design veers in new directions under the hood. Some of these new directions eliminate 
 features that made X-COM and its sequel, Terror From the Deep, so popular. Aspects of play have 
 been simplified, in part, due to the apocalyptic plot dealing with the aftermath of an alien invasion 
 that's all but destroyed humanity. Most notably, virtually all of the management duties in the 
 original X-COM have been removed. There is no budget to ponder, no bases to design, no scientists 
 to hire, and no governments with which to deal, largely because these niceties no longer exist 
 in the post-invasion world. You apparently run the Phoenix Company of commandos and answer to the 
 "Council of Earth," but these organizations are nothing but names on the screen.  

          Anyone who played the original X-COM will quickly recognize the globe on the main menu 
 screen.     

  Basically, you make do with what you're given, which dovetails with the end-of-the-world setting 
 but isn't satisfying from a gameplay perspective. Win enough missions in a particular territory 
 and you discover a base that can be conquered and converted for your alien-fighting purposes. Then 
 you pick a base type from the four available -- military, engineering, research, and biomass repulsion -- and 
 your operation is up and running, a scant 24 hours later. That's it. Aside from the option of turning 
 one base type into another (in the same 24-hour span) , selecting tech trees to research, and aliens 
 to autopsy, there is nothing else to oversee.  

  While this rids the game of micromanagement worries, it also does away with much of the role-playing 
 that made X-COM so all-consuming. ALTAR needed to make some changes, as you end up controlling 
 at least a couple of dozen bases around the globe in the average campaign. This would drown you 
 in minutiae if they were governed in the old hands-on style. But forgoing all managerial responsibilities 
 is too much of a sacrifice. It's hard to feel emotionally involved when so much of the struggle 
 against the aliens is taken out of your hands. In many ways, the game is more similar to squad-based 
 combat simulators, like Fallout: Tactics or Jagged Alliance 2, than X-COM. Where X-COM felt like 
 a sprawling, open-ended campaign, UFO: Aftermath feels more strictly mission-oriented and is therefore 
 more limited in scope. This isn't inherently a problem -- but, unfortunately, the combat in UFO tends 
 to not be satisfying.     

  The tactical combat, which takes place in randomly generated missions, seems barren. A seemingly 
 interesting combination of turn-based and real-time mechanics that blends cautious decision-making 
 with an exciting pace is wasted, largely due to the complete absence of artificial intelligence. 
 You can't give your troops standing orders, so if you want them to fire back when attacked or to 
 take cover, you have to manually tell them to do so. Being able to constantly pause the action 
 makes it easy to stay in control of everyone, though this eliminates the real-time element. If 
 an option to put troops on offensive or defensive postures had been provided, the real-time option 
 would have been much more useful.  

          Nice visual effects, like this shower of blood from an on-target shotgun blast, add a visceral 
 edge to tactical combat.     

  Lack of mission variety is another problem. You raid crashed UFOs, capture aliens to be interrogated, 
 and assault and defend bases with a single team of up to seven soldiers -- although it seems like 
 you're just patrolling maps and killing everything in sight. Base missions turn into a tunnel crawl, 
 where the narrow corridors are more of an annoyance than the aliens. After about six hours, you'll 
 have experienced everything that the game has to offer in this respect. Far too many missions are 
 about determining "the level of enemy resistance" in search-and-destroy expeditions. The only other 
 point of interest is the ability to pass off noncritical missions to other teams, and even this 
 is tempered by a lack of information about these associates and their results. All you're told 
 is whether the mission succeeded or failed.  

  Even with fully 3D environments, the mission settings don't seem nearly interactive enough. Cover 
 doesn't seem to work very well. Although there are typically a lot of cars, buildings, trees, and 
 other items to hide behind on every map, these things seem to be more of a barrier to your weapons 
 than they are to the aliens. All of the aliens with ranged weapons certainly seem to be crack shots, 
 as they can take out soldiers who seem to be completely hidden under cover.  

  Expeditions play out on level terrain, so there's no point spreading out and looking for high ground. 
 Not that it would matter even if it were possible. Your soldiers are usually crammed into close 
 quarters, near aliens, when beginning a mission, in urban, wilderness, and/or indoor settings, 
 so there isn't any point in trying fancy moves. Terrible pathfinding makes it even less of a good 
 idea. Most attempts at a coordinated battle plan are wrecked by overly polite soldiers who bump 
 into a comrade and insist on taking the long way around.  

          Soldiers are equipped with a lot of hardware, including the usual range of submachine guns 
 and sniper rifles; they can also be outfitted with some impressive alien blasters.     

  Alien artificial intelligence isn't indicative of an advanced life form, either (despite the aliens' 
 good aim) . Each of the more than a dozen species of ETs opens up with whatever weapon is at hand 
 and either kills you or goes down in a hail of gunfire. The only evidence that these creatures 
 can even walk and chew gum at the same time is their occasional decision to run away when wounded. 
 Even then, they typically turn around and walk right back into your sights.  

  All of this means that you don't have many choices to make when going into combat. Generally, a 
 frontal assault is the best option, as long as you select a good close-range and a good long-range 
 weapon in the initial loadout (there is a huge selection of hardware available, including a number 
 of submachine guns and alien beam weapons) . Outside of set-piece ambushes, the aliens never work 
 together, so it's often advisable to advance in a phalanx with all guns blazing. Combining firepower 
 is absolutely essential, as the accurate aliens tend to do a lot of damage in short order. This 
 results in some casualties, especially once the game gets difficult (about a third of the way in) . 
 But this is nothing like the body count generated if you split up the troops and force them to 
 take on the heavily armed aliens one-on-one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: black_kn1ght10k
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I have always loved the X-Com and Ufo games, especially the second title, Terror from the Deep. 
 I quickly became addicted to it, and spent entire days playing it. It took me a whole year to finish 
 it and it always intrigued me. In short, the best TBS game i ever played. When i checked out Aftermath, 
 i was curious, but quickly i became to realize this just isn't UFO material, more like a Jagged 
 Alliance type, but worse. I no longer felt the excitement and, why not, adrenaline of the concept. 
 No management means no fun, you can't build anything and you can't customize your fighters or transporters. 
 All in one word, i am disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game obviously tries to pay homage to X-COM. It does however fall short in trying to achieve 
 its goal. There just has not been a game yet to achieve the success as the X-COM series. This game 
 falls short of trying. It is definitely something you would find in the $10 bin. The graphics are 
 improved slightly however the AI is improved none. If you are an X-COM fan then go ahead and purchase 
 UFO: Enemy Unknown for a rather familiar experience. There are so many games out there that this 
 one falls short of offering what you pay for it. Somebody, please continue X-COM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NemoBg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  I still can't understand how one can write a review of a game that he even didn't play long enough 
 to start really play it ?! At the begging it starts slow and not very interesting- yes, thats right, 
 but it gets more and more interesting and challenging with the time. I'm not a hardcore player 
 and when I got ,like, to the middle of the game I had to keep loading the game when half of my 
 men got slaughtered by a single alien that had ambushed me with a plasma launcher or a rocket launcher. 
 One particular time, I cant forget it, i have put my men in a formation waiting for the aliens 
 to come trough the portal at a base, when the wall next to my men just blew away! They have heard 
 me and started shooting at the f***ing wall- the result- couple unconscious soldiers and the rest 
 almost dead! The game will be one of my favorites for the rest of my life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbcosmicnut
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  The most disappointing part of the game are the bugs, not the alien life forms but the more human 
 programming glitches.
  After installing the game I couldn't get it to run. Every time I tried it set the monitor refresh 
 rate to 125mhz. I don't think I've ever seen a monitor that went that high!
  After setting to something my screen could handle. I loaded the game again, only to find out that 
 it had completely forgotten my settings and done it again. So it was off to the forums till I found 
 a command line switch that used safe refresh rates.
  Finally I managed to load the game.
  
  The first thing I noticed was the very well made, high quality, artistic intro movie. I started 
 to think that this would be worth the effort.
  
  Imagine my surprise when I was dumped into the main map screen with no further audio/video to help 
 the game along.
  
  I started with the tutorial and my heart sank further. The graphics are great, although the square 
 edges of the screen were a little jarring. Then animation is very poor and reminds me of some of 
 the worse sprite based title as the characters walking motion had nothing to do with the characters 
 actual movement.
  
  The first combat moment was interesting but a little week. Carrying on I started to get annoyed 
 with the consistent pausing. Every time something happens that you might want to act on the game 
 pauses. I found it constantly breaking the flow of the game. Then you have some of the worst voice 
 acting I've come across. Normally you can ignore this but every time you give an order, you man 
 completes an order or something happens you get these awful voice clips. The actings bad and the 
 statements have no variation. Typical of RTS but there is nothing likeable about your characters.
 
  
  Then you start to really get into combat and the game goes to hell (and not a good Doom kind!!!) . 
 Give a move order and the unit won't protect themselves. Give a fire order when youre not in line 
 of sight and they'll just say no. It would have been OK if you had any kind of line of site information 
 but even a small bush will sometimes give a no line of site response. Then you have the inventory 
 problems. When you try and use all the slots you find you have a weight limit, nice in theory but 
 purely annoying in practise. Then, changing weapons is chore. You have to balance your inventory 
 so you don't drop anything. Instead if slinging a rifle over your shoulder, you have to put it 
 in your backpack. Then put your next choice into your hands. This means you have to have space 
 in your backpack for ALL your weapons at the same time or you have to drop things.
  Thats of course when the system works. Sometimes it forgets what you did. Or remembers you put 
 your shotgun into your backpack but forgets you got your pistol out. Brilliant in a combat situation 
 where you character just stands there trying to fire a make-believe gun!
  
  The AI is also pretty rubbish. Enemies tend to either stand around while you pump lead into them 
 or run headlong into you. Characters have to be told what to do at all time. If you don't give 
 them an order they just stand there. If you see a door, you can't click behind it and expect your 
 man to open it. No you have to walk up to the door, then give the order to open it, then the order 
 to walk through it. The level of micro management is terrible. I was half expecting to have to 
 tell them to breathe in and out.....
  
  When you complete the mission you end up at the world screen where you manage your empire. This 
 is terribly basic and while you have a tutorial in combat, you have no such tutorial on all the 
 complex team and base management screen. You get some text based on screen pointers but I found 
 these hard to read and the text sometime overflowed the display box. Overall the game media is 
 pretty sparse, most information is given over in small text boxes that, yet again pause your game 
 play.
  
  I have only played the game for a total of 10 minutes. Normally I play games to their conclusion, 
 so I can see the whole story. After 10 minutes of this game I just didn't care. Pros
  Good looking still graphics
  
  Cons
  Very little audio and video
  Very buggy and unstable 
 to the extent its almost unplayable
  Terrible AI
  High level of micromanagement
  Sparse in game help and tutorials
  Terrible voice acting
  Impossible inventory management
 
  
  Normally I like to find something good to write about. This time I just can't. This game is a disappointment 
 on all fronts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I had my hopes really high for this one, but it ultimately failed.
  
  Gameplay is similar to the x-com games, but with many concepts stripped down or eliminated entirely. 
 Graphics are appealing, sound is... adequate, there are many cool details like real world weapons, 
 RPG-esque charachter development and UFO interception videos. Research tree is also well structured 
 and the overall presentation of the game is likeable.
  
  HOWEVER...
  
  Why did they have to implement real time combat? It uses a pause system to give orders, but you'll 
 end up pausing every five seconds because of new events and severe control issues, it takes all 
 the fun away from the combat, it was much better by turns. And the game's difficulty is absurd, 
 sometimes you'll win missions only because of screw ups by the AI.
  
  This game introduces a few enhancements to the X-com games, but perfection would be somewhere in 
 the middle, not on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzDraon
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I looked forward to this game so very much. When I bought this game, I tried for a month to really 
 enjoy the game. I played almost everyday trying to get through the single player campaign, until 
 one day, I could not go on. This is not due to the bad graphics, or the bad game physics, or the 
 bad strategy implemented, it was due to the fact the AI was hax. I got to one map, where I had 
 some really good weapons and armor, but when it came down to it, I was just no match for the hacking 
 AI that this game had. This is one of the most difficult games I have ever played and do not recommend 
 it to any moderate gamers. Only to the most hard of hardcore that love X-Com and all of what it 
 used to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  First of all, its worth mentioning that all the games of the UFO X-COM branch that have been developed 
 since X-COM Apocalypse fail to capture the spirit of those games basically because the people wants 
 a remake of the first UFO with the actual graphics and technology of gameplay.
  
  However, the developers of all this games have failed to deliver a solid game. This Aftermath is 
 more or less a copy of Aftershock, it looks like an expanssion or something like this. With a fewer 
 new elements and a senseless history the gameplay its absolutely the same.
  
  The same graphics, the same weird actio/real time combat system, the same sounds. The only thing 
 that changed its that the difficulty curve of the game isnt so wild like in Aftershock.
  
  Basically the same game with some innovation and some bugs fixed, no more, no less... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  UFO: Aftermath is a pretty good game, with dual strategic and tactical missions. However, it takes 
 a long time to get used to the game, as the tutorial doesn't help much, but the manual should cover 
 everything you need to know. The graphics are average, nothing special. The game can be quite difficult 
 for those new to the genre, but if you have played games like this before, you shouldn't have a 
 problem. The gameplay is turn-based strategy, you order your men (and women) around the area and 
 complete your objectives. In the 'Strategic Game', you build bases and expand your territory across 
 either America, Europe or Asia. Overall, UFO: Aftermath is well worth a look, but it will not appeal 
 to all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alepe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning I was just curious because It seems pretty similar to XCOM series games, but with 
 better graphics. Then, when I played I really enjoy it. Because of its similarity, was very easy 
 to learn how to play it. Graphics are neat from my point of view. The only thing I didn't like 
 it too much is that sometimes game turns a little bit "long". In some short missions, you can spent 
 up to 1 hour. So, I spent about 1 month in finishing it (playing it about 3 hours per day) . In 
 general, I played the whole game because I loved XCOM and I found on it a very good game! I recommend 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scimar
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  UFO: Aftermath: At the start, it looked cool, but then, that was before I had seen all the bugs. 
 After all, they don't advertise that sorta thing on the box. The installer worked fine (unlike 
 most of the game) , and I quickly started up a game. One feature that I was hoping for but was sadly 
 un-present was the ability to create your own soldier. After all, this game is essentially a turn-based 
 tactical strategy RPG. But alas, I was stuck with the pre made likes of "Ian" "David" and "Boris". 
 After that I thought "Well, maybe that is sorta bad, but hey, the combat will probably rock." Sadly, 
 that was not to be either. I sent my squad to their first mission, and waited through the (ages 
 long) load time. Then, I was utterly disappointed by the not so sharp graphics (even for a strategy 
 title) . The game play fell under the same category: Looked like it could be good, but fell (Miles) 
 short of the mark. And don't even get me started on the sound, or the storyline. 
  
  SHAMELESS PLUG ALERT: If you are looking for a good tactical strategy game with nice RPG like elements, 
 try "Silent Storm". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtkent
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of X-COM (or UFO as it was orginally released in the UK) . And when I saw a game 
 that was billed as X-COM the next generation, I got excited. I saw it on the shelf at a computer 
 store and bought it sight unseen. That was my first mistake.
  
  So basically I got it home, installed it, and learned very quickly this was a poor imitation of 
 the orginal X-COM. The game play is similar to X-COM (i. e., a mix of real-time and turn based activities.) 
 
  
  The only real new twist is a semi-real time tactical combat system. The combat system allows you 
 to plan out each of your team members actions which you then run. The planned actions can then 
 be interrupted by changes in the tactical enviroment (like the appearence of an enemy) or by the 
 player stopping the action. At any time the action is paused by events or player interaction, the 
 current plan you have for your units can be adjusted or completely redone. This sounds really cool 
 until you try to do it. The interface is confusing and hard to use.
  
  Unfortunately, all the interfaces in the game suffer from the same poor designs. Make the game 
 very hard to play. It also makes it very hard to determine progress or what actually is going on.
 
  
  It looks like there is a good story under lying the game concerning humans fighting for freedom 
 in an alien controlled world, but that plus the fairly good garphics don't do enought to save the 
 game from its interface short-comings.
  
  So I guess, if you really feel a need to check this title out wait until you see it in the bargin 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvonsydow
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  If you're like any other long-term gamer who was wowed by XCOM: Ufo Defense when it first came 
 out and played it long nights on your old 386, you know how I felt when XCOM: Genesis was cancelled. 
 All of a sudden, along came UFO: Aftermath which promised to deliver on what the fans were waiting 
 for: tactical squad combat, rpg elements, logistics and strategy on a global scale, and aliens 
 thrown in.
  
  While te game delivers on all these aspects, it seems to be overly simplified in the strategy level. 
 When you build bases, they are automatically built depending on the overall 'type' you choose. 
 No more choosing where and what to constuct in a base. Bases cannot be built anyplace, but only 
 in designated spots as you capture territories. Instead on managing the political aspects of defending 
 countries to continually earn funding, it feels more like a game of Risk. The biomass event in 
 the endgame, however, is a nice touch, adding a sense of urgency and furthers the base management 
 dance as you try to keep enough of the other bases running while converting the rest to fight this 
 new threat.
  
  Logistics is simplified as well, as all equipment is kept at a central 'vault' all bases can access. 
 It is now quite easy to re-load and equip squads as they move around the map. Another option this 
 game adds is the ability to delegate missions to other, comuter-controlled commands if your squads 
 are busy. 
  
  There are marked improvents in the RPG elements. I like how they manage the base skills of each 
 character and allow them to train in 'specialties' as they advance in experience, allowing them 
 to use their talents more effectively.
  
  The squad real-time combat is nice, and all the modern time controlls are included with the ability 
 to pause time while issuing orders, which is mandatory. One problematic part is the setting of 
 waypoints while paused. You must be extremely versed in this game's system to avoid having squad 
 members stop without intending to, holding file, or moving at the wrong speed. Throwing grenades 
 is also non-intuitive.
  
  This game falls short in a few areas, but overall, is a nice substitute for XCOM until the next 
 official one rolls around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ion_flux
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 12, 2005 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I was actually looking forward to this title when news of it first surfaced. I'm a huge fan of 
 the original X-Com games, and I thought this might be a decent, modern successor. Sadly, this game 
 falls far short of those that inspired it. The only reason I actually bought this game is because 
 I played the demo, and despite its flaws, it seemed like it might have potential. However, the 
 demo is sort of like a trailer for a comedy film where all the best jokes are used. The full version 
 is disappointing for several reasons.
  
  Starting with the gameplay, I have to say that I found it boring. I knew from playing the demo, 
 that combat would not be turn-based, but I still thought it could have been a lot more engaging. 
 There is very little strategy involved, and as the official Gamespot review describes, it essentially 
 consists of massed squad attacks, period. When moving to the planetary view, all of the best elements 
 of X-Com have been removed, making it too simple to be interesting. No management of base construction 
 (beyond choosing the type of base you want it to be (military, research, engineering, or Biomass 
 repulsion later in the game) , no control over dogfights with UFOs, no worries about funding and 
 keeping member nations of the "Council of Earth" happy. On top of all of this, the struggle for 
 control of the Earth seems to drag on forever, thus increasing the "value", but also increasing 
 the monotony. 
  
  In all fairness, new weapons and equipment are unlocked throughout the course of the game through 
 research, but their novelty seems to wear off quickly, and some of them seem to be implemented 
 poorly. For example, "collapsible" weapons can be carried by soldiers in heavy armor, but this 
 amounts to them carrying around clunky-looking turrets that take an enormous amount of time to 
 set-up and then fire. Usually by the time they can be fired, other team members with sniper rifles 
 have taken out the opponent, basically rendering the slower weapons useless. Better weapon balancing 
 (and a turn-based combat system) would have helped.
  
  The sound was irritating. Voices were recorded to somehow reflect the international diversity of 
 the alien fighting team, but the voices are ultra-corny and horribly repetitive. It's also not 
 possible to turn them off, adding to the pain.
  
  The one thing that was done fairly well by the developers was some of the creative and artistic 
 aspects of the creatures mutated by the Aliens' initial genetic attack. Even though the science-fiction 
 behind the creatures was far more fiction than science, they looked suitably creepy and even slightly 
 tragic.
  
  In summary this is not a very good game. Fans of the original X-Com would do far better picking 
 up a copy of Silent Storm (a very good game with flaws of its own, but that's another review...) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casmius
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2004 8:26 am PT
Review:  UFO Aftermath is a pretty good game. I enjoyed playing it to the end. The enemy AI was a little 
 weak. Rather than a good AI the aliens were given rocket launchers! The story was pretty good overall 
 but how it developed was a little choppy. I can't review this game without comparing it to Xcom. 
 Xcom had a sense of mystery and excitement wich this game lacks. The UFOpedia revealed too much 
 info before you actually developed a technology. I liked the variety of weapons and the missions 
 were pretty varied but they did get old but Xcom suffered the same flaw. Graphics were rather good 
 I liked the little details they added like skeletons on the streetsm, and the deserted feelings 
 in the streets seeing overturned cars littering the streets. Sounds were okay but the voice overs 
 they had on the characters were pretty bad and got annoying quickly. I do recommend the game to 
 anyone who liked Xcom even though it isn't true turn-based combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 4, 2004 8:13 am PT
Review:  Game is okay, its no X-com its lacking alot abilty to build your bases, abilty to use items like 
 tanks and stuff, and some of the wepaons are jus silly, its by far no x-com only thing it has in 
 commun with x-com is game play style its a squad based real time, sci-fi game.. with the generica 
 alines invade take over theme..
  
  othere then that it has nothing in commen with x-com half you cant really do much when it comes 
 to building bases most of the time you just speed up game and yet it do it thing the overview and 
 the abilty to creat items and abilty to, take over bases is kinda point less i ran thro hole game 
 jus using stuff i found in game. they should have jus remade x-com using gfxs engine and keep to 
 the real x-com game completly not changing anything now that would been something worth buying.
 
  
  this is more of somethign worth maybe downloading, or something maybe worth, trying if a freind 
 has it but i dont see it as something worth buying, id rathere hook up an old lap top and play 
 the frist x-com game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 23, 2003 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I agree with a lot of what the original Gamespot reviewer said. UFO: Aftermath is no UFO: Defence, 
 it doesn't have nearly the satisfaction of player choice or influence on the game. I miss the drive 
 to collect money to improve bases or purchase gear, as do I miss being able to lay down patches 
 of incendiary chain gun fire on insidious alien hulls. 
  
  However, the review wasn't all about the original X-Com, as comparisons have been done to newer 
 games on the market. Judging by the Silent Storm demo I could say that you should look there if 
 you have a craving for an improved version of the original X: Com's squad combat (either that or 
 Laser Squad. Though I haven't played Commandos 3, I wouldn't be at all surprised to find somebody 
 has managed to do squad-based real time combat better than UFO: Aftermath.
  
  That said, UFO: Aftermath is nonetheless a reasonably good game on it's own merits. Continual patches 
 have been brought out since release - I'm playing version 1.2 right now and am reasonably satisfied 
 but look forward to future patches. While UFO: A's individual parts of tactical and strategic views 
 may not impress, when put together and combined with the plot the result is quite reasonably good.
 
  
  While the tactical control scheme is glitchy and takes some getting used to, once you've got it 
 down pat you'll find it is fairly robust and powerful. It's fun to pause the game, order 4 soldiers 
 to run up, crouch, and unload fully automatic machine gun fire on some bothersome foe, then unpause 
 and watch the action. Once you've got the hang of things, you can do all this in less than a minute. 
 Some terrain is fully destructible (albeit not as much as the original X-Com) , and youve some 
 powerful toys at your disposal to combat the alien menace. Though easy enough at first, as the 
 game progresses and you're put up against nastier foes things get more interesting.
  
  The other part of the game, the strategic overlay (world view) , is highly streamlined. However, 
 it nonetheless proves a good story telling medium. R&D reveals a story behind the events and individual 
 creatures/items in the game. You are in control of the action as you dispatch interceptors, delegate 
 missions to be taken by conventional ground troops, and manage your elite squad.
  
  This is not to say that this game does not leave you wanting. More than one squad would have been 
 nice to have. Further level of customization of bases and equipment would have been nice. A user-friendlier 
 tactical interface would have been nice. However, these are all things you can get used to. If 
 future patches are added and the already included game mod support is made use of, all this could 
 be met and more.
  
  To explain the rest of my scoring: The graphics are competent but not mind-bogglingly good, I thought 
 the sound and music were pretty good, the value is pretty good given that the gameplay is geared 
 towards long term play (complete with sophisticated randomized maps) , and finally I'll give it 
 a reasonable reviewers tilt on the grounds I wasn't really disappointed with UFO: Aftermath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiLi
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 20, 2003 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Ufo: Aftermath had my hopes set up, way of the chart. And i think the game starts off well. The 
 controling of your men is rather ok, but the fact that u can solve most missions easily without 
 casualties by running the maps through, and keeping all ur men tangled together takes the tactics 
 out of the combat simulation, and makes it rather boring.. A thing they have done very well, is 
 the world map, its at beauty to look at, and very detailed ( i can even see my own country little 
 DK ;D ) but thats about all the good there is to say about it. As u progress the game and get more 
 bases, its simply not challenging to just have to pick if the base should be a research, development 
 facility or a military base.. I mean come on, any child could figure that out, let us have more 
 details, when they have the ground cut out for it. The interception, and the fact u only have one 
 damn helicoptor ( at least where i got to in the game. ) to counquer the entire world with, is 
 just not satisfying. I have played the game for a week and now i really have lost interest in it.. 
 So guess the value of the game is pretty low.. so i'm quite disapointed with this game : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomBomb
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 19, 2003 6:03 am PT
Review:  I agree with many post here. Many things should not be judged by someone who lacks the experience 
 to seperate themself from the nostalgic feelings. I agree this is definetly heading towards the 
 X-COM style and flavor. But I don't feel you should base the entire game's review on how it is 
 to some other game. A review should be unparalleled, and open. And I liked this game. Is it like 
 the old X-Com, barely. But that is not what I am reviewing. I am reviewing that this game was enjoyable 
 in and of itself. It's good for what it's worth. And X-COM is long gone and dead. Get out of the 
 past Gamespot and quit whining abut how things use to be. And review like you have a pair. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
