-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UFO: Afterlight
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ufoafterlight/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Customizable turn-based combat mechanics.
 Involving campaign storyline.
 Great depth with personnel management and tech research.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficulty is all over the place.
 Repetitive combat missions and terrain.
 Could use a better tutorial and more guidance at the start of campaigns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 634 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TopWare
Developer: Altar
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     May 1, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may be an upgrade on its predecessors, but UFO: Afterlight still comes with some significant 
 problems. 

  What's in a name? Altar Games hasn't made much progress over the past few years when it comes to 
 the unimaginative subtitles of its UFO series, but at least the developer is continually improving 
 the games themselves. The latest addition to the franchise, UFO: Afterlight, is certainly an upgrade 
 on both its UFO: Aftermath and UFO: Aftershock predecessors. However, this base-managing, alien-hunting 
 escapade has some tactical combat quirks and difficulty that bounces around like a superball, making 
 it a flawed, if reasonable, rehashing of the X-COM formula.  

          Look familiar? As with the standard X-COM formula, the default view here is a globe that 
 highlights your bases and the alien hot spots.     

  Most of Afterlight follows the template of the first two UFO games, which, of course, are revamped 
 takes on X-COM. Instead of battling the Reticulan menace on Earth, however, you'll war with these 
 nasty extraterrestrials on Mars. Humanity has been booted out by the new landlords, which forces 
 a ragtag bunch to attempt a new beginning on our closest celestial neighbor. Only problem is that 
 there are already residents on the red planet, so a fight begins as soon as you build your new 
 digs. Gameplay focuses on the old standards for this genre -- you develop a base, manage soldiers, 
 scientists, and technicians RPG style, research sci-fi tech, and attack enemy-occupied territories 
 in turn-based tactical scenarios. About the only real tweaks to the formula involve operating just 
 a single modular base, instead of the collection of headquarters that you usually amass in these 
 ET-battling epics, and taking over neutral territory by sending in rovers and building resource-collecting 
 mines.  

  Despite the fact that you've seen all of this before, there is something alluring about Afterlight's 
 story. Although fighting for Mars isn't as engaging as fighting for good old Earth, the atmosphere 
 is developed through the use of story triggers and lots of dialogue between base officials giving 
 you tips and plot points. This sometimes gets in the way of simply playing the game, as the chattering 
 of these talking heads seems to go on forever when all you really want to do is gear up and hunt 
 little green men, and the almost manga-style character graphics don't seem to fit this style of 
 game. Still, better too much story than not enough, especially when the tale is an intriguingly 
 pulpy saga where you wage battles and do deals with insidious alien and human adversaries.  

  These battles aren't quite as intriguing as the plot. While Altar has pretty much perfected the 
 modern turn-based combat engine by giving you almost unlimited control over the starts and stops, 
 the terrain is so repetitive and devoid of interesting features that scraps are often monotonous 
 fire-at-will gunfights. There isn't much in the way of cover on most maps, and your range of sight 
 is so poor that aliens often show up without warning. Battles frequently turn into shoot-'em-ups 
 in Martian valleys and plains where you have few tactical options aside from blasting away at the 
 bad guys and hoping that they fall down before you do.  

  Overall difficulty doesn't ramp up in a progressive fashion. One moment you've got a tough squad 
 capable of taking on robots and beastmen soldiers with a good chance of getting everyone home in 
 one piece, the next you've got a bunch of body bags filled with grunts who've been shredded by 
 mind-controlling aliens. The game goes from mildly challenging to insanely tough so abruptly that 
 you'll feel as though you've walked into a wall. This apparently has a lot to do with how the game 
 handles territorial expansion. Take over too much land before revving up weapon research and production, 
 and the game will assume that you're ready to take on big-time baddies. Aliens will then invade 
 your home territory and attack the pipe delivering water from the north pole to your base ASAP. 
 This can end your Martian colony in a hurry, because if you don't take care of these pipeline-sabotaging 
 bad guys right away, your whole base dies of thirst. Unfortunately, you have to expand quickly 
 to acquire the mines needed to collect enough fuel to send your UFO craft on long-distance missions, 
 like the one to repair your water line, or even to gather the metal needed to make guns and bullets. 
 Expect a few restarts while you figure things out.  

  With that said, battles here are still loaded with tension. The controls are excellent and the 
 interface is intuitive. Hover the cursor over an enemy, and attack percentages for your whole squad 
 immediately pop onto the screen. Icons for all troop commands, like reloading weapons and stance, 
 are readily accessible. Battles also benefit from a good mix of alien species, so you never really 
 know what you're going to fight when you send out your UFO landing craft. The plot also provides 
 motivation for assignments. Even though the visuals rehash the same dusty red Martian terrain over 
 and over again, you always have a purpose, whether it's a search-and-destroy mission targeting 
 alien invaders or a research job at ancient ruins. Troops display a depressing tendency to lump 
 up when moving together in formation, though, which necessitates micromanagement to clear firing 
 lines. And the audio is clogged with a techno disco score, tinny weapon effects, and irritating 
 order responses like "What-evah!" and "They're coming!"  

          Battling beastmen on the angry red planet..     

  Management features in Afterlight 
 are smoothly designed. A wide range of nifty weapons are there to develop, from the beginning Reticulan 
 laser rifles to warp cannons and gatling guns. More than a hundred techs can be researched, ranging 
 from Martian autopsy to supercomputers. It's all standard UFO-game stuff, but at least there is 
 a lot of variety, so you can take each game you play in different directions. Soldiers, scientists, 
 and technicians can be trained in over a hundred different disciplines as well. They can also be 
 leveled up and multiclassed like RPG characters, and each features personal bios that let you bond 
 with them -- at least until an alien rips out their spines. The interface could be a bit more helpful 
 when it comes to feedback and giving suggestions on what to do, though. The "tutorial" consists 
 solely of tool tips, which won't be much help for newbies who have never played this style of game 
 before. Being led by the hand through the opening stages of getting research and production started 
 would have nicely flattened the learning curve.  

  As with most X-COM clones on the market, your ability to enjoy UFO: Afterlight will be directly 
 tied into how many problems you're willing to forgive just for the sake of playing something just 
 like X-COM. It just so happens that with Afterlight, you won't have to forgive quite as much as 
 in other, similar games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Okay finally got the game after the first disks were made wrong and told to take it back to the 
 store. Yes, I know there is on-line gaming stores but here I am on Mars. You have to wear spacesuits 
 and they are not well suited for the environment. Also the Martians (whereever they went to) left 
 robot guards there and they attack as well as defend. The Reticulans helped you to set up the homebase 
 as well as theirs. But now besides the limited resources on Mars you have some kind of new aliens 
 trying to take over the planet using quantum gates. You will have to do research, gain resources, 
 make equipment and you do not have all the previous research from your old home - planet Earth. 
 So the episode begins and the home base has to be built up and geological probes done to gather 
 infomation and learn about Mars. You only have a limited time, as more colonist came with your 
 team but in suspended hiberation. Hopefully you will be able to succeed before time is up. But 
 then Mars is a bleak desolate place and all you can hope to do is learn enough and live long enough 
 to terraform the planet and make it through. You have limited contact with Earth and limited supplies 
 and additional help that may arrive, but the distance to Mars is not the same as going to the Moon. 
 This is your mission and this is your goal, save Humanity from dying out as a spacealien species 
 in a insignificant speck of a planet in a star system on the outer arms of the galaxy.
  
  The game works well with the 1.6 patch and after some other games lately, the music is superb and 
 the play value is fun, well, as much fun as you can have making a new home on planet Mars. The 
 game works similiar to the other two UFO games by Altar and has levels in strategic battles and 
 destruction of other aliens' who wish to stake their own claim to Mars. You will not need money, 
 but you will need resources and adapt yourselves to Mars hoping to make a green life-bearing planet 
 soon, someday - Mars time.
  Good luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleWeasel
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  Firstly I've not played a strategy game for a number of years (Dune 2 was my last) , so in the first 
 few hours it felt overloaded. Secondly I'm not finished yet  so I hope the pay-off at the end 
 is generous, I've stuck in a few hours and have under a third of the planet to concur.
  
  Other reviewers write that this game doesn't live up to predecessors  I have no knowledge of those, 
 so initially was happy with the game-play and interface  in fact I thought it was really fun and 
 engaging. I only really got to grips with the game through a pointer to the Wiki-site which give 
 a great overview of the game  without that I'd have been struggling to build things quickly outside 
 the home-base for sometime (thanks to those whose put that together and helped me) .
  
  I soon preferred the strategy side, rather than the tactics side, and this is mainly due to the 
 hideous camera angles in the tactics game and repetitive nature of wiping the same creatures out, 
 picking up an item/creature, or blowing the same thing up. I do like the idea of tactics and if 
 missions were more varied, and the scenery and maps more varied also, it would make the game truly 
 enjoyable right until the end. As it is, it's quite a struggle to keep total engagement in the 
 tactics side. The armour/weapons upgrades, levelling up and learning new skills help, but once 
 you've chosen your set-up and blasted through 50 missions, it's quite grinding play in the wee 
 hours of the morning. 
  
  Saying that I'm not one to take a break from gaming once stuck in  so if you're compelled to complete 
 a game, then like me, you'll get there.
  
  Reading other reviews, I don't know where this style of game can go, what's the next big thing, 
 or has there already been the best?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  UFO AL is a diverse tactical game that inspired me. I love the plot - Mars and starting a colony 
 there. At first you progress through the game slowly taking one territory at a time. Once you get 
 research - yes that dreaded "R" word again going and build your weapons, mines, labs, etc. you 
 will see how special this game really is. I have to admit I was bored at first and thought this 
 game was way to slow (played too many RTS games in my time) but after getting a taste of blood 
 in my mouth after defeating the Beast Men invasion of my colony I decided it was high time to return 
 the favor and destroy their very existence and that is where the fun began for me. 
  
  I've never played X-Com nor any of the other UFO series games but this is a blast to play and with 
 the new mods out there like a mission mod that adds more diversity to the default game you can't 
 go wrong. Im sure the price has dropped since this game has been out for awhile now.
  
  If you have some time to install the patches - 1.5 and 1.6 then do so because they fix several 
 bugs in the game. In 1.6 you don't need the game disk in the drive so it would be wise to download 
 and install it before you begin playing. 
  
  Lastly, I think this game surprised me because I lost interest in it after about an hour and didn't 
 pick it up again for almost a year. Now I cant put UFO AL down long enough to write this review. 
 Try it or at least the demo and enjoy a different kind of game for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  This game from the start is almost like a sequel to UFOD or TFTD. You lost basically and considering 
 some of the TFTD difficulties on the hard setting it isn't hard to imagine, Humanity was spared 
 and a portion deported to mars where you would have finished UFOD. 
  
  The story line I can believe to a degree though in my mind they should have included more than 
 the original sectoid model as the 'Alien aggressor' though they did a smack up job on that model. 
 I can't help but feel that a there could have been more put into the beastman portion of things, 
 though I was unable to get to the end of the game as my computer kept locking. Now that is a problem 
 that I have noticed with genre based games of this caliber, they run smooth and almost silky until 
 you get 60% through and then the save game problems start or the graphics start glitching and audio 
 becomes finicky or the program would lock up after one hours worth of play time. Not just this 
 game but a dozen others like it have similar problems and not being a programmer I can't say I 
 know what it is that makes them do this. (Not all games played were on the same machine though 
 same result came about)
  
  Even though the program has its faults the chance to jump back into the seat of a re modeled XCOM 
 is irresistible and though I have stopped playing it twice already I've gone back for more and 
 fought off the Beastmen and the Martians or the 'Rebel' Sectiods.
  
  The tactical side of things is impressive, if you take it that your moving from Xcom to this. Though 
 it does lack certain things on the whole like the capacity to have truly massive bases layed out 
 in honeycombs of creepy poorly light rooms like the original this version includes more random 
 base layouts and terrain features. I especially like the fact that the raised steps though still 
 on the same level give you increased accuracy when firing over your team so although you might 
 not have the crouch capacity to make a double line of soldiers there are still plenty of chances 
 to get rank fire in if your smart with your time.
  
  This game is in my humble and honest opinion is a marvel and would get a 10 but because of the 
 faults that I have had with it and the slightly over the top cartoony graphics get half a point 
 each taken off the total and another for the lack of multiplay. Something I have always wanted 
 to do in Xcom is multiplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M__N__M
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Any reasonable review of any game should only be made after at least completing the game, however 
 I feel that the GS reviewer only had a quick look through UFO Afterlight, missing out on the bulk 
 of the great features of this game and thus offered quite a narrow view. So I'll attempt to rectify 
 this by filling in the gaps left by the original reviewer and offering my opinion of the game.
 
  
  Like its predecessors in the series, UFO: Afterlight is a clone of the X-com formula that has benefited 
 greatly from the previous 2 games in the Altair UFO series. Its combat engine is much more streamlined 
 and the entire game generally feels quite smooth. Despite the terrible starting tutorial for the 
 game and the lack of any guidance, you should be able to get a grasp over most of the features 
 if you've played any X-com games or its clones before. However the game does indeed lack a proper 
 way of schooling total newbies and might take abit of patience combined with abit of trial &amp; 
 error. This is defiantly a bad call as itll put off a lot of people from experiencing this great 
 game.
  
  You start the game with a settlement on mars and an alliance to the reticulans, your former enemies. 
 Your main goal is to establish yourself on mars and figure out a way of turning it into your new 
 home. However your weapons are extremely primitive &amp; as you begin expanding your territories 
 while fighting the Robotic defenses left behind by the martians you trigger some sort of gate device 
 that causes the appearance of a new enemy, beast men. You'll spend the rest of the game trying 
 to get rid of these beast men while defending yourself as they'll become your main foe, however 
 you will be fighting other factions throughout the game as the story progresses.
  
  While previous X-com-like games usually meant researching the best weapons &amp; armour to win. 
 This game puts more emphasis on tactics, strategy &amp; adaptability, which is one of the greatest 
 things about this game. Each alien is vulnerable to one type of weapon or another and its your 
 job to figure that out &amp; prepare your different troops for all these different missions &amp; 
 enemies. As you become more powerful, new challenges arise, new enemies appear and with them new 
 research capabilities for better weapons &amp; tactics. If you try to go about it in the usual 
 fashion of getting the highest of everything you'll probably end up like the original GS reviewer 
 feeling that the game is hard. There are 4 types of weaponry you can branch off into and while 
 focusing on one can help you greatly you'll begin to notice the disadvantages of abandoning the 
 other trees as the different factions &amp; enemies react differently to these weapons. Reticulans 
 for example are extremely vulnerable to projectile weapons while beast men are mildly vulnerable 
 to them, however the robotic defenses &amp; even the martians themselves are hardly affected by 
 them. You can also similarly choose between medium &amp; heavy armour, trading off mobility for 
 defense, but more defense isnt always best in this game. These strategic choices can greatly affect 
 the outcome of your tactical battles.
  
  Weaponry &amp; armour arent the only ways of adapting to your enemies, the great RPG style of 
 interaction with your soldiers &amp; characters can help immensely in tackling the rising threats. 
 You can train your soldiers in all sorts of different tactics &amp; skills that can help you greatly 
 in tactical combat. Soldiers can be trained in stealth, heavy weapons &amp; the different anatomies 
 of aliens amongst other things, making them more effective in a certain area. Not all missions 
 require you to go in with guns blazing. Some missions can be easily solved with stealth while others 
 require careful tactics as you only need to achieve a certain objective to win, unlike the usual 
 kill everything that moves method. This can spare you the agony of trying to fight a superior enemy 
 with inferior weapons while your scientists try to catch up to the technological gaps.
  
  Your scientists &amp; technicians too have similar skills that help them in research &amp; production. 
 With careful mixing &amp; matching you can create a great team capable of tackling any new threats. 
 Scientists that can quickly reverse engineer anything captured from the aliens &amp; technicians 
 that can quickly manufacture or construct whatever is needed.
  
  The game includes a great variety of maps and would rarely feel repetitive, however youll probably 
 run across a few of them again, specially with the AIs tendency to keep attacking the same province 
 a few times in a row. However the maps themselves change as you begin terraforming mars into your 
 new home. Visible effects of your terraforming slowly start appearing right in front of you on 
 the geoscope and even in the maps. You start to see more green around your stations while plants 
 &amp; more green appear on your tactical maps. These add great variety &amp; color to the somewhat 
 dull martian atmosphere. The more progress you make in terraforming, the more visible the effects. 
 This is another of the best features in this game in my opinion.
  
  However some of its major events including the ending can feel somewhat anticlimactic as it fails 
 to live up to the apocalyptic ending youd like it to be. Nevertheless this is a great game that 
 should offer hours of great gameplay &amp; fun because of its engaging design &amp; rewarding atmosphere. 
 Its truly a great sequel to the Altair UFO series and a great clone to the X-com original that 
 comes close to representing what the original game wouldve been like with modern technology while 
 still being original. It seems Altair has learnt much from their previous mistakes with the other 
 2 games and successfully managed to pull off a great X-com clone and a great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  THE BAD:
  
  Between the on disk manual (only) and about the worst tutorial I have ever seen in a game, this 
 game will most likely turn off most new comers to the X-Com style of game play. THE GOOD:
  
  This is as close to X-Com as we have gotten from a clone (aside from a mod) . The graphics are 
 nice, gameplay seems mostly solid. I am liking it a lot.
  
  CHATTER:
  
  If you have been waiting for the next X-Com, this is as close as it gets. Those that have played 
 X-Com and know the style will pick up the gameplay much easier. Those that haven't will have a 
 fair amount of frustration. If you can stick it out and get past the beginning and start to understand 
 the game, you are going to begin to enjoy it. When you start playing, you should maybe commit 1-2 
 hours to learning it, then do a restart. This game is well worth the time it will take to actually 
 understand the gameplay. I am liking it a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waste93
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Pretty decent game though it gets a bit repetitive. Major issue I've had is that it crashes every 
 couple of missions later in the game. Makes the game much more difficult to play and ended up shelving 
 it prior to finishing it. If the crashes could be fixed it would make a decent game in the venue 
 of the X-Com series. If you are not familiar with the X-Com series, this game is a bit like the 
 Civ series on the strategic level. You have some resources you need to build certain structures 
 and you also have to develop technologies. Usually weapons tech. Once you go on a mission is where 
 it differs from Civ. You go to a tactical level where you can control everyone in the squad. They 
 are also equipped based on how you had them set prior to the mission. You can also pick up equipment 
 from fallen enemies and friends. With the correct training they will be able to use these items 
 also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimrhurst
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  If I could say just one thing about this game I would say it needs a better learning curve. There 
 is no manual at all in the box and no mention of it in the game. Online help and the tutorial are 
 basically worthless. If you are clever and dig you can find a pdf manual that gets secretly installed 
 on your system with the game. Too bad its only 24 half-sheet pages, counting illustrations. The 
 game is complicated and tough to decipher, even for those of us familiar with the history of these 
 UFO games. There is SO MUCH that is unexplained and judging from the forums at the developer site, 
 I'm far from the only person who discovered new features of the game after more than 20 hours of 
 play time only by reading someone else talking about them. It doesn't help that the plot is nonsense 
 and your goals are rarely clear. Even when you do know exactly what you need to do, it can be very 
 difficult to figure out how to do it. And if you choose your strategy incorrectly, you can ruin 
 the game for yourself and never quite know why.
  
  If you can manage to power your way through all of that, plus the occasional crash-to-desktop and 
 some spotty voice-acting, you'll actually find a pretty enjoyable experience hiding under there. 
 Unlike other games in this genre, Altar chooses to give you just a handful of troopers and almost 
 zero ability to gain more. This means you are intimately aware of all your team members, their 
 various specializations and quirks. I found this to be a nice addition, some others may find it 
 vexing, but it definitely rewards the cautious who fight to bring every soldier home in one piece.
 
  
  The research tree is extensive, with a variety of interesting weapons, space suits, add-ons and 
 mysteries to solve. There are also multiple alien factions to deal with, each very different to 
 fight both against and side-by-side on your team. Managing your scarce resources is a constant 
 balancing act where time is the most precious resource of all. One of the key goals is to terraform 
 the planet and watching oceans form and the red earth slowly green with vegetation is one of the 
 most novel and surprisingly rewarding payoffs I've seen in a game in some time. The strategy is 
 interesting and involving, and can last for a great number of hours.
  
  Still, the tactical game is the meat of the meal and it tastes good. Most of the research and production 
 that goes on at your base serves to better train and equip your soldiers. The variety of equipment 
 combined with a wealth of specialized trainings make each soldier a unique fighting machine. Add 
 to this the ability to recruit alien troopers from those you ally with and the capacity to build 
 drones (quite literally fighting machines ) and you have a lot of potential from just a small number 
 of starting characters. You can use different combinations of soldiers and weapons for different 
 scenarios and try a wide variety of tactics to kick ET's arse from Olympus Mons to Valles Marineris. 
 And you'll have plenty of opportunity to try those different tactics as the game will pummel you 
 with literally hundreds of tactical missions before the planet bends to your will. If anything, 
 its a few too many missions, as even with a decent set of maps at their disposal you will see quite 
 a few repeats before its over.
  
  All in all its got its flaws but its kept me gripped for over 60 hours now, 6 weeks and counting. 
 (In fact, if I'd had more time tonight I would be playing it now!) If you like tactical strategy 
 and you've got the tenacity then brush aside the GS Editor and the other players who sniped at 
 the rough patches and dig in on this one. You just might find it a worthy distraction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I personally love this game, I have started to play it over and over again to achieve perfection... 
 may it be who researches what or what type of weapon a certain persons carries. I love the fact 
 that you can tailor the characters to your wants or needs. The researching can kind of be overwhelming 
 at first cuz there are many paths that you can take, and each one is useful it it's own way. I 
 personally like the graphics and think that the game style goes well with the cartoon like design. 
 All the x-com games I have played and loved and I fell that this ones is a step in the right direction 
 in bringing back these kinds of games. I hope that more companies make games like this and continue 
 to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertleva
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  With all due respect to the professional Gamespot reviewer, he was simply dead wrong about this 
 game. I cant say im completely surprised though since the last UFO game also recieved a poor score 
 on this website and that game was very good too (if you could get past Starforce to actually play 
 it) .
  
  I didnt bother sticking up for the prequel to this game, UFO: Aftershock, because I had to fight 
 the much hated Starforce tooth and nail every time I wanted to play. Now, however, Starforce is 
 gone and Altar has only improved on the already solid formula that is UFO.
  
  UFO: Afterlight is essentially a turn based strategy game in which you pit your team of Space Marines 
 against hordes of alien bad guys determined to obliterate the human race once and for all. The 
 plotline picks up right where UFO: AS left off. We lost the battle for Earth, and the scattered 
 remains of humanity have to make a new home on Mars, with the help of some of the more humane aliens 
 that felt sorry for us after they hijacked our planet.
  
  The game consists of two main parts: The strategic game is where you manage your base and territories, 
 research and manufacture new technologies and interact with alien factions. They have streamlined 
 this portion of the game a lot by making it so you only have one base to manage and you dont have 
 to store up certain quantities of metal or other resources. For example if you have two metal mines 
 you are at resource level 2 for that particular resource and you can manufacture as many items 
 as you want, so long as the items dont require anything other than level 2 of metal. This is a 
 huge improvement over past UFO games where you had to constantly wait to build up resources to 
 make new weapons or armor etc. That part of the game wasnt fun, just tedious, and it wont be missed.
 
  
  The other side of the game is where you will be spending the vast majority of your time, the tactical 
 missions. This is where your team of futuristic Navy Seals will actually do battle. You have complete 
 control over you squad, and while this is essentially a turn based game it wont feel like it because 
 of the brilliant interface and gameplay. You will issue commands to your squad while the action 
 is paused, then unpause the game and watch them move out, if anything happens that makes you want 
 to change their plan you can repause the game at any time to issue new orders. You can also adjust 
 the game speed to suit your taste, slow motion for those tough battles, and double time for when 
 you just want to move your whole team across an empty map.
  
  The equipment that you have researched and manufactured in the strategic side of the game will 
 greatly affect your combat tactics. There are many different types of damage, physical, projectile, 
 acid, and incindiary just to name a few, and you will need to learn which aliens are vulnerable 
 to which types to be successful. As your technologies improve your battle tactics must adapt to 
 take advatage. For example, you may want sneak your dual sword wielding close combat specialist 
 near the horde of baddies so you can get a clear view of the terrain and relay enemy locations 
 back to the rest of the team. Then have your snipers take out enough bad guys from a distance that 
 your melee units can just mop up the edges.. There are as many paths to victory here as there are 
 players of the game, its all up to you, the game certainly has enough depth in this department 
 for even the most meticulous micro-manager.
  
  Some of you may be wondering why I recommended this game to any RPG fan. Well, having played many 
 RPGs I feel that this particular series has distilled everything I like about RPGs and taken out 
 all the fluff. You will spend a lot of time equipping your squad with new gear you find on the 
 battlefield or manufacture, as well as leveling up your team, just like in an RPG.
  
  You will be forced to decide which team members you want focusing on long range, and assign ability 
 points accordingly. You will also need some healers, some close combatants, and of course some 
 hybrids. The best part is its all up to you. You are given a blank slate of units and you can customize 
 them however you want! There is a ton of depth in this aspect of the game and its tons of fun. 
 The tactical missions are basically like your random battles in an RPG, though some of these fights 
 can last for a long time. The strategic game is like the overworld in an RPG where you advance 
 the plotline. The plot is very interesting and detailed by the way. The only difference between 
 this game and a standard RPG is that near ridiculous level of control you have over the game.
 
  
  The last aspect of this game I want to touch on is the fact that is is completely customizable 
 though the use of user created mods. I cant believe the Gamespot reviewer complained about the 
 difficulty being all over the place and then not even mention the fact that the large fanbase has 
 modded just about everything you could want in the game already. All you have to do is download 
 the appropriate mod. Personally, I like a very difficult game, so I played through the game once 
 on default, then I downloaded a mod that completely overhauls the game and increases the difficulty 
 drastically. Instead of missions with 8-9 enemies now I have 30-40 to deal with. Needless to say 
 I had to completely rework my tactics both in and out of combat just to stand a chance! But wow 
 what a blast and talk about replay value! Zelda's second quest has nothing on this game!
  
  Overall I think this is a fantastic game, and the definitely the best one in the series to date. 
 This series has a large fanbase so Im sure that there will be more titles to come, but I had to 
 chime in here and give the game the kind of review it deserves. I normally put a lot of weight 
 into Gamespot reviews, and I have purchased games in the past based solely off the reviews here. 
 Usually they get it right, but not this time. Give this game, and series, a chance guys, you wont 
 regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  The first mission gives players a bad impression with the pathetic weapon, cartoony graphics and 
 robot that is totally untextured. But after that it gets alot better.
  
  Gameplay::: Very fun and unique idea with both Tactical and Strategic views. Strategic is where 
 you build up your base, manage your squads, equpiment, research etc etc. The missions are pretty 
 repetive but with the mod advanced mission it fixes that. Maps aren't reused for different areas 
 so each area will have its own map. Terreforming changes the maps from a barren wasteland to plants 
 and grass. There are tons of research (a bit too much at once) and pretty adictive
  
  Graphics::: I hated them when I first used it. I don't mind them now. If CENEGA had used proper 
 uncartoony graphics so equipment and characters looked more mature and guns more badass this would 
 have probably got 10/10 or something. Needs blood as well and more textures but landscape an atmoshpere 
 are good. You get use to the graphics, I was put off at first. I love bullet shot effects but can't 
 stand the laser ones (laser=lines)
  
  Sound::: ppl say that the characters are annoying and all but I'm pretty sure in options you can 
 turn voice off. I don't mind the voice but I never have for any game (voice really doesn't matter) 
 but the gun shots are great and music is ok.
  
  Value::: Costs quite alot $40 or &pound;20 on Steam, if it was lowered by $10 ($5) it would be 
 more worth it cause off the graphics.
  
  Other::: ppl say this is hard to frustration and buggy. I'm confused. You cant dislike a game cause 
 it is hard, you just suck (no offense) and also doing it in normal difficulty I got a mod to add 
 MORE enemy units on the maps to make it more exciting but still not impossible, challenging but 
 not hard. Only lost 1 guy so far and I'm controling 40% of Mars. Bugs??? I have only ever experienced 
 one Bug and that was the mission didn't finish when it was suppose to but that came from the Advance 
 Missions mod (wasn't installed properly) . CONS:::your units don't seem to shoot automatically and 
 when in firefights I have to keep on pausing to retarget enemies. Did I miss something?? cause 
 I hate repeatidly pausing when I just wanna see them kill everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kewl_guy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is definatly the best of the Ufo series. Although i was sceptical at first it is a really 
 good game. The graphics are very good, a little cartoony, but it helps put you on a different planet.
 
  
  The evironment is awesome, there are alot of little details that they have included in the game. 
 I love the terreforming of Mars, once it hits about 20% and you can see the changes happening, 
 it gets sweet. While it could use a random map generator, the maps are very well designed and besides 
 one map i don't feel like i visit the same maps over and over (you remeber aftershock) . Sound is 
 good, although the laser noise does make me chringe. There are some crash issues but it is good, 
 just save often. I would recomend it if you like squad based games or ever played the X-COM serries 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tziganu_36
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  It is by far the best game in series. Astounding graphic quality for a TBS - only Silent Storm 
 can compete whit this - excellent squad strategy. The global phase is also well done.
  I strongly recommend it.
  
  What I still want from it:
  More variate landscapes and items 
 (tactical phase) .
  More challenging fights. (I didn't need to use cover, crouch or stealth a single time) . The aimed 
 shot is also useless and I also didn't launch a single rocket.
  Assaulting fixed strong defensive positions should improve the use of all of the above.
  Shooting 
 down alien crafts is also fun and I miss it.
  And, because you stare so much at the Red Planet surface, a little more graphical details and terraformation 
 changes can only improve the feeling.
  
  But these are merely details... the game is rock solid... waiting for the sequel:) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kekkonan
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  UFO games in the past have usually been fun to play, but absolute murder to figure what is actually 
 going on. Afterlight in this case is no different as there is a distinct lack of a tutorial to 
 really give you any help in figuring out what does what and although the game does suffer for this 
 its an interesting ride that youre taken on.
  
  Interface 7/10
  
  The interface is much smoother and easier to navigate than previous games  making it far simpler 
 to figure out how things work which, to be honest with you is a blessed relief as the other games 
 usually had a lack of focus when it came to menu design. Im not saying that the new interface 
 is perfect but its a lot better now.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  The graphics have been greatly improved on previous games  changing from the basic 90s 3D games 
 to a more polished 21st century look and dare I say it even slightly cartoony. This though is what 
 helps to make this game shine as each weapon and suit of armour that you wear is nicely portrayed 
 by the onscreen characters.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  The overall gameplay of Afterlight is much faster and more fluid than other UFO titles even though 
 it still has the pause and slow buttons to alter game speeds during play. The one thing though 
 that can really bug me is the way the camera can suddenly reposition itself for no apparent reason 
 but after tweaks here and there can be sorted out most of the time. The ground tracking system 
 that shows where your characters are going to go along a set route is also very useful so that 
 you dont have to worry too much about wondering why one of your guys is suddenly wandering round 
 the wrong way  usually because of a blocked path.
  
  Sound 6/10
  
  The music is okay but not exactly brilliant; I much prefer to just listen to some of my own music 
 while playing because it can get very boring due to it being the class spacey drone music thats 
 constantly in most sci-fi games. The voice acting though is on a much higher par than the rest 
 of the game lending each character a certain appeal.
  
  Overall 7/10
  Overall its a good game that is highly addictive even with its myriad of flaws that should keep 
 you going for a good few hours. Although I wouldnt really recommend it for newcomers to the series, 
 you never know you might enjoy it.
  
  Kekkonan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  After reading some of the player views of this game I sought after the Demo. That way I wouldnt 
 have to shell out the bucks for this game. I have been and still remain an X-Com fanboy at the 
 ripe old age of 61.
  Well I got the demo and loaded it up, First impressions werent all that good I might say. I didnt 
 like the graphis, kinda remind me of an old game .
  
  I agree with the reviewer on this about to much chatt and deporable game play. Sorry folks they 
 still dont have it down. I still take UFO defence any day over this 1. I was highly disappointed 
 with the players giving this 1 higher rating than the reviewer , its not often i agree with these 
 guys but this 1 I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps a comparison between UFO: Afterlight and X-Com is unfair because X-Com had some features 
 Afterlight does not and vice versa. X-Com had multiple base building, a UFO shooting down minigame, 
 and the squad-based tactical combat was turn-based. However, Afterlight's strategic out-of-combat 
 aspect is reinvented and improved in many ways and the real time squad-based tactical combat has 
 been refined to the point where it is actually a more impressive game experience. Taking the whole 
 into consideration, I believe that this is the better X-Com, and only nostalgia would tell me otherwise.
 
  
  The interface is relatively complex and takes some getting used to. Many retail boxes do not include 
 hard manuals but rather use a PDF file. However, the manual warns you away from it, saying that 
 it may spoil the game for you and that the interface is relatively intuitive. I managed to figure 
 out the game on my own but I'm a fairly advanced computer user. The most complicated part is the 
 squad pathing. Your squad members sometimes refuse to take orders and this is frustrating if you 
 don't know why. Sometimes they'll do this because they've been knocked down and haven't fully gotten 
 up yet and they'll ask for orders a second or so before they're ready again. However, usually they're 
 just trying to prevent running into each other. Creative use of the alt and shift keys (to replan 
 from scratch or stack additional orders respectively) seems to take care of most of that. It's 
 very cool to see your squad members run up, crouch, aim, and start laying a withering hail of bullets 
 all over those alien baddies. Running at normal speed looks the most realistic of any squad-based 
 combat game I've ever seen, and this is why the real-time execution actually seems to pull off 
 squad-based combat better than the original turn-based ones.
  
  The strategic combat outside of the game seems to have a number of talking heads continually bombarding 
 you with information you may or may not care about. However, you can actually fully customize which 
 events have them speak to you, which ones pause the game, and which ones show up on the log. So 
 if you get tired of hearing every time your squad member is moved to a hospital ward then you don't 
 have to. Despite the inability to build multiple bases or shoot down UFOs, the strategic game is 
 actually pretty advanced and interesting, and includes a number of embedded cutscenes as certain 
 events transpire.
  
  Perhaps the worst part of this game is that it does tend to crash. On some people's systems more 
 frequently than others. For me, the frequency is about once every two or three hours of play. Fortunately, 
 the game performs autosaves at the start of every squad mission, so significant progress loss has 
 yet to occur. At worst, I once had some reoccurring lost graphic model data that was lagging down 
 the tactical combat and preventing a certain battle from being completed. However, I was able to 
 save during the tactical battle and reload the game to finish the mission.
  
  I'm not kidding about that highly addictive comment. I picked this up on Sunday expecting to get 
 some work done at home before getting heavily invested in the game. After installing it and sampling 
 the gameplay a bit, I found myself riveted to the game, and I haven't been able to get any work 
 done at home for a few days now. Afterlight has that what happens next? drive that makes it very 
 difficult to put it down.
  
  When you consider that Gamespot reviewer Brett Todd had also slogged his way through the previous 
 Aftermath and Aftershock, essentially three heavy refinements of the same game, his giving Afterlight 
 a 6.5 surely indicates there's something shining through here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markrob2892
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  I just bought the game, and spent all Sunday playing it.
  I played the demo before, and the one for Aftermath (the first one of the UFO series) and I'm hooked. 
 I ordered Aftermath, and I had to go out and buy Afterlight.
  
  I wish I knew more about the background. I think it's based off of the two previous games (Aftermath 
 and Aftershock.. but not certain on that.)
  
  Let's start with the bad. The load times are horrible.. it seems to take 3-5 minutes between loads.. 
 ie loading a new game, or arriving at a new site for battle. I admittedly have the minimum ram, 
 and Vista, so they might be factors.... but it still seems excessive. The fighting sites are repetitive, 
 but the fighting is fun.. at least against the Beastmen.. the drones are pretty boring.
  
  There is a mission at the beginning that seems impossible to win without losing a guy.. I kept 
 restarting that mission.. and no matter what I did, it was too much. Even when you run after you 
 kill the big mech... anyhow, I just ended up skipping the mission. Also there are alot of missions 
 to stop Beastmen and robots from blocking the watersupply.. fairly easy missions.. but a pain when 
 you are trying to do other things, other missions, and this one keeps popping up.
  
  The good things. I love the X-com feel, and I love the expansion of that feel, where you don't 
 have rank, but you have levels in Soldier, Scientist, Technician. And it's possible to have levels 
 in two classes. The more you research, the better you get.. the more you build, the better you 
 get. Plus when you level up, you can train to learn new skills. Plus there are things to research, 
 there are weapons and devices to build.. there are building to make, and there are resources to 
 capture, because you have to have a certain amount of resources you need in order to build things. 
 Like to build a new hospital unit (for wounded characters) , you need a chemical level of 2. .. 
 to build rifles, you need metal, it is simple, and makes sense. It has alot of micromanaging that 
 I like.
  
  I have really been jonesing for an X-com type game, I even started playing X-com 1 and 2 again.. 
 I don't know if a 6.5 is a fair rating. I think maybe it should be rated at least a 7.5, but given 
 my tilt, and my love of X-com and micromanaging.. I gotta rate it higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maggzy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  Well despite the Gamespot negative review I thought I'd download the demo and kill a couple of 
 hours. Though Afterlight isn't part of the X-com franchise its obviously heavily influenced by 
 X-com Enemy Unknown and Terror from the Deep. These two first X-com games are among my favourite 
 titles of all time so Afterlight was going to have its work cut out to impress. . . . . . and I 
 was pleasantly surprised. Though I initially disliked the graphics they grew on me. The cartoon-like 
 taking heads and illustrations of the various squad members help you recognise and identify with 
 the people you're trying to protect. Mars is nicely arid with some interesting structures. While 
 the Aliens (apart from the first few robots) were well drawn and animated
  
  The controls were tricky and a little infuriating at first, but after a little practice became 
 virtually second nature.
  
  The resource management, research and training is similar in many ways to the old X-com titles 
 and is meshed in well with the game as a whole. Its a shame you can't build multiple bases, but 
 thats a minor complaint.
  
  I'm looking forward to getting the full version of Afterlight. If you liked X-com you should enjoy 
 this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozubek_TR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Despite the frequent crashes, this piece is one the most addictive version of this genre. Plus, 
 this game is OPEN FOR DEVELOPMENT. there are lots new really brilliant add-on out there to enhance 
 the game, from new skins to complete weapon power adjustments, from different game sounds to new 
 weapons. The difficullty is not as hard as our Todd mentioned. It's a leaning curve you know. some 
 catches up with it, others fall below it and get wasted :) . lastly, once you have the katana, the 
 stalking skill and the cloaking ability, there is nothing more joyful then jumping into a gang 
 of reticulans and cuttin'em into pieces within seconds.
  
  ozgur 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kolban
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I am a 40 year old gamer and have never bothered to write a review before but after having bought 
 this piece of work and wasted half a day on it I wanted to warn others.
  
  The first clue that something was badly wrong was the low resolution graphics. I have a 30 monitor 
 and the latest graphics card and I cranked up all the settings but still the interface was noticeably 
 blocky. As a programmer myself, I believe they used resolution graphics and merely scaled them 
 up for the higher resolution display.
  
  As I started to work through the tutorial, I found myself actually cringing when the characters 
 spoke. Their voices were annoying and I simply couldn't imagine devoting time to this game and 
 having those incredibly annoying voices repeat the same phrases over and over again.
  
  On the strategy views and when the game characters appeared in their own dialog areas there wasn't 
 even an attempt to synchronize voice to lip movements. It was like some badly dubbed movie. I couldn't 
 even hit escape or other interrupt to bypass these and was forced to endure them.
  
  As I continued to give it the benefit of the doubt it locked up a couple of times and large chunks 
 of the gaming graphics simply disappeared as I watched. As my character walked towards them they 
 would appear and disappear randomly. I went to the web site for the game and found that a patch 
 was available but the patch would not install. Going back to the website I found that there was 
 a patch to the patch to get it installed. It is obvious that the developers of the game are not 
 native English speakers as their support web site and basic instructions are themselves poorly 
 written and contain serious grammatical errors.
  
  As for the game play itself ... I found it non-existent. I was exposed to a bizarre variety of 
 buttons and options and choices and no sign of a gradual build up of knowledge ... the game seemed 
 to expect that I know everything all at once. The real-time action was not with frequent pauses 
 to change tactics ... the laser fire from my weapons sounded like an old 1930's flash gordon episode.
 
  
  All in all ... a waste of my time and money. I'm not even going to offer to give it to someone 
 as that would be spiteful.
  
  Sorry if this review seems harsh ... it is my first attempt but the frustration of this purchase 
 has caused me to want to share. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stpkg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  PROS:
  1) Nice to have storyline added
  2) Good Enemy AI
  3) Tech Tree is Good
  
  CONS:
  1) There is nothing dealt with the Cryogenic Monument.
  2) Long loading time for some 
 tactical missions
  3) Occasional crush during saving and loading tactical missions.
  4) AA and HDR seemed no improvement to the graphics.
  
  SUGGESTIONS:
  1) Add FOOD as a new 
 resource and linked to new tech research as well.
  This can be a building in the base and limit the max. no. of people it can support.
  So player 
 can decide which class and who to be unfrozen from the Monument when more resources are available.
 
  2) Good to have more class only weapon, and would like to see scientist and technician go to fight 
 as well.
  3) More varieties in mission content, objective.
  4) Random Maps.
  5) More Alien and monster types.
  6) More manufacturable robot types.
  7) Would like to see 
 enemy UFO in mission like XCOM.
  8) UFO should be damagable so squad need to defend it.
  9) Personal favor: I would like to capture Aliens and store in the UFO during mission.
  10) Add 
 tech for mining underwater for flooded areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, having been a huge fans of all the Xcom games, it was a huge shame that no one managed to 
 replicate the magic that was ufo enemy unknown. However afterlight is as close as they have come 
 to the genre's leader. They didnt get everything right and indeed they still have a long way to 
 go but the game is certainly a lot of fun and does have that just a few more minutes feeling to 
 it. The setting is on Mars and although the scenery is fairly drab and boring to begin with it 
 soon livens up when you start terraforming it. Its also a lot of fun to see your new home begin 
 to look more pleasent. You start off with a set amount of characters and you cant hire any more 
 which is a shame. Although a few more men become available it does rather limit the freedom having 
 a set amount of men. To make it worse some of the characters are just ridiculous. (such as your 
 best starting fighter being a very old lady. However this also adds an element of fun to the game 
 because you have to micromanage where in the base your people will be. Thats another point, you 
 only get one base and one ufo. Not ideal but surprisingly this doesnt subtract from the game that 
 much. The research is fantastic, and it can be a lot of fun testing which weapons work best with 
 different aliens. The story line which progresses you through the game is fun although slow at 
 times. Graphics wise they arent bad but i personally dont like the silly cartoony presentation 
 but after a while you become used to it. The sound is nothing special but then again, neither was 
 Xcoms. All in all this game is very very enjoyable and i highly reccomend it to those new to the 
 genre and veterans alike. Without wanting to ruin it for you (skip this paragraph if you dont want 
 to know any spoilers) i do feel i have to say that the worst part of the game is the ending. Its 
 rubbish! To summerise + You get very involved with the different characters and levelling them 
 up to suit you. + It does keep to the feel of the original.
  +good tech tree
  + Good setting (at later periods in the game) + Just good fun
  - cant choose your own team or 
 hire more - only one base and ufo
  - i personally didnt like the cartoony affect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madpetter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  UFO: Afterlight is a great game. However the ending kind of ruined it for me. There is no good 
 epilogue or video telling you how you did or telling you the consequences of your actions. If this 
 game had an video sequence with alternate ending like the one Fallout has I would gladly give it 
 a 10. The research is exciting and you keep looking forward to discovering new parts of the story. 
 The aliens are really thought through and require you to develop different strategies depending 
 on with species you are fighting. Those tactics become obsolete when you produce the lightning 
 ball thrower. After I developed it I finished almost every mission by driving my lightning balls 
 around the map till everything was obliterated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaverym
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  It's one of the best games I ever played in the last times, the graphics are very quite worked 
 and the tactical mode is the best part of the game. But not everything is a wonder, for it to be 
 complete a good tutorial and a detailed manual is a must to help those who never played the UFO 
 serie games like me :) I started and restarted the game same 5 times till understand all aspects 
 of the game but now I finished it two times, easy and normal and I'm going try to finish it in 
 the hard mode :) if it had been multiplayer and skirmish mode too it would be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iorya
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Altar Interactive the former studio who made UFO: Aftershock, went bankrupt, and left a good game 
 UFO: Aftershock, unpatched and full of bugs. After this a few of the people there formed Altar 
 Games who released recently, UFO Afterlight. The developers learned from the mistakes from the 
 past, and this time they made a complete game, with not many, bugs, great graphics, and very interesting 
 and complex features, and great gameplay. THE GOOD: Great graphics, a new strategic concept, on 
 building mines on the regions, you conquer, control, thus you get resources to research and manufacture. 
 Nice weapons, and very nice level design on the tactical map. THE BAD: Blurred fonts on resolutions 
 less then 1280x1024. High loading times after a while on the tactical mission, is a memory leak, 
 this depends on machine to machine. On mine it happens: ( , the rest is smooth on high details:
 
  2500xp+, 1gb DDR 400, Nvidia 6600 GT.
  
  In the end, UFO AL, is a good game, with a few problems, with new concept on the strategic map 
 and how you control the regions. The only problem that really pisses me off is the loading times, 
 but thats gona be fixed in a future patch. So for the UFO fans, this is a must, for the new ppl 
 is gona be a fun and nice ride. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oxhan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  X-COM: Ufo Defense released in late 1993. But it is still an enjoy-to-play game. It is unbelievable 
 how these guys made a strategy game that mix tactical and strategical game-play in 1993. Even PC 
 games industry was not big and PC games culture and genres were not as clear and comprehensible 
 as today.
  
  Many years have passed but no-one able to make a worth-to-play sequel for this game with modern 
 graphics. ( except; X-COM: Terror From Deep and X-COM: Apocalypse . But these games have been made 
 more than 10 years ago ) . But wait is over and our wishes have come true.
  
  This is a really must have game if you like X-COM and UFO games. Lets look closer for details!
 
  
  Graphics are very good. System requirements are low. Sounds and musics are not so fantastic but 
 OK.
  
  There are strong RPG elements and character built system. Tactical play is nearly same as other 
 UFO games of ALTAR. Strategic game-play occurs on mars this time. Playing on mars isn't a big problem 
 for me but I like to play on Earth rather than mars.
  
  That is it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD I found the devs have solved most of the problems related to previous titles of the serie. 
 The strategic and tactical phases are well balanced with a lot of micromanaging (i like it very 
 much) and a lot of different missions (less repetitive than UFO AM and UFO AS) . TACTICAL: (difficulty 
 level: medium) enemies AI is average. They don't act too much stupidly and tend to be dangerous 
 just to assure you'll need to play with some brain. STRATEGIC: research tree well implemented. 
 A lot of things to do. Good acting voice from your assistants. The choice to use only e few characters 
 for technical/scientific operations is good. I found the graphic not so amazing but the cartoon 
 effect is funny after you have played for some time and been used to it.
  Music is ok, with some theme really good and some other a few repetitive.
  
  THE BAD
  The 
 manual is useless!!!! You'll have to study and discover things while playing. This could be a little 
 frustrating at the beginning (first time I opened the base management interface I was tempted to 
 uninstall the game....) . For example, no explanation about how's calculated the resource level 
 related to number of mines owned (see the forum to discover it) . The diplomatic tree could be implemented 
 better. Some minor graphic problem in strategic missions. The map rotation and management sometime 
 go crazy (but I don't know if it depends by my pc or by the game) .
  Finding your tech vehicle around Mars is sometime difficult.
  
  CONCLUSIONS
  It's that kind 
 of game you know when you start to play with, but not when you'll finish (.... ooops 3 am! I need 
 to sleep. Ok just another game-day to discover new technology...)
  If you work and have a social life... you risk to compromise them: this game is too much addictive..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  After living for years with forcing the DOS versions of the X-com series down my XP's throat with 
 a plethora of applets, plug-ins and patches. We can finally play a game that not only runs great, 
 looks great but also plays wonderfully!
  
  The graphics are a bit 'cartoony' for my taste, yet they are incredibly easy on the eyes. The sound 
 is very nice, giving you a sense of 3d space and distance. UFO: Afterlight also presents a backdrop 
 musical theme that is not one of those you end up turning off after half an hour. Very refreshing 
 by today's standards!
  I would have enjoyed being 'creeped-out' like I used to while playing with the lights out the DOS 
 ancestors of Afterlight__but oh well, the anime graphics aren't a creepy element either.
  
  Management, the X-com series has always made a firm base, pun not intended, on management. A basic 
 requirement for games that involve management is an easy to read, easy to use interface. Al element 
 where many games fail rotundly, UFO; Afterlight shines through... Um, pun not intended__again. 
 The screens are very well designed, I should know, I'm a graphic designer. Easy to get to any part 
 of the game with tabs everywhere you'd expect them. My only complaint is that although you get 
 notices from the different department heads when things occur, the time the notices remain available 
 to click go-to on them is very brief. It's easy to organize things, in particular something I love 
 is the capability to remove items you no longer will be using once better equipment is developed. 
 Although I do miss being able to sell off things one would pick up while out on missions, but that's 
 the money-lover in me! Overall, management of both supplies and personnel is very well executed 
 in UFO; Afterlight.
  
  Battles, UFO: Afterlight is so well designed, that both old X-Com folks like myself and newcomers 
 will find it very easy to deploy, organize and plan attack movement while out on missions. The 
 downside, most maps look EXACTLY the same. The enemies come at you from the same places almost 
 every time due to the fact that map design is very weak an non varied. Unfortunately this is one 
 area the designers should have hired someone other than the janitor to cover map development and 
 design. For this I drop my rating considerably. One of the best aspects of any RTS is the need 
 to plan and maneuver a new map, an obstacle or a position. Not having originality in level design 
 may just kill this game from becoming as good a hit as it may have otherwise.
  
  The game play changes considerably if you're used to simply purchasing the services of new soldiers 
 every month as in other X-Com games. In Afterlight you're limited to the guys you start off with, 
 at least until you're way into the game and have formed alliances with others, I won't spoil this 
 part for you... You'll need to find out for yourself!
  
  The story line is based on a handful of humans striving to make a new life on Mars. Hence the new 
 location.. I must say I do miss rotating the Earth around it's axis! But oh well, a terra-forming 
 we will go! I have to say that although I like the story line, it does feel as if re-playability 
 is quite limited.
  I would have enjoyed an open-playground mode. Overall this game rocks baby... However I do look 
 forward to MODS that will fill in the lack of map variety and sandbox mode. Perhaps a patch of 
 some sort?
  
  Get UFO: Afterlight, if you're an X-Com fan or not, there's something in this game for every gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money_Fist
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Where do I start.
  
  Graphics: It seems in this installment of the UFO the devs started using cartoonish War Craft type 
 graphics
  At first I was thinking bad idea but after playing for a while they grow into you.
  I think Altar 
 wanted to maybe bring back a classic UFO feeling (remember them 2D cartoon characters)
  The animations are pretty sweet.
  
  Gameplay: remember in the older UFO games where you go 
 to fight the aliens and the map looks just the same as the last 30 times you went to the fight 
 the aliens? It seems now alot more variety has been added to the random landscapes in this game. 
 So you get less of that deja vu feeling.
  More research and weapons then you can shake a stick at!
  
  Sounds: bang, zap , pow!
  no 
 complaints.
  
  Afterlight is a great improvement from the previous two (or three) UFO games. Fans of the UFO genre 
 will NOT be disapointed with this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
