-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UFO: Aftershock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ufoaftershock/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More X-COM-style options like base-building and research.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive, with much reuse of just a few tactical maps.
 Missions unbalanced and extremely hard.
 Prone to crashes and problems with the interface.
 Mostly ugly graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 7.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 655 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Cenega Publishing
Developer: Altar
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 23, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
UFO: Aftershock improves on its predecessor in some ways, but there's just far too much wrong with 
 this copy of the classic X-COM series to recommend it. 

  For more than a decade, fans of X-COM: UFO Defense have been waiting for someone to recapture the 
 addictiveness of saving the Earth, one crashed flying saucer at a time. Altar Interactive arguably 
 came closest to achieving this goal in 2003, when it released UFO: Aftermath. But while this game 
 got the squad battles right, it got a lot more wrong. It even stripped away the strategic elements 
 that helped make X-COM one of those compulsive games you would load up for a half hour and wind 
 up playing into the wee hours of the morning. Enter UFO: Aftershock, not so much a sequel as an 
 attempt to convince critics that Altar really can properly rip-off X-COM. And the developer does 
 do a better job of copying the formula behind the MicroProse oldie here, adding in base-building, 
 research, and even resource collection. But the heart still isn't there; this game suffers from 
 too much dreary repetition, technology that is too easy to acquire and research, and loads of bugs 
 and design flaws that make the game very difficult to play in spots.  

          Hey, haven't we cleared cyborgs out of this bunker a couple dozen times already?     

 
  The story begins roughly where one of the conclusions of the original game left off, so consider 
 this the aftermath of the aftermath. Fifty years have passed since the Council of Earth accepted 
 the alien Reticulan request to join in its apocalyptic experiment that killed billions to create 
 a godlike being called the Biomass. Playing mad scientist didn't quite go as expected, however, 
 and you return from exile aboard an orbiting ship called a Laputa to find that the Biomass has 
 messed up both the humans who remained behind and the aliens who opened this can of intergalactic 
 worms in the first place.  

  Essentially, this plot pushes the cosmic reset button and gets everything back to where it was 
 at the start of UFO: Aftermath. You're once more in the dark about everything, including what happened 
 on terra firma a half century ago, and are called upon to both learn what took place and capture 
 territories to unite three human factions (regular guys, psionicists, and cyborgs) into a world 
 government called the Commonwealth of Earth. And, of course, you also have to form squads of troops 
 with RPG-style skills, stats, and level advancement to kick E. T.'s ass on tactical maps.  

  So, second verse, same as the first. It's a shame that Altar didn't start from scratch and dump 
 the hackneyed global holocaust for something closer to the mysterious tales in X-COM and X-COM: 
 Terror From the Deep. Wondering about alien motives as events develop over the course of a campaign 
 would certainly be more intriguing than plodding through a story where everybody has a scorecard 
 from the beginning. Also, the post-apocalyptic mambo has been done in so many games that it's hard 
 to even think about playing another one.  

  Gameplay adds to the sense of drudgery. As with UFO: Aftermath, missions in UFO: Aftershock feature 
 too much repetition. It seems as though there are no more than a dozen maps, so you clear the exact 
 same ruined factories and ruined railway yards and ruined wilderness wastelands all over the world, 
 no matter if you're fighting in Canada or Kazakhstan. All of the scenery is also universally ugly, 
 with lots of jaggies and a color palette ranging from brown to black. Opposition is provided by 
 a handful of alien enemies, all of which look like  Close Encounters of the Third Kind -style alien 
 "Greys," and what seems to be a trio of mutants, so you kill the same poorly drawn, poorly animated 
 baddies repeatedly.  

          Base-building has been added to UFO: Aftershock, but the game still needs a decent tech 
 tree for research.     

  Mission goals vary little. You're generally called upon to save people from Reticulans or mutants, 
 to capture one of the beasties for autopsy, or to conquer a province by blowing away everything 
 that moves. Some undertakings do feature spicier objectives, like escorting allies through hazardous 
 terrain. But since you always get to the goal line by wasting packs of Reticulans or mutants, it 
 still feels like you're repeating the same couple of missions over and over again.  

  Along with being dull, these assignments are brutally difficult. Enemies frequently appear out 
 of nowhere in your rear or on your flanks, which nicely kills any tactical plan you might develop, 
 and the game is pretty seriously unbalanced. You can easily run into enemies with weapons you can't 
 handle, like packs of cyborgs with grenade launchers capable of wiping out your entire squad before 
 you can get off a shot.     

  Length is another annoyance. Just as in the original game, Altar has padded the campaign in UFO: 
 Aftershock, tossing in dozens of the aforementioned tedious assignments to keep players busy for 
 a good 60 or 70 hours. Of course, that would be great if the tasks were varied and interesting. 
 But when you're scanning the globe and seeing nothing but missions that require you to slaughter 
 the same old foes on the same old maps, you grow less concerned with getting your money's worth 
 and more with how many times you'll be forced to repeat yourself before the campaign mercifully 
 comes to a close.  

          Most missions take place on the same handful of maps, and all feature high body counts. 
     

  Not everything is quite so irritating, though. Altar has answered critics demanding more X-COM 
 in their X-COM rip-offs by adding resources, research, and proper base-building. Low-tech, high-tech, 
 and alien resources are now gathered by conquering provinces. These goodies are then used to fund 
 the development of bases that can be stocked with buildings such as medical laboratories and weapons 
 factories. Basically, you can trick out your E. T.-hunting headquarters as much as you could in 
 X-COM.  

  But while all this sounds nifty, base-building doesn't add a lot of depth to gameplay. Research 
 isn't laid out in a standard RTS tech tree, so there it lacks a clear, linked system of prerequisites 
 that makes every decision crucial. Also, vital research projects can be wrapped up almost immediately 
 (the plans to an ordnance factory can be researched in just nine hours, for instance) , and factories 
 are completed in mere days, so you have the time to look into virtually everything. Just queue 
 options up as they become available and you'll be cranking out Reticulan energy rifles and spaceships 
 in no time.  

  Also, there isn't any personality to all of this. Resource collection is anonymous; you take over 
 a province and watch the numbers click upward just as if you were gathering wood or coal or another 
 generic RTS resource. There is no money management, and no option to buy equipment. Combat is so 
 vicious that you grind through troops too fast to get attached to any of them. All of these factors 
 restrict your options and force you to play the game in a straightforward manner that doesn't inspire 
 much experimentation.  

  Finally, the game includes a roach motel of bugs. UFO: Aftershock is prone to exception errors 
 and sudden drops to the desktop. Crashes are most prominent when starting a new game or loading 
 a save, although thankfully there doesn't seem to be any corruption of save files. Still, these 
 problems are frequent enough that you never gain confidence that the game is going to run properly, 
 and you wind up saving constantly to ensure that you don't lose any progress.  

          Conquering provinces is pretty easy, although your patience is tested by fighting the same 
 battles over and over again.     

  Other bugs and design miscues wreak havoc during gameplay. Frame rate occasionally plummets in 
 combat. Units don't always respond to commands immediately, which is a big problem during firefights 
 because enemies are so quick on the draw that even the slightest hesitation in finding cover or 
 going prone inevitably proves fatal. Troops insist on walking so close together that at least two 
 members of the platoon have their shots blocked at all times. And missions sometimes can't even 
 be started because the team members get stuck in the doorway of their landing craft.  

  Basically, UFO: Aftershock is one of those rare sequels that manage to solve problems with the 
 original game while simultaneously adding a whole spectrum of new issues. Maybe the third time 
 will be the charm for Altar Interactive, or perhaps the developer will give up on trying to come 
 up with a new take on X-COM and pursue what most fans have wanted all along -- a full-fledged remake. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Many of us cut our teeth on X-COM and while my memories of playing it are wonderful, I doubt that 
 I would enjoy it so much today. In many ways, I've been spoiled by gameplay advances made in the 
 past decade and I think X-COM would seem too limiting to me nowadays.
  
  That said, there have been many imitators of that game, mostly lackluster, but Aftershock is not 
 as horrible as some would have you believe. I've found it to be exceptionally buggy and it has 
 crashed me back to my desktop just after finishing a tough mission (thus forcing a reload and doing 
 the mission *again*) far too many times. Yet, I still play it. I like pain, what can I say? I bought 
 my wife a riding crop so she can whip me. Playing Aftershock is similar to being whipped by a hot 
 woman in lingerie: they both look great, are guilty pleasures, but ultimately you cross the line 
 where pleasure becomes pain and you have to stop and heal. Aftershock is extremely repetitive in 
 its mission structure. You have the ubiqitous kill 'em all missions, rescue a friendly, escort 
 friendlies, capture an enemy... and that's about it. The maps come in only a few varieties : post-apocalyptic 
 ruins, rolling hills, downed alien vessels (a nice nod to Aftermath when you actually shot down 
 those ships) , and underground military bases. On some very rare story-driven missions you actually 
 defend your floating homebase which is fun and nicely detailed.
  
  There is a story behind the game that is actually pretty decent but it unfolds very slowly. Most 
 of the beginning is taking one province after another until you finish some key research that slowly 
 eeks the plot to you. Eventually, you reach a resource gold mine when your income so far outstrips 
 your outgo that it makes me wonder why the designers even put resources in the game in the first 
 place since they only matter in the very beginning. Base building is simple. You have capital cities 
 with three, four, or five build slots and you build either factories or labs. Eventually, an education 
 requirement appears and you must allocate one or two slots to schools so you can build the more 
 advanced structures like Hyper-Energy Labs, Jet Propulsion Labs, and the Psionic labs and factories. 
 All of your labs and factories pool their resources. If you want to build a piece of armor that 
 takes 24 hours to complete, two factories can do it in 12, three in 8 and so forth. The game forces 
 you to tear your stuff down somewhat regularly as new building options come available and also 
 forces you to waste slots on defense, to stop your areas from being taken, but I've found that 
 even having defense is not a sure bet to stop invasions. You don't even get a message that a base 
 is taken, you'll just notice that a base is highlited red instead of blue on the map, then you 
 have to go and retake it. Annoying.
  
  You do have three races, humans, cyborgs, and psionics each of whom can use certain requipment. 
 Humans can wear the widest variety of armor, cyborgs (who are all male) , use implants that are 
 permanent additions and tend to have the most health and best overall defense, and psionics (who 
 are all female) , can field a wide variety of psionic items. These characters can further train 
 in specific fields such as leader, medic, commando, etc which affords them the ability to use new 
 items or increases their skills. Combat is pausable real-time and includes the usual suspects like 
 cover, crouching, prone, and the like. Nothing too ground-breaking there, but it is functional. 
 Sniper rifles though are horribly overpowered and you can basically clean up a squad of enemies 
 with two decent snipers firing .50 cal rifles.
  
  Aftershock seems a little underpolished. Very early on you get some research options that are locked 
 to you, but they appear on your list. For instance, you keep seeing Detection Lab but you cannot 
 build it. It is not until much much later in the game do you even run across the right trigger 
 to make this research even possible. Why list it so early? The diplomacy is held on by duct tape 
 and not very relevant. There are several of these minor why did they do that? in the game.
  
  I would not go so far as to say Aftershock is fun, but it is playable. I really like squad 
 based and turn based strategy so it appeals to me despite its flaws. You have to be digging the 
 genre and be a fan or you will be miffed. I recommend it but hesitantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NemoBg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Even better than the first part Ufo Afterlight- better graphic, gameplay and even more researches, 
 enemies and... everything! One of the best games that I have played for years. If you like saving 
 Earth from extraterrestrial- this is your game! Equip your best men, pack your best weapons and 
 go out there! I have played and replayed both ot the games and I think that they are the best ever!!! 
 Don't mix with the X-com series- there are lots of things that look familiar or even the same, 
 but these games are completely different! Altar Games- Keep up the great work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 2.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  UFO Aftershock is the latest in the long line of tactical combat games, the first and grand-daddy 
 of them all being, UFO: Enemy Unknown or known by its other name of Xcom: Enemy Unknown, aftershock 
 tries to re-create the same game but unfortuntely fails and ultimately creates a really bad game 
 full of bugs, problems and just a complete mess.
  
  Graphics are pretty dated, and sound is pretty junky as well. Gameplay which as always, is the 
 most important and makes or breaks a game is almost completely lacking, the problems in game are 
 just too numerous to mention ranging from Aliens popping up into thin air and attacking through 
 to occasionally 'crash to desktop' problems.
  
  Just avoid this game unless you want trashy and ultimately annoying gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyha123
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  GOOD : well it's another X-com game , and you don't see many turn based strategies this day. Oh 
 and RPG element ( team development ) is OK.
  BAD : everything else . Well maybe graphic isn't so bad .
  
  This is another of famous , maybe 
 even legendary gme from X-com series , but it's also the worst so far . But rest assured Altar 
 is working on a sequel and it could be even bigger crap . Basicly it's the same like the other 
 parts - sinister aliens are attacking and you are the only one who can defend mother earth from 
 the threat . So build your bases , arm your squad and go kick some aliens. If you succeed you can 
 research what is left of them and invent some deadly weapons , then you can arm your squad even 
 better and slay even more aliens etc... You were doing the same thing in Enemy unkown , Terror 
 from the depth , Apocalypse and Aftermath . Was it fun ? YES! Is it fun in Aftershock ? NO! Why? 
 First of all game is extremely bugged . Some mission just would'n go , and it will occasionally 
 crash ( even with patch installed ) . Next the loading time before missions is extremely long ( 
 almost like when playing Enemy unkown on Amiga 500 ) . Don't get my wrong according to tech info 
 my comp configuration isn't minimum it's recommended for this game . Afterlight is a really ram 
 eating monster - having 1.2 GB Kingston DDR 400 Mhz Ram I was able to play it for about 2-3 hours 
 before it was starting to slow down - and I mean really slow down . And graphic isn't that good 
 after all - in my opinion Silent Storm 2 was looking a loot better . In game physic is also quite 
 crappy - it's almost impossible to destroy something ( you know like walls ) . In SS2 when having 
 a lot of grenades you could bring down 4th floor building , and in Aftershock it is only possible 
 to make a small hole in the wall . Why? Why do they bother making their own crappy engine if ther 
 were a lot better avaible ? Another thing is the enemy IQ - they can do 2 things only . One is 
 to find some hard to get place and wait for you ( and not 1 or 2 but all of them in one place ) 
 , the second is to rush on you ( all ) . The second path of behavior could be sometimes even fun 
 and chalenging . Difficulty level of fight's varies . On the beginning it's very difficult - you 
 don't have decent weapons , trained squad , bases and resources . But after you get trough first 
 few missions ( by reloading saves over and over again ) it will become childlish easy , and you 
 will be able to complete most missions with 2 team members . Considering that there are 5 kinds 
 of missions it will become boring quickly . The saddest thing is that the tactic part of the game 
 is the better part of it . The strategic part is huge disappointment . You have to manage resources 
 and there is even something like diplomacy but it isn't worth mentioning . Oh and there is research 
 of course . But it isn't good at all. Basicly you can research the same things that you were researching 
 in previus parts , but it's more user unfriendly then it's ever was . You will have to build tons 
 of buldings to research anything , and another ones just to produce it . After about 10 hours of 
 gameplay I was totally lost in it , and stopped carrying about it . Another irritaitin thing is 
 StarForce 4 protection . I have original copy and brand new DVD and I'm able to run it 1/3 times 
 I try (and sometimes I must wait about 5 minutes when F****d strforce is checking DVD ) . Don't 
 get me wrong this game has som pluses ( hand to hand combat with katanas , addons to weapon and 
 armour , character development , shooting hundreds of mindless enemies ) but it's not worth it 
 . If you are looking for some turn based tactics try Silent Storm2 , Fallout Tactics or some of 
 old UFO's ( even Aftermath is better ) but kep away from this "game". I still cant believe that 
 I bought it.
  
  It's 4 o'clock and I don't see clearly - sorry for my english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  This is a poor attempt to produce a XCOM/UFO-esque game. I really wish there was a good recent 
 game that captured some of the original XCOM games but there isn't (please someone do one!) .
  
  This game is repetitive, boring and uninspired. The poor graphics and sound could have been 
 excused if the game play and level design were good, small selection of original maps does not 
 help at all - levels and enemies are just the same. 
  
  Some levels are very hard to beat (e. g. enemy appearing from sections your thought had been cleared 
 etc) . 
  
  Not recommended at all! Stick with the old ones if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kailii
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  You know, it takes a special bunch of people to get the most out of turn based games. But those 
 guys DO exist, still playing the UFOs or Jagged Alliance or whatever.
  Brett Todd, Gamespot Reviewer, does not seem to fall into this category.
  Let's start out by 
 dissecting the "The Bad" section of this Review:
  
  Of course there is not too much variation in the tactical game maps! There wasn't either in UFO 
 1 and 2, when the whole playfield consisted of a small number of rectangular structures randomly 
 put together.
  It was even worse in Apocalypse or JA2, you won't even believe it: You'll see the very same maps 
 whenever you start a new game!
  Seriously: Limited map numbers plus random enemy placement, fog of war and selectable landing sites 
 for your soldiers offers about as much replayabilty as the random map options in Civ4.
  
  What else? Ah, "prone to crashes". Patched, quite stable as in one crash per i don't know... 30, 
 maybe 50 hours of gameplay. 
  
  "problems with the interface". Sorry Brett, you didn't mention any in your Review. Wishful thinking?
 
  
  "mostly ugly graphics". OK, matter of taste. That's why we got screenshots here.
  
  "missions unbalanced and extremely hard". Now we are talking!
  Missions can be quite hard because 
 of two reasons: 
  
  For one you might face an opponent different compared to what you experienced before: No more strolls 
 in the park, those bad guys are wearing armor now!
  Some may even employ tactics like you do, like a Sniper picking your troops off one by one.
  
 
  And the second reason: You're not playing out your best cards in a situation like that. Soldiers 
 can be trained to become more efficient, learning special moves or the ability to use new gear.
 
  
  And now, finally, that's my real criticism towards Brett: I believe he played the game as if he 
 was waiting for it to show him the next moves, the next steps to take.
  No Sir, in Aftershock you need to think all for yourself in order to survive.
  
  Got a mission 
 to bring back a stranded ally back to friendly territory, not knowing where that guy is located 
 for example, surrounded by enemies?
  Go in low and slow, take a Scout or a Commando or even a Psyonic to find him, backed up by a Sniper 
 with a silenced rifle on high ground.
  This is just one way to solve that mission. I could think of several others without making my head 
 smoke, and i still enjoy finding new and creative ways to deal with the situation.
  
  Nah Brett, really: Not every game is made for every guy, and when you say things like "Research 
 isn't laid out in a standard RTS tech tree, so there it lacks a clear, linked system of prerequisites 
 that makes every decision crucial." it looks as if you should stay with the games you really enjoy.
 
  
  I repeat, "standard RTS tech tree" and "clear, linked system" yet demanding more variation in the 
 tactical maps. Hm, i lack to see common sense here.
  
  No offense though. I just suggest you should try to avoid writing a Review about a gaming genre 
 you're obviously not familiar with next time.
  Throwing a donut at your boss while readying your pocket knife and a glass of grapefruit juice 
 to distract him might do the job. Got me? ;)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtualpoker69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the most fun I've had since playing JA2 and X-com. Very good squad based combat system 
 combined with resource and research based gameplay. While it's not X-com 3 it has alot of elements 
 of X-com in it.
  
  Most of the games strong and weak points have been posted in prior reviews, but here's my tips 
 on getting this tempermental game to run correctly. When you install the game you MUST re-start 
 your computer. The same goes with the patch 1.2 that is a must have . And also for any mods you 
 install. ( I recommend the "weapon rebalance mod" you can get from the forums on the games homepage.] 
 . This solved the lockups and freezes that made it almost unplayable out of the box. Once i got 
 it running it. s been a fun and LONG ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkjerner1509
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely enjoyed this game. I have liked all the games in the UFO series however. 
  It is true that the game wont present you with the worlds most advanced graphics and the game play 
 is very much like the last UFO game. There are just more of everything. More skills to train, more 
 technology to research and so forth.
  The game does have issues like to few battlemaps and a "more of the same" feeling at times. But 
 if you can live with these inperfections, 
  and like turn based strategy then I beleive you will like the game. It still has the old charm 
 I remember from the first UFO games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakanubis
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Yes its not a great game either but it's worth to playing. After playing more than 50 hours i would 
 like to share ONLY my negative opinions about the UFO: Aftershock because i thought you want to 
 know bad things primarily
  
  Game-play: It definetly needs better camera controls. Especially collapsing camera with objects 
 really annoying
  
  Graphics: Max resolution is limited with 1024x768.. Hey the year ehh mm lemme check 2006 right?? 
 please improve it with new patch please.. 
  
  And yes this game is crashing a lot. especially if you are using your mouse very fast and playing 
 careless..
  
  Sound: no problem...
  
  Value: as i said worth playing.. try and see..
  
  Tilt: I was not playing UFO since my Amiga days.. I noticed i really missed this game a lot 
 but; 
  
  The level of your soldiers is not important while fighting your enemies.. if you have good gear, 
 you can easily take down your foes at your first level even. But if your soldiers are hi-level 
 the mobs are running from your soldiers when they seen them. You don't need to get serious fight 
 here because they dont attack you.. This is the worst part of UFO: AS. 
  
  Everytime Ambush tactic works on mobs.. (100%) 
  
  Mobs always aiming your lowest level soldier (s) 
 first.
  
  So if somebody says this game is very bad i totally agree with them about very bad Artificial Intelligence 
 of mobs.. 
  
  Experiment system is totally ridiculous!! there is no point to kill enemies for getting better 
 exp. And its not important that you killed how many or what level aliens .. and your soldiers levels 
 not important also. Level 9 soldier or Level 1 soldier is getting same xp.. or 3 men or 5 men parties 
 getting equal xp. System is very simple: if you complete mission, you get the xp otherwise you 
 have a big zero. 
  
  Ah and the researching thing.. Most exciting part of this game is totally sucks because your soldiers 
 are levelling up very fast but most of the researching new upgrades, weapons, labs and blueprints 
 are taking very long time.. and when you completed it, you notice you don't need it because you 
 have better weapons from your lootings. 
  
  But all other things, actually everything on this game is Perfect !! Believe me, its not deserving 
 4.0 points
  
  That's all.. Its my first review on Gamespot. I hope it helps you... have fun :) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NotRomanov
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 23, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  A lot of people seem to make the mistake of assuming this is an X-Com game or derivative thereof. 
 It's not. It's certainly heavily inspired by the X-Com series, but Altar's attempted to create 
 a game like the classic, without cloning the classic. Whether or not it's a success is a matter 
 of dispute.
  
  Certainly the game feels much like X-Com, with a sense of unknown and a focus on researching new 
 tools and squad-based combat. A fairly decent tutorial is given to begin with, but after that the 
 start of the game can be difficult. With no means of manufacture and no weapons researched, your 
 squad members are both rookies and dependent on captured alien weapons.
  
  Fortunately this changes quickly, as you capture a base very swiftly. The base construction is 
 a little simplistic and clunky, but easy to master, and soon enough you can crank out some research 
 into your basic projectile weapons, and start harvesting your resources.
  
  Resources are harvested by province, with many provinces yielding bases instead. Bases can't be 
 worked on unless connected by tracks for supplies, and neither can far off resources be gathered 
 without track connections. This track is very expensive to maintain, so learning the most efficient 
 way to connect territories is an important skill. Resource distribution is very random though, 
 so you may spend much of the game hunting out a province for the one you're in short supply.
  
  There's an alternative, however. If you have a surplus, you can simply give it to one of the 
 three factions -- Human, Cyborg, Psychic -- to up your relations with them. Or, if you have good 
 relations, you can request supplies from them. This resets your relations, so be sure to request 
 and then, if you want good relations, give them your extra or go on a mission for them. Good relations 
 also allows you to hire stronger soldiers of that type.
  
  Soldier advancement is much cleaner than in some games, and is a hybrid of skill and level-based 
 advancement. Every few missions, a soldier will level up, and can improve one of their basic stats. 
 Their other abilities such as shooting, speed, carrying capacity, and the like are all derived 
 from these stats, and go up as the player assigns points. To add a further twist, qualified soldiers 
 can be trained in MOS-type areas, gaining the ability to use advanced equipment such as high-tech 
 medkits or sniper rifles, or special abilities such as targeting hit locations or using two weapons 
 at once.
  
  The actual combat is done at squad level, and is NOT turn-based. Instead, it's a simultaneous action-based 
 system where you give the soldiers orders, and can pause at any time to issue or cancel orders. 
 One of the annoyances in this system is the soldiers and their whiny voice acting, but this can 
 be disabled easily enough. As this is the meat of the game, I do have to say... it's very fun, 
 but has some downfalls. The maps aren't exactly randomly generated, leading to a limited number 
 of terrains that are quickly memorized. Unlike X-Com, your soldiers can actually take a hit or 
 two without dying, so you can be a little more daring. At first, the enemy selection is pitiful 
 and not varied much, between aliens and mutants. Pre-scripted events occur at certain times in 
 the game that are both more difficult, and offer surprises and new enemies and technologies.
  
  I have to say it though... the time scale on this game is screwed up. You'll do major advances 
 and battles within hours or days. While it's not too bad, since everything is on that same scale, 
 it does make it a little hard to believe at times, ruining some of the immersion. Also, the best 
 weapons technology is undoubtedly the regular old assault rifle, which is bizarre. Lasers are only 
 useful for capturing, since they do a lot of stun. Several people have made weapon rebalancing 
 mods to make things more interesting for the advanced tech, and I recommend using one of those. 
 The game is fun without, but I think it feels better with powerful weapons becoming available. 
 Besides the funfun underbarrel grenade launcher.
  
  One criticism this game has gotten is a lack of stability and bugs. Bugs maybe, I've seen some 
 odd behavior, but stability hasn't been an issue for me. I believe many of the problems can be 
 traced to the Starforce copy protection included in the game, as I've heard some people have conflicts 
 with it. I'd recommend patching and removing Starforce before ever running the game, if possible.
 
  
  Finally, the graphics are sub-par for the hardware requirements. Sorry, but it's true. They're 
 still good enough, but a little brighter textures and smoother rendering in places would have been 
 nice.
  
  I won't lie and say this approaches X-Com in quality, but for those of us wanting a newer, similar 
 experience who don't mind some differences, Aftershock is one of the best games to come around 
 in a while. If not for some of the quirky behavior and design flaws, this would have scored much 
 higher. As it is, if you can pick it up for $30 or so, and have the time, it's a worthy investment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essereetico
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  I'm a great fan of ufo series i think they were great game especially the first and the second 
 Terror from the deep. I liked them because the topic is interesting and they gave you that suspance 
 and that mix of strategy and fun turn combat where you can use the soldiers you hire and upgrage 
 and equip with the weapon and armor you build and reasearch.
  
  About this UFO i say that the rating is TOTALLY WRONG.
  THIS GAME IS REALLY GOOD FOR ME. It is 
 a big achievement from UFO AFTERMATH because in there you didn't have base build and production, 
 just research and combat focusing just on your soldiers and change your base type.
  
  THIS UFO GAME IS GREAT, you build bases and there are MANY DIFFERENT TYPES of structures, factories, 
 and labs so you have to plan well what you build. The game is quite hard, but i like hard games 
 since they last longer, and then after you master it a little you can do it.
  
  Another really GOOD thing is that, besides the normal -make experience thing- and levelling up 
 of your soldiers after battles choosing which attribute you want raise, you can specialize your 
 soldiers this means that for instance to use a sniper rifle you have to train a SNIPER SOLDIER 
 , and to train a SNIPER SOLDIER it has to meet some characteristic (good level of perception, willpower 
 ecc...) and there are 3 levels for any specialization and they give at your soldier more power 
 up (a level 3 soldier in sniper can choose where to shot on the enemy head, arms to disarm him, 
 legs to let him fall down ecc..) and there are many specialization MEDIC,  
 and more everyone with its bonuses and special features.
  
  I enjoyed also the combat part when the story go on more enemies appear mutants, aliens, the fanatics 
 that worship aliens that you have to battle... and you can recruit 3 races of soldiers human, cyborgs 
 and psionics which have different abilities (only cyborg can be trained in the 3 levels of "IMPLANT 
 specialization" that allow you to mount on them artifical legs, arms, eyes ecc.. and only psionics 
 can be trained in the 3 levels of PSIONIC specialization to let them use psionic equipment and 
 abilities) .
  
  The combat i was saying is good... you can see people jump back 4 meters when you shot them in the 
 stomach with a big shotgun, or you can hide behind a wall wait the bad guys or aliens come and 
 throw at them a granade and see them being blown up in the air and you can finish them when they 
 are unconscious on the ground, so i found the combat really fun.
  And as i said there are lots of weapons to research and to do that you need the right stuctures 
 so you have to manage good your bases to use well your building space and choose in which sector 
 specialize your research and weapons.
  
  Well i could go on to say how many good things has this good game....
  i don't say this game 
 is PERFECT (the connection of bases with some kind of roads is a little silly, and there are also 
 other MINOR problems) BUT it's really good at my advice and who played the first ufo i'm sure will 
 like this.
  
  I THINK THIS GAME DESERVES AT LEAST AN 8.00........
  and if i see some rating of games like galactic civilization 2 (i'm still angry for the 40 euros 
 wasted) with a 9.00 and editor choice, i think this game can have a rating of 13.00 at least.
 
  
  I read in other comments that this game was rushed, well i didn't notice big problems and i can 
 say this is one of the FEW GAMES THAT CRUSHED REALLY FEW TIMES during play.
  
  I was really surpised to see a rate of 4.00 on it, for me THAT'S TOTALLY WRONG the game was not 
 played or analyzed AT ALL.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peltz999
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  My impression of the game is/was "Now what the f**k have you done!"
  
  When compared to UFO: Aftermath, the followup does improve on some of the aspects but immediatly 
 fails on that what made the original enjoyable.
  
  The story: The story playes out better than in the original. The clips which inform you of the 
 history and the reticulan threat are a nice touch but even that failed to inspire me for long.
 
  
  Tactical game: This is truly the biggest letdown. The maps are small and the layout repeats alot, 
 i mean every third or fourth mission you see the same map. On easy settings the missions are just 
 runthroughs. If you crank up the difficulty, the enemies are still pure idiots, just harder to 
 kill. The stances and stuff are there but really they are of no use, they make a minimal impact 
 on the outcome of a firefight. And the maps are so small, enterable interiors are nice but theres 
 something missing.
  
  Geosphere: Laputa idea is nice but at the same time its not. Its good that you have a central base 
 to coordinate attacks from but the lack of actual fighter crafts and transporter crafts make entering 
 and exiting missions as boring as it can ever be. (two thumbs down for the execution of the laputa 
 idea) . Discovering new technologies is as unemotional as it can get, s short video clip of the 
 technology couldve changed that but all i feel when discovering new techs is "oo wow, whatever 
 who cares!"
  
  The game is soo boring after coupla hours playing it. How could they turn it into such cr*p is 
 beyond me. I really hope there will be more games in this genre but with better execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  The UFO game series was a hit for a reasons: it was fun to play and innovative, I still can't compare 
 any game of the genre to the good old UFO Apocalypse. I mean come on, you had a whole city to play 
 with and you could make friends or foes with dozens of other factions besides the aliens and even 
 raid them for money and equipments!! HOW COOL IS THAT? Won't somebody plz get the message to anyone 
 considering a new UFO based game that we don't want any of the current crap!! plz play the original 
 UFOs before throwing something as lame as UFO Aftershock our way!! I admit i didn't buy the game 
 (it would have been a total waste) and that was coz i couldn't even get myself to finish the demo!! 
 DON'T BUY IT, IT'S CRAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M__N__M
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm not quite sure why a lot of people including gamespot's reviewer are putting this game down 
 so much. In response to that here is a very lengthy review to help defend the great things in this 
 game that have been overshadowed by the bad review (s) .
  After playing the game I'd have to say its very good and despite its many flaws (which it has an 
 abundance off) the game still manages to pack a good amount of gameplay & fun that leaves you feeling 
 glad you did play the game and brings it even closer to the x-com legend. Although its not a true 
 successor to x-com its still a worthy game to play on its own. 
  Granted that the game does indeed have A LOT of bugs, outdated graphics and several bold changes 
 to gameplay that might not be to everyone's likings. The storyline & gameplay are solid and thats 
 what usually counts, in my opinion most of the changes that were made in aftershock have improved 
 the gameplay & balance significantly. For those that try to unearth older games to replay and go 
 to all that trouble of getting it to run on newer hardware, withstanding the bugs for this game 
 is definitely worth its trouble. Also, a patch for this game has been released which significantly 
 improves the stability of the game but it does still leave a few things out. If you've loved the 
 first game in this series then you'll definitely enjoy this game as well. Its more enjoyable if 
 you play the first prequel first though. 
  
  Anyways, lets get the review started.
  If you've played the prequel to this game (ufo aftermath) , after you find out what the biomass 
 is for, the reticulans approach you (Council of earth) with an offer to abandon the planet for 
 their project, and in return all humans (or what remained of them) get transported to safe locations.
 
  
  This sequel continues right after this ending and it picks up the storyline pretty good in my opinion. 
 The Council of earth has transported many people to the reticulan space stations (known as the 
 laputa's) which were made from the dismantled original ship the reticulan's stole to get to earth. 
 The CoE were put in charge of managing these stations. Some people decided to stay behind apparently 
 and for those who survived, several of them have undergone some mutations to form 2 sub-human factions, 
 so now there is cyborgs, psi's & normal humans. Apparently CoE decided to not tell the generations 
 that followed what happened to earth and the people that ended up in the laputas end up trying 
 to re-research everything. Due to several reasons (including the fact you were not there to lead 
 them ;) ) , rebellions erupt against the CoE which causes the destruction of one of those laputas.... 
 and this is where the gameplay starts.
  
  For those that did play the prequel, this game improves much on its predecessor. So lets talk about 
 changes, good & bad.
  
  Diplomacy has been integrated into the game and now you have to take good care of the other factions 
 as the better relations you have with them, the better kind of troops you can recruit. You can 
 also rely on these "allies" to send you materials should you fall short and need some (which happened 
 often to me) . There are 4 factions you'll meet on earth, psi's, cyborgs, humans & cultists. The 
 latter will be hostile while the other 3 will be more friendlier. The cultists are more of a misguided 
 coalition of the other 3 factions rather then a sub-human race, they're well armed and organised 
 and they're pretty much your main threat in the early-mid part of the game.
  
  And now the strategical view of the game has also changed significantly.... for the better. Earth 
 looks more realistic (and not as ugly as in aftermath) . 
  Finally you have resources to manage ! While the resource system is rather unbalanced and not as 
 good as the financial system in x-com it does help add a sense of management to the game. Each 
 province in a country (except the capitol which contains the base) provides a certain type of material, 
 these resources are used to fuel your research labs & factories as well as the tracks connecting 
 your various bases.
  The old and simplistic base system has been removed and replaced with a much better system. You 
 can now zoom into the base and build separate buildings within each base. Each base has 3-5 building 
 spaces for you to build in, and must be connected with your main base via a tracks system (what 
 seems to resemble a railroad network) . All these changes add a lot to the strategic gameplay value 
 which was mostly left out in the prequel. However, since the good ol' Council of earth no longer 
 exists, you can't delegate missions anymore and you're forced to fight them all. Although there 
 are other factions in the world, they usually ask you to help them in combating enemies and refusing 
 to would hit hard on your diplomatic relations with them. 
  
  The tactical battles now have a pretty good physics system, the graphics are relatively improved 
 then before too and the combat is much more realistic. For example, firing a shotgun on an enemy 
 up close could actually cause the enemy to lose balance and temporarily fall to the ground (same 
 is true for your troops) . If you kill an alien standing near a broken wall you'll find his body 
 tilted & bent over the wall.... etc. Although the graphics are rather outdated, they're still far 
 more improved then aftermath's and they're certainly not ugly, except for the lame movie-type scenes. 
 There is also a pretty awesome view system. While you start off with the normal view system, having 
 a soldier with psi abilities, infra red or night vision equipment allows you to change the view 
 to their corresponding system which is usually visually appealing. However, you end up not using 
 the view system much, but its nice to use every now and then.
  There are many pitfalls in the combat system though, like the gamespot reviewer mentioned the troops 
 sometimes have a slow response time to your commands but that "usually" happens when you try to 
 order them to do something while they were doing something else even after telling them to cancel 
 the previous plans, the animation has to end/stop first before they could answer your second command. 
 Missions are more repetitive then in the aftermath and while there is a multitude of different 
 mission types you only get to do a portion of them most of the time. These types are basically, 
 rescue one of the locals, escort & evacuate a group of locals, capture an enemy for ransom (territory) , 
 help local forces to eliminate enemies, capture one of the aliens for research (this mission for 
 some reason keeps appearing even after researching that type of alien) and finally the jump in 
 and shoot anything that moves type. You're also no longer told how many you have to kill to win 
 the mission which is rather annoying. Unlike the gamespot reviewer said though, combat isn't so 
 difficult and you don't lose troops often unless you're not playing properly or you're attacking 
 with ill-equipped troops which isn't the game's fault :P) . 
  The way you spot enemies seems to have been changed, its more dependant on your observation skills 
 which are directly influenced by the perception level of the solider. Troops' observation levels 
 are much lower when running and that does affect their ability to see enemies significantly, so 
 if you walk your troops it helps, and ofcourse they have to have decent perception levels. I usually 
 scout areas with 2 or more people, one providing cover while the other (s) scout ahead, then the 
 other (s) provide cover while the first guy would scout ahead..... etc.
  
  The tactical maps are indeed repetitive, and unless you play frequently on the biomass maps you 
 will indeed get bored from the scenery pretty quick. However I find that to be a blessing rather 
 then a curse. As the game spot reviewer mentioned, the missions can get very repetitive, and having 
 familiar terrain to combat on helps in getting these missions over sooner since you've probably 
 developed several strategies for winning. However, more maps & the delegate mission feature (from 
 aftermath) would've really helped here. 
  
  Since you now own the sky instead of the land, there are no more interceptions or shooting down 
 ufos. Although thats a significant change which might be viewed as bad, I think leaving it in would've 
 probably tipped off the balance of the game. The only ufo's you'll see are the ones in tactical 
 maps that were shot down previously and were now used to house mutants/reticulans. 
  You can only deploy squads to missions that are within the range of your laputa, if a mission is 
 outside the range you'll have to move the laputa to that area to launch your mission. Your craft 
 is apparently a capsule used to carry your troops back & forth, although its graphic design doesn't 
 indicate how it managed to launch & land itself from earth back to the laputa or vice versa, it 
 apparently does so. Its carrying capacity is 5, and can later be upgraded to 7 which is quite enough.
 
  
  Another great addition is composing weapons, you can now attach devices to your weapon to help 
 improve range, accuracy, damage or even firing grenades. You could even attach motion detectors 
 or other types of enemy-detection equipment. For the humans faction you get to attach some of these 
 addons to their medium-armoured helmets as well. The psi's & cyborgs can also be outfitted with 
 skill enhancing clothes/implants. All these things really help in combat situations.
  Leveling up soldiers has also been improved, there are now skills that allow you to use certain 
 types of weapons. Your soldier can take a maximum of 3 different skills which can be improved further 
 to 2 more levels. While you don't get the upgrade menu after tactical battles now which is rather 
 annoying as you tend to forget to assign the upgrade points sometimes, you can easily see all the 
 improvements and skills you gain by upgrading a certain aspect of the soldier.
  
  The interface has also been improved somewhat. Research, manufacture, bases & diplomacy have all 
 been grouped into one big page with tabs to easily switch between them all. There is also an overview 
 tab which displays info about your resource balance as well as the buildings' status (operational, 
 idle... etc) . The glossary however has now become a rather cryptic place and isn't as easy to find 
 things through as it was in aftermath, so it ends up being ignored a good portion of the time. 
 Although significant research has its own movie-like scene, you no longer get told about what you've 
 found out in the research unless you visit the glossary, you just get informed of what has been 
 recently finished. And without a "click here to go to page in glossary", browsing the glossary 
 can become a confusing event. The squads area could've also been grouped in the one big page to 
 help switch to it easily, but its still easily accessible from the manufacture screen and the globe 
 screen.
  
  While the game leaves you wanting a lot of things and sometimes annoyed that feature X is missing, 
 or feature Y isn't working properly, all in all the game still manages to provide a solid gameplay 
 experience. 
  
  So far the game sounds great, but the bugs really rip this great image I painted above apart. They 
 can really hurt & hinder gameplay at some points, although the patch fixed a good portion of these 
 unfortunate events. There are a few that were missed apparently which can cause some annoyance. 
 Although none of the bugs I've encountered are fatal (i. e cause the game or story to lock) , the 
 constant crashing/freezing isn't very helpful. It usually seems to crash in loading times so if 
 you save before each time the game loads something you should be fine. The game auto-saves before 
 launching into missions as well which is very helpful. Granted that its ridiculous to release a 
 game with so many bugs and the fact that its a huge dis-service to game players. If you can tolerate 
 these bugs or if they're fixed in a later patch. Then I'd seriously recommend this game for gameplay 
 value. This game could've been even so much better if not for the carelessness of the developer 
 or publisher or whoever's fault it is, but the fact that it's not a "polished quality game" doesn't 
 mean it isn't a good game. And it certainly didn't deserve the punishment in the review scores 
 it received. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubinhoseisseis
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 2, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  It's quite an improvement!
  
  Aftermath had aliens looking like potatoes, Aftershock turned them into tuna fish, jellyfish and 
 another sorts of fish.
  
  The storyline is brilliant! First they say a Council leaves Earth for the aliens to save the planet 
 turning it into biomass, now we come back 50 years later, after busting our nifty space station. 
 What's great is that everybody on Earth seems to know we returned and even call for help. Amazing! 
 Such coherence is worthy of a Oscar Wilde novel.
  
  The gameplay is crap. Aftermath had the benefict of doubt, but now there's now doubt that system 
 sucks. It's buggy, ineficient and all too complicated to master. The alien tracker is incredibly 
 bugsome. You can walk forward for a while and suddenly a enemy appears on your back, in the square 
 you were 1 second ago. Talk about Sam Fisher... Hell with Sam, hire some tuna fish alien breed. 
 They master ninjitsu!
  
  Mapping is essencial for TBS and not only the maps tottally suck, the repeat themselves with sickening 
 frequency. There has to be like... 10 sets? 15 at the best! That makes almost every incursion after 
 the first 6 hours of game look exactly like all the others behind her.
  
  Graphics are minimal wage style and the sound matchs it perfectly. Sound has one thing pretty cool 
 tho. Since the voices are so few, its easy to get a squad to sound like a Clone regiment from the 
 Star Wars movies. A "must try" feature!
  
  Well, if you enjoy strategy games you wont find your neck of the woods in Aftershock. Someone please 
 tell ALTAR that:
  
  #1 That storyline sucks worst then American Pie 4
  #2 TBS is a self-made genre, dont mess with the game mechanics, you can only lose.
  #3 Get some 
 artist you actually can imagine aliens, not potatoes or fish.
  
  That's all folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceV
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  I was shocked when I saw the review of Aftershock Gamespot did. I barely made myself to buy the 
 game, I only did it becouse there is nothing closer to the games of old now available. True, Aftershock 
 isn't X-COM or it's direct descendand. It's much better.
  
  The ammount of technology to be developed is astounding, the research system is great in itself, 
 weapons are nicely done, physics is good (and my graphics gard is crying, but I won't stop playing!) . 
 All you need is... install patch 1.2 as well. Otherwise the bugs are gonna get you.
  
  Without revealing too much; you find yourself on a space base - Laputa - from which you start your 
 Earth re-conquest. If you wish to get a hold of a certain territory you need to move Laputa close 
 to it and launch a tactical mission. These are a game in itself. Moving the soldiers, taking care 
 of the cover, of the correct group composition, training your soldiers in the right fields to wield 
 the weaponry of your choice, especially the psychics and cyborgs (yup, that is correct) ...
  
  You direct your Earth opera through a hollogram of Earth, showing you (after it is explored) 
 where your bases are, what resources you get from a certain province, who needs your help and who 
 needs to be taught a lesson. And finally, FINALLY you get to see your bases. In these you build 
 laboratories and production facilities for each research field individually, some needing higher 
 level of knowledge in the base, some (like ammo production) none at all. And almost everything 
 you develop is directly usable - and noticable - in the tactical missions. You can also build defence 
 structures and so forth.
  
  The game still isn't perfect, though. The tactical maps could be bigger and yet load faster, soldier 
 limit could be higher, bugs could be fewer and so forth. But all this doens't lessen the value 
 of this great game. It's a HUGE leap forward from it's predecessor Aftermath. If the next in series 
 (working title Afterlight) makes the same leap, it will be a superb game, a MUST PLAY for all the 
 gamers who can't forget the games of old. Aftershock eased the pain considerably, Afterlight might 
 just cure me for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidjfox
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  Fair graphics for a strategy game, with good game play but sadly not really enough. I think anyone 
 who bought this game REALLY wanted it to be the "next" X-Com. Close, but some things just don't 
 make the cut. The tactical missions are fast paced, but just not the same. I think the system Aftermath 
 uses is more exciting than X-Com's turn based system, but for some reason it lacks the intensity. 
 Another flaw is that there are not as many levels for the tactical missions, some are exactly the 
 same except for the details, ie; you fight around the same spaceship on the same hill, except the 
 hill is covered in sand, or grass, or rock etc. but the layout is the same. 
  Also, the base management just is'nt the same, it may seem like days have passed as you wait for 
 your research and base construction to finish because you have to do SO MANY of the SAME missions, 
 but when you actually look at the game clock, only days, or even hours have passed. There are simply 
 too many missions. Progress seems to be made too fast, a mere mission a day (in the game time I 
 mean) would suffice. Also sometimes your resources just deplete, and you can just be at a loss 
 to get them back up. It would be nice also to have the option to buy weapons and equipment from 
 the other factions. Overall, I think its a very good game, I know I seem to have just pointed out 
 its flaws but they are serious ones. I would recommend the game, just don't get your hopes up for 
 the X-Com update I know WE ALL WANT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  To begin with, I have been a fan of the X-COM games since the original UFO - Unknown game was released 
 years ago, but must point out that although UFO - AS does have many references to the X-COM series 
 it is not an X-COM game, it is Altar's own spin off of the series and has little to compare with 
 the original series
  
  To give an outline of the game, it is of course very similar to the prequel UFO-Aftermath where 
 you are in control of a group of soldiers who's ultimate aim is to wipe out the alien invaders. 
 It is a strategy game, so don't expect any quick fixes, it takes a while to get anywhere, but it's 
 generally worth putting in the time
  
  The positive things about the game:-
  
  -It is an engrossing game that should last you for quite a while, there are far too few games like 
 this on the market anymore
  -There is a fair variety of equipment, both human and alien which you can research and use against 
 the aliens and their allies
  -There's evidence that Altar has tried to improve the graphics and make more effort in areas to 
 improve the series
  
  Now for the negative points:-
  
  A visit to the Altar Forum though will show you that there are many outstanding issues with the 
 game, even after a second patch (1.2) and the Developers are already calling on the gamer community 
 to help to "mod" or modify the game to help improve it. As others have mentioned, the game does 
 seem to have been rushed through development, as an extra month or 2 of beta testing would most 
 likely have ironed out a great many of the problems with this game:-
  
  -The game can crash back to the desktop of the PC, or simply lock the PC up during play
  -The 
 games "levels" do not vary enough, as you will often find yourself playing through the same bunkers 
 or buildings, there is no variation to the scenery at all, and no random map creation
  -To little has changed from the previous game overall, and many of the ideas that were put forward 
 by the gaming community were never implemented, which no doubt is another result of the rushed 
 development
  
  So to finish off, if you like this kind of game, then it's probably worth taking a look at. It's 
 not a bad game, but it's disappointing in the fact that it could have been so much more if only 
 more time had been devoted to its development and testing
  
  I've given the game 7.8 but thats with the 1.2 patch installed and with the knowledge that there 
 is a mod on the Altar forum which helps fix problems and adds extra features etc
  
  *Note* I paid 19.99 in the UK for the Special Edition version of the game (just extra artwork, 
 poster, pack of playing cards etc) and thought that was a reasonable amount for the end product 
 (I would *not* pay 30/35 for it)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iorya
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  I been playing all XCOM, UFOS, besides aftermath. My favorite is XCOM- Apocalypse. I played UFO: AS 
 for 4 days, got to the wargot ship, did some missions there, played on veteran, and had 12 soldiers, 
 lvl 15-18, and then i got bored. The game gets boring after a few days, because all u do is defend 
 on the same maps, and conquer other for resources. 
  
  The Good: The job, rpg system on the soldiers. Commandos and Snipers are the funniest jobs, class. 
 Nice graphics and effects for this time of game. An interesting story, and ideas with laputa, also 
 you dont feel lonely, your advisors talk to you from time to time. 
  
  The Bad: Has some bugs and some bad design things in, crashes if u dont figure the right options 
 for your system. Loading times are incredible on medium-high system on some maps. (Advice: if the 
 games crashes on your systems have shaders on, if still crashes then is something from your pc, 
 most of the crashes come from non shaders options, and hardware sound. I played the game with shaders 
 4 days, and crashed like 2 times, but without shaders it a pain) . 
  The game seems unfinished, they rushed to get in time out, but they left a lot of things unfinished, 
 so the game suffers of diversity. Maps are too few, and small, the game gets very repetitive very 
 quick, and so u will get bored, or play just to see the wargots or to lvl ur soldiers to train 
 them in some classes. Some of the voice acting are terrible.
  
  Overall UFO: AS it an okie game, but it gets boring quick. I played it 4 days with pleasure, because 
 of the rpg-class system on the soldiers and because of the combat which is pretty fun, but i didnt 
 had the patience to finish it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yarrick22
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  It's slow even if you have a good computer and there are major problems with graphics. I get a 
 feeling that it hasent been Beta tested at all but released as soon as they got every thing ready.
 
  It is sad that the Aftershock wasent up to speed for I really liked the UFO: Aftermatch.
  If they could fix the bugs in the game it could be better but at the moment there is just too many 
 problems with it. I do hope that they create more games for the story and thebuild up is good and 
 I is close to Ufo enemy unknown and the othere X-com games but I rather see a new X-com game than 
 a clone but if the clone is good then i cant complain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  First of all I'd like to say, that while neither UFO Aftershock nor Hammer & Sickle aren't the 
 Game of the Year -material, I'd advise GameSpot reviewer, Brett Todd, to think about reviewing 
 some other games, as he simply has no clue what turn-based / semi-real-time tactical strategy games 
 are about. Putting "combat heavy missions" to 'bad' -slot is just simply most stupid thing I've 
 seen on review's lately on games like these. Also on UFO's part he obviously haven't bothered checking 
 for updates. Debate's on whether it should be sold or updated version to be reviewed is quite useless, 
 since updates for the game were available when this review of his was most likely made (if he didn't 
 hold it back for months) . Anyway, back to the game itself.
  
  Quite a while has passed since last of "our" generation lived on earth, so coming back to it in 
 need of place to live is quite new stuff. But no worries, a replacement spacestation for our old 
 one is found in earth's space, and it just happens to be similar enough to our old HQ to be taken 
 over immediately. This is where you step in, and start setting your own foothold to the earth.
 
  
  Since earth isn't uninhabitet, you'll have start dealing with'em. Since attacking isn't the most 
 usefull way against possibly-friendly "races", diplomacy and co-operation are the alternatives. 
 There are friendly people such as Cyborgs, Psionics and other human leftovers (it's said that all 
 of'em are the human descents after what happened in UFO Aftermath, just bit... different.) , along 
 with hostile factions, such as Mutants and Cultists. The game moves on with it's own weight if 
 you don't eagerly expand your own territory, by putting out help requests from friendly factions 
 near you. They ask to do a mission in their land, and usually reward you with their land to your 
 use as you see fit. On some places you can build up a base, where you can build up factories, laboratories 
 and so on. Sadly, the space in these cities are so limited, that heavy specializing in cities is 
 required.
  By researching you find better ways to deal with the becoming menace, and eventually more of your 
 planets history and alien's plan reveal more and more when the time goes by.
  
  Battles are semi-real-time, meaning that you can pause the action whenever you like to do whatever 
 you want with your soldiers, and when you've given your orders, you let the time run again and 
 see what happens. However, it's not turn-based real-time, as in Laser Squad Nemesis, for example. 
 Actions of soldiers are measured by their skills in weapons, moving speed, etc. For example, it's 
 more usefull to equip a man, who's better with rifles, with a rifle, than equip the same rifle 
 with a man who's better using a shotgun, if a shotgun is also available. Not only this makes playing 
 more interesting when your soldiers aren't copies of eachother, but it also makes it usefull, since 
 you can specialize your men/women to the arts of combat their good at. 
  Besides their skills, soldiers have attributes, that reflect on skills. Take strength for example; 
 it affects to how much your guy can carry, but it also affects to your guy's moving speed and couple 
 of other things in lesser degree. Add intelligence to your guy when he level's up, and it affects 
 to his stealth, etc (can't remember it off-hand) . 
  To prevent of making all your guys to resemble Universial Soldier (albeit with better cooling system 
 and acting skills) , there are several professions available. For example, you need a heavy weapon 
 profiency (Gunman) to be able to handle machinegun's and heavier protection. Sniper rifle's can 
 only be used by a soldier specialized into sniping, and so on. Professions require certain skill 
 level on three skills, such as perception with other two skills needs to be at certain level until 
 you can start your sniper training. There are three level's of each profiency, which add some somewhat-unique 
 abilities to your soldier. By "somewhat-unique" I meant that while Gunman means you can use ultra-heavy 
 equipment, also Level 2 Technician can do the same plus some more. Additionally, cyborgs get their 
 own transplant "professions", and psionic's get their equivalent, more heavy on the mind-controlling 
 side. However, since every soldier can have 3 different professions, they can still be more than 
 just basic cyborgs or psionics.
  
  At the beginning, weapons and especially ammunition are ver few and far between, so the first time 
 I encountered and killed cultists, it felt like Christmas when I got four assault rifles and some 
 boxes of ammo for'em, along with some other usefull stuff. I'm not saying aliens and mutants wouldn't 
 drop stuff, but it's quite rare occasion to see a mutant holding a shotgun. Gladly, if you encounter 
 one and kill it, whether you pick the shotgun from the ground or not, it's yours when the mission 
 is over. Saves the time picking everything up when the mission end's.
  Otherwise the weapon and gear are quite similar to other games of this genre. Lot of stuff. Got 
 your different types of weapon, different add-on's to your weapons, different ammunitions, medkits 
 and -packs, and later on when you research, some more powerfull weapons than earth hold's in the 
 real world these days. 
  
  When you have your men and women geared, it's time for a mission. There are couple different types 
 of missions, involving killing sufficient number of hostile units, escorting group of people to 
 safety, retrieving stranded person/s and escorting them to safety, and later on some more. Reasonably 
 enough diversity on the missions if you ask me, since battle is like half the game.
  There are two things that bother me though, one of'em is quite well known too. First of all, your 
 guys are bit... well, they're not all that flexible. Meaning that they don't appear like Navy SEAL's 
 or anything like that when they move. Granted, later on they will move with heavy equipment, but 
 since they walk and crouch the same without any gear, they look bit stiff for the action. Also 
 there's lack of cover wherever you go. It doesn't seem to make a difference whether you show your 
 whole torse or just your head from behind the box, you still get hit around the same. Altough I 
 haven't got the time nor interest to follow how precisely that happens with every shot, but still 
 it kind of feels like it doesn't matter. Shooting behind cover is one example where the soldier's 
 stiffness comes in mind. I could also sort of complain about reaction speeds and shooting skills 
 of people, but there has to difference between lvl 3 and lvl 7 guy, so it's acceptable and it can 
 be worked around anyway.
  The worst thing in the game though, is the repeated maps or whatever you'd call'em. I don't know 
 if this is true, but it would appear that Sweden has copied a piece of land from England, tree 
 by tree (or England did the same for Sweden, there's no real way of knowing) . Definition of boredom? 
 Play the same map with same mission, back-to-back. Add a random generator for heaven's sake, or 
 at least 50 new maps or something, it get's boring quite quick. Add this and I'll be playing this 
 game for years, seriously.
  
  In short for the rest : 
  
  A. I of the opposition isn't great, but it works decently enough. Generally speaking mutants are 
 easy (at least in the beginning) , with the exception that they don't die easily. It sometimes gets 
 a bit hilarious when three of your guys shoot a mutant uncounscious, and then they start shooting 
 that knocked-out alien on the ground until it dies, and it takes seconds for it to die sometimes. 
 Altough I haven't studied that mutant's body to discover it's weaknesses, so there might be a way 
 to end'em more efficiently.
  
  Graphics aren't great, but I guess they're good enough. Surroundings could look better though, 
 but the characters look good enough while in battle. Granted, the graphics are dated, but considering 
 the genre, they're not even close to being the most important thing.
  
  Sounds are... well... not much to mention about. Music is less-than-basic, it's useless, but it didn't 
 bother me that much. Fighting sounds are bit weak too, but they could be also worse than they are.
 
  
  What comes to bugs, after patching the game to v1.2, I haven't noticed anything. Once when I changed 
 weapon's name after modding it, items names turned to GUN_PISTOL_01 -style when I went from squad-screen 
 to manufacturing and back, but it returned to normal when I went back to Geospace and came back, 
 so no biggie. In around 12'ish hours of playing, the games has crashed only once. Loading times 
 are tad boringly long, but nothing you couldn't hold your breath while waiting.
  
  As a conclusion, I'd say while the game isn't as good as many of us would have liked, after the 
 patches it's still quite good. Besides couple of tweaks to my own liking, only major thing I would 
 add is the random mapping or just loads of new maps, in different sizes too, preferably bigger.
 
  
  Other than that, the game doesn't come far behind of the other genre high scorers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeacemakerEAF
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  
  When i first got this game I was expecting something not too good after Aftermath, but i was in 
 for a surprise...
  
  Let`s get one thing straight.. IT`s NOT X-COM. It`s a nod to the X-com guys with many X-comish 
 features, but it`s not an Xcom remake. but read on.
  
  I`m not going to go into too much detail, but Aftershock is an excellent tactical shooter also 
 involving base research and manufacturing.
  
  What first struck me was the excellent global map, situated in your command room and where you 
 made all your decisions (even with the odd person walking in the background) .
  
  But the meat of the game comes in choosing your 5 - 7 soldiers, all nick-nameable and with individual 
 skills ready for gaining experience and assigning different jobs: medic, Machine-gunner, Sniper, 
 Psi-operater, the list goes on.
  
  On the way to the SAS-style operation you have the chance to review the operations battle-map and 
 choose a position to deploy (great touch) . Then you`re deployed, you nervously place your men out 
 in their starting positions... Your machine gunner covering the entrance point, your Cyborg recruit 
 from one of the 3 factions (if you choose to employ him) taking the lead, 2 other well-armed and 
 armoured Humans follow while your female sniper takes a high position on a building top, or ledge 
 or cliff-edge.
  
  Battles can be simple and easy when facing the basic wild mutants, but short and deadly when facing 
 the roving band of assorted cultists. But that`s not all, there are surprises in store as the cultists 
 worship the REAL ALIENS of the game, as you`ll see once the countdown begins... (I`ll give no more 
 of that away) .
  
  There are dozens of weapons to give to troop. They all move with that `jinkly` military sound, 
 the shots are realistic, especially the sniper rifle which is deadly later on.
  
  Oh, and the ragdoll effects! Shoot a cultist enemy and he flops down realistically, knock down 
 a few aliens with a grenade and they`ll all flop down the hillside to a stop (although, you get 
 some slowdown depending on number and your system) . the gruesomist `fun` bit is geting my Elite 
 sniper to do a one shot kill to the head of a rfleeingcultist and watch him fall flat on his face 
 from the momentum of the run!
  
  You soon get attached to your crew and it can get quite depressing when `Bruno` your best, toughest 
 twin sub-machine gunner gets killed by a die hard cultist or `other` Alien...
  
  the game progress` on as you desperately try to stave off a RUINED earth from total annihilation 
 and save the last remnants of Humanity and get them all to Unite (if you want, you can also get 
 them all to hate you too!)
  
  oops, did I say i wasn`t going to go into detail? oh well.
  
  This went on longer than i wished. Anyway, ignore the stupid official review and try this game, 
 MAKE SURE you Patch up to the latest patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaborbarla
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The good: It's amazing how wrong the gamespot reviewer is. The fact is that this is a really-really 
 fun game, with excellent graphics in the missions (turn up the res, detail and antialias Todd...) , 
 great music one of which is of brilliant composure. People like me who loved UFO-enemy unknown 
 should appreciate the game even if it has some flaws. I can easily overlook the repetition of maps 
 (which are not that repetitive actually and every time they play out differently, Counterstrike 
 anyone?) . The character building and weapons is a major upgrade from aftermath. 
  The voice acting is outstanding with none of the dodgy eastern european voices expected.
  The 
 sounds in the missions are quite well done and weapon sounds work well. The fights in the game 
 are very varied depending on the opposition. The human and cultist opponents can get very challanging 
 but most rewarding, with some amazing fight scenes unfolding. Game difficulty is adjustable. 
 
  
  The bad: The graphics are not so good outside of the missions but I wouldnt call it bad, very google 
 earth-esque. There are bugs in selecting mission. The "track" building interface is downright terrible 
 and unuserfriendly and is probably the worst part of the game. Learning curve is high. Too high 
 for some reviewers.
  
  Verdict:
  Patch 1.2 fixes much of the problems with the game although I didnt experience to many even unpatched. 
 
  If one can learn how to play and isn't forced to review the game for living then maybe appreciate 
 the game for what it is: The only great turn based combat game to come out in the past 3 years 
 or more (although i did enjoy aftermath also) . 
  It's interesting that even the line of sight and awareness skills in the game were not appreciated 
 by the reviewer. The enemies are not popping out of nowhere, but hide, attack from behind or use 
 psi power to affect the soldiers.
  
  Worth buying as it is a major improvement over aftermath and I am happy to support and can\t wait 
 for the next one. Gamespot review should take some flak for their biased review I reckon. The game 
 deserves an 80 on GS but because of the 40 I give it 90 to balance out that rubbish of a review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gustomucho
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  I am currently playing this game and it is amazing. The author of gamespot is CLEARLY clueless 
 about this game. A quick look at the screen shot and any experimented player will see the flaws 
 in it.
  
  Gamespot compare this game to other "strategy" game aka : Alpha Centauri, Civilization galactic? 
 . This is clear the game isn't a time-based but real-time game. There are 2 parts in the game, 
 earth management and tactical missions.
  
  Earth management is a bit redundant and you don't have alot of choice on how you obtain provinces, 
 you mainly attack a province or help the resident to take over. 
  
  You either get ressource or base, ressources will able you to build equipement, buildings and hire 
 soldiers. In order to construct building in newly captured base you have to connect them with a 
 track, the track have a maintenance cost.
  
  In order to progress in the game you have to take over more and more provinces. The base will generate 
 income depending on what ressource is connected to it, and which one you control. You can get more 
 resource from mines if you build "knowledge" building in your base connected to resource.
  
  Later in the game there are alot of building you have to construct so you will need alot of 
 base and resource to keep you up-to-date in technology and equipped.
  
  Now for the tactical part of the game. You will use everything you will produce in your factories 
 and use the technology to help you get provinces and defend yourself.
  
  Another thing Gamespot's review forgot to mention is the fact that there is new foes coming later 
 in the game. They are stronger and have bigger gun, better technology. You DON'T fight reticulan 
 and mutant all the game, only in the beginning. Clueless reviewer Bret...
  
  One thing really neat, is the fact that your soldiers are specialized, some will become medics, 
 some gunman, other stalkers and snipers. You decide what way you will go with one soldier and train 
 him. You give him ability points and after you can see the difference in the field. While badly 
 trained soldier are good against reticulan, don't try using them against bigger foes.
  
  The training is associated with time, everything in the "earth management" is based on "in-game 
 time". So while your manufacturing you can do research and train different things. Different manufacture 
 will produce different things all at the same time, if you build more factories you will produce 
 faster, if you build more lab, you will research faster.
  
  In the tactical mission time is important too, some gun will fire faster or some soldier will be 
 able to do things faster than others. While your sniper might take 5 seconds to fire, a ranger 
 will be able to shoot the enemy in 2 seconds. Every move is associated with time, so you have to 
 plan carefully so the enemy isn't getting the first shot. Ambush is always a good strategy.
  
  The negative part of the game : Although you have more foes in the end-game, it is still pretty 
 redundant. The mission maps aren't very large nor very different. You soldier will not act if you 
 don't give the orders, they will never shoot or move without your command. You can almost always 
 ambush the enemy.
  
  On a side note: I think Bret played 2 hours and reviewed the game after he got is butt handled 
 back to him. Its fine learn2play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbi00b
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  I think the review in gamespot is clear enough - repetitive, dull-looking and buggy. What I would 
 like to point out is that this game should be a great game if the producers take a serious action 
 to improve and fix the issues.
  
  Let me show you why I am impressed by the game's mechanics:
  
  Firstly, the global planning 
 is great; you would be able to conquer the world by sending forces and maintaining bases. There's 
 a lot of freedom to choose to expand your borders and engaging new missions. Research and Diplomacy 
 are also available in the game.
  
  Secondly, the squad system is awesome; weapons can be mounted with upgrades. Squad members can 
 be trained in a handful of professions. The attributes of each member is diverse and unique.
  
  Unfortunately, all of these strong edges of the game are overwhelmed by these issues:
  
 
  1. Unconventional Controls - tactical games should be accompanied with simple controls, like grouping 
 and stances. Why should I reset everything after each mission?
  
  2. Poor AI - the AI is real hog; enemies can be lured and fall into your traps easily; troops do 
 not have behaviours; not much tactics can be mentioned in the game - stronger ones always win weaklings.
 
  
  3. Badly designed missions - one can explain it clearly: a mission to protect the villagers from 
 the attack of mutants; and when your troops arrived the village, all of the mutants are DEAD. The 
 villagers are armed with extremely heavy arsenal, so what is the point of the mission?
  
  Finally, all I have to say is, this game may disappoint those who are serious in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceFire549
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Aftershock is a step up from Aftermath in the base management department, but the actual tactical 
 gameplay is more or less the same. Where Aftermath was the next step in X-COM style tactical gameplay, 
 Aftershock is the next step in base management. It's funny the amount of time I found myself spending 
 in management interface trying to compensate armor production for adding more people to my team. 
 The new system of base buildings was a most needed add-on in the series. Where it used to take 
 forever to get a simple autopsy done, it takes about half a day in Aftershock with one lab. The 
 new style of soldier training was also a great addition. The training and abilities are more specialized 
 in Aftershock than they were in Aftermath, and they can provide your soldiers with amazing skills. 
 I trained my first soldier in three different skill trees that would allow him to wreak havoc on 
 anyone at close range. So when I found that my manufacturing plants had produced a katana, I immediately 
 gave it to him and he cut Reticulans till they turned tail. As you can imagine it was quite satisfying. 
 So if the Aftermath gameplay was your thing then Aftershock will make you even happier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheriff05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface by saying that I first played X-COM back in 1993 when it came out and have been 
 an X-COM fanatic ever since, I am huge fan of turn based strategy/ Tac Sims and have played them 
 all. From the JA series to Laser Squad Nemesis. While not more than superficially impressed with 
 it predecessor UFO: Aftermath, UFO: Aftershock addresses the lacking areas of that game in spades, 
 while there is no ship to ship combat in UFO: AS, every other single aspect of the original X-COM 
 exists here. It's not officially turn based, but the 3 phase "pause" system is the next best thing.
 
  Like ANY PC game worth its salt these days, this game ships with a share of bugs comparable to 
 the complexity of the game, It been patched once already
  and user work arounds are readily available on the forums. in short if you are
  going to whine 
 about bugs stick to the console game kids, that's why they exist to make you feel safe and warm 
 and simple . If you want relive the glory days of X-COM, in a complicated, challenging game with 
 tons of bells and whistles UFO: Aftershock has the best chance of giving you what you're looking 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicoloc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Jagged Alliance 3 for so long ... The fact that you see your real equipments 
 the real guns on your characters. That the graphics are way better than previous JA and that the 
 gameplay is more complex , that you have to build factories and labs in order to get new weapons, 
 ammos, medkits etc...
  Even if i dont understand yet how the funds managements work i still build up a squad which i specialize 
 each of them in different professions. Each proffession require certain skills, when training a 
 unit for a prof you get a second then a third level with the same prof and all level boost your 
 characters in skills and enable them to use use some weapons ( train snipers to be able to use 
 sniper guns ) there is also weapon customization...
  Cant say much on it because i did not get weapon mods but from what i know m82 barret and msg90 
 dont comes with scopes. So it is much small things that makes me forget the good old days of jagged 
 alliance 2 and the interminable wait of ja3. For the expanded, complex management fact and for 
 the comparaison of all the previous based turn- simultaneous strategy games i put aftershock in 
 first place right on top of Jagged Alliance 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drac0_81
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  this game could be a very good game. but they made a lot of mistake.
  so big bugs that i cant finish the game also... f*ck. and there're too few types of enemies and 
 terrains, so the combat part becomes boring with the time. especially if you've got highly trained 
 soldiers with good weapons. (one 20th level cyborg commando with a katana can make a run over the 
 whole fight)
  the best UFO was the first, and the second, Terror from the Deep. fhat's it.
  I think the UFO - Aftershock team never played the whole series, they didn't sit down for a brainstorm. 
 few weapons (and always a best) , the highly advertised composeable weapons and armors are a fake, 
 you've got a few choices only, and you must wait for a lot of time for them. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealGamerzOnPC
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The Story: 
  The story is told through long boring monotonous dialogs with dry acting. Imagine listening to 
 Dr. Laura describing aliens. The story is choppy, in- consistant and the characters are cornier 
 then the scripts written for video game to movie films. This is the first time the names assigned 
 to characters actually destroy the entire game experience, the seriousness and the overall fun. 
 Your main base craft octagon thing is called a "laputa". Take for example the main enemy "The Riticulans". 
 When they say it it sound like "Rediculans" .Why don't we just be blunt and say the idea of aliens 
 is rediculous. The next group of aliens you encounter are "The Potheads". The weak minded helpless 
 aliens that have found a home on earth because they are too weak to take it over. This has got 
 to be one of the silliest and awfully childesh sci fi stories ever created. In history. Unless 
 you are 4 the game may also feel like its toying with propaganda, rather then taking the sci-fi 
 story seriously.
  
  The Gameplay: 
  There is strategy & pause based combat
  
  The Strategy
  You will manage bases on a 3d-rotatable earth. You will engage in taking over adjacent 
 sectors to your starting sector. Once you occupy a sector through combat you can practice "diplomacy" 
 which means sending back and forth materials or soldiers for hire. On the base you can manufacture 
 structures to build weapons and so on. The strategy element is good overall. 
  
  The Combat: "Enhanced SAS"
  Enhanced SAS is a Turn - Based combat costume on a pause-based combat 
 engine. The game is real time, but it pauses at almost every event. This works alright. The cool 
 thing about it, is that aliens and humans move at the same time. However the constant pausing gets 
 very annoying. Thankfully, the creators have included the option to turn off pausing. The problem 
 is turning off too much pausing results in outragously unplayable combat. Making the combat gameplay 
 smooth to the users liking will require extensive experiments with the combat pause settings. This 
 is kind of like playing with video performance settings to get a smooth new game experience on 
 last years machine. 
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics are mediocre. There are plenty of collision and graphic abnormalities that occur in 
 the game. Many in-game movies contain boring backdrops with a few colors. The characters mouth 
 animation will move through entire dialog, whether they are talking or not. The movie artwork is 
 unoriginal and abnormal. The in combat graphics are good, but nothing special. Some aliens are 
 large hovering dots, which blend in with level and are hard to see. Other aliens look good with 
 nice animations. Dead alien looks like alive alien in some cases. The rotating earth looks better 
 then anything. 
  
  Sound: 
  The music is worse then the "I made it with a toy piano music" from 11th Hour. The sound effects 
 were probably taken from a cd found at a "Everything is 99 cents store". Like the story, the music 
 and sound contributes to crushing the entire game experience.
  
  THE BIG QUESTION: X-com versus UFO Aftershock
  
  UFO Aftershock has better graphics then Xcom. 
 This is the only area where UFO aftershock is better then Xcom. Xcom is still amazingly frightening 
 and realistic for the low graphic quality. The story is serious, and it really feels like an invasion. 
 The music and sound of Xcom are much better.
  
  IS UFO AFTERSHOCK A GOOD XCOM REPLACEMENT?
  Absolutely NOT! It does not live up to the name in 
 any way. The combat system is completely different. The strategy system is like xcom mixed with 
 syndicate (if you remember it/played it) . Sure there is a 3d rotatable globe, but you occupy adjacent 
 terretories in the manner of syndicate. Conquer area, move to next. There are no interceptors, 
 or flying vehicles you send out to hunt ufos. The crafts are silly octagon shaped creations. The 
 story fails the Xcom experience in every way possibly known. The story could have possibly been 
 targeted to 3 year olds. There is nothing intriguing about the story or game experience of UFO 
 Aftershock. It is not Xcom, wasn't meant to be, and comparing it is a direct insult to Xcom. 
 
  
  IS UFO AFTERSHOCK A GOOD GAME ON ITS OWN?
  It is a bad replicant, big mistake and a complete waste of money. In this case you don't get what 
 you pay for, you play it and try to like it because you paid so much for it. This game could be 
 referenced in a future case of angry consumers who can't return opened games. If you must experience 
 it for yourself, wait for the bargain bin, or get it on ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimD04
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  UFO: AM I believe is one of the victims of the current trend of computer games: release early in 
 time for a market opportunity (In this case Christmas) and patch the bugs later. 
  
  The game takes place as a what-if scenario: In Aftermath, you could choose eventually to accept 
 one outcome or continue with the game (Not elaborated for spoiler reasons) . Aftershock takes place 
 assuming you chose to accept the offer extended to you. 
  
  The player controls the 'Laputa', a floating island-base from where you control all your operations. 
 A change from aftermath is that you had to move your troops around using a helicopter, meaning 
 you could only embark on one mission at a time and you needed to wait until the helicopter arrived 
 at a given destination. Now, all you need to embark on a mission is to position the Laputa over 
 the mission site so it's influence covers the zone and you are done.
  
  Another major departure from AM is the new resource management. When you capture a territory, it 
 is either a base or a 'mine' region. Bases, when connected to your main base with a rail, can house 
 labs and factories for research and weapon/equipment production respectively. Mine regions are 
 territories which yield resources when connected to your main base with rail ways. Your research 
 and manufacturing efforts are hinged on your ability to gain and manage your resources. You can 
 shut down tracks you don't need, saving some resources. 
  
  There is also diplomacy. Three factions, the Humans, Cyborgs and Psionics can all play a part. 
 They each have their own standing toward you, and this can be sweetened by supplying them with 
 resources or doing mission for them. You can also request soldiers from them who will be added 
 to your squad menu, or you can request materials or a given type (Low, High or Alien techs) . requesting 
 material will reset their standing toward you, so be sure to keep them in favour.
  
  Another neat addition is the add-ons. Armour and weaponry can be fitted with interchangable devices 
 to aid your soldiers. Rifles can be fitted with gyrostabilisers for better aiming, muzzle-mounted 
 flash suppressors or silencers, visors like thermal imager or movement tracker or even add-on weapons 
 like under-barrel grenade launchers. Helmets can be fitted with night-vision and thermal vision, 
 and in battle, the combat view can be changed to reflect these views, making the entire battlefield 
 predator-vision.
  
  While there is more, it would be better to cover the problems: This game crashes. Often. As one 
 of the lucky ones who was actually able to play the game for more than a few minutes, I was supremely 
 grateful for the autosave feature. Certain battles simply crash to desktop after winning for no 
 apparent reason, frequent crashes occur in the squad equip menu or even when switching from one 
 menu to another. Again, I was fortunate enough to find that the patch has since corrected these, 
 among other problems yet it stands to reason there is significant problem when a number of the 
 patch users find it stops them playing at all. 
  
  Besides the crashes, there are other ways in which the game loses face. The combat is hideously 
 unrefined, and by that I mean the battlescapes are all virtually identical. If you though AM had 
 similar battefields, wait till you see AS. Closable doors and large structures were included, but 
 serve little interest. All doors are open at the start and there is little purpose served by closing 
 them. All enemies are almost always on the ground floor and charge en masse toward your squad, 
 leaving exploration of buildings useless unless to flush out a lone enemy you missed. Buildings 
 and structures take up a hug amount of space and yet they are virtually unused as anything but 
 fancy scenery.
  
  The enemies are a bit run-of-the-mill when compared to previous UFO games. Not only do they lack 
 flair (unlike Terror From The Deep) bu often they lack intelligence. As mentioned before, they 
 simply charge en masse toward your players. Sometimes they do something different. Snipers lie 
 down and pick off your troops from afar for example. Medics rush out to the aid of fallen soldiers 
 (With a startling lack of self-preservation) . Besides this, the lackluster enemies and poor combat 
 scenarios make the fighting very boring after a short while, even more so than AM.
  
  Graphics and sound, although I tend not to care very much about these, in this case it's the kind 
 of game you require a bit of atmosphere for. The music was a bit too 'light' for my taste. The 
 graphics were a marginal improvement from AM but still nothing too special.
  
  If you want some decent analysis of the games flaws, try the forums.
  
  http://forum. ufo-aftermath. com/index. php? c=4
 
  
  All in all, it is a decent game, but raised expectations too high, far too high than even the game 
 deserved. Play it for giggles, and see if you like it, I know I did. Just don't burst a gut when 
 you figure out the glaring faults in such a disappointing title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GWESAM
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I LIKED IT ALOT ,AND I AM TRYING TO FINISH IT BUT IT'S LITTLE HARDER THAN I EXPECTED HOWEVER NOT 
 AS HARD AS AFTERMATH BUT THEY IMPROVED THE GRAPHICS AND THE GAMEPLAY AND THEY ADDED THE DIPLOMACY 
 FEATURE AND MORE MEN RACES ,BUT THE PROBLEM IS THE BUGS ,, SO IT BECAME A HABIT FOR ME NOT TO BUY 
 THIS COMPANY PRODUCT UNTILL THEY MAKE APATCH AND POST IT IN THEIR SERVER THEN I DOWNLOAD IT THEN 
 I BUY THE GAME .
  AND ALSO THIS GAME IS RELATIVELY EXPENSIVE TO BUY COMPARING WITH GAMES WITH SAME CLASSIFICATIONS, 
 OK IAM DONE HERE BUT I NEED TO COMPLETE MY 100 WORDS TO POST MY REVIEW . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: "What have we done for you lately"
  
  Following this game for a while now I can honestly say that the professionalism that Cenega (Publisher) 
 and Altar (Developer) displays for their consumers is less than adequate. Not only do they pre 
 maturely release a game filled with bugs, but the main bugs in the system prevents you from actually 
 getting anywhere near completing the core game itself. Now we all know games have issues with bugs, 
 there is not a single released computer game except PONG that is bug free. But releasing a game 
 that does not even work is not only frustrating and unprofessional but it should be illegal.
  
  Game play: "Concept rocks"
  I cannot argue with the high scores in game play, this game sure 
 hold its own when it comes to keeping something original and fresh. Though this concept is not 
 new it sure is ever entertaining each time it is released. And Aftershock still brings to the table 
 for hungry fans and new players. I enjoy this game as much as the next person, except for the fact 
 that I cant play it anymore because it crashes all the time.
  
  Ufo: Aftershock basically takes place some years after Aftermath and it picks up good. The graphics 
 have improved a little bit but nothing have really changed to much. Its just because you loved 
 the previous games that you will love this one. And those who havent played any version will love 
 it because its something fresh for you to play around with. The game itself can be spanned over 
 several weeks of intensive and fun play. And saying yet again, if you could actually play it after 
 a week.
  
  Graphics: "Outdated and shabby"
  The graphics in this game while a little bit better looking than previous releases doesnt even 
 touch what year we are actually in. The graphics are just down right messy, choppy, badly textured 
 and extremely mediocre. If you can fit so many details on Battlefield 2 and still make it run fine 
 you should at least see 70% of its graphical beauty in a game like Aftershock. Though Aftershock 
 itself only touched todays graphical capabilities by 6% or so. Its like playing a game from 1998 
 again, and that is definitely a long time ago.
  
  Sound: "Nothing you havent heard before"
  I generally like the sound back in the 90`s, now its 
 just getting old and youre more accustomed to it than anything else. I cant say much about the 
 sound other than the small facts. It wont surprise you and make you feel connected with the game, 
 but its bearable for a few hours at the time.
  
  Value: "Dont waste your money"
  Other than being a great concept pre maturely released I would waste my money on this one. At least 
 until a major patch that fixes every major issue comes out. Without one you cant really call this 
 game as it wont let you come near to complete it. Spending your gaming hours reading help forums 
 on possible solutions that does not really exist is pointless.
  
  My Tilt and Final Comments
  ---------------------------------------
  
  I was extremely satisfied 
 when I first started playing, but after all the errors and bugs I kept getting along with crashes. 
 I decided that this game is not worth anything but fuel for a fire. I certainty hope these issues 
 will be dealt with soon and when they do the score would probably have been very different. But 
 you should review them as they are released, not as the idea of what they should have been.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yifes
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  UFO Aftermath and Aftershock are NOT sequels to the X-com (UFO in europe) series of games. Sid 
 Meier and Firaxis (Civ 4) currently own the liscence to X-Com and many other old Microprose games. 
 The name UFO is not trademarked and it is a travesty that the people who made this game are taking 
 advantage of a classic series.
  
  The creators of this game tried to capture the "spirit" of x-com. They missed and ended up with 
 this garbage. The game uses a real time w/ pause system (like Baldurs gate) so it feels nothing 
 like X-com. The combat is tedious and not fun. The game is poorly made and has tons of bugs.
  
  In the end, do yourself a favor and stay AWAY from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberjannie
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  Let me poste a qoute from the official Aftershock website : 
 
  November 16th, 2005 
  UFO: Aftershock was awarded with 78% by PC Format! 
 
  You see this and lots of other good 
 examples from sites such as "Fourfatchicks. com", ive never heard about these sites, but im sure 
 they have been paid to say that its a good game, either that or they played the game for 1 hour.
 
  You see, the first hour of the game is completely bug free, except the super overpowered morelmen 
 aliens.
  
  . 
  But i mean, 78%?
  How can this be? ive always trusted the ratings of PCF (PC format) , unluckily i missed that mag, 
 because i couldnt find it in the stores, but how can PCF give this crap game 78%? 
  I bought this shamely UFO game last week. 
  I would give it 12%! 
  Let me tell you why, Buggy, 
 crashing AND unfinished. 
  This is a game that shouldnt even have been launched, it feels like im testing an Alpha release. 
 
  The morelman is overpowered and they are not the only aliens who are unbalanced. 
  Suddenly all the equipment i had on my squad dissapeared for no reason at all, result : i had to 
 produce new guns and new armor. 
  When i kill Warthog (worthog, or something, some new aliens i encountered) the game crashes. 
 
  The glossary is filled up with the 40 copies of an modified AK47, for all the weapons i modified 
 i got new copies of them all after every mission in the glossary.
  Everytime the physics are working hard the game hangs up for 1 second (i dont see why when im running 
 a 3200+ with a 6600 card. I run X3 in 1280 smoothly, why not aftershock?) . 
  I have read your review politics and if what you say are true, i cant believe you guys havent been 
 paid for writing what you did! 
  That game is a total failure from the UFO/X-Com games. 
  Altar is the worst developer ever to have set its foot in the game scene! 
  Thank you got im 
 not buying games from them ever again! 
  
  And thank god they have starforce, where would i be without the annoying restart after the install. 
 
  And the system hang when the game crashes! 
  I cant quit the game from system processes because somehow starforce is stopping me, so its a hog 
 for the pc's resources when it crashes (which is a lot, in fact the game crashes every time i try 
 to play it. Sooner or later anyways) . 
  Even though i tried to close all other processes, damn i hate starforce! 
  But i hate unfinished 
 games even more! 
  
  There are so many bugs i forgot a big one. The LOADING times, what is it with these loading times 
 in this game? 
  tactical mission saves takes several minutes to load! 
  I im just one of few experiencing this, read the official forum and have a look for yourselfs! 
 They even delete serious posts in their forum from hundreds of users who cant play the game they 
 have bought because of crashes! Is that what i call ignorance?
  Ive read several they have deleted and they are not any flaming or whining.
  
  Am i the only 
 one who think this game is a cancer in the back? 
  And i simply forgot to say that they promised to release the patch to fix all the bugs 15 days 
 ago. 
  I havent seen any yet, and as far as i can see on their page it wont be release until the end of 
 november.. 
  well, ill tell you what! The time is running out! 
  They should learn from the makers of X3, they came out with the patch almost at once, at least 
 they fixed the problems!
  
  My advice! dont EVER buy games from these people again!
  They have dishonored the UFO/X-COM series, my favourite series is ruined by some game makers who 
 should have been fired or given a "making games for dummies"
  
  So whats the score i give then? :
  
  Graphics : Well, the graphics are EXTREMELY outdated! 
 I cant see any changes since the last release (aftermath) .
  
  Sound : Low quality audio, bad voice synch and noisy and sparking gunshots *shivers*. And a friend 
 of mine actually have a problem with the sound, so he and hundred others have to turn off hardware 
 acceleration if they dont want to make the game crash! Not that it wont crash after that, so whats 
 the point?
  
  Gameplay : Is this a joke? i cant even play the game because it crashes all the time, and its unbalanced 
 even on the easy game setting.
  
  Overall : well, unfinished, buggy, unbalanced and the alpha feeling in this game gives it 1.6. 
 i give it 1.6/10 because it has the proud name of the UFO series, but this game gives the name 
 a shame in the shadows!
  It could be a good sequel from aftermath if the game actually worked!
  
  I wouldnt trust Altar 
 with any more games from the series!
  What a waste of perfectly good money.
  
  1.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindlessTeef
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  I was hoping that Altar would have released the first official update patch for UFO Aftershock 
 before I rate it, but considering the delay of this patch, Ill just ignore the many bugs for now. 
 UFO: AS has more bugs than all the Starship Troopers movies and games thrown together, but considering 
 that everyone knows about it by know, including Altar, I will rate this game, ignoring the bugs 
 as Altar has promised that it will be resolved.
  
  All of us that have played the old X-COM titles WILL compare X-COM to UFO, we just cant help it. 
 In the same way that Nivals Silent Storm was immediately compared to Jagged Alliance, games have 
 to progress, any successor (official or not) must be a step forward in one way or another. 
  
  Although UFO: AS has not managed to recreate the experience of the X-COM games to the same extend, 
 it still remains a benchmark game in its genre. Aftershock offers an in-depth strategy game combined 
 with unique and challenging tactical battles that has not been seen since X-COM Apocalypse (released 
 1997) . UFO: AS combines these elements very well and offers a great deal of game play options that 
 will emerge a player into a world of aliens and the epic struggle of mankind to recapture the world 
 that was taken from them. In other words; this is one of those games that will cause you to misplace 
 hours of your life
  
  The story of Aftershock is also a lot more solid than Aftermaths and its told, mostly, through 
 in-game cut scenes thats triggered by research. The research and manufacturing elements in the 
 game is implemented rather well, offering a lot of technologies to research in many different areas 
 of research. Other than you research labs you will also have to build factories in your bases to 
 produce weapons, equipment and ammo. Nothing in the world of Aftershock is free, other than occasionally 
 scavenging equipment after battles, you will have to manufacture everything yourself. 
  
  Countries are divided into provinces in UFO: AS. One of these provinces will contain a base and 
 the others (two too five provinces) will contain one of three of the games resources. Each base 
 has to be connected to other bases via tracks or sea lanes to collect resources. Each base has 
 limited space for buildings (three to five buildings) so you will have to be selective. To further 
 complicate your life, your soldiers will remain on the orbital space station you start from (called 
 Laputa) that has to be moved around as it has a limited sphere of influence on earth where it can 
 deploy your soldiers by means of a giant golf ball, but Ill rather not start on that
  
  Throw in weapon modifications, detection devices, specialized soldier skills and more UFO Aftershock 
 is a huge game that can take hours just to manage your bases, research new technologies, manufacture 
 new weapons and equipment and training and equipping your squad. The strategic part of this game 
 unique and brilliant! The actual battles are just as remarkable
  
  Aftershocks battles play out in a Simultaneous Action System (or SAS for short) . This means that 
 the battles run in real time and pauses when certain events occur or you do so manually. This is 
 a bold move away from the traditional, and very popular, turn based systems of Jagged Alliance, 
 X-COM and the recent Silent Storm. This SAS system takes a bit of getting use to, but it works 
 very well, offering different tactical options then the old fashioned turn base system
  
  There are many hours of solid game play to be had with UFO Aftershock. The game can still do with 
 a bit of fine tuning, not even mentioning the bugs, but it is a very addictive and challenging 
 game a must have for those gamers that prefer to think and plan before they act! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: basgame
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I've played the game for 12 hours now, so I can't give you a complete review of the game and the 
 way it will unfold in the later stages. But what I did see, I liked a lot.
  
  First, UFO: Aftershock is a true successor of the original XCOM game. All the good things are there: 
 base management, research, manufacturing, etc.
  I'm happy now, i've waited quite a long time for a true successor to come along. (Silent Storm 
 whas OK too, but I think Aftershock is way better.)
  They added weapon mods, diplomacy, base militia (free soldiers to "spend" when atacked) and a good 
 RPG system (with professions) .
  
  Second, the simultatious action system (SAS) works for me. Of course there will be people who hate 
 it. But the major problem I have with true turn based action is that it takes sooooooo long for 
 a single map to end.
  With the SAS the action feels swift and easy. Missions are done quickly, and the action just feels 
 good to me.
  I would like to have seen a mission replay movie at the end of the mission, to see the total action 
 replayed once more (only they did not add this function, a missed chance) . 
  
  Third, I love the way they made modern weapons a part of the game. Even in 2050 it doesn't feel 
 stupid to research the MP5, because it must be rediscovered, they simply forgot the tech. I don't 
 mind, I am a modern day weapon fan. Of course you can also research future weapons, so every thing 
 is there.
  
  The Bad:
  Bugs: It has a lot of bugs. A patch is coming soon and I personally didn't mind that much, it works 
 99% of the time on my PC. But I've seen on the forums that people do have a lot of issues.
  Sound: I like the music, but the in game sound effects are boring. 
  Maps: The mission layout 
 is repeated often.. They should have make random maps. They did not...
  
  Conclusion:
  If you liked XCOM: ufo enemy unknown, you'll love this game too. Except when you are a true turn 
 based hardliner, the SAS must work for you.
  
  It does for me, I've even stopped playing civ4 for a while..... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
