-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UFO: Extraterrestrials
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ufoextraterrestrials/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Follows the X-COM template.
 good challenge provided through tough alien artificial intelligence.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extremely slow pace.
 lots of little problems in tactical combat design.
 strange design decisions, such as automatic soldier recruitment, can ruin campaigns.
 dated visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 7.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 312 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Chaos Concept
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     May 4, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An X-COM clone that falls short of its inspiration, UFO: Extraterrestrials is only for desperate 
 diehards. 

  Nobody has yet recreated the magic of MicroProse's X-COM, but it hasn't been for want of trying. 
 It seems like every six months or so, someone has been releasing a fresh take on this early 90s 
 strategy masterwork about shooting down flying saucers and sending soldiers to hunt down the survivors, 
 and each attempt has only sent disappointed diehards back to the original. UFO: Extraterrestrials 
 adds another chapter to that unhappy saga. This effort by development studio Chaos Concept is dissatisfying 
 both as a rip-off of a legend and as a game in its own right because of odd design decisions, bugs, 
 and bottom-drawer graphics and sound. The best that can be said about the game is that its sci-fi 
 atmosphere and smart artificial intelligence make it a somewhat acceptable way for the desperate 
 to whittle away a couple of dozen hours waiting for someone to finally do a proper remake of X-COM. 

          Look familiar? The main screen's global point of view is straight out of the original X-COM. 
     

  Gameplay in UFO: Extraterrestrials mirrors X-COM right down to the global view on the main interface 
 screen. There is a big change to the setting, in that you're now defending the colonized planet 
 of Esperanza against little green men instead of Earth, but the concepts remain the same. So you 
 outfit alien-busting bases with various facilities like interrogation rooms and laboratories in 
 real time in each of the nine nations on Esperanza, send out fighters to intercept and shoot down 
 UFOs, and then attack the downed saucer sites with teams of RPG-styled soldiers in turn-based tactical 
 combat sequences based on an action-point-reliant movement system. At the same time, you also need 
 to research the aliens and their technology to reverse-engineer it into sci-fi weaponry and hardware 
 for your troops. It's all formulaic and familiar if you have any experience with X-COM or its copycats. 

  However, attacking saucer crash sites remains suspenseful because you never know what sorts of 
 ETs you're going to encounter. There are numerous creatures featured, including giant insects, 
 half-humanoid slugs, and floating blobs, each with different attacks that range from laser blasts 
 and gas bombs to paralyzing mental blasts. Aliens are also smart enough to know when to retreat 
 and when to attack (although they're not great at taking cover) . If you hit one with superior firepower, 
 it will often take off given the opportunity. And you can't just follow these cowards because doing 
 so can draw you into an ambush. ETs don't always run either. If the numbers are in their favor, 
 aliens have no problem blitzing you with head-on assaults.  

  Still, missions are more annoying than anything else. Too many aspects of the tactical engine are 
 skewed against you or simply don't work well. The pace is really slow, even for a turn-based game. 
 Some sort of hybrid system where you move in real time when not engaged in combat is needed to 
 speed up the tedious map exploration. Animations are also slow and jittery, so you spend more time 
 watching troops stutter or aliens slither. Aliens can see farther than your grunts, so you regularly 
 take fire from the blackness. Peripheral vision is equally awful. An alien might just be a smidgen 
 outside of your direct line of sight, but you won't see it. Shooting distances are wonky. In the 
 early stages, before you can level up troops, increase their shooting skills, and provide them 
 with high-tech guns (the initial equipment loadout is pathetic, aside from jeep-tank hybrid vehicles) , 
 you have to get within a couple of squares of an alien to have a better than 50 percent chance 
 of hitting it. This leads to  Police Squad -style shootouts where you're blasting away at each 
 other across a few feet but still missing a good deal of the time (sometimes by laughable distances) , 
 or even worse, accidentally shooting each other or tossing a grenade into your own lap.  

          Soldiers may be immortal here, but they still mess up your saucer-smashing plans by regularly 
 winding up in the hospital for long stretches of time.     

  Maps are another cause for concern. There are only a limited number of maps in the game, so you 
 wind up repeating yourself. A random map generator would have greatly improved things here. Also, 
 the maps are quite sparse when it comes to interesting terrain. You get bland factories, scrub 
 brush, the odd tree, various alien fauna, and little else, all done up with horribly dated visuals 
 that could be five or six years old. At least, it seems like everything is destructible, which 
 can lead to cool moments where you blow open walls. But because there aren't that many buildings 
 to detonate, you don't do this sort of thing very often. And the aliens typically seem to be found 
 out in the open or in their crashed ships. Exploring buildings is typically a waste of time because 
 the ETs in outdoor missions almost always come after you in open fields. This ratchets down the 
 tension after a while because you soon realize that bad guys are rarely waiting to surprise you 
 around darkened corners inside of buildings.  

  Management mode in UFO: Extraterrestrials hasn't been thought out particularly well. Soldiers can't 
 be killed on the battlefield unless they're riding in a vehicle that gets destroyed or the entire 
 squad is wiped out. This sounds like it would make things easier and lessen the need to constantly 
 sign up new recruits, but it actually makes everything harder because troops regularly get injured 
 for long stretches of time (30 days and up are common) . It's also impossible to manually replace 
 the wounded, which means you have to wait for the game to automatically come up with fresh blood. 
 This inevitably leaves you short on manpower in the early going because you start with just eight 
 grunts and can expect to take out one casualty on each assignment. The only thing you can to do 
 mitigate troop losses is buy those jeep-tank things because they come with drivers. Workers toiling 
 in bases are also recruited automatically, albeit on a more regular basis because you get a set 
 number of them every time you construct certain types of buildings. For instance, a basic lab comes 
 equipped with 10 scientists and a basic workshop comes with 10 technicians.  

  Nations reward you with cash every month if you've done a good job keeping the skies clear of flying 
 saucers. As with soldier and worker recruitment, this makes the monetary aspect of the game run 
 on rails because you never really have to think about keeping your coffers full. On the other hand, 
 it's a bit more realistic than making cash on the open market by researching and selling high-tech 
 accoutrements (although you can make a few bucks here and there by flogging excess hardware) . Being 
 reliant on nations to keep you in the black also increases the importance of keeping ET bases off 
 of terra firma because if a single alien base is set up in a nation, it cuts off the cash flow. 
 And despite the lessened importance of research on your bottom line, the game does have an impressive 
 tech tree. After a boring start where you have just a few basic weapons available, such as shotguns 
 and rifles, you soon move into lasers, energy shields, gravity engines, and other nifty goodies. 

          Research high-tech weapons, such as this laser pistol, to get a leg up on your ET adversaries. 
     

  Finally, the game isn't stable. Sudden drops to the desktop are common, and the audio never works 
 unless you Alt-Tab out of the game to manually close the splash screen on the Windows desktop. 
 But playing in silence isn't a big deal because the sound effects seem like relics from the eight-bit 
 console era, and the soundtrack is loaded with techno disco more appropriate for a dance club circa 
 1990 than it is for hunting aliens in 2007. Only the odd bit of spooky music during levels makes 
 the tunes bearable.  

  OK, all of that sounds pretty grim. But despite the many flaws in UFO: Extraterrestrials, there 
 remains something mildly compelling because of the aggressive AI, the expansive tech tree, and 
 the X-COM look and feel. This isn't a good game no matter how you look at it, but there are rare 
 moments where you almost feel hypnotized into believing you're playing something that actually 
 resembles a proper X-COM remake. Of course, then the game turns around and does any number of remarkably 
 stupid things, thus snapping you out of this reverie very quickly. At least you'll wring some small 
 amount of nostalgia out of UFO before the harsh reality of its many, many problems sets in.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DaFrankerXD
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  I'll admit it, right out of the box, the game was a HUGE letdown. The first bits are alright -- 
 the strategic view is kind of what you'd expect of it, though a little bit more could have been 
 added, since everything seemed kind of just a plain copy of X-Com without anything new, as if they 
 had just completely ignored all the awesome features that had been showcased in other games of 
 the same genre (the three UFO series games, in particular, that is Aftermath, Aftershock and Afterlight) . 
 However, I can understand the design decision to stick to the original X-Com here, and that could 
 be seen as a good thing too.
  
  On the other hand, when I got into my first tactical battle... YUCK. Something was awfully wrong 
 there. First, where the hell were my stance and movement buttons now?! I actually had to refer 
 to the manual to find out how to crouch, since I'm not one who randomly hovers his mouse for 4 
 seconds over his soldiers "just because". The obvious lack of accessible hotkeys for practically 
 all important combat actions was also another shock. Then, in the aftershock, I realized that said 
 actions were limited to shooting, crouching, selecting and moving. Fire modes, taking aim, reserving 
 APs and other useful features that added tactical depth in other games were just missing.
  
  Another letdown was that I expected an encore from the awesome semi-realtime system found in 
 the UFO trilogy to at least be available as an option (where you could choose between turn-based 
 or real-time, just like in Apocalypse) . This would have been a huge boost to the fun factor, since 
 you'd get to choose turn-based with the strategic and tactical decisions that you would see unfolding, 
 or real-time where you had the option of adjusting your tactics in an instant and queue up orders 
 and such. Of course, this would have required a bit more development time coding-wise and a bit 
 more playtesting and balancing to make sure both modes were at a correct difficulty level. But 
 then again, they could have just thrown in real-time without any balancing and we would have forgiven 
 them for it -- though we can't forgive the lack of tactical options and the atrocious UI controls.
 
  
  My review so far contradicts the rating I gave, but that's because my rating is not on the vanilla 
 box game but rather on its *current* state. Fully patched and with the proper mods from the community, 
 this game becomes a gem. Community mods give more tactical options, fix the clumsiness of the tactical 
 controls, add more content and/or features, and basically make the game a lot more enjoyable. Taking 
 just the bug-fixing and clumsiness-removing and option-adding mods which don't change the actual 
 content already improves the gameplay tenfold, since you can now enjoy the game the way it was 
 meant to be without the extremely tedious pacing and the bad design and UI.
  
  Also, for a game like this, sure, the graphics could be a lot better. Even though released much 
 later, it still comes up far behind any of the UFO trilogy games, and the sound effects aren't 
 anything special. 
  
  All in all, a game that should have stayed in development, maybe have gone through a reworking, 
 a little longer. And that should have gotten more external playtesting and implemented the feedback 
 from those playtests.
  
  The community, on the other hand, DID implement that feedback, and the end result is just the graphics 
 and sounds' short of perfect. Now, if only someone were to make a game which incorporated the graphics 
 and gameplay features of Afterlight into the system, build, theme/scenario and gameplay design 
 of this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deonmag
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  This game is a total disaster. And even be an X-com: Apocalipsis hard-core player didn't help to 
 swallow such crap.
  I cannot imagine what about were thinking developers creating such game. I cannot even compare 
 this to a more than 10-years old X-com: Apocalipsis. Graphics of UFO: ET are much worse than in X-com: Apocalipsis. 
 In X-com: Apocalipsis graphics are much more looking like 3D than in UFO: ET. Tactic maps in X-com: Apocalipsis 
 were much bigger, complex and interesting to investigate. They were totally destructible and every 
 action had direct the influence on relations with other groups in game. Economical system was interesting 
 to develop. Money had a real deal on game play. In short, every aspect of UFO: ET are much worse 
 than in X-com: Apocalipsis. I am totally disappointed. Developers of UFO: ET must burn in eternal 
 flames for this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUMPY5555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Best game I have played since X-COM . It is just like X-COM. There are more aliens than from previous 
 X-COM. More to research and build.
  If someone could make a game like this in a more 3D fashion it would sell off the charts. The few 
 games from Cenega sucked, but if you could make a game like this with the graphics from the Cenega 
 games you would be mighty wealthy after the release. Game makers are going in a good direction, 
 but if they concentrate more on the game and the fun of the game and tone down some games they 
 would be better off.
  
  BUY THIS GAME IF YOU LIKED X-COM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w3bma5t3r
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  As many have said before, an ok game, made great by the modding community. My rating is for the 
 modded game. A Dime. Check out this link:
  
  http://www. ufo-extraterrestrials. com/forum/viewtopic. php? t=2668
  
  On that page there are several 
 other links for the different segments of purchase (got mine from Gamers Gate) , install, setup 
 for modding, actual modding and much more...
  
  I run with the plain install, throw the latest patch from Gamers Gate on it, then add the Frankenmod 
 and then the TacticalMod, using just the MiniMap and AP reserve features. Follow all the instructions 
 and you'll have great game play for decent $$. :) Enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skie7
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The base gameplay is much more streamlined. You don't have to hire individual scientists of manufacturers, 
 they simply arrive when you build a new lab or factory. There's no hiring, firing, or training 
 soldiers. Early game your soldiers tend to be in the hospital often, and late game you don't want 
 to be wasting your money on rookies that are automatically assigned to the CAF.
  
  With research it follows the typical X-COM path with the UFOpedia. As you research the tech-tree 
 will open. As you engage new aliens with new technology you'll be able to expand the technology 
 tree. One of the problems with this is that you're likely to hit a point where all the technology 
 is researched and you have to capture an alien commander to continue research. After this point, 
 my research took off at a rate that my manufacturing couldn't keep up with. I went from plasma 
 weapons, to ion weapons, to AKEW weapons before I could even manufacture a heavy plasma rifle. 
 This made much of the technology obsolete before I even had the opportunity to use it.
  
  One of the biggest flaws is that secondary bases are simply intercept bases. You can transfer items 
 to these bases, but about the only things you'll be transferring are aircraft and aircraft equipment. 
 You don't get to place any troops for defense (or as secondary squad) and the defensive structures 
 are woefully inadequate in regards to stopping an alien invasion. This means that if aliens invade 
 your base, your only chance of stopping them is while the UFO is on the global map. Apparently, 
 the developers realized this was a problem and so you have 10 days to send a squad to the base 
 to retake it.
  
  The global map is very reminiscent to X-COM. One of the nice things here is that when you send 
 out your intercept fighters at alien craft it occurs real-time. This allows you to have multiple 
 aircraft pounding on a UFO. And, with the bigger UFOs, you're likely to use 5 or 6 aircraft to 
 take it down. Once a UFO is downed, a terror site is announced, an alien base is found, or you 
 have to retake your own base, you can send out a transport to take you to the tactical battlefield.
 
  
  Once you're at the tactical battlefield, the first thing you'll notice is that the very dated graphics. 
 The second thing you'll notice is that the sound effects are terrible. But, if you play for awhile 
 you'll notice that the AI is much improved over X-COM. Unlike X-COM, you'll very rarely have to 
 enter the UFO to track aliens down. In fact, even on terror missions it's very rare you'll have 
 to enter a building to engage the enemy.
  
  The biggest problem with the combat is that early on your soldiers couldn't hit the broad side 
 of a barn. This is one of those perplexing issues, often found in tactical games, where you're 
 supposedly recruiting the best of the best and they're anything but. Another issue with the soldiers 
 is their line of sight is terrible, they no periphial vision. Even with these woefully inadequate 
 soldiers, you'll still likely get through the missions. The problem is your pool of soldiers will 
 keep getting smaller and smaller because they're spending so much time in sick bay. Sure, they 
 never die, but they're out for 45 days making them useless.
  
  And, now for the high tilt. Fortunately, there's a healthy mod community that fixed many of the 
 issues with this game. You no longer have to play with immortal soldiers. Other mods have reduced 
 hospital time; allow hiring, firing, and even training of soldiers. Other features include improvements 
 to the AI, reduced manufacturing time, experience points for soldiers who survive the mission, 
 the global map being earth, bounty money for aliens killed, and much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_FS
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  6 years of development for an incomplete clone of masterpiece ufo enemy unknown .
  
  They also lie in the declaring the features of the game.
  For example on the developer website 
 they talk about a third faction... police/military that help you in some mission.
  But in all the game the isnt any police or military... The only things that save this game is the 
 wide modding possibility offered by the un-cripted game files that can be easily edited.
  
  After you download and installed some Mod the game become quite fun.
  This game is the nearest 
 things to Ufo that we can find in today market. Gameplay: a simplified version of the old ufo with 
 tons of missing or incomplete features. Many of them added by mods.
  
  Graphics: old graphics. 3d map with 2d character.
  
  Sound: Good music in UFO style. Awful 
 game sound, for example there is only one cry of death for all human, the same for male and female 
 character. Fixed by mods.
  
  Conclusion:
  The game worth not more than 4... but the modding community have done a really good job saving 
 this condemned title.
  
  So. I advice this game only to Ufo enemy unknown fan that miss that great game of the past. Like 
 myself.
  
  Using Mods is imperative. I suggest Bman mod. A suit of many mod that can be manually set by an 
 internal menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixindave
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  all i can say is its pretty much like the first xcom game but with less things to handle and updated 
 graphics (obviously) . they play some of the old music on the planet screen which brings back memories. 
 i would only reccommend it to original xcom fans others may get bored unless they like turn based. 
 as an x xcom player i got the controls really easy and managed to do my first mission at ease. 
 i really cant wait to research my new stuff and get further into the game. im not sure if you can 
 have gameover at end f the month in this one. any1 out there know how to get more researchers lol 
 . gimme a pm :) as a difficulty rating im gonna put it to hard as if i where a new player to the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wbp123
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Anyone new to this style of RPG/Strategy genre will have to try hard to get into it. It has all 
 the mechanics right, which will please the die hard fans of a genre put in the pasture. However, 
 it lacks the pizzazz and eye candy expected from todays games. If you are looking for something 
 different from the norm or you are one of the fortunate ones to play UFO: Defense (Microprose) , 
 then take a chance on this one. I will stress that it is undoubtedly a budget game at best, so 
 I wouldnt suggest paying anything more than budget price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flycrap
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Not a fair review from Gamespot. If you played stategy games like Panzer General, Final Fantasy 
 Tactics and Advance Wars you will love this game because its better than all of them. First the 
 Good.
  - Develop &amp; customize your base, research tech and manufacture your tech.
  - Budget monthly funds or go Bankrupt.
  - Character gains experience through battle
  - Replayable. 
 Then the Bad
  - Graphics and sound seem dated. Conclusion
  If you want the best graphics or a die hard real-time stategy fan this game is probably not for 
 you. But if like micromanagment / turn-based games this game is a true gem.
  
  This game has kept me up long hours into the night, not many games have done that for me since 
 the civ series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamasX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  After disappointment of last UFO series  I have tried this one and I am satisfied.
  I am a huge enthusiast of all UFO series (especially X-COM Apocalypse) .
  This one is like Apocalypse, 
 but with new technologies and design (which is not very nice) .
  UFO: Extraterrestrials is a great game for UFO lovers, but not so good for beginners.
  Graphics 
 is poor, but surroundings are interesting and interactive. The main advantage of this game is gameplay. 
 One of the best parts is researching new technologies, weapons, alien technologies and other stuff.
 
  Music is annoying, but it is not a big problem.
  
  If you like all other UFO series - this one is MUST HAVE game ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game... I was a HUGE fan of XCom back in the day. However, UFO, while lovingly 
 created and a true homage to the original, falls short. The game looks and plays like a 1993-circa 
 game, and just lacks that extra something you'd expect in a modern game. That said, it still has 
 the potential of entertaining someone looking for another go at XCom -- a turn-based tactical combat 
 game, with some decent economic/ empire development aspects. If they'd rolled in some light RPG 
 elements -- say thrown in a few protagonists that you could follow, root for, and enjoy (a-la Jagged 
 Alliance, or even Silent Storm) , this game could have been much better.
  
  If you're looking for good turn-based tactical combat and haven't played Silent Storm, I'd give 
 that game a shot and probably avoid this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastwoodaen
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 30, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  hours of game play, I haven't experienced a game stopping bug or moment. It has been just the opposite. 
 I have actually been playing to 4am on a work day. I haven't done that since X-Com.
  
  Playing the game for me was akin to a nostalgic trip down memory lane, UFO: ET doesn't look exactly 
 like X-Com, it doesn't play exactly like X-Com, but it feels like it. That was enough to make the 
 game a winner in my book.
  
  Does the game have bugs? Yes, I have only experienced one (a CTD when you fire an AoE weapon at 
 an alien on the edge of the map) , I have read about other bugs and I have seen a couple of annoyances 
 with the interface, but weren't full out bugs (when you allocate experience points, if you hold 
 the cursor over the plus or minus button, it will allocate all remaining points, doesn't happen 
 a lot, but enough) .
  
  Does the game need a tweak? Straight answer would be not really, I am playing it through (Centarus 
 is about 70% built) and am enjoying myself immensely. Long term, replayability answer? Yes, it 
 has quite a few quirks that people want changed. Why do they want the game changed? Because they 
 want X-Com 2 and by making the vast majority of these changes they are getting their wish. Officially, 
 a patch, heard to be a very minor patch is expected to be out soon.
  
  Unofficially, it is a different ball game. The Mod community has gone ape-ch*t modding (mostly 
 little tweaks) to make the game even better by most accounts. I am still playing vanilla, I will 
 probably try the mods out after I beat the game and the official patch comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnOldMan
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Check out the game forums (direct link from game menu) that have a few mods taking the game from 
 good to great. I appreciate reviewers can't use mods in their review but the B-man mod really adds 
 some great functionality (keyboard shortcuts, soldier death, game balance tweaks, etc...) My guess 
 is that if you are ordering this game you know what you are looking for and it will deliver. Fun 
 hours spent hunting aliens, building bases, and defending the planet from alien scum one turn at 
 a time... I highly recommend it if you like turn based tactical. Definitely worth the money. *... don't 
 pirate games from small developers/publishers!...* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aranos420
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 26, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  Let's cut the chase.
  
  I viewed this game from two perspectives: 1) as a remake of the classic X-COM, 2) as an individual 
 game.
  
  As a remake of the classic X-COM, I felt that this game accomplished its objective, that is, to 
 resurrect the classic. The gameplay in both strategic and battlescape modes was quite similar to 
 the original, and got the job done. The research and production was enjoyable, and to be quite 
 honest I didn't have any problems with the battle scenes either in comparison to the original, 
 despite the slow pacing. Overall, I was happy with this game in terms of being a remake of the 
 classic.
  
  As an individual game, however, I was thoroughly disappointed. I found no qualms with the strategic 
 mode, but the graphics in the battlescape mode were, to be fair, atrocious. The slow pacing and 
 lack of action point management made battles feel like a chore. There was just a lack of enjoyment 
 after investing about 15 - 20 hours into the game. If you really want an X-COM remake, this is 
 as close as it gets... you'd just be buying X-COM again, but with updated - errr, dated - graphics. 
 The choice is yours... This IS a game for X-COM fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  OK, first off, UFO: ET is not related in any way to the UFO: After... series. It's designers from 
 what I understand had every intention of remaking the original X-COM game, just more updated and 
 with a different storyline (A new planet rather than Earth for instance)
  
  Frankly I was disapointed with Gamespot's reviewer. Had I payed much attention to it, I would never 
 have bought the game, and would have missed out on a lot! To save a lot, if you've played the original 
 game, you'll know what to expect. It does sound from his comments that the reviewer does not like 
 turn based strategy games so why he reviewed it I have no idea!
  
  The game is played in real time on the globe, which involves sending your fighters out to shoot 
 down UFO's, but the actual squad based tactical combat is turn based, as was the original series, 
 where you hunt down the aliens and capture their equipment.
  
  Once captured, you research what you retrieved and develop your own equipment and weapons to counter 
 the aliens attacks and manufacture it via laboratories and workshops. I won't go into more detail 
 because it spoils the game
  
  It is a game that requires time to play. Tactical battles require you to move each soldier in your 
 squad, one at a time around a map shrouded in the usual fog of war and larger battle can take a 
 fair while when there's lots of soldiers on both sides, but that's the whole point I find :)
  
  The music can be rather irritating, some of the tactical music on lower volume seems to whine, 
 so I have switched it off. Sound effects in general are about on par with this sort of game, nothing 
 stunning but they do the job (and no annoying yes sir! every time you click on them either) Graphically 
 it's nice enough. You won't need an Nvidia 8800 graphics card to run it, but since when have people 
 who play these sort of games every wanted that! :)
  
  To wrap up, if you liked the original X-COM - UFO Defence, or you enjoy playing strategy turn based 
 squad level combat games such as Silent Storm, Jagged Alliance etc, then chances are you'll enjoy 
 playing UFO: ET :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigDeaton
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 24, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  The original X-Com was a classic, so trying to remake that one is a tall order for any company. 
 Over the years, many have tried, and most efforts have come up woefully short. UFO: Extraterrestrials 
 has done many things correctly but several things could have been better. Maybe some of these will 
 be addressed in a future patch. Here's a list of my initial observations based on about 40 hours 
 of game play.
  
  WHAT'S GOOD
  * Faithful to the original game's style of game play - a mix of sci-fi strategy and squad-level 
 tactics
  * Soldiers can usually be saved when wounded and/or incapacitated. This eliminates the original 
 game's problem of one bad mission destroying all of your experienced troops
  * The evolution of weapon types is largely faithful to the original game (based on what I've seen 
 so far)
  * Good variety of aliens with various abilities
  * Soldiers and bases can be renamed (although this is less intuitive for bases than it could have 
 been)
  * Ground assault missions seem to have a nice degree of variety in terrain, enemy unit placement, 
 enemy tactics, etc.
  
  WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN BETTER
  * Intro video is not reflective of the game to come - it shows space combat away from a planet, 
 while the game places ship vs ship combat over the planet
  * Voice acting in the intro video sounds like a B Movie - and not in a good way!
  * Theme music 
 is only marginal at creating the appropriate game atmosphere
  * No way to reserve action points for opportunity fire when plotting moves
  * Action points required 
 for weapon use can only be determined by clicking on the weapon
  * No separate Medic skill - seems unrealistic
  * Base placement within a region seems to be automatic
 
  * Changing equipment and reloading weapons costs no action points (although some people may actually 
 love this in practice, it's not very realistic)
  * I have yet to determine if troops can be placed anywhere besides the main base
  * Since the 
 idea seems to have been to remake the original game, I'm not sure why a fictional planet was created 
 instead of using Earth
  * Graphics are disappointing. While considerably better than the original, when compared to how 
 graphics in games have advanced over the years, UFO: Extraterrestrials graphics only represents 
 a baby step forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cschrieber
Rating: 1.9
Date: May 23, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  As a HUGE fan of the original XCOM series, I really had high hopes of what might be released as 
 a remake after more than 10 years of technological advances. I realized that this was not going 
 to be a remake of Apocalypse, but nonetheless, I felt confident that games had moved in the right 
 direction in the last decade, and the original had been able to stand the test of time.
  
  I won't make that mistake again.
  
  I honestly think this would be a bad game even 5 to 7 years 
 ago. The animations are extremely poor. The landscapes (battlescape scenes) are difficult to navigate 
 due to poor graphics. There are two unforgivable errors in the game, in my opinion. First, the 
 speed of gameplay feels (and likely, is!) slower than the original; characters move at about 2 
 squares every 3 seconds, in some sort of painful slow-motion stride. The other major error is that 
 the game does not include some of the nicer features that were included in XCOM: Terror From The 
 Deep, like the ability to save enough points at the end of movement to allow the character to kneel.
 
  
  There are other gameplay issues that are nothing but detractors. Key amongst these is the lack 
 of peripheral vision of your characters. If a character is facing West, and an alien is occupying 
 the square immediately South of the character, the character does not see the alien. Also, you 
 do not hire agents (characters) . Instead, they just show up. If you have everyone in the hospital, 
 you can't recruit more to back fill your losses. You have to wait for them to show up at your door.
 
  
  On the plus side, I did not experience any errors. Also, if you did not get the opportunity to 
 play the original, this would at least give you the opportunity to understand the gameplay of XCOM.
 
  
  I'm not a game-basher. I'm not a complainer. But this title was completely underwhelming. Unless 
 you really need to relive the glory days of 1994 VGA graphics, and the excitement of what was possibly 
 the best game ever, I strongly suggest passing on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endeavors000
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- User Interface- Seemed familiar on most fronts. The World view is spot on to X-Com. The 
 Battle UI is pretty far off except for the basic commands. Would of liked to see other buttons 
 in the soldier UI. Advantage: X-com Battlegrounds- Pace is set nice for each battle. Very different 
 environments. Terror Attacks and bases seem to be less painful, not by much, then X-Com. Alien 
 ships show no damage from being downed. Advantage: UFO: ET Economics- The buy/sell feature is NOTHING 
 like X-Com. Can't sell much. Monthly ratings or spendings are astronomic. Manufacturing goods can 
 be a whole months expenses. But I find it harder to do this and am actually challenged by this 
 new form of Economics. Advantage: UFO: ET (not that it doesn't have its flaws) Sounds- Did you hear 
 that? Yup. Hear that before. The sounds from X-Com are forever implanted in my head. They chose 
 to use a number of same sounds from X-Com. The unfortunate part of that is the sounds are dated 
 and in order to stay consistent with the game they used sub par quality sounds. Advantage: Split 
 Graphics- I don't lay emphasis graphics as some might, but I do think this game pass' on the graphics 
 board although they defiantly look dated. The animation for characters is not horrible and squibs 
 by. Advantage: X-Com Plot- While following the same formula as the X-Com series they manage to 
 make it better then is predecessor. I'm not talking about ok good, I'm talking about WOW, this 
 is defiantly the best part of the game. They researching of commanders is painful, but with it 
 you uncover a great plot and get worked up getting to the end. I won't spoil it but was defiantly 
 more intrigued with this games aspect then X-Com's. Advantage: UFO: ET (hands down) Ok. So over 
 all this game is defiantly worth picking up if your an X-Com fan. While I'm drawn back by many 
 number of bugs that take place in the game and flaws with the game play system, they can be cleaned 
 up by a simple MOD. With this MOD in place you have one heck of a gaming experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
