-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultima Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ultimaonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 4.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 412 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Sep 30, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In its current form, Ultima Online is a major disappointment. 

 Ultima Online is the most complex fantasy role-playing game to date, with thousands of players simultaneously 
 online in a persistent, dynamic gaming world. Unfortunately, at least for now, Ultima Online is 
 more ambitious than it is successful. Design and technical issues will limit Ultima Online's appeal 
 to gamers who possess a tremendous amount of patience and available time to invest in a game that 
 is still in the process of being developed.  

 Set in Britannia, the same world featured in Ultimas IV through VII, Ultima Online takes place shortly 
 after the events that transpired in the very first Ultima. The evil, power-mad mage Mondain has 
 been defeated and his Gem of Immortality has been shattered, creating countless parallel worlds. 
 The events that subsequently transpired in Ultimas II through VII occurred in one world created 
 by the shattered gem, while each Ultima Online server contains a separate parallel world. It's 
 an intriguing premise, as it allows Origin to pull events, items, and figures from the Ultima games 
 into Ultima Online. But, unfortunately, with the exception of one scheduled event at the premature 
 end of Ultima Online's beta test, this ability hasn't been effectively utilized.   

 Like prior Ultima games, Ultima Online uses an isometric, third-person-perspective view of the gaming 
 world. A transparent "sighting bubble" allows you to keep an eye on objects that otherwise might 
 be obscured behind walls. The graphics and character animations are detailed and very well done. 
 The extensive musical score largely consists of high-quality General MIDI versions of music from 
 earlier Ultima games. The mouse and hot-key driven interface is intuitive and customizable.   

 
 The world of Britannia really comes to life in Ultima Online. Scissors can be used to cut cloth 
 that can be used to tailor a new shirt; an axe can be used chop up wood that can be whittled into 
 arrow shafts; a fearsome wandering chicken will yield feathers that can be combined with wooden 
 shafts to make arrows. If you have the inclination, you can really live out the life of a butcher, 
 a baker, or a candlestick maker. Of course, this "interaction" merely consists of clicking one 
 object onto another, but the levels of detail really help to create an immersive environment.  

 Ultima Online emulates pen-and-paper role-playing games in that it creates an environment in which 
 you can develop various characters who are largely free to live out a virtual life within a "realistic 
 fantasy gaming world." Gameplay is completely nonlinear and you aren't confined to playing a traditional 
 hero - you're welcome to create a noble fighter-mage, a humble tailor, a mischievous thief, a malevolent 
 assassin, or an ornery fisherman (or my favorite, combine the last two types into an ornery, malevolent 
 fisherman-assassin) . There's a cost to such open-ended gameplay, however. Fans of the existing 
 Ultima games who are looking for a story-rich setting filled with epic quests and larger-than-life 
 scripted characters and events are going to be sorely disappointed. Ultima Online's gameplay has 
 more in common with the text-based gameplay of MUDs than it does with the other games in the Ultima 
 series - which is not necessarily a bad thing, but be aware that this ain't your mother's Britannia. 

 Which would be fine, if Ultima Online didn't suffer from numerous design and technical flaws. Origin's 
 own statistics indicate that, on average, players spend three to four hours every day in Britannia, 
 so obviously Ultima Online has its share of supporters. Since the game must be difficult enough 
 so that even hard-core players don't become demigods too quickly, skill development is extremely 
 slow. New players are relegated to performing repetitive, relatively mundane tasks in order to 
 increase their skills and wealth before they are capable of partaking in some traditional adventuring. 
 Some players, of course, may enjoy a lifestyle of fishing, mining, or cooking in Britannia, and 
 therefore may not consider "putting a bun in an oven" mundane. But even if you want to be a "hack 
 and slash" fighter or similar adventurer, you'll still have to spend several hours making and selling 
 objects to often frugal merchants in order to save up enough money to buy appropriate equipment. 
 There is a notable absence of a "beginner's dungeon" or an introductory area for new players to 
 strengthen their wimpy characters in relative safety. You must initially spend a significant amount 
 of your gaming time standing around casting spells at each other to increase skills, lining up 
 to swing at a target dummy, or scurrying around the forest trying to squash a rabbit or those crazy 
 wild chickens. In a touch that's reminiscent of Monty Python and the Holy Grail, those rabbits 
 are actually tough enough to do some serious damage to a character fresh out of the blocks.   

 
 Ultima Online is, of course, an Internet-only game, but to date it has done largely a poor job 
 at handling the finicky nature of the Internet. As a result, lag seriously limits the game's enjoyment 
 and, at times, renders the game virtually unplayable. During peak hours (6-12pm) , lag is often 
 so bad that your character will be unable to walk more than a few steps without pausing, even if 
 you have relatively speedy Internet access. Simple tasks, such as moving inventory items or talking 
 with other characters, become tedious exercises in frustration, and combat occasionally becomes 
 an uncontrollable nightmare. Origin can't be held responsible for the nature of the Internet, but 
 Ultima Online was designed from its outset to be played exclusively over the Internet and it should 
 do a better job of coping with lag. Other online games handle lag more effectively, and Ultima 
 Online's inability to provide a consistently playable experience is its greatest flaw. Obviously 
 some players feel that the lag is tolerable, otherwise the game wouldn't be so crowded during peak 
 hours, but you'll be doing yourself a favor if you play during off hours whenever possible. (Bump 
 up this review's "Gameplay" and "Reviewer's Tilt" ratings by three points if Ultima Online ever 
 manages to sort out the problem.)  

 The heart of Ultima Online is interaction with other human players and there are always plenty of 
 players online - perhaps too many. The wilderness is full of players tromping around looking for 
 something, anything, to kill. Monster respawning locations are typically surrounded by huge posses 
 of characters out for blood. Naturally enough, if Ultima Online's bloodthirsty populace, er, "role-players" 
 can't find monsters to attack, they start killing other players ("pkilling") . There's no escape 
 from this pkilling in Ultima Online except in the relatively safe cities. Of course, if you happen 
 to commit even a minor crime within a city, the all-powerful guards will promptly execute you (ah, 
 nothing like a little frontier justice - jaywalkers beware) .   

 Ultima Online does impose a price on criminal actions within the game, in the form of reducing your 
 character's reputation, or "notoriety." Origin has made it progressively more difficult to role-play 
 a character who has negative notoriety. "Bounty hunting" characters with negative reputations now 
 have official sanction. These measures have reduced the frequency of pkilling and have made the 
 game more playable for characters who just want to walk the Earth, but they have also made it more 
 difficult to play a thief or other petty criminal. Woe to you if you get caught in the wilderness 
 with a negative notoriety rating. For example, when I accepted a quest to escort a merchant to 
 another town, the merchant was attacked by another player. But when I attacked the aggressor, my 
 notoriety went down, even though I was just diligently defending my charge. Having successfully 
 defended the merchant, I continued down the road only to run into some "lawful good" paladin vigilante 
 types, who immediately executed me because of my negative notoriety. Fun? Nope, and even though 
 Origin recently added a welcome "notoriety" prompt, which warns you when you are about to take 
 an action that will reduce your notoriety, it doesn't encompass all situations and it still wouldn't 
 have allowed me to protect my hapless merchant.  

 A character's speech is displayed in the gaming world above the characters' head. This conversation 
 system worked well in Ultima 8, a single-player game, but it doesn't work as effectively in Ultima 
 Online. Too often speech from different characters overlaps, or nonplayer characters will wander 
 away before your typed speech actually appears on the screen (a situation exacerbated by lag) . 
 Interaction with nonplayer characters, always a strength of the Ultima series, is a huge disappointment 
 in Ultima Online. While you can occasionally get quests from nonplayer characters, the game's cumbersome 
 conversation system frequently prevents you from being able to accept the quest before the nonplayer 
 character runs away, and it's not easy to get the nonplayer character to reinitiate the quest. 
   

 There are other problems too. An online game like Ultima Online may never really be "done," as it 
 should be constantly updated in order to remain interesting to veteran players. But while the development 
 team has diligently continued to improve the game and fix bugs, it has also continued to make fairly 
 major changes in the game's design in order to address game balance issues that should have been 
 resolved during the game's beta testing stage. A month into the release of the game, a complete 
 "notoriety wipe" took place because the existing system was badly in need of repair, effectively 
 granting amnesty to characters who had killed hundreds of their peers. Patches have been released 
 at a fast and furious pace - the last one contained dozens of fixes and adjustments.   

 There are some strange design quirks as well. Although you can't alter terrain or knock down buildings 
 with the game's strongest spells, if you happen to get too involved in your work/school/nonvirtual 
 life to log onto Ultima Online for a few days, perish the thought, that house which cost your character 
 thousands of coins will vanish without a trace - the result of an unfortunate design decision, 
 which is particularly punitive on part-time players.  

 Origin has done a good job of improving the game since it was initially commercially released: Quests 
 are now available more frequently and they work a little better than they used to, the dynamic 
 economy isn't chronically in a recession, spell effects have been altered so that they are no longer 
 too powerful against other players, and the notoriety system works more consistently. Since Ultima 
 Online doesn't ship with a manual, Origin has now made a printable MS-Word version of the game's 
 Playguide available at the Ultima Online web site. Still, you will have to rely on the Ultima Online 
 site, or pick up a $20 strategy guide, in order to get such basic information as a list of available 
 spells.   

 Ultima Online may eventually become the game fans had hoped for, and already it has more than its 
 share of devoted followers who are willing to live with certain compromises. Playing now will give 
 you a sampling of the game's potential, but unless you are incredibly patient, can tolerate constant 
 lag and design changes, and you have the time to devote considerable attention to your characters, 
 chances are you will simply find Ultima Online extremely frustrating. Hopefully Ultima Online's 
 development team will continue to work on the game in order to make it a better experience for 
 all players - whether they are hard-core MUD-masters, or just gamers who'd like to occasionally 
 spend a few hours adventuring with friends from around the world. In its current form, Ultima Online 
 is a major disappointment.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This is my third attempt at reviewing this game, and hopefully it will express what I couldn't 
 express in the first two attempts. I'm not going to talk about gameplay, graphics or features. 
 I am going to talk about what Ultima Online is, and what it means to me. 
  
  If World of Warcraft is an orange, then Ultima Online is an apple. What do I mean? A person can 
 define World of Warcraft. There is a story, there is a purpose and you are told what to do. It's 
 shallow in that sense. 
  
  Ultima Online, however, is a separate world. In a world, you aren't told what to do. You don't 
 have defined "goals". You have something that is what perhaps separates a "game" from a "world": 
 freedom.
  
  This world has dated graphics. It has mediocre sound effects. However, it offers something different 
 than most other games. 
  
  Think of a rat in a maze. Whether we like it or not, in World of Warcraft and similar games we 
 are the rat. Always chasing after gold, items and experience points, there is some room for other 
 fun but the game kind of keeps you on a path. Some rats run faster and see more of the maze. Other 
 rats are slow... but either way, whether Level 1 or Level 70 we are all stuck in the same maze. 
 
  
  You can try to be a rat in Ultima Online. If you have been conditioned like I was by other games, 
 then you initially probably will. You might research equipment, skills, caps and then spend hours 
 running towards... things. 
  
  Then perhaps, like me, you will find yourself alone and frustrated in a pixelated castle sorrounded 
 by pixelated "treasure". You then might leave Ultima Online and go on to the next MMO, and the 
 next MMO, and the next MMO... like a rat, looking for more of the same, but with prettier graphics. 
 
  
  I think I originally left Ultima Online after playing for a while because I didn't understand it. 
 The simple fact that eluded me is that Ultima Online was never really designed for players who 
 behaved like rats. 
  
  Some compromises may have been made in the evolution of Ultma Online that has made it a place more 
 accomodating to rats, however, what I think the "essence" of Ultma Online "is", i. e. a really good 
 sandbox for adults to play with each other in, remains. 
  
  It's a wide open place where you can do a lot of things, and there isn't any mold that you are 
 expected to fit into. 
  
  Some say Ultima Online was better in the past and it's best days are behind it, and they might 
 be right. However, I can still say that it is pretty good. Really good. Perfect, for what it is: 
 not an older version of World of Warcraft, but something entirely different. 
  
  The servers aren't empty -- this game still has a player base after TEN years ---and you still have 
 the opportunity to enjoy it. What looks ugly at first will probably become endearing, and what 
 feels frustrating at first -- a massive, complicated place with no single defining quest line -- may 
 become your new online home. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7fold
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  This is a very dear game to my heart, I actually playing this game back in 1997 when it first came 
 out in school. I really think the rating on the original game if unfair. Sure it had its problems 
 lag etc... But the ability to be in a free for all world was great. Since UO every other game that 
 has came out has been a sugar coating game which has no rish whatsoever, and little fun. Eventually 
 they changed UO to the same fate as EQ and WoW, and I left. Lets hope one day they will have a 
 truly open MMORPG that the players govern again. As for the game that is present today, it doesnt 
 represent the original Ultima Online in anyways. They pretty much made it a mixture between Diablo 
 2 and Sims Online which took the heart out of the game and community. I dont suggest buying it 
 in its current state and if you where going to play it try to find a player run shard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cranberry2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Without doubt this is the best MMO ever made and still is with all the strength it was in the very 
 beginning; Ultima Online is a game made with a lot of heart in it, or a extremilly luck work... 
 i dont know. It was made in the early time where everything where made for least a long time.. 
 things where not discartable like it was with frigobars, guitars, and almost every product you 
 can imagine. Just now everything is discartable becouse there are so many into the industry, and 
 lots of products they dont want it to least anymore. World is going into a decandece way and is 
 very strange that people dont notest that, its not only with porducts but also way of life, and 
 yes mostly becouse of produts anyways, "we" dont live anymore, we look for things to keep us buzzy 
 while death comes, and to avoid thinking about what we cant understand, thats the very own thruth
 
  
  I can tell you, you can see it, think about a simple thing you enjoied in life (nothing with the 
 "so welcome" evolved enterteiming world) like an stick you got on street, something you did when 
 you where a kid, and you can see (if youre sensitive enouth) how much significant it was then 
 playing any game. Anyways I also kind blame world, ppl want the fantasy becouse world isnt good 
 or fair, its true. That why im on wasting my life with mystic, solitary , virtual adventures. 
 
  People there in the game, have an objective and something to weast life for, very romantic. Thing 
 is that a game dont worth even an second i had when i was happy and i couldnt see worlds biggest 
 flaws and how cruel it is, no metter how in the opposite you can think, if there a hell we are 
 already on it. 
  
  Enouth of that i was only clearing my mind and trying to help anyone who knows this truth, anyway 
 you'll feel better by playing games a little less. So Ultima Online the best game ever made, and 
 much much problably it will be the best ever. Till now withouth doubt it is. The game is incredibly 
 deep (thats why i put hard on learning) its incredibly big, and immersive. And is also at the same 
 way, veeeeeeeery simple, it just dont hurt your eyes while playing, is very natural, non forced, 
 just made with all the honesty a game can be made. My first mmo game, i didint played it in the 
 international/official server. This game makes part of my life i can say, i used to love horses 
 and i cleary remeber, the first thing i did when i got online (first i played the demo, loved it, 
 but there werent horses!) was look up for someone and asks where cold i buy a horse. I found it, 
 at that never changed, brittania stable to the north of the city and haddent the money so then 
 i beggin to immerse and be pretty addicted playing trouth phone line network with my mother claiming. 
 The first thing i saw was a guy with an cape riding a horse where i first logged and thats was 
 enouth. The moviment in that game, is so simple. I can tell i wasted much time of life at it, and 
 i aleways been afraid of the PVP thing, and even today i am. Maybe it was becouse the game looked 
 so real that i couldnt fight, or im just shi*** pants. It doesnt matter. I has friends and got 
 happy sometimes. 
  
  Is a great game but i dont want to write anymore, im very sick today but i never remembered to 
 review this art, and i found and had to do it. Its the best game ever ever made till now, hardly 
 can come any game better than this, Maybe only by copying it becouse its almost perfect, and even 
 thouth never can a game take its place. PS: that i dont know nothing about the new ultima online 
 made, and im not even very curious to see.. it was just right and good anouth already, it only 
 can have changes, and i dont like changes.
  good bye. ILL give it a low escore just becouse games are prejudicial and one the worlds big decadence, 
 no surprise how the game marketing is already and getting more huge, and i heard will supress music, 
 and movie in a very near future (couple of years would be to much) . Now have a nice day, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaznoodles
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  When i was 12 ultima online came out. I was also one of the first people to play. Now when i was 
 15 i left to play eq. Dureing the 3 years i played it, it started an addiction to MMOs that is 
 still not quenched. Now that i have a career, wife, kids and all that, i never have time to play 
 them but its there. UO was the standard in which all MMOs where started, and all MMO playstyles 
 can trace there heritage back to UO.
  WTF happened? UO has fallen by the way side and origins is not making new ones or putting out expansions. 
 I say this game needs help badly and and origins need to wise up to a rich, wonderful world that 
 is one the back burner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcbarrett1983
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I was introduced to Ultima Online back in the late 90's by a good friend of mine. We used to play 
 it on the school computer during lunch. I remember playing his character in a realm where there 
 wasnt a division of PVP and non PVP. There was no Trammel and Felluca. And everyone and their 
 mother didnt own a house. I remember when the housing market used to be active. Now its like 
 if you want a house, go buy one off an online auction.
  
  When I was finally able to have an account of my own, I created a character of every profession 
 trying to find something that fit my style of game play. I eventually chose a mage and was able 
 to get him to master, with the help of my friend of course. Since my friend had been playing since 
 its release, he knew all the places to go to level fast. After the years, I had left UO behind 
 because of work and other reasons. Ive come back to it a few times just to see how things have 
 changed. To my disappointment, theyve changed for the worse. Its not so bad as to say the game 
 is horrible, but I just remember have a sense of adventure playing it. Now it seems like all everyone 
 does is sit in front of the banks. Sure there are updates and expansions that give you new characters, 
 items and lands to discover but that can only go so far. Once the 3D version came out, I thought 
 it would make the game a whole lot better. I was wrong. The game play was way too choppy. When 
 you made your character run, it felt like he was going in slow motion.
  
  I logged on to Game Spot the other day and noticed UO was coming out with another expansion. The 
 first thing that came to my mind was oh great, more crap. After looking at the screen shots and 
 reading the short summary of things to come, I started to think maybe its not the end of Ultima 
 Online. My friend and I are even thinking about starting up again. I just hope its not a big disappointment 
 when they finally release it.
  
  If youve never played UO before, I defiantly recommend it. And for gods sake, dont buy your 
 items off eBay. It doesnt make the game any better having 10 million in the bank and a house on 
 some land if you dont know the first thing about playing. Join a guild, make some friends and 
 most importantly enjoy the game. Itll probably give you some good memories to look back on years 
 down the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan223
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  If you were there when Ultima Online first came out then you'd know how truly great a game it was. 
 This wasn't quite the first MMORPG but it was the most valuable asset to the MMORPG genre, it's 
 what really brought the genre to life. Everquest was released after Ultima Online and it did have 
 better graphics was the gameplay wasn nowhere near par with Ultima's. This game introduced the 
 PVP element and was one of the most hardcore games out. No game released after has came even close 
 to incorporating pvp on the level Ultima Online was... it's almost pathetic. I'm not here to say 
 that all of the modern MMORPGS (WoW, EQ2, DAoC, etc.) are horrible. As a matter of fact my favorite 
 current MMORPG is WoW. However, these games could be so much better if they didn't cater to the 
 players who are prey for the Player Killers (PK's) . WoW added PvP but on a minimal level. I'm still 
 awaiting a game that follows AD&amp; D to the core, until then no real MMORPG will come out.
  
  It's understandable that these companies invest a lot of money on servers and whatnot to keep 
 their servers running. They're afraid of risking implementing features that certain players wouldn't 
 agree to. It'd be better for the Roleplaying community as a whole if something was released that 
 was a lot more strict. When you get a game over you're supposed to feel the consequences... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_hellscream
Rating: 3.1
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Give it up EA the game was butchered years ago when you made Trammel, Felucca was better off that 
 way, more pvp and less dumb people whining and playing the game. The classes are so unbalanced 
 and the game looks like **** in the 3d mode or its 2d mode, make a new one for crying out loud 
 like you were going to. When you first start the game its pretty cool, but looks are deceiving... seriously 
 all you need is a pickaxe and necromancy and you can own ppl, disarm and double strike with the 
 pickaxe and ppl run, then just blast them with pain spike and their dead, or a tamer/mage... the 
 game is a joke now it us to be kick ass but they're just trying to get $ now, let it die fools. 
 The new classes are so fkn jipped, the Ninjas are to bad ass and the Samurai suck some thing awful, 
 you should have stopped with Age of Shadows (Necromancers and Paladins) , I played this game from 
 before Trammel (Nooby land, no pvp) up until the new ninja/samurai crap, the games crap its boring 
 now and they wont let it die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malaloko
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This IS the best MMORPG for all the time...
  
  I remember I first saw it on a games magazine some years before it came to life and waited many 
 years so I could play it..
  
  Unfortunatelly I couldnt afford to play on official server, but I played it on emulators (such 
 as POL, SPHERE and RunUO) and I couldnt believe that they made a PERFECT game like this...
  
  I spent YEARS (not hours) playing this game and its sooooo adictive that you forget about everything 
 else and you want only to play, and play a little more...
  
  You have many skills you can train that its even hard to choose the one you want to be a GrandMaster...
 
  
  The outfit, I never saw a game like that, you can make any clothes you wear and it can be REALLY 
 personalized, I can ensure you will never see anyone with a clothe like you (unless your guild 
 mates use some kind of uniform :P ) ...
  
  The big deal on Ultima Online is that you can do ANYTHING you want, If a GM (GameMaster) appear 
 you could even attack him (lol) . You can steal other ppls house, you can kill anyone you want, 
 you can run from the guards.
  
  There are many dungeons for you to explore with your friends to find good items and also the world 
 is REALLLY huge...
  
  Of course Im talking about the first version of Ultima Online, because the new ones are not good 
 like the old ones were, they changed so much things to help newcomers that the experienced players 
 lost some of the joy of playing the game..
  
  But my conclusion is:
  THIS IS THE BEST MMORPG IN THE WORLD!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDeragusX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  When I was 6 years old, this game came into the markets. My dad ran and got a copy, and I've been 
 addicted to this game ever since. When this game came out, the graphics were the best 2d animations 
 I had ever seen around that time. I simply LOVED it. My dad and I played this game for hours upon 
 hours. In the first four years of playing this game, we had sold 6 accounts for $200+ each. Then, 
 just as we were about to quit, we found... UO Gateway. UO Gateway are player-ran shards, that you 
 play for FREE! That's right... FREE! (UOgateway. com)
  
  I have played UO for 11 years now, and I still love it. It will always be in my top 5, even when 
 I die.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoak1973
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  It has stood the test of time and set the way for all that follow. The only thing we can hope for 
 now is for EA to find it in their hearts to make the much awaited sequel to bring the game up to 
 date. The charecter creation and customazation through seperate skils is the best part. The world 
 is emersive. Don't let the graphics fool you. If you can get past them you will be hooked like 
 the countless masses that have played for years. I have played since day one and have never looked 
 back and still to this day find new things to do. I only wish more new MMO's would follow this 
 bluprint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caldwerld
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Greatest MMO out and probably will be forever. It was the first MMO with graphics. AND IT IS FREE. 
 Go to www. uogateway. com. You run around killing things and getting their loot. The things to kill 
 goes on and on: Sheep, ratmen, lizardmen, goats, birds, snakes, dragons, daemons, liches, skeletons, 
 etc. You can either go around being a smithy and making weapons and armor and selling it to people. 
 You can be a PK (Player Killer) don't enter the town though you will be killed on the spot. A tailor 
 to make clothes, fisherman, cook, lumberjack, archer, mage, fighter, tamer, and many more. I recommend 
 you at least try it out. There is much to learn in the world of Ultima Online, and you may just 
 be the person to learn it all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  This game, more than any I have ever played, ate up more hours than anything I can remember. I 
 spent hours every day playing this, over nearly 4 years and in it's time, it was the best MMO around.
 
  
  The main reason, for me anyway, was the excellent PvP that had been integrated into the game. I 
 remember the first time that another player tried to kill me, my heart was beating so fast as I 
 tried to get away, running this way and that, trying to slow them down so that I could get back 
 to the safety of the town. When they struck that first killing blow, my heart sank and I just had 
 to sit back and take it all in, it was incredible that a computer game had made me feel like this.
 
  
  The funny thing about this game is that graphically, it did not look the best (there were better 
 games out around that time that looked a thousand times more impressive) and the sound was OK and 
 did the job but it was nothing to write home about.
  
  It was the gameplay. The way that you had to work hard with your character, training him up and 
 sending him out to gather resources and kill monsters. Each point that you gained made you feel 
 elated and inspired you to carry on to the next one. It really was great.
  
  The community helped as well, I made a lot of friends in the game, some of which still play now 
 co-incidentally. This was also the first online game that allowed you to buy houses and castles 
 and I remember the pride I felt when I finally had enough money to buy a land deed and set up home 
 for the first time.
  
  But for me anyway, now it has passed it's sell by date and has been surpassed by a lot of other, 
 better looking and sounding games like EQ2 and WoW.
  
  The community is still strong though and expansions are still being released for it so if you fancy 
 a little trip back into MMO history then it may still hold some interest for you. You never know 
 until you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaar_Asri
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Ultima for a very long time ever since Renaissance came out. I went from loving 
 it to completely loathing it, to saying its ok for a rainy day. The game took a major hit when 
 they released patch 16 I was there for it. hacked me off so bad i quit for a year. It was kind 
 of like star wars galaxies NGE it had some good points, but mainly angered players. After that 
 the community split up. Most of the people that play are Die Hard Fanatics. Also a major problem 
 is the lack of direction in the game. The fun comes from the players, unfortuanly that also brings 
 problems. in the game. I hate being cornered at a bank listening to somebodys real life problems. 
 Furthermore the graphics still suffer. The 3-D version never has looked right, most everyone uses 
 the 2-D version which looks as if it was made for the Super Nintendo. The music and sound effects 
 have always been Cheezy. Before the Lord Blackthorns Revenge version the combat music could drive 
 you postal. It does have rare moments of fun, but you have to make that happen yourself.
  Another issue is that skill gains are still confusing. Nobody exactly knows when you gain. It is 
 different for every account. Basicly the game is outdated. It needs a major overhaul. However when 
 released it was the greatest game of its time, but that time has passed. I would recommend playing 
 WoW or Everquest if you are looking for a game like this. Ultima is just not up to what its cracked 
 up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodde
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Ultima Online is 9 years old now, making a review with todays standards is absurd.
  
  So let's travel back 9 years in time. Picture yourself pretty new to PC gaming, using a 56k dial 
 up modem and playing the first MMORPG of its kind (well pretty much) .
  
  Just the fact that you could walk around and chat with other individuals across the globe in a 
 persistent world was freaking awesome.
  
  Another great benefactor to the game was that back then people paid to use internet by the hour, 
 and usually limited their playing to just 2-3 hours a day. Yes "just", thats not that much when 
 it comes to being hooked on a MMORPG game. This and the fact that people in general were not that 
 bored with playing computer games made the game irresistable to anyong who fancies MMORPGS today.
 
  
  Well there's much to be said, but in my book UO was a 10 pointer back when it came and for a few 
 years to last after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredk
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is ridiculous. When i began playing, I could not beleave ignorant people were actually 
 paying for this crap. You are seriously wasting your money . I seen a kirin peck someone to death 
 . I seen tons of racial slur and nothing being done about it. EA does not take care of this game 
 at all . Did i mention the graphics were of a Atari 2600? People were running around talking crap 
 like little gaywads and casting generic spells at eachother. They would run in there little houses 
 and and hide and start crafting somthing that consisted of a megapixel ( I could not identify ,the 
 graphics were to bad) . This game is a joke. Please do a us a favor EA, Poor water on your servers 
 . You RIP-OFFS .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallaghan
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  A major disapoitment!!!! If u want a game dont play this!!! i mean it. A game must have at least a 
 funny variant or something to keep us busy and with fun. But this game is so terrible that i won't 
 give us even that. The graphcis are horrible and they could have done better with the new graphic 
 cards on the market. Even a guy without a graphic card could play this!!!! lol_about the gameplay 
 it's not better than the graphics but at least we can play something! Sound is somehow fixed into 
 the environment but it's of very bad taste ... Whatever the producers wanted to do with this game 
 it wasn't meant to play!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game rocked. Before the PKs came to town. OK I have to admit I am very old school with 
 this game. When I played this there was only one world and PKs everywhere. You could not escape 
 them! There was no place anywhere to plant a house and the world was so over populated you could 
 not go anywhere without running through someone. lag. lag. dead! You know what I mean! Thank god 
 Everquest came along.
  I picked this back up a while back, but not live. I visited a couple player ran shards and had 
 a really good time. There have been tons of improvements (by the players???) and it was a lot of 
 fun. I spent quite a bit of time running around killing critters. This game is worth picking back 
 up and playing again if you have not in a while, try some player shards out. Enjoy.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
