-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultimate Spider-Man
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/ultimatespiderman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Colorful, crisp cel-shading gives the game an awesome comic book-inspired look.
 Some excellent boss fights.
 Sharp voice acting and writing.
 Good story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too many lame race and chase missions.
 Too few story missions--remaining side missions aren't good enough to warrant much replay value.
 Camera can sometimes make combat a pain.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 30, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 967 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Beenox
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Sep 22, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Serious webheads will get something positive out of Ultimate Spider-Man, but they should do so with 
 one of the console versions, as the PC version of the game isn't the ideal one. 

  Superhero games, like superhero movies, are steadily starting to improve. Generally, it helps to 
 base a game more within a hero's given comic-book universe, as opposed to directly upon any of 
 the aforementioned films. Compare the recent Incredible Hulk and X-Men games based within the comic 
 universe with the Fantastic Four and Batman games based on films; the difference ought to be clear. 
 One franchise that's been stuck somewhere in the middle over its last couple of installments is 
 the Spider-Man series. The first two games were based directly on the megapopular films, and while 
 neither could be called bad, they weren't anything to write home about. Ultimate Spider-Man is 
 developer Treyarch's third attempt to make a quality Spidey game, by way of developer Beenox, which 
 has ported the console game to the PC. Based on the eponymous comic-book series, Ultimate Spider-Man 
 is certainly an improvement, adding a great sense of comic-book style to the package and getting 
 a whole host of familiar Marvel characters into the mix. Unfortunately, it also suffers from some 
 of the familiarly flawed gameplay of its predecessors, and it's a disappointingly short ride.  
 

          Spider-Man, Spider-Man, does whatever a spider can!     

  The Ultimate Spider-Man comic series is a reenvisioning of the early days of Spider-Man lore. Here, 
 Peter Parker is a scrawny 15-year-old kid, granted his powers via the infamous radioactive spider 
 on a class field trip. The plot of the Ultimate Spider-Man game doesn't spend much time getting 
 you up to speed with this, instead taking just a brief minute or two to quickly show Parker's transformation 
 into the titular hero, as well as a bit of backstory about how he and his childhood friend, Eddie 
 Brock, stumble upon a mysterious bioengineered suit that both their fathers had apparently been 
 working on before their deaths. As any comic aficionado might assume, this is the suit that turns 
 Brock into the gruesome, tongue-lashing beast known as Venom, and that's right where things pick 
 up. The plot itself is something of a disjointed affair; it's really more of an excuse to squeeze 
 as many relevant Marvel characters as possible into the package. But it does a good job of achieving 
 this goal by including plenty of friendly faces such as Wolverine and the Human Torch, as well 
 as modern versions of big-time villains such as Carnage, Electro, Green Goblin, and, of course, 
 Venom himself.  

  The story ends up a winner because it sticks so closely to its comic-book roots -- it's just too 
 bad that there isn't very much of it. To get through the entire story mode, it shouldn't take you 
 more than a half-dozen hours at most, and only about five hours of that actually make up story 
 missions. Ultimate Spider-Man retains the sort of open-ended nature of Spider-Man 2, letting you 
 roam around the city of New York, swinging your way to assorted side missions scattered about the 
 town. Most of these are basic checkpoint races, combat missions in which your entire goal is to 
 beat up a bunch of gang members, and city events, which simply consist of quick-rescue operations 
 and breakups of bank robberies or what have you. These missions aren't optional, though. They appear 
 that way at first, but you'll soon find that you have to beat them to unlock more story missions -- and 
 in some cases, you only unlock a cutscene and then have to go back out into the city to beat more 
 side missions to move on again. Essentially, it feels like the developers quickly ran out of story 
 and hastily decided to make these missions required play to pad out the length.  

  This padding really does kill some of the fun, because the races, of which you'll be doing the 
 most of early on in the game, just aren't much fun. The combat tours and city events make more 
 sense, since Spidey's known for swooping down, whooping some ass, and then swinging away into the 
 sunset. But these missions are far too repetitive, requiring you to perform many of the same tasks 
 over and over again until you just don't want to do them anymore. This is doubly unfortunate, because 
 that's pretty much all there is to do once the story mode is over with.  

  Fortunately, the story missions are a lot better, especially the boss fights against the main villains, 
 as well as the several sections where you play as Venom. These fights are often challenging and 
 satisfying, though the final confrontation is a bit anticlimactic. The game also leans a little 
 too heavily on chase missions, where your goal is, again, to race around the city, but with the 
 twist of having to stay within a specific distance of the opposing character. It's an OK idea in 
 theory, but there are too many of these sequences, and it can sometimes be tough to get a good 
 bearing on where your target is, since there's no icon or anything denoting where the target is -- all 
 you get is a sometimes unhelpful arrow to point you in the right direction. Were there more of 
 the big, epic fights against the villains and more variety to the day-to-day rescues and crime 
 stoppage, Ultimate Spider-Man would be a lot better off.  

  For those who played either of the last couple of Spider-Man games, Ultimate Spider-Man features 
 a couple of key gameplay differences. For one, the combat is less clunky. Spider-Man attacks with 
 simple, effective combos that don't require much more than a few bits of button mashing. You can 
 still combine Spidey's webs into the fray, but there's less you can actually do with that. Venom's 
 attacks are similarly simple, though they rely more on whips of his tendrils and powerful killing 
 moves, unlike Spider-Man's quick and nimble maneuvers. Venom also has to deal with an ever-draining 
 life force, requiring him to occasionally feed on enemies and helpless passersby. It's pretty brutal, 
 since you can basically feed on and kill any man, woman, or child that happens into the brute's 
 path. It also makes the Venom sequences a lot easier, since most areas give him plenty of people 
 with which to quench his thirst. Spider-Man's portions often lack health power-ups, which makes 
 them a touch more challenging -- and sometimes, frustrating.  

  The methodology for getting around New York has also been simplified, though with mixed results. 
 Spider-Man's webswinging mechanic requires a lot less effort on your part this time around. You 
 can't shoot multiple webs anymore; you're effectively limited to single, standard-swinging webs, 
 as well as a web-boost shot that lets you leap great distances. Venom throws all that webswinging 
 by the wayside, opting to just leap hundreds of feet in the air and occasionally use his tendrils 
 to cover distances quickly, not unlike in the web boost. While all of that's well and good, jumping 
 and swinging around the city just isn't as interesting as it's been in the past. The simplification 
 of the webswing mechanic also seems to have slowed the overall feel of your swinging, and it's 
 just not all that thrilling to swing around the city -- which is pretty much the opposite of the 
 case in the past games. Admittedly, it is neat to jump around with Venom, since he does handle 
 differently from Spidey, but there aren't many Venom sequences in the game. Incidentally, regardless 
 of which character you're playing as, you're going to want to use a good dual analog gamepad for 
 this game. Keyboard and mouse controls are too unwieldy for both combat and webswinging.  

  The city of New York has also been scaled down here, but that's not a detriment. Though there's 
 less area to cover, the areas themselves look a lot better. That's thanks mostly to the game's 
 entirely new art style, which uses a unique cel-shading concept to give every character and set 
 piece a brightly colorful and sharp look. The character models are so sharp looking, in fact, that 
 they look like they've leapt off a comic page -- though perhaps that's because the game goes to painstaking 
 lengths to try to emulate the comic book's style, creating multiple cutscenes that frame their 
 shots within the boxes of a comic. All this gives Ultimate Spider-Man a wonderful sense of style 
 that the previous two games lacked. Admittedly, there are still a few problems. The camera can 
 get very uppity, especially in tight spaces, and the PC version suffers from a bad frame rate in 
 a lot of spots, especially when you're webswinging. Turning down effects makes no difference, nor 
 does the resolution. Parts of this game simply don't run well.  

          Though the game has its shortcomings, you can't deny that it nails that comic-book style. 
     

  Ultimate Spider-Man features no celebrity voice acting, but that's not a problem. The actors who 
 portray the characters do excellent work lending realistic and sometimes appropriately goofy spins 
 to these modernized versions of classic characters. The dialogue is mostly quite sharp, getting 
 Spidey's snarky tone down pat and dealing out a fair number of amusing one-liners. The only failing 
 of the dialogue is that in-game, Spider-Man's wisecracks often repeat ad nauseam and get old quickly. 
 The rest of the audio features plenty of thwacks, whaps, and biffs, as well as a fairly subdued 
 soundtrack that seems to come in and out at random intervals -- not because it's broken or anything, 
 but it just isn't quite as well edited as it could have been.  

  Ultimate Spider-Man is a better game than Treyarch's previous efforts, but it still relies too 
 heavily on the novelty of swinging around the city and beating up the same bad guys over and over 
 again -- a novelty made less so by the simplification of both mechanics. It's especially distressing 
 that the developer was clearly able to put together a solid story and some great boss fights, yet 
 was unable to cull together enough of them to make a great game. Serious webheads will get something 
 positive out of Ultimate Spider-Man, but they should do so with one of the console versions, as 
 the PC version of the game isn't the ideal one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mousey97
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  A LONG TIME AGO, IN A GALAXY FAR AWAY
  
  Almost 2 years ago, a friend came to me with this game. Then, I had a freaking PC configuration 
 (ATI Radeon 9200 series, Intel Pentium 4 3,00 GHz and so on) . The game didn't wanted to start :) ) .
 
  
  NOW
  
  Last week I bought a new PC (Intel QUAD (tm) Q6600, ATI HD4870X2 and so on) . I downloaded the game 
 (TORRENTS FTW) . I have installed it, and the game was exceeding my expectations. Last Spider-Man 
 games that I played were Spider-Man the movie, and Spider-Man 2... the game was so cool, in fact 
 I liked it because when you swing with web, Spiderman is shooting web at buildings, pillows, NOT 
 at skies 8-|, the only thing that was worse, the combat system :D... now, everywhere I see the 
 game (at every friend) , I NEED TO PLAY THAT GAME... I'M ADDICTED!!!
  
  well... that's all folks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marined
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing 
  it's based on the ultimatespiderman comic book and has many characters desingned exactly like them.
 
  graphics - beautiful cell shaded the game looks superb in day even better in night and evening.
 
  you get to play in the evening only at the end though.
  combat -
  is brilliant you can perform such awesome combos with web zipping and jumping and switching between 
 buttons
  you can play as venom and spiderman but you can free roam as venom after completing the game.
 
  difficulty -
  the story mode was just right but the venom races and combat tours offer a substantial amount of 
 difficulty.
  the bad thing:
  the story mode is toooooooooooooo short
  after completing a few races ,city events which involves saving , helping and rescuing people you 
 get a story mission. there should have been 6 more story mission then the game would have got a 
 9.5
  sound:
  perfect excellent music.
  the audio everything.
  if it would have had a few more characters and would have been lenghtier then it would have perfect.
 
  i recommend it to everyone it runs smoothly on my fx5200 i play usually at 800*600 resolution 
 though.
  for comic fans like me a must
  for other fans also a must
  i haven't played on the consoles maybe it would have been easier.
  great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Spiderman, after all those Spiderman games brought out on the PC I didn't expect much 
 of it, but it turned out to be the best Spiderman game in series.
  
  First thing to say, you have to play this game with an USB game pad for the PC. You will enjoy 
 this game to the fullest this way.
  
  In the beginning there are some things to be noticed; the 3D graphics are really special. If someone 
 would not know you where playing a game, they would think you are watching a Spiderman cartoon 
 on your PC, that is, while you are playing! The freedom in the game is also very good. You can 
 web swing from one building to another, wall crawl, climb your way up in your web, special web 
 swing for above buildings and so on.
  
  Never before did a Spiderman game manage to make web swinging so beautiful. You can web swing for 
 ours above the city, in the city or wherever you want, though, with some area blocks where you 
 can enter after passing a mission
  
  You got a map where you can find different type of missions. There are race missions and fight 
 missions where you have to take out several gang members or other bad guys. The game story mission 
 is marked as a green dot. You can do these game missions without doing the race and fight missions. 
 As you may know including playability as Venom.
  
  One thing bothered me; They used a whole new cartoon storyline for this Spiderman game. (I think 
 it's the storyline from the new Spiderman Cartoon on TV. For Spidey fans out there who know the 
 original comic story from day 1, they will be surprised and not happy.
  
  For example:
  Peter Parker (Spiderman's real name) is a 15 year old skinny boy. They claim Peter Parker and Eddy 
 Brock where old high school friends. In comic Peter Parker met Eddy Brock ass a college at the 
 Daily Bugle. Also they claim the blue suit Eddy Brock is wearing (who is Venom) was a former experiment 
 of the father's of Peter and Eddy who worked on it together. Every known Spiderman comic book reader 
 would know this is the most ridicules thing ever.
  
  The real story goes like this:
  The blue suit came from out of space. Spiderman took it with him when he was there with several 
 other superheroes, who where brought there by the almighty Beyonder. (A story which you can read 
 in Marvel Comics Secret Wars.) The blue suit reacted to Peter Parker's thoughts. He has wore it 
 for quit some time. Later on, Reed Richards from the Fantastic Four told Spiderman that the suit 
 was alive and trying to become one with him. Eventually, it became Venom with Eddy Brock.
  
  There are much more things that are different from the original storyline. But the game play 
 let's you accept that for a bit.
  
  Let's call it like this, with this Spiderman game, they have the right tools to make an outstanding 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Spider-Man was made by the comic with the same name. It has an outstanding gameplay, good 
 story, and a great soundtrack, but the bad camera and the boring race missions can blow the party.
 
  
  Basically, you start the game with Spider-Man fighting Venom, then you are left in town and given 
 some additional missions that are out of the storyline so they can keep you some time. Everytime 
 you complete a mission, you are given some of these tasks. They can be different, starting from 
 city events, to races or kicking some gangs arround the city. They are fine, but there are way 
 too many.
  
  The gameplay looks simple, easy to use, you can swing like three buildings with your web in less 
 then three seconds exept for the camera, which is very bad, especially when you are fighting. You 
 can't decide who you attack, and that makes it not good.
  
  The technical graphics are fine, I mean, when the game's visual design is comic based there isn't 
 much work for the graphics and any other special effects.
  
  Exept Spider-Man you can play with other characters that have their own special powers, but I wouldn't 
 tell with who exactly right now, to prevent from any possible spoilers.
  
  Ultimate Spider-Man has a great music, fast and dynamic. You can just make some moves with your 
 hero arround time and listen to the rhytm of the music without getting bored.
  
  So, as an overview, I would say that Ultimate Spider-Man is a fine game that can offer you like 
 20 hours of fun gameplay, but after that it will become pretty boring, especially because of those 
 thousands races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkspineSonic0
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Spider-Man is a game all gamers will like, especially if they read the comic book of the 
 same name. It is based on it and you can become both the famous Spider-Man, and a new villain, 
 Eddie Brock a. k. a, Venom. In this game, swinging and web-zipping are really fun because of the 
 fact that Spider-Mans webs stick on to building, lamps etc. Anyone would love playing again, and 
 again, and again.
  
  In this story, you'll be playing as the typical, your friendly neighborhood Spider-Man. After learning 
 the basics, you'll start fight real villains and goons. After learning the basic Spider-man controls, 
 you'll go to the Daily Bugle, and then learn Venom's moves. after that, the real story starts, 
 in which you fight people like Electro, Rhino etc. After that, things start going wrong.
  
  Spider-Man is being, well... Spider-man, until he reunites with his friend Eddie Brock. He shows 
 a chemical that was supposed to be a cure for cancer, but the one who owns it wants to make money 
 with it. After Spider-Man takes the suit on and off, Eddie takes it and it merges with the rage 
 that he had when figuring out that Spidey is Peter and that he took the suit. After being beaten 
 by th web-slinger twice, Eddie is captured, and taken to a facility that is testing the suit. He 
 obeys the boss of the facility until he has to capture Spider-Man, which he wants to do alone, 
 but kill him.
  
  Ultimate Spider-Man is a great game that you'll want to play over and over again for some reason. 
 Swinging and jumping in rooftops is really fun. You also meet with other characters like Wolverine, 
 and The Human Torch. Racing and fighting are fun, and though they're just side missions, you must 
 finish them to continue with the story.
  
  Another good thing about the game, are the city events. In city events you have to fight bad guys, 
 save people, or both. So when your just swinging about as Spider-Man, you never have nothing to 
 do. Plus, you can race against time, or with the Human Torch.
  
  Ultimate Spider-Man is amazing, and fun for people that don't even know Spider-Man (I doubt there 
 are any) and takes place where the comic book left off, making it even better. Though the unlockables 
 stink, the story and side missions are the things you really want to do, because when the story 
 mode is finished, and all the side missions are done, you get a surprise that I won't spoil, but 
 someone else will. The camera always stays behind you when you move, and there are plenty of webbing, and 
 grabbing combos, along with the feeding move, with Venoms uses to regain health that he loses by 
 getting hurt, and not feeding for too long.
  
  This game is the only Spider-Man game in which you can become a different character. It's one of 
 the best Spidey games ever, it's based on the comic book, and it looks like a comic book. So this 
 game I really recommend getting. It takes around 10 to 20 hours to finish and you'll love playing 
 the story over and over. Ultimate Spider-Man is one of the best Spider-Man game to-date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liffaman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  first...
  i really loved the design and the look of this game
  i know there's probably others that wont think so
  but the shading and character design is great
 
  spider-man looks young comcsi and cool
  all the character had there own cool comics look
  and the cinematics of the game are great and funny they really hold me on to this game
  because 
 eventually the game have a quit bad fighting system
  but still i think one of the better fighting system for the genre.
  and of course there is nothing 
 more fun then jumping with venom from one point in the city to other... lots of power...
  the editing and directing of this game is great
  and this is why this game worth the playing..
 
  its just fun!!.. fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  first thing's first, ever since I played spider man 2 on my game cube i thought to myself- this 
 is how all superhero game should be, the free roaming was a reinvention of the superhero videogame 
 genre the gta like gameplay (missions, side-quests and so...) was just what this game needed and 
 that's why it was so popular and so much fun and when ultimate spider man was announced i was so 
 excited, when it finally came out i thought it was a pretty solid game it had all of the things 
 that made spider man 2 fun it had free roaming , random crimes , races and the wonderful addition 
 of the combat tours and the comic like style of the graphics only made the deal even sweater the 
 only reason that this game was disappointing compared to SM2 was actually two things: first, the 
 unlockables are so lame i mean, common different skins and venom? at least give the different skins 
 different abilities or more interesting skins like the black cat or something and about venom they 
 should'v made it so that on your first play through the game you only play as spiderman and then 
 when you get venom you play through venom's side of the story and second, this game was so short 
 it was the shortest game i have ever played and because of the last fact it did'nt have any replay 
 value and by the way, activision, tokens are lame so find another way to keep us playing so to 
 sum up, worth playing but rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  I love Spider-Man, and to be able to play him in a game is like a dream come true. The last Spider-Man 
 game I finished was the Spider-Man Movie game and I must admit that I liked this one more.
  
  I love the fact that you can rome through Manhattan without loading screens. It gives you 100% 
 freedom. It's great.
  
  The Story line is questionable but it does not take away from the really involving game. The story 
 is a little short though and I would have liked a few more villains to fight against.
  
  The graphics is really well done. If gives you that Comic book feel but still manages to be 3D.
 
  
  This game was almost worth the money I paid for it and if you are a Spider-man fan like myself, 
 you really should have this in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACURadamanthys
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok.
  
  At the beginning you feel catchy with the history, but at the end you suddenly realize that something 
 is lost and don&acute; t fit very well.
  
  The graphics are good indeed. Cell shading put you in the comic version of NY.
  
  Gameplay 
 is a little dull an sometimes repetitive, but who cares its a spiderman game. Besides, playing 
 with Venom was an innovative experience.
  
  After you beat it (takes around 8-9 hours) , the only thing that you can do is make all races and 
 other side missions, that aren&acute; t very interesting IMO.
  
  The poorest aspect of the game is the sound. The music is horrible and the sounds effects sometimes 
 feel more like horrible noises. Also if you have 5.1 surround sound (or something different to 
 2.1) , every time you play the game it puts your speaker settings to 2.1 with no reason.
  
  Overall this is a good game that unfortunately could&acute; t explode all of its potential 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game the first thing i noticed whas its graphics. I really liked that 
 because no other 3D game that I've played had the graphics like in a comic book. So in that case 
 it was different than your usual PC games. The free roam in Ultimate Spider-Man is enhanced amd 
 the web slinging is also tweaked out than the PC versions of the older games in the Spider-Man 
 series. After a few time I observed that the story line also was affected from your usual Spider-Man. 
 This game has the story line from the Ultimate Spider-Man comic book series, not the story from 
 the usual Spider-Man or from the movies. Thus it became interesting because I wanted to find out 
 how it will end (because until then I didn't hear of these special Ultimate Spider-man comics and 
 didn't know the ending) . In conclusion, if you are a great fan of this super hero you might want 
 to check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  I became interested in Ultimate Spider-man after I played the game Spider-man. And it, although 
 it wasn't a piece of **** in the dump, honestly sucked. No offence, of course. The graphics of 
 it were okay... but the actions were too clunky. And unrealistic. What's the web attaching to? 
 Spider-man : The Movie was ok. The graphics rock, but it's missing some substance, here. Spider-man 
 2 on the PC... DON'T ASK.
  What had happened to my beloved Spidey universe?
  Activision, all is forgiven. Welcome home. Ultimate Spider-man is an amazing game. Everything from 
 the free-roam technique to the realism of the web-slinging totally makes sense. The fighting is 
 fun, and when I began playing, I was totally blown away. Fighting Venom first level wasn't what 
 I had had in mind. But, then, when I actually used Venom, my little brother and I were shocked 
 out of our minds. Venom was sooooooo fun to use! His eating was cool, his tendril lashes rock, 
 and his looks... Comic-bookish. If you know what I mean.
  Some problems are that it can get sort of repetitive, and that some boss battles are extremely 
 annoying. Particularly the chase with Beetle in the first time. I hated chasing him everywhere. 
 The boss battles get repetitive when , say, you chase a guy through the streets. Jump, run, chase, 
 tendril lash, web-zip, web-swing, etc.
  This game also had humorous touches. I almost cried of laughter when Wolverine, had his face bashed 
 into the floor by Venom.
  Overall, this game is so much better than I had ever expected. I expected another not so good comic-book 
 based game. Yeah, right. Buy. It. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnakeSS2G
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Okay I love spiderman games and frankly I have not found one more enjoyable than this! First of 
 the Storyline of this game follows directly whats in the comics!
  It is a good story it all fits together nicely and is really fun to see so many villians!
  
 
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is like all Spiderman games a very fun web slinging abilitys and and button mashing 
 combat.
  This is a very fund game to play you can do so many different things on it that it should never 
 get old. You can find all the tokens to unlock concept art, playable costumes, and so much more. 
 Graphics this really goes for the comic book style and it looks amazing the videos are produced 
 ingame so it makes the game very smooth at every second your playing! No HDR sadly and the video 
 options are limited to draw distance and resolution but if you mess with your graphic card settings 
 in your taskbar you can make it look really nice!
  
  Sound
  Spiderman unfortunately sounds like he hasn't reached pubirty yet and talks quite often with sarcastic 
 snickers or elementary jokes.
  The music is very kiddish to me and doesn't do justice to spiderman. But a few tracks are really 
 nice and during boss fights make the game more epic than any movie could.
  
  Overview
  Great game for Spiderman fans web slinging is so fun, controls and customizable which make this 
 game so easy to use even a little kid 4 years could play it easily. Broad exciting storyline. Many 
 unlockables tokens to find which makes you play for hours after you beat the game!
  Average sound with respectable graphics makes this game a must buy for die hard and normal spidey 
 fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Spider-Man is similar to those other spider-man games created by Treyarch and Activision. 
 It lacks the sense of real combat, all we do in the game is button mashing combining punches and 
 kicks - there is very little webbing action in this game (apart from swinging all over the city) . 
 I am a great Spider-Man fan, and this game is very fun to play with - but sadly it will only take 
 you 4-5 hours to complete which pulls down the value of the game.
  
  You can play with both spider-man and venom, while spider-man has certain city events to complete 
 eg. bank robbery, saving people from falling, taking them hospitals etc. Venom on the other hand 
 can go on a rampage and eat people. Unfortunately the game switches back and forth automatically 
 and you can manually switch heroes after you finish the game which isn't that long. Overall, this 
 game has great cartoony graphics and a nice feel to the Ultimate Spider-Man world but the story 
 is too shallow and short for us to really get sucked into the game. Next time Treyarch should make 
 Spider-Man games a wee bit longer - more combat and quests. A must buy for Spider-Man fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  VENOM ROCKS , i have been waiting fot a spider-man game that you can play with venom and i have 
 to say - They have made VENOM exactly the way i like it . He is strong , he can leap a great distances 
 , scary face , long tongue and can eat people , Man I love this game , now about spider-man it's 
 not bad too , but no one can match Venom , and I like another character too - Spider-man combined 
 with the suit - Carnage - the another creature that i like , it's made nice , anyway it's a very 
 interesting game and there are many evil characters , and the most important - Webs that arn't 
 disappearing , I got to say the game is nice , and i can't wait for spider-man 3 the game , I hope 
 Venom will be there too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockey15LSW
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME RULES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This is pretty much my favorite game ever. That's what you get when 
 you get to eat people. Literally!!! You get to play as Spider-man and venom. You eat people with Venom. Peter 
 Parker is trying to stop Venom from destroying the whole city. This game is based on the comic book 
 Ultimate Spider-man. So don't flip out when Peter parker looks weird. You get to run around in a 
 completely 3-D New york city. Spider-man has really done it this time. Just remember, you eat people!!!! Venom 
 can't web sling but he can leap like heck. Web slinging is not like Spider-man the movie. You have 
 shoot a line, then let go and shoot another. Awesome. Remember, Eat people!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gemi_hk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  At last, A free Roaming Spider-man
  But not quite what I imagined
  Missions end, the game is short, not realy open ended, if there was a way to keep missons generated 
 more often, more options to deal with, PLAY WITH THE REAL PERSON ( as in its everyday activities) 
 , not just the super hero
  And wolverine, why did he appeare just once, I finished the main story but I didnt complete all 
 the city requirments, May be the character is unlocked after that, but still not enough,
  
  I think there is a need for more city roaming options, more crimes, more things to deal with,
 
  
  Gameplay was wonderfull
  Comic like Graphics are the best, Sound is ok, CANT WAIT FOR A MORE REFINED IDEA !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played any of the Spiderman games then you will probaly know what to expect from 
 this game. You play as Peter Parker, a journalist that was accidently bit by a spider that is infected 
 with something that gave Peter Parker the super powers to become spiderman. The story basiclly 
 takes on the rivalry of Spiderman (Peter Parker) and Venom. You can play both of these characters 
 and everytime you play them and every time you play them it just get better and better. Althought 
 that, I had some issues that I think that really interupted the gameplay and the story. First, 
 the missions. You get some great story missions which most of the times are boss fights and walking 
 around and killing people but the problem is the fact that there aren't many story misssions. Instead, 
 you get some minigames to do like running to point A to point B as fast as you can or going to 
 the green points on the map and kill the enemies that are in the area which is really disappointed 
 because the minigames are just crap because they aren't providing anything for the game but the 
 story missions are really fun and challenging for most part. The second issue I had with the game 
 is the challenging part of the story missions which is really really hard. For example: there is 
 this part when you are fighting Rihano and in the first part he is trying to pick up a ball and 
 throw it into a living area. If he succeeds, the mission is over. So you basiclly don't have a 
 clue of what you are doing. I only found out after checking in the site and realizing that you 
 need to jump on his back and punch him. The last issue I had with the gameplay is the camera angles 
 and swinging in the town. The camera angles in the city are absolutely perfect but in the boss 
 fights, it sometimes gets to close to you so you don't know if he is shooting at you or something 
 like that. The swinging in the town part is also disappointing because you really don't have a 
 good controll of it so sometimes you go into a building or a tree. Anyway, the controlls are really 
 easy to use (besides the swinging) , the loading times are unnnoticable and the frame rate is really 
 smooth and nice.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are breath taking but also a little choppy. The way that the 
 story line is being read is absolutely beautiful because it is like a comic book with moving characters. 
 The characters are beautiful, the enviroments are big and full of details and the bosses are really 
 cool. The only problem I had with the game is that some of the buildings don't look as good as 
 they should but that isn't really blows off the gameplay so it doesn't really matter for you how 
 the buildings look, you just care about the gameplay itself.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game was really well done. The voiceovers are the actually the real characters 
 that are playing in the movie so that is really cool, the soundtracks really pump up the atmosphire 
 of an action game and the music is really well done. Value: You can play this game for hours and 
 hours trying to finish the game. The storymode is really long, the bosses and overall gameplay 
 are really challenging and if you like running around and beating up some guys in the minigames, 
 then you will play this game for a really long time. Even without the minigames, you still have 
 the challenge of the storymode and the challenge of running around the city and collect coins and 
 other stuff to unlock some pictures in the gallery.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall, Ultimate Spiderman ends up to be a fun action, comic style game that 
 features a long and challenging storymode and other features that will keep you satisfyed for a 
 really long time. The minigames are really great but with the amount of the unlockables, this game 
 can keep you busy for a long time. If you like action games that are challenging then go buy this 
 game but for beginners who are just starting this genre, you might want to find an easier game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Spider-Man is one the best comics around and when I heard the game was coming out, I was 
 pretty excited, especially the prospect of playing as Venom. When I got the game, I must say I 
 was both happy and yet a little disappointed. Anyway, first lets discuss story. It takes place 
 sometime after Ultimate Spider-Man #33 to 39 with Eddie Brock still missing after being destroyed 
 by electricity wearing the Venom Suit (the prologue recaps this) . However, Peter Parker is about 
 to get a big surprise, as Venom is back and he's gonna have to battle several baddies to before 
 going up against his former friend. The story is top-notch, Brian Michael Bendis is a good writer 
 and the graphics are sharp and colorful, making them nice to look at. They also have Mark Bagley's 
 trademark art style. Everything seems to have just popped up out of the comic book! Sound is also 
 great, especially the voice acting. Many of them are not well-known but they really nail their 
 characters' voices, especially with Peter Parker and his quips. Music is okay but it's mostly just 
 techno. The boss battles are what stand out, in my opinion. They're old school but they're handled 
 very well. As Spidey or Venom, you'll face classic baddies with modern looks such as Green Goblin, 
 Electro, Beetle, Rhino, and Carnage. You'll also see a variety of characters from the Ultimate 
 Marvel Universe pop up from time to time though I wish the Ultimates made an appearance. There 
 are some problems with the game however. The map seems a little too small, not big enough to show 
 off the scope of Manhattan and Queens, and the Venom sequences are mainly button mashing. Plus, 
 web-slinging took a lot of practice cause of the many buttons. You could just get a gamepad but 
 that kinda defeats the purpose of playing it on PC. The game is also very short, and you'll probably 
 plow though it in a little over 6 to 8 hours though I spent a lot of time with the game cause I 
 really enjoyed it. Overall, Spidey fans and comic fans should buy it but if you're not a fan or 
 you're a casual gamer, rent the console version first.
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Spiderman (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  These days it seems that all the super hero games that come out are actually good. Ultimate Spiderman 
 is a game based on the Ultimate Spiderman comic book. The art style and general look of the game 
 is totally different from any super hero game we have seen so far. With cel-shaded graphics and 
 a sense of freedom, you will have tons of fun on this title.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Just playing as Spiderman wasn't enough for gamers. So the developers decided it would be a great 
 idea to allow players to play as venom. Finally a Spiderman game that allows you to play as Venom. 
 This big, bad baddie is so much fun to play with and so easy to control as well. Playing as Venom 
 you are able to jump high, and do mainly all power attacks. As Spiderman however you are agile 
 and can do a lot of tricks with your web. 
  
  Upon installing the game, you wouldn't be even thinking about the story mode. I'm sure you will 
 be just swinging around New York for at least an hour. This adds so much fun to the game even after 
 completing and it never gets old or boring.
  
  When people hear about Spiderman swinging around a large open city they think the controls must 
 be hard and difficult to use. But it is the total opposite of that. The controls have been divided 
 into four main buttons. Kicks, punches, web sling and web attack and these are not to include movement 
 keys. The fact that controlling Spiderman and Venom is this easy to move about is just crazy.
 
  
  This game is incredible but I did find one problem with it. The story mode is short, and what made 
 me mad was how the game's developers tried to make it longer by adding in like a million collectables. 
 After finishing the story mode in a couple of days you will find yourself doing races and a ton 
 of city goals. I wished that they would have made it longer and put it some secret missions or 
 something. 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is amazing, totally amazing. They made it sound like how a comic book game should sound. 
 Besides the sound effects and voice acting, the in game music is really well done. It doesn't sound 
 lame or annoying (like most Spiderman soundtracks) but rather suites the look and fell of the game.
 
  
  Visuals
  
  Cel-shaded graphics never looked this good. At first I taught it was childish and they shouldn't 
 make a Spiderman game like this. But upon me actually playing the title I was amazed at how wonderfully 
 put together and rendered it was. The shadows and reflections are great; they really did a good 
 job in the visuals department.
  
  Overall
  
  If you like games with style and that originality, be sure to pick this one up immediately. Definite 
 purchase for those looking for games that really stepped it up above the average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorakin
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the best of the Spidey games, but its okay. You can web swing anywhere you want, 
 flip around, bounce of walls, etc .. .. I'm not a HUGE spider man fan, but he's alright. This game, 
 I think, had a lot going for it, but.... it didn't quite make it. In the beginning of the game, 
 all the features pop out at you, like "WOW I can go anywhere I want! Wow I can beat the **** out 
 of bad guys, WOW I can be VENOM!!!!" These are great, but after a while ... it gets boring. I mean, 
 the bad guys arent all that hard to beat, and there are races, did I mention the races? I hate 
 them. They just ruin the game. In the beginning I put up with them, but after about 4 levels of 
 straight stupid races, I looked at hte level design and said ' "This blows," because there were 
 lke more levels of races. So I hated the races. Also the camera sucked. Like literally SUCKED. 
 It's unbelievably, even stupidly, sensitive. To really able to have fun in this game, I had a controller 
 with a friggin ANALOG STICK. S That's how bad it was.
  
  Not everything about this about this game sucked though. Some Unique features are: going wherever 
 the hell you want, FEEDING with VENOM, VENOM himself................ and thats pretty much it ..... 
 oh yeah throwing cars with Venom and jumping 50 feet in the air with him. Meh, graphics are OK 
 too, though it gets glitchy a lot.
  
  SOOOOOOooooooo........
  The only GREAT things about this game are those listed above, but mostly Venom himself. His existence 
 does a lot to balance the faults in this game. To play as him and cruise around the city, though, 
 I put up with a lot of racing crap just to unlock him.
  
  One cool feature that would make this story AWESOME would be to be able to play as ALL THE FREAKIN 
 CHARACHTERS YOU COME ACROSS IN THE STORY. I would play this game over and over again if that were 
 possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_morel_123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Not the best spider-Man game but one of the best. In Ultimate Spider-Man you are able to play as 
 both Venom and Spider-Man. Even though playing with Venom is pretty funny, it kind of sucks that 
 his missions end right when your getting into them. Another thing that bothers is that the game 
 is short, more mission would have made this game a better one. But a good thing is the new story, 
 since it doesn't have to do with the movie, many Marvel characters make appearances, which is great 
 but then again more would have been better. So if your a fan and don't know if you should get the 
 game well you should since you can find the game for under $15. Even if your not so much of a fan 
 you will still enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadim_261992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  Alrite, when the game came out I thought "Oh geeze another failure to the Spider-Man games", but 
 I was surprised, this game had gread graphics, great sound, and awesome gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in SMU are interesting. The developers tried to go for the comic look 
 and they did a great job, the environment looks very detailed and keeps up a solid frame rate. 
 Through the game does require a pretty powerful video card, you don't need an amazing card, I have 
 a nVidia GeForce FX 5500 and it runs perfectly.
  
  Sound:
  Hmm... Sound is relatively good but has some issues, the voise of the main character (Peter Parker/Spider-Man) 
 sounds too childish but that's just my opinion, other than that the sound is great.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very fun in SPU because you get control of one of the most popular 
 super-villains, VENOM! Once you beat the game you can play as him, and throughout the story there 
 are races, chases and a bunch of other fun things that both Spider-Man and Venom can do. Though 
 getting used to Spidey's web swing might take a wile it's worth it.
  
  Overall, this game is very very fun and I would recommend this to any comic book fan and/or Spider-Man 
 fan because this is no doubt the best in the series.
  
  -Vadim
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-mystiqu-one
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  the game it self is not amazing but the story line is good and the idea of the game is really fine. but 
 still it is not the idea that counts is how you make the idea to work and in this game it did not 
 worked so well. the mission that you have to go throw the balls are to hard and annoying but still 
 they are a main part of the game so usually you find your self doing the same mission over and 
 over and over again and again and again i addition to that the game usually gets stuck when fighting 
 and you find your self at the mercy of your enemies and you usually end up dead.
  on the other hand the story line is new and not based on any movie, and one of the good things 
 is that you can play as venom which is fun to switch with the characters at the end of the game 
 so when you had enough of spider-man you can switch to venom and they have different costumes for 
 spider-man. 
  so in conclusion i say that the game is not worth buying if you'r not a spider man lover in all 
 your heart.
  
  Matan Malka 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpnel91
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  i mean the few cut scenes are totally lame... there are only a few combos. available the colours 
 arn't great. the sound is super blurry. the graphics cant compare with anyother computer game and 
 just basically dont waste ur money! unless u r an xtremly patient or person, then go ahead i think 
 u will enjoy it. seriously did the games creators have nothing else better to do?? i mean the cover 
 design looks cool and all that but the game itself misses the mark by at least a mile. so take 
 my advice. but if ur com is seriously quick then mabye it might be njoyable for u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 18, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Here comes the guy who gives it to you straight and quick. Game has WAY to many chance, follow, 
 and race missions. That's the first thing. The first times are cool. Human Torch makes an appearence 
 and you race him. First time was cool. But then, you have to touch all these spheres or you loose 
 the game...... ICK! 
  
  The storyline part is GREAT! I love the animated comic book fell. VERY nice. 
  
  Game play, 
 even with these camera issues, the game plays fair. Not to much annoying. And the bosses aren't 
 just "beat them up". You have to pretty much follow a pattern given to you in order to beat the 
 boss. Example. Hit Ryno on the back. Jump off before he crushes you. Dodge, when Ryno flips out 
 and throws cars, games tell you when it's ok to jump on bosses back... rinse and repeat. 
  
  Sound and Voice overs are nice it terms of quality. But Peter Parker is such a Bey-ouch! "OH! 
 MY HEAD-ACHE! I CAN'T BE NEAR EDDIE!". What is he on metapause (hehe, spelled it wrong... im a 
 guy) . But for people like shocker...
  Nice voices. Voice for General Fury is nice too, but not as good as the one in Ultimate Avengers.
 
  
  Gameplay wise. I'm still having trouble with webswinning after about 8 hour or more playing the 
 game. I mean, how long does it really take to learn webswinning? On PS2's Spiderman 2, I mastered 
 it in about 2 hours. Parker had nothing on me. 
  
  Also, remember the whole GTA feel of PS2? Yeah, its back... but there really isn't alot of those 
 extra funny side rescue missions... lol, remember. (It was suppose to be a 3 hour tour..... a 3 
 hour tour) . You run into some over villians..... weak ones in the game too. Like I said. IT's good, 
 not as good as the Spiderman 2.
  
  DONT GET ME WRONG THOUGH! ITS NOT AN EASY GAME. Bosses take a bit to look into too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  STORY  The game revolves around the Ultimate Spider Man comic book, where Spidey is just a 15year 
 old. The game starts off with a brief introduction to both the main characters, how does it all 
 come to be, Who is Venom & how is he linked to Spider Man
  Thats what you are about to find out.
  
  SOUND  Characters have been portrayed beautifully 
 in this game; the voice actors have done perfect justice to all the characters. The in game music 
 is mediocre but the musical score during boss fights manages to score a few points. Spidermans 
 comments & sarcastic nature is just amazingly brought out.
  
  GRAPHICS  The games graphics would score really high in my books, for it is the first comic book 
 or cartoon inspired game that has brought out the characters & colors so well.
  The characters look as if theyve jumped out of the comic book & walked into the game. The cut 
 scenes just take your breath away as they are just brilliantly done. In short the graphics are 
 Outstanding. But theres a bug in the game that hampers with the cinematics which is quite annoying 
 at time.
  
  GAMEPLAY  You get to play with 2 characters, Spider Man & Venom, allowing you to go through the 
 story from both the characters perspective. Spidermans swinging abilities are really good; at 
 times you would just swing around the city doing nothing just for fun. Spideys acrobatics & fighting 
 styles are good & fun to play around with. Theres a lot of collectables, races, combat tours & 
 city events spread throughout the city which you must complete in order to proceed further in the 
 game. The races & city events are all exiting in the beginning but it becomes tooooooooooooo repetitive 
 during the game. On the other hand venom is fun to play too, his combat styles & his moving abilities 
 are different from Spidey. For e. g. venom can lift heavy objects such as cars etc. & throw them. 
 The Story mode is quite short but features most of Spideys enemies which have been put together 
 with the story amazingly. Boss fights are just amazing. The games story is good sticking true to 
 its comic book roots but sadly the developers couldnt do a better job at extending the story The 
 side quests just dont get you going. One of the biggest flaws of the game are the camera angles 
 during combat, the only way to describe them is PAIN.
  
  PROS  Good Voice Acting, Amazing comic book look, lovely cutscenes, Spideys swinging & fighting 
 abilities, Boss fights are just amazing, VENOM.
  
  CONS  Irritating camera angles during combat, Pitiful side quests, repetitive side missions, Story 
 mode very short. 
  
  VERDICT  Ultimate Spider Man has all the potential to be a great game but its flaws overcome its 
 brilliance & make you wonder WHY?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Good, but the gameplay... 
  Spidey, spidey, spidey... If you look down to gaming history, you will find lots of Spider Man 
 games which are hits , unlike the other super hero's games. This is a good one too, but with it's 
 performance problems, sometimes playing it can be a real pain in the ass. 
  The game has the plot of comic book series, not the movie ones, which is lot more better. And the 
 graphics made with CellShade technology which is used by Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and 13. The 
 game looks sweet, but drawing lots of vehicles and buildings in city makes the game "eat" all of 
 your memory, and it needs more. I have 2.4 Ghz CPU, Geforce 6600 GT (AGP 8x) and 768 mb Ram, and 
 game runs choppy. Sometimes framerate drops to 7-8, even 5. That's really the only thing that annoys 
 me so much while playing the game, it's not well optimized. And the gameplay. First of all, you 
 have a big city and you can go where ever you want. But the problem is, you can't do so much in 
 city, except beating the bad guys, saving people and web-race. Also you can collect some coins 
 that unlocks the some of the bonus materials, but hey, they are never that fun.
  But except these aspects, the game is pretty fun. You can web swing all over the city (you have 
 unlimited web) , and complete story missions. Story missions gets unlocked by succesfully completing 
 races , fighting tours and city events. 
  The controls are a little glitchy i think. You can NEVER turn the mouse to the "exact" direction 
 you want, it feels like moving a soap. And when you drop the sensitivity, it moves like a piece 
 of brick in your hands. I could never control the mouse smoothly enough. Maybe it's something about 
 me :) Other controls are easy, you will get used to them easily.
  For a conclusion, game is good, but could be better. That's all.
  ( I just accidentally wrote 
 this review to PS2 section, im sorry , that was a stupid mistake :) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, sorry if this review is going to be short - the time that it will take you reading this , 
 is the time I spent playing the game (after the tutorial) .
  I came with great expectations, and the game looks great on the first few minutes, but then you 
 discover its limitations :
  Graphics are great - only if you don't move. If you start to web through the city, all becomes 
 a blur with rapidly slowing frame rate and broken movement. The nod to comics is visible, but unfortunately, 
 this is not enough.
  Sound could be great - as long as you don't suffer from a bug that sounds like you got a huge roaring 
 engine on your head, coming and going as he chooses to appear - and he chooses frequently.
  Controls and camera are simply bad. Movement in fights is awkward, bluring again.
  I love Spidey 
 and Mavrel Comics characters, so, somebody, please make a good game out of it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macetein
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Spiderman game available for PC
  The web swinging feature is great.... although it is the same as in Spiderman 2... sadly... only 
 the PS2, XBOX and Gamecube owners were the ones allowed to use it before... but now every PC owner 
 can enjoy it :D
  The story is great... very informative if u haven't read any Ultimate Spiderman comic... just... 
 don't expect the Amazing Spiderman orginal story... this is ULTIMATE SPIDERMAN!!
  The possibility to control Venom adds a great amount of fun... you can bash everything... go by 
 the force... use the symbiote and RULEEE! YEAAAHHH!!
  But its dissapointing that u don't control Venom freely... like Spidey, until u beat the game... 
 there u unlock Venom and is like GTA... "destroy everything and avoid the cops" :D
  
  It's a great game for all those Spidey fans :D
  
  Enjoy
  
  Have fun
  
  Play Safe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  so yeah, im pretty sure it follows one of the new ultimate spiderman comics, i just havnt read 
 this one yet. one major downside to this game is the fps (frames per second, not first person shooter) . 
 even though the requirments recommended for the game are easily acquired, dont believe them. for 
 this game to run anywhere near smooth, your going to hav to hav twice the recommendations. 
  
  I HAVE: 1.8ghz, 512 ram, and a radeon 9600 pro.
  i would recommend at least: around 2.8ghz 
 processor, 1gb ram, and a GOOD 256mb video card. 
  
  webslinging takes its toll on your frame rate harshly, and the ginormous city scape doesnt help 
 at all. during a fight using venom, the frame rate was getting unbarable... untill the game just 
 crashed. speaking of venom, this is one of the best parts of the game. running around as venom, 
 not webslinging, though you can in a way, but jumping great distances. i dont know about you but 
 this is one of the first games ive played where the means of travel is amazing jumping skills. 
 just think doomsday from superman. with venom you can regenerate health by sucking in civilians, 
 or weak enemies. another bad part i must mention, even though you probably already know from other 
 reviews, is the annoying race features. even though they are part of the story, they are SUPER 
 annoying. i cant believe the testers werent bored out of their mind playing this through for the 
 first time. and you HAVE to do it, you cant skip the story races, and some of the secondary races.
 
  
  OVERALL: get it for another system, you computer is most likely not going to handle it to an enjoyable 
 extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayden605
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Play as Spider-Man and save innocent civilians from great perilous danger or you may prefer violence 
 and destruction and want to destroy everything as Venom in a Hulk: Ultimate Destruction fighting 
 style. Well, I strongly recommended this game from the day it hit the... the... the... well, my computer, 
 of course. I'd recommend you buy this on PC instead of X-BOX or PS2 because the combos are easier 
 to land and it is easier to beat Venom in possibly the hardest battles (well, there are still hard 
 guys like Rhino in chp. 6) . My advice: buy it, play it, beat it, unlock the unlockables, and have 
 fun! (Oh, yeah, some levels like chps. 6, 9, 10, and a few higher levels are very hard but you'll 
 eventually get it on your 3rd or 4th try.) I advise doing combat tours as Spider-Man to give him 
 health bonuses. (Helpful in lvl. 6!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This title has both a glimpse of greatness, and of lameness. The graphics style, evoking the comic 
 book art more than the ultra 3-d appearance of most games today, is interesting, but unfortunately 
 seems to be even MORE taxing on the processor than the stickly 3-d engines. I have a good computer 
 system, not top of the line, but well above the "recommended" reqs, and I was still plagued at 
 times with laggy play and jerky motion. The videos were even buggy at times, which is just plain 
 sad. Also, although advertised as "choosing between spidey and venom", you don't have that ability 
 until you play through the storyline mode. The worst thing, in my mind, about the game is the "race 
 mode" that happens both in the free-roam mode, and during story-line sequences (at least the free 
 roam races are choice based, you can't opt out of the story races which are at times sadisticly 
 annoying) . 
  
  Having said thus, I must attempt to explain why, despite all of these problems, I can't seem to 
 stop playing it (at least for the time being) . I have managed to beat the story line aspect of 
 the game, which was mediocre at best, and now have complete control over the free roam and can 
 opt to be Venom (which is lots of fun) . This is definitely the highlight of the game in total. 
 However, I can already see that I am starting to get bored with either beating up gangs, racing 
 obstacle courses, or just tearing up the town (with Venom, although this will prove to be the most 
 replayable aspect of the game, it is certainly guilty pleasure to ramage through New York) . 
  
  If they make a sequel to this game, this is what I would recommend: rather than including a 
 lame story that you HAVE to complete, allow the user to control which battles to engage in. Possibly 
 even have a "threat based" interface, where super-villains pop up in random formation doing something 
 dasterdly, and you as spidey (or venom for that matter) have the choice to go and save the town 
 as the need arises. I think that this would allow for a much freer atmosphere to the whole game. 
 Also, the gang fights are monotonous and increasingly annoying, as are the races. Some flavorful 
 variety could be added to make this game well worth the legacy that it carries with its name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  amm so ultimate spider man 
  is a nice game but i dont know its a little bit lame
  i mean its nice that its some how like GTA that its free place
  and you can go to wherever you 
 want...
  but you dont really have stuff to do... ther a missions like side missions
  and the story mission and some times ther is a alert that some one needs help... and then you go 
 and rescu him... but its gett preaty board after a while...
  and the commics that in the story missions... his peraty board... so you dont want to see it... so 
 you skeep it... cus its no intrasting....
  and the control are not so comfterbol... you can change them... but its still hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burnflazard89
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game is the best in the spider man games, in the game you get to play as peter parker a. k. a 
 spider man and venom. In some parts of the game you play as venom and in some parts you play as 
 spider-man and if you beat the game you will be abl to switch from spidey to venom at any time. 
 In this game the graphics are superb and I really love this game especially for the battle effects 
 and all the cool acrobatic moves spider-man performs while fighting with enemies, Overall I would 
 give this game a 10/10 as it is great and i enjoyed playing it. the game is not quite and it took 
 me only five hours or so to finish, the controls are very simple and you can master it easily so 
 its great and I just hope in the future more games like these will be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonman_101_
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I found this game in a bargain bin and decided to pick it up. Big mistake. I saw a special for 
 it on G4 a while back, but I could make a better game in 8 months by myself. Granted, the ink and 
 paint material did help bring across the comic book feel, but it's the only thing the game has 
 going for it.
  
  If you are looking for a whiny prepubescent spiderman who goes around doing a bunch of dumb missions 
 in a world that doesn't even resemble the spiderman world, using clunky controls thanks to a poorly 
 planned game loop and no graphical customization, this is for you.
  
  However, any true spiderman fan, or any gamer for that matter, should stay FAR away from this one. 
 Don't make the same mistake I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Spider-Man is a beautifully crafted game designed to make comic geeks wet their Spidey-Whities. 
 With seizure-inducing 3D cell shading, comic strip cutscenes featuring an all-star roster of Marvel's 
 heroes and heavies, and a spectacular narrative drafted by USM creator Michael Bendis, Ultimate 
 Spider-Man is an engaging playable comic book even though it swings short of amazing.
  
  Treyarch's third web head iteration is a mixed bag of pros and cons, addressing the vapid lack 
 of story present in Spider-Man 2, while draining the play mechanics of any sophistication. The 
 upgradeable combos and graceful web swinging of the previous title are replaced with a very simple 
 pro-button mash fight system and a less finessed mode of transit in a less expansive recreation 
 of New York City. Keeping to the open-end play stylings (which seems to be the standard of most 
 modern games) , players are given free reign to explore the city where they can engage in an endless 
 array of frustrating checkpoint races, redundant gang wars, or merciless pummelings of purse snatchers. 
 These side missions prove crucial in unlocking story-based missions and quickly become an exercise 
 in tedious quota fulfillment. However, the story-based missions and the boss fights are well worth 
 such drudgery.
  
  The story (beatable over the course of a few hours) unfolds from both sides of the hero/villain 
 relationship, allowing players to balance the good karma of Spider-Man's day saving with Venom's 
 wanton devastation. The Venom sequences are all about mayhem: tossing cars into buildings, clawing 
 up skyscrapers, or absorbing the life force from hapless pedestrians not fast enough to flee his 
 dark purple tentacles. Though too few and far between, sequences of being the bad guy offer nice 
 gameplay diversity as well as some of the best boss fights (namely, a bar brawl with a distempered 
 Wolverine) .
  
  Almost every boss battle begins with a chase sequence followed by an arena style skirmish. You 
 will have to use what the environment offers as well as a lot of evasive maneuvering to best your 
 opponent who becomes progressively harder the more his ass is kicked. These fights capture the 
 grandeur of comic book carnage and are the most satisfying element of Ultimate Spider-Man. However, 
 the game would have been better served if there were more to play.
  
  Flowing seamlessly from gameplay to cutscenes encased in comic book framing, USM is a visual marvel, 
 pushing current consoles to their processing max. Utilizing unique inking technology and character 
 models drafted by co-creator Mark Bagely, the game is a cross-media tie-in with the comic book 
 (picking up where the series left off and dropping it off where it will continue) . Though a short-lived 
 experience, the visual presentation, original script, and true comic book feel make this game a 
 worthwhile endeavor for any level player. Fans of the series will get more from it then neophytes, 
 but when isn't that the case? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Spider-Man is a beautifully crafted game designed to make comic geeks wet their Spidey-Whities. 
 With seizure-inducing 3D cell shading, comic strip cutscenes featuring an all-star roster of Marvel's 
 heroes and heavies, and a spectacular narrative drafted by USM creator Michael Bendis, Ultimate 
 Spider-Man is an engaging playable comic book even though it swings short of amazing.
  
  Treyarch's third web head iteration is a mixed bag of pros and cons, addressing the vapid lack 
 of story present in Spider-Man 2, while draining the play mechanics of any sophistication. The 
 upgradeable combos and graceful web swinging of the previous title are replaced with a very simple 
 pro-button mash fight system and a less finessed mode of transit in a less expansive recreation 
 of New York City. Keeping to the open-end play stylings (which seems to be the standard of most 
 modern games) , players are given free reign to explore the city where they can engage in an endless 
 array of frustrating checkpoint races, redundant gang wars, or merciless pummelings of purse snatchers. 
 These side missions prove crucial in unlocking story-based missions and quickly become an exercise 
 in tedious quota fulfillment. However, the story-based missions and the boss fights are well worth 
 such drudgery.
  
  The story (beatable over the course of a few hours) unfolds from both sides of the hero/villain 
 relationship, allowing players to balance the good karma of Spider-Man's day saving with Venom's 
 wanton devastation. The Venom sequences are all about mayhem: tossing cars into buildings, clawing 
 up skyscrapers, or absorbing the life force from hapless pedestrians not fast enough to flee his 
 dark purple tentacles. Though too few and far between, sequences of being the bad guy offer nice 
 gameplay diversity as well as some of the best boss fights (namely, a bar brawl with a distempered 
 Wolverine) .
  
  Almost every boss battle begins with a chase sequence followed by an arena style skirmish. You 
 will have to use what the environment offers as well as a lot of evasive maneuvering to best your 
 opponent who becomes progressively harder the more his ass is kicked. These fights capture the 
 grandeur of comic book carnage and are the most satisfying element of Ultimate Spider-Man. However, 
 the game would have been better served if there were more to play.
  
  Flowing seamlessly from gameplay to cutscenes encased in comic book framing, USM is a visual marvel, 
 pushing current consoles to their processing max. Utilizing unique inking technology and character 
 models drafted by co-creator Mark Bagely, the game is a cross-media tie-in with the comic book 
 (picking up where the series left off and dropping it off where it will continue) . Though a short-lived 
 experience, the visual presentation, original script, and true comic book feel make this game a 
 worthwhile endeavor for any level player. Fans of the series will get more from it then neophytes, 
 but when isn't that the case? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobias1701d
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Hola a todos los jugadores de videojuegos y fnaticos de Spider-Man.
  El juego es si esta bueno, buena historia, personajes, graficas el estilo de juego a la GTA. PERO 
 nada de esto importa a la hora de jugarlo (version PC) ya que el sistema de la camara es horrible 
 al igual que la distribucion de teclas, para disfrutar del juego se nesecita de un control como 
 el NOSTROMO N45 o alguno con doble palanca analoga, pero aun asi el sistema de camara te mata simplemente 
 es muy errtico y te quita las ganas de jugar el juego la verdad se necesita ser muy fanatico de 
 Spider-Man para considerar que el juego esta muy bueno con este sistema de interfase que tiene. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBatman17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This was an great game so to be short I'll just say what was wrong with it.
  
  The random crimes that pop up are awesome and keep the game from ever getting boring. The only 
 problem is that after a while it seems like they lack the variety that they should have.
  
  There are just too many races. You'll find that you still have races that you need to complete 
 long after you have completed enough to earn yourself maximum webswinging speed.
  
  The tokens aren't that difficult to find until you get down to the last 50 or so. Early on in the 
 game the tokens are pretty much everywhere because there are so many of them.
  
  It does take somewhere between 40-50 hours to complete the entire game and unlock everything if 
 you aren't that good. The random crimes are what keep me coming back to it. Even if you don't have 
 very long to play you can still sit down and bust up 15 or 20 crimes in a half hour.
  
  I think that the game would have been better if they had implemented something similar to bullet 
 time and pass it off as his superhuman reflexes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SharkSmile
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Spidey, spidey, spidey... If you look down to gaming history, you will find lots of Spider Man 
 games which are hits , unlike the other super hero's games. This is a good one too, but with it's 
 performance problems, sometimes playing it can be a real pain in the ass. 
  The game has the plot of comic book series, not the movie ones, which is lot more better. And the 
 graphics made with CellShade technology which is used by Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and 13. The 
 game looks sweet, but drawing lots of vehicles and buildings in city makes the game "eat" all of 
 your memory, and it needs more. I have 2.4 Ghz CPU, Geforce 6600 GT (AGP 8x) and 768 mb Ram, and 
 game runs choppy. Sometimes framerate drops to 7-8, even 5. That's really the only thing that annoys 
 me so much while playing the game, it's not well optimized. And the gameplay. First of all, you 
 have a big city and you can go where ever you want. But the problem is, you can't do so much in 
 city, except beating the bad guys, saving people and web-race. Also you can collect some coins 
 that unlocks the some of the bonus materials, but hey, they are never that fun.
  But except these aspects, the game is pretty fun. You can web swing all over the city (you have 
 unlimited web) , and complete story missions. Story missions gets unlocked by succesfully completing 
 races , fighting tours and city events. 
  The controls are a little glitchy i think. You can NEVER turn the mouse to the "exact" direction 
 you want, it feels like moving a soap. And when you drop the sensitivity, it moves like a piece 
 of brick in your hands. I could never control the mouse smoothly enough. Maybe it's something about 
 me :) Other controls are easy, you will get used to them easily.
  For a conclusion, game is good, but could be better. That's all.
  ( I just accidentally wrote 
 this review to PS2 section, im sorry , that was a stupid mistake :) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RayquazaDeoxys1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder what it's like to swing from building to building , battle super-villains, scale buildings 
 by running (or crawling) on them and saving the world from total disaster? Well look no further! 
 Ultimate spiderman is the game for you! The cell-shaded graphics are awsome! The music is very 
 appealing , and the game is just flat-out spectacular! This comic based game is like the game says 
 "Ultimate"! The story behind the game is you play as peter parker a. k. a. spiderman and his childhood 
 friend eddy brock a. k. a. venom. as the story starts out you see peter and eddy get together and 
 visit a lab. there they discover a mysterious substance that peter and eddy's fathers worked on 
 as a cure for cancer, but unfortunately they never finished the project. as the story progresses 
 you see peter in the venom suit swinging around manhattan feeling great. but then there was an 
 accident, you see eddy hates spiderman and well, he finds who peter is. out of anger eddy uses 
 the suit to try to kill peter, but he fails. now it is up to you to discover the secret of the 
 venom suit as you play as the hero spiderman and the evil symbiotic suit venom. If you are a big 
 spidey fan or you're just being introduced the spiderman universe you simply must buy this game!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommriddle81
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  Ultimate spiderman has a very good comic type graphics which is very colourful to see. Sounds are 
 pretty ok, But the thing that pulls this game down is the gameplay and value. With numerous stupid 
 races and chases, US is sure to get u bored after a few days. But compared to the almost dumb release 
 of the Spiderman 2 game, US can be said to be a great improvement. But only great spidey fans like 
 me will like it. I f u really want to play the real feel of being spiderman play the PS2 version 
 of Spiderman 2. Overall for a person who was dissapointed with the PC version of Spiderman will 
 be pretty pleased but is not thaaaaaaaaaaaat good. I give it an OK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosephra
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  It was really hard on the keyboard and it took me only two days to finish the whole story. The 
 game was fun and I love the way they presented it in comic-style.
  What I hate most is chasing the villians across the city with:
  keyboard, mouse, bad map, low 
 framerate
  most of the time, i couldn't see what I was chasing. 
  
  I wish there were more characters and a longer story. I didn't know that I've finished the game 
 until the credits showed up! 
  
  The previous games of its kind were more complex and spidey had much more skills and moves like 
 being able to hide in the dark.
  
  The races are fun but it's hard to beat the ultimate time.
  
  I wish there were more scenes 
 with friendly heroes, more play time and more from spiderman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey2xxx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  After playing spiderman 2 in pc I was really apprehensive about buying this version. Afterall we 
 all know what happened with pc spiderman2. However being an avid spidey fan and having no consoles 
 I plucked up the courage to buy the game. When I saw it I forgot my past grudges and readily forgave 
 Activision for feeding pc gamers the poison known as spiderman2. I practically fell of my chair 
 with glee after playing this game. It has a beautiful graphics, gameplay is pure dynamite and this 
 time the stunts of spidey felt real. All the characters including the bosses were full of llife. 
 Spidey is his usual hillarious self cracking jokes with every moves. The downside is that the game 
 mainly comprises of chasing one after another bad guy ( bosses)
  and then fighting them. In between that you have to complete some side missions loke fighting thugs. 
 This repetetive pattern has prented the game from getting a full 10. However if you are a pc gamer 
 then this is the goods for you. If you can overlook the repetetive gameplay then this game rulz! 
 The game supports sorround sound and it sounds superb in my 7.1 speaker setup. Let us not forget 
 to say a word of thanks to Beenox, who have done a good porting job with the game. One word of caution 
 though- use a gamepad. This game moves too fast for a standard keyboard. ( Mine is Genius G-12u 
 vibration) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahulahl
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The game on the whole feels nice but I had a lot of troubles with the sound in the cutscenes. It 
 just kept repeating the first 2 seconds of audio in a cutscene.
  Other times i heard sounds during the game that arent supposed to be there.
  
  The Comic Style 
 Graphics are a very cool addition but they still require some more work. Even with Anti-Aliasing 
 set to 8xS , i really didnt see any difference.
  The frame rates are another problem. Even my XFX Geforce 7800GT couldnt play this game at good 
 framerates.
  
  I dont know if anyone else also has faced the same problems or not, but i really hope that a patch 
 is released soon to fix these problems.
  
  On the whole a decent game !!! 
  Nothing special but not that bad also.
  If i didnt have that many sound problems i would have 
 rated the game a lot better.
  On the whole if u liked the other 2 spider man games then you should like this one too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybrid17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  The comic-book characters are becoming very populair amoung games, and one of the good examples 
 are X-Men & Spider-Man. Unfortunately most games are based on the movies about this heores and 
 that doesn't work as well as it should be. Ultimate Spider-Man however is totally another story.
 
  Based on the comic book series , which are telling us the story of Peter Parker again but in new 
 cover and style, Ultimate Spider-Man takes place after the Venom saga. Eddie Brook a. k. a Venom 
 is back and his counter -ego is still conrolling him making him a very dangerous mutant. It 's 
 up to his childhood friend Peter Parker a. k. a Spider-Man to stop Eddie. Things however are about 
 to get very complicated. So that's the story and we get to see it form both Peter's abd Eddie's 
 perspectieves. The balance is pretty good between this characters with Spidey being able to perform 
 some quick acrobatic attacks and Venom being a walking tank. But before you progress with the story 
 you have to complete some side missions , which are pretty boring , because of their repetitive 
 style. They mostly involve beating up some gang members , helping innocent people and racing ( 
 which is very bad done!!!) . The controls are also not perfect and camera can be a real pain when 
 you fighting a tough boss. However the colourful environment , nice looking cutscenes ( that are 
 nicely done in comic-book style) , tough boss fights and a good story make up for the bad qualities. 
 
  I would surely recommend it to any Spidey fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soninlaw
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Spiderman, after all those Spiderman games brought out on the PC I didnt expect much 
 of it, but it turned out to be the best Spiderman game in series. 
  
  First thing to say, you have to play this game with an USB game pad for the PC. You will enjoy 
 this game to the fullest this way. 
  
  In the beginning there are some things to be noticed; the 3D graphics are really special. If someone 
 would not know you where playing a game, they would think you are watching a Spiderman cartoon 
 on your PC, that is, while you are playing! The freedom in the game is also very good. You can 
 web swing from one building to another, wall crawl, climb your way up in your web, special web 
 swing for above buildings and so on. 
  
  Never before did a Spiderman game manage to make web swinging so beautiful. You can web swing for 
 ours above the city, in the city or wherever you want, though, with some area blocks where you 
 can enter after passing a mission 
  
  You got a map where you can find different type of missions. There are race missions and fight 
 missions where you have to take out several gang members or other bad guys. The game story mission 
 is marked as a green dot. You can do these game missions without doing the race and fight missions. 
 As you may know including playability as Venom.
  
  One thing bothered me; They used a whole new cartoon storyline for this Spiderman game. (I think 
 its the storyline from the new Spiderman Cartoon on TV. For Spidey fans out there who know the 
 original comic story from day 1, they will be surprised and not happy. 
  
  For example:
  Peter Parker (Spidermans real name) is a 15 year old skinny boy. They claim Peter Parker and Eddy 
 Brock where old high school friends. In comic Peter Parker met Eddy Brock ass a college at the 
 Daily Bugle. Also they claim the blue suit Eddy Brock is wearing (who is Venom) was a former experiment 
 of the fathers of Peter and Eddy who worked on it together. Every known Spiderman comic book reader 
 would know this is the most ridicules thing ever. 
  
  The real story goes like this:
  The blue suit came from out of space. Spiderman took it with him when he was there with several 
 other superheroes, who where brought there by the almighty Beyonder. (A story which you can read 
 in Marvel Comics Secret Wars.) The blue suit reacted to Peter Parkers thoughts. He has wore it 
 for quit some time. Later on, Reed Richards from the Fantastic Four told Spiderman that the suit 
 was alive and trying to become one with him. Eventually, it became Venom with Eddy Brock. 
  
  There are much more things that are different from the original storyline. But the game play 
 lets you accept that for a bit. 
  
  Lets call it like this, with this Spiderman game, they have the right tools to make an outstanding 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdraciel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  Well, finally "ultimate Spiderman: the game" has been released .Its a lot different from the previous 
 games as it has a unique cell shaded graphics system which gives a comic book type effect .
  The other major COOL change in this game is that you play from both Spideys and Venoms sideof 
 the story. And, in this game ,you dont collect tokens just for bragging rights, instead they are 
 required to advance the story.
  This game also features the trademark spidey One-liners and lame jokes which add color and humor 
 to the game.
  Minor and random city crimes and troubles have also been introduced, known as city events. Although 
 there are a variety of them, they get boring and extremely repetitive after some time but as a 
 true Hero , you are duty-bound to help out.
  If you are a true believer, and want to play this game then I suggest you rent it first as this 
 game would not appeal to everyone out there. But if you are patient and stick with it ,the rewards 
 are great
  SuperDraciel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is a refreshing change from the same old , same old world us PC'ers live 
 in these days. As a huge fan of the comic book series, I thought this game was just brilliant. 
 The voice acting of the actors and the way the charachters just seemed to jump off the screen was 
 awsome. The graphics are just great, kicks over the console versions, but you do need to have a 
 pretty good PC to enjoy it. It uses the tried and true story from the comics to develop PEter just 
 like they did in the comic. It is really well paced at the start and then it gives you the option 
 of keeping up that fast pace, or just swinging around for a while, taking in the sights. Web-slinging 
 has never felt so good and all of the animations look like the comic in motion, its almost a work 
 of art. I think that this game is one of the picks of the year, but if youre not a fan, this might 
 drop down to a "good" game. I thought it was awsome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfaizan91
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  considering spiderman 2 for the pc version, this is a dramatic improvement. since i am a spiderman 
 fan i was dissapointed with spiderman 2 for pc. Ultimate spiderman has again got my hopes up that 
 spiderman series can live up to its name as it does in super hero genre. I kind of diagree with 
 gamespot i think this is a good effort. this so far has to be one of the best super hero games 
 out there. the cell shaded graphics give it an extra spide. it feels as if it is a real episode 
 of the animated series or the comic book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: never-named
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Damn those friggin' talented guys at Treyarch. The last two Spidey games (based on the exceptional 
 movie franchise) they developed seemed to be mentioned at almost every corner (in the whole world) . 
 Spider-Man: The Movie kicked some major @$$ in 2002 and it's successor Spider-Man 2 kicked even 
 bigger @$$ (in the console) last year. 
  
  PC gamers who were ridiculed last year with the more than lame version of Spidey 2 game can finally 
 come out into the light proudly and hold the best version of the best Spider-Man game to date. 
 No seriously, I played the game on multiple platforms and witnessed (and experienced) the PC version 
 to fare much than the console versions. 
  
  U. S. M. is extremely similar to the console version of last year's Spidey 2. In a free roaming (yet 
 somewhat compressed) New York city, Spidey (the player) can swing freely (and also walk) all over 
 Queens and Manhattan, stop random crimes and compete in some really addictive races and some repetitive 
 combat tours. But the biggest change this time around has to be the option to play as Venom, the 
 tongue-slithering, tentacle-travelling and pedestrian-eating foe of Spider-Man. His controls are 
 completely different than our resident web-slinger. He feels more like the Hulk, except he eats 
 (that is E-A-T-S) people and balloon wielding children alike. He can jump medium sized buildings 
 and tug himself to a building using his tendrils.
  The game features a nifty new visual style, a fancy new cel-shading technology called the 3D comic 
 book inking. It looks like the comic book itself was exposed to radiation and sprung to life.
 
  
  The PC version of U. S. M includes differences such as; sharper graphics, the option to choose between 
 keyboard+mouse, keyboard (alone) and a gamepad and always the most important, higher resolutions. 
 Playing the game on a keyboard is like playing a decent platformer but jack in a gamepad and start 
 playing to truly appreciate the fine gameplay in U. S. M.
  
  I will not bicker about why the folks at Gamespot didn't show any justice rating this awesome game 
 so porrly, they skipped a lot of important issues, such as the details, like when Venom lands, 
 by falling or jumping from a very high point, he leaves potholes on the ground and also leaves 
 claw marks on the surfaces he crawls on, how Spidey gets tugged in the air each time he shoots 
 a web.
  
  Some complaints about the game is that the story mode is wayyyy too short (about 6 to 7 hours) 
 and that Spidey's swinging has been a lot more simplified than the last time, he can't shoot multiple 
 webs at one time, though the web-zipping mechanism is a lot faster this time around. While I agree 
 wholeheartedly I also tend to overlook the obvious.
  
  For any comic-book nerds and Spidey fans alike this game is pure gold, and those of you who are 
 just willing to spend a few bucks just for a few hours of entertainment this game is worth your 
 while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrusttx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I like the game, great graphics, and very fluid. However at first had alot of problems controlling 
 it and finally ended up having to break out the saitek X45 to control it. I do like the game now 
 and am doing good. However I got to a boss fight Venom vs Elec man and I get to the last bit and 
 it throws me out of the game completely I'm sure theres a way to beat it that wont throw me out 
 but just haven't found it yet. Over all the mini games and the characters that show up are worth 
 it. from X-men to fantastic 4 and thats just in the first of the game... More to come I'm sure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maawal
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  It's coooool! the movement are soo realistic and fast! the swinging system is awesome, and the fighting 
 system is also cool! I enjoyed this very much. Everything is fine, BUT the length of the game is too 
 short, that's the bad thing. Whatever the fault's are, the game is so interesting, I AM SATISFIED! 
 the graphics is totaly new in style. coool! In gameplay ,runing on the side of the building is great, spider-man 
 can jump long, swing with high speed, webing the enimies and throwing them away, simply great!***THE 
 BIG THING IS 'THE VENOM'. It is the first game I played where I can play as VENOM. He can jump so 
 high and long, he can smash the enimies on the ground, break there weist, ABSORBE them and take their 
 energy! I believe this is the COOOLest spider-man game ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavenbeing
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:03 am PT
Review:  I'm sure this title is the best in all-time Spider-Man series. Still find similar mechanism in 
 previous Activision titles but lots of breakthrough.
  
  Interesting game play and outstanding interaction with famous comic characters. Especially I love 
 to act as Venom and it's action is so great.
  
  Comic style rendering and good animation make me enjoy playing it a lot, just like a live comic 
 book.
  
  But I found the camera action not very stable and sometimes make the combats quite difficult. (GTA 
 did it better) Also... so many keys to manage on the keyboard... may be better on console versions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidare
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:17 am PT
Review:  spider2 previous game than ultimate was total rubish because its low level graphics and simplest 
 point to click actions butwho says web swing doeant fit in keyboard activision just did the job 
 comic book look make the game wondre full playing both character is realy great 
  but i like best is playing wiyh venom his hulk like jump is superb he is realy a 
  distruction 
 machine yes there r some weak points in the game like to many races and cases and bad camera movement 
 during combat but over its a great game haats off to activision 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buddylee614
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the 1st spider-man game i played so i cant compare it to the others, however i can say 
 that if you want to get the feel of high speed web-slinging, amazing acrobatics and combos (when 
 fighting) this is the game to get!
  Besides playing in a comic style enviroment, with both hero and villian the game also offers you 
 other little extras, like appearances from other marvel heros and unlockables like the layout of 
 some scenes in the game, and covers for the Ultimate Spider-Man issues.
  For this game i would recommend you get a controller, unless you're double-jointed and have god-like 
 reflexes on the keyboard and mouse, because the races in this game are freaking hard!!! It's a 
 good thing the races are just side missions, so you don't need to do them to get the story going.
 
  So, what makes this game great, i would say; the races, rampages with venom, learning new web 
 tricks, and the combat tours.
  What makes it not so great; the annoying bosses (like the green goblin 'burrrrrrrn!!!') , repetition 
 (like some of the combat tours and chasing down a boss before you battle) and short story (the 
 game can last about 7 hours or less) .
  
  All an all, the game is one worth playing then re-visiting, and rememeber; be patient with this 
 one, don't expect to beat Johnny Storm on you're 1st try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExileGOD
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:58 am PT
Review:  It's like being in a comic what more can be said? Flying through the city with the greatest or 
 ease once you change the default binds on the PC version. You can become quite the web-slinger 
 once you finish this game, though i finished the missions way before anything else was really done. 
 My favorite thing about the game is the total freedom you have right away. You can get lost in 
 just web-slinging everywhere, dont forget to dive off the tallest building and swing away at the 
 very last moment. 
  
  Over all I would say thats its a sold game. replay value is a little less then moderate once you 
 finish it all theres not much of a reason to play anymore. Graphics are great everyone should agree 
 thats its a comic brought to life. oh Sound sucks I mean damn give me something good to listen 
 too when im searching for everything.
  
  
  
  Keep on Rocking in the Free World! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: void6669
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 12:49 am PT
Review:  So it may not be the greatest spider man game out there but come on people it does have its ups 
 I mean how many other games do you know of that allow to to go anywhere you want! as well as play 
 the hero and the villain in the same game! its extremely addicting but the city details and the 
 control style for the PC keyboard could have been made better I found that the actions were delayed 
 after i pressed a button or wouldnt happen at all and I have a pretty powerful machine myself.... 
 It has its minimal faults but is extremely fun and addictive I recommend this game to all gamers 
 and spider man fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: custjr
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  Being a die-hard Spider-Man fan, I literally ran to my local games retailer to purchase a copy. 
 But soon after loading the game, my entutiasm died...
  Infact the game brings repetition to a new level, as the player will descover, they are requried 
 to spend more time running around New York engaging in pointless side quests ( searching for tokens, 
 and engaging in races) , then they spend in story bassed missions. Infact what is most dissapointing 
 about "Ultimate Spider-Man" is the lack of story bassed missions, and it can be clocked in only 
 a few hours... with ease.
  
  But I will say one thing to complement "Ultimate Spider-Man". In no game before it, has the true 
 experiance of playing Spider-Man been captured, untill now. The movement and combat system is almost 
 magical as players experiances "webslinging" as it was truly ment to be. There is nothing like 
 exploting Spider-Mans agillity and lame punch lines to put a few crooks behind bars.
  
  "Ultimate Spider-Man" would make a great rental, but I would not suggest buying it.
  
  Nice 
 try Activision, maybe next time? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subzero_jr
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game even though its the best Spiderman game to date it still lacks so much substance. It 
 is just so disappointing. The graphics and sounds are beautiful everything looks like the cartoon 
 show that I had grown up with. The game play seems so great in the beginning but it gets boring 
 4 hours in the game. Basically the game breaks down like this half of the game is chasing someone 
 down, 3/10 boss fights, and 2/10 fighting little robbers. The problem with this game is that it 
 took me 6 hours to beat the game with out doing any extra things but thats it, the game isn't 
 worth playing the game again. DO NOT waste $35 to get this game unless you are a die hard fan who 
 thought it was worth $50 for the other 2 Spiderman games that where based on the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sshadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best Spiderman game I've ever played. An I've played, and loved all of them 
 since the Sega Genesis version.
  
  As you are well aware, you can play both as Spiderman and Venom in all there comic-book styled 
 glory. Likewise, playing either of them is a completely different experience from the other. But 
 both are great. I prefer Spiderman on all counts but Venom is awesome too. With Spidey, you have 
 to combo your punch/kick/jump & web shooter buttons alot to be truly effective. He's designed to 
 hop from one enemy to another without actually finishing any off first. Just like in the comic. 
 I think it is an excellent system. Venom, on the other hand, is a complete button mashing endeavor. 
 His tentacles hit multiple targets so are you really have to do is spin around in place hitting 
 your kick button and occasionally dodging something. His super jump is awesome though.
  
  Web slinging is great. It's not as elaborate as what was available to us in SM2, but it is much 
 better than any other version. I like it better as I seem to be able to control myself much more. 
 After about 2 hours, I can say that I'm pretty close to completely mastering it.
  Gone are the swinging from clouds as you need to be in close proximity to a building to swing from 
 it.
  
  I don't miss the web gloves, web shield, light trail after every punch and kick in the previous 
 games at all. I'm glad they are gone.
  
  Reviews are starting to say that the typical city patrol as you confront the usual boring crime 
 activities like robberies, car chases, street thugs, people hanging for life. While you do the 
 same as before, it is NOT boring at all -- at least not for me. Even those are well executed in 
 this game. Where you have your typical thug in one area of the city and a techno thug elsewhere. 
 Thankfully, no balloon kids.
  
  Sound is pretty good, with great voice acting. Spidey's jokes are classic and you really feel that 
 you are make a comic book come to life as you play. I have a 5.1 speaker setup and all sounds are 
 clear and well done. At times the music takes a second to kick in but that's not really a problem.
 
  
  I am running this game off a 2.6C P4 with 1GB DDR and a Geforce 6800 GT @ 1152x864 @ 75hz. It runs 
 just a smooth as its default settings of 800x600. Graphically, my settings make the game look as 
 great as any USM comic I've seen.
  
  One thing to note: You must have a joypad. Something similar to PS2's. 8 button's or more. Do not 
 expect to have any fun with this game using the mouse and keyboard. I am using Saitek's.
  
  Problems: I have encountered a couple of problems with the game. First, the tutorial's throughout 
 the game only give references to the keyboard config, even if you are using a joypad. So you have 
 to remember your settings whenever it is describing a new ability.
  
  There are potions of the game that require that you quickly press left and right mouse buttons 
 alternately to get out of situations that would kill your character. You have to use the mouse 
 as for some reason, the joypad buttons won't work for this.
  
  Lastly, it is pretty easy to get lost without really knowing where to go. So as you are looking 
 for the next trigger to progress the story, you can be your friendly neighborly self to the citizens 
 of Manhattan and Queens.
  
  All in all, USM is a great and very fun game. I haven't finished it yet but I'm not in any rush 
 to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 25, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  Basic game rating...
  
  
  Pros: The graphics are really nice, probably the best I've seen in a long time. It goes to show 
 you that always trying to achieve the most realistic graphics is not the answer. The dialog is 
 awesome; the voices are exactly what you would expect from spider man cartoons.
  
  Cons: I don't like the comic side of the game. There is too much camera movement which can cause 
 EPILEPSY. After 30 minutes of playing USM; I felt nocuous and dizzy from all that movement. PC 
 version has really bad controls unless you use a PS2 controller. I cant use my monitor to its 
 full spec; resolution of 1920x1200.
  
  Whos this for: Comic freaks that love spider man and love to watch the cartoons with non stop 
 action. If you don't own any of the consoles then youre stuck with the PC version which to my 
 knowledge is very bad.
  
  What do I think: The PC version I dont like. I'm sure when I pick up my copy for the Xbox it'll 
 be killer.
  
  Contact me if you'd like more information.
  
  Remember, I'm reviewing the game from PC stand point. Console rating will be more higher then 8.2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximus1010
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 24, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  BAD: the controls for this game are so bad. Mouse controls are SO bad you don't know where you 
 are, getting all confused all the times when it's have to go fast with the mouse.
  And the cars on the street a thumps DOWN in graphic's, only "good" is spidy it self, that got good 
 graphic's, and he cant carry the game to the top by himself because of his graphic's !! ...
  
  GOOD: Spidy itself got some good animations in game, all the in-game-movies are nice and "marvel" 
 made, thats the only thing i can se good in the game
  
  been playing it for 2 hours and it did NOT get my attention game play are the same, at lest the 
 first 2 hours. I think when you make a game (particular like this) it have to get your attention 
 from the start and not the beginning of a game!
  
  
  definitely NOT "a keeper" game !! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
