-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultima Online:  Renaissance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ultimaonlinerenaissance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.3, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 121 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Apr 30, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultima Online has finally reached the state it really should have been in when it was first released 
 nearly three years ago. 

 Faced with fierce competition from the latest 3D online role-playing games EverQuest and Asheron's 
 Call, Ultima Online has recently undergone a significant overhaul and has been republished under 
 the name Ultima Online: Renaissance. In doing so, Ultima Online has finally reached the state it 
 really should have been in when it was first released nearly three years ago. If you've played 
 Ultima Online before, you'll find that many of the original game's problems have since been corrected 
 and that the game's overall design is far better than it used to be. On the other hand, if you've 
 never played Ultima Online and have instead gotten into EverQuest or Asheron's Call, then you'll 
 likely find the look and style of Ultima Online: Renaissance to be dated and unappealing by comparison, 
 since it's still essentially a three-year-old game. At any rate, Ultima Online: Renaissance is 
 worth a try whether or not you've played it before, given its low $20 price tag.   

  The most important new feature in Ultima Online: Renaissance is the addition of a second, parallel 
 version of the gameworld. The game now offers a light and dark version of Britannia and its accompanying 
 lost lands. The light half, Trammel, is the good Lord British's realm, in which you cannot harm 
 other players unless you are taking part in a guild or faction war. You cannot wantonly kill one 
 another and cannot steal from or cast harmful spells on one another either. The dark half of the 
 gameworld, called Felucca, is a fetid place ruled by the evil sorceress Minax. Where Trammel has 
 flowers and lush green trees, Felucca has tombstones, bloodstains, and dead trees. More importantly, 
 Felucca maintains the original game's full player-versus-player society, where player killing is 
 possible and is still rather common. Best of all, you can hop back and forth between these two 
 mirror-image worlds through the use of special moonstones found on the many monsters inhabiting 
 both worlds. Former Ultima Online players should note that Felucca is the original gameworld, so 
 that's where all of the many houses, castles, and other player-established scenery can still be 
 found. Housing will also be available on Trammel, but as of this review, the housing placement 
 had not yet been activated.   

  Ultima Online: Renaissance is targeted squarely at new players, since all of the many changes offered 
 by the new retail product have already been made available to current players via free, automatic 
 updates and patches. While the original Ultima Online was extremely intimidating and difficult 
 to learn for a new player - and The Second Age expansion did little to improve this - Ultima Online: 
 Renaissance is notably more approachable and novice-friendly. To begin with, when you create a 
 character on a new user account, you'll be given the opportunity to take a fully interactive tutorial. 
 This brief but thorough learning session educates new players on the game's movement, communication, 
 trade, and combat systems.   

  Upon leaving the tutorial, new players enter the city of Haven, located on Trammel. Haven is what 
 used to be known as Occlo (and is still on Felucca) . Access to the town has been limited to new 
 players and volunteer helpers called "companions." Exploring Haven and the small island on which 
 it resides can help new players get a handle on the game's interface and features such as the banking 
 system before entering the full-blown gameworld. When you want to leave Haven, you simply walk 
 through the portal in the middle of town and pick a destination city from a menu. It's important 
 to note that all new players start out in Trammel (whether or not they choose to visit Haven) and 
 so are protected from player killing as they begin.    

 New players are also protected from monsters at the outset of their online adventure. Brand-new 
 characters started on a new user account have the label "young" next to their names. Monsters will 
 not seek out and attack young players, though young players may still pick a fight with monsters. 
 The downside of this new feature is that it doesn't account for new characters begun on existing 
 Ultima Online accounts. For instance, if a father wants to let his child start a new character 
 on his account, now that he knows the kid won't be preyed upon by misanthropic player killers, 
 that new character won't be able to enjoy the monster-protected status.   

  Another significant new feature implemented in Ultima Online: Renaissance is a party system, which 
 lets you group up with other players for monster hunts and dungeon crawls. Fame and karma gains 
 are split among the party, but loot still goes to the first player to double-click on a slain creature. 
 It isn't quite as smooth a system as the one in EverQuest, but it's a good addition to the game. 
   

  Also, because there's twice as much landmass but essentially the same number of players as there 
 used to be when there was only one version of the world, the monster spawn rate seems to have skyrocketed 
 in Ultima Online. Evil creatures cover the landscape - powerful creatures like gazers sometimes 
 even venture into the cities on Felucca - so there's never a shortage of things to hunt and treasure 
 to obtain. The surge in the monster population, together with the resolution of the player-killing 
 problem, leads to the sort of gameplay that many players originally expected from Ultima Online 
 when it was first released.   

  Even though Ultima Online has suffered from many problems in the past and gone through many changes 
 over the years, it doesn't seem as if all that many people have given up on the game since it was 
 released. At most times of day on just about any American server, you can expect to find thousands 
 of fellow players wandering the gameworld in search of fame and fortune. The game recently surpassed 
 200,000 active subscribers worldwide.   

  Even so, Ultima Online: Renaissance is not a panacea for all of Ultima Online's ills. Performance 
 is still a problem at times, as lag can prove to be at least as dangerous as any orc mage or elemental. 
 The backup system has been modified to reduce the number of time warps and lost hours, but problems 
 with lost data still crop up from time to time. Also, many of the game's terrain problems still 
 exist, such as the impassable patches of wildflowers.   

  However, what looms over all other concerns with the game is the simple fact that Ultima Online 
 is getting rather long in the tooth. While it remains an entertaining and addictive game that continually 
 improves, newcomers to the genre may not be quick to recognize the qualities that have hooked so 
 many Ultima Online fans over the years, and they are likely to dismiss Ultima Online's increasingly 
 dated graphics and choppy animations for the superior 3D graphics of its competitors. That's unfortunate, 
 since much of Ultima Online's original charm remains intact, and if anything, Ultima Online is 
 now stronger than ever. If you give it a chance, you'll find that Ultima Online: Renaissance can 
 offer a truly rewarding, enjoyable, and long-lasting gameplay experience for all kinds of players 
 of varying skill levels.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blitzvvolf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I started playing UO back in 2001. MMOs were definitely not a household name, though there were 
 many dedicated follows out there (either EQ or UO) . It was a new technology, but a few brave pioneers 
 set out to truly live the RPG experience, and I was lucky enough to meet some of those people and 
 experience the MMORPG in the raw.
  
  Many people know what it feels like when they first step into a virtual world. The sights and sounds 
 are overwhelming, and you feel an inexplicable sense of freedom. You're not tied down to the destiny 
 of some spiky-headed hero in the latest Square Enix game, you can go anywhere, anytime, and do 
 just about anything. Sure, you may die a horrible death, but the experience (and I'm not talking 
 about teh exps ) is well worth it. UO Renaissance definitely understood this. Back when this game 
 was king, people would actually roleplay! 20 or 30 players would get together not for the purpose 
 of getting loot or skill gains, but to act out their characters. I'm sure many people would find 
 this nerdy to the max, but I think that was the original intention of the MMO. After all, if you 
 wanted to grind, why not just play a standard console RPG?
  
  I will admit, the game itself had flaws. To the ignorant traveler, venturing into the wrong place 
 meant certain death, and that meant hunting down a healer or someone for a rez (possibly losing 
 all the loot on you) . Nowadays, there are several safeguards in place to prevent these sorts of 
 things. The game also crashed like a **** It could take a long time for new players to travel, 
 and looking for that moongate could mean, again, more death. It was also very easy for a sneaky 
 player to lure you into Felucca and have an angry mob there waiting to tear you a new one. Sure, 
 I might look back on these things with fondness now, but I bet if I went back 6 years, I'd see 
 myself cussing like a sailor at my monitor.
  
  I tried playing UO several years later, but the change in user base made the game completely different. 
 Essentially, you may have the CD, but this game doesn't exist anymore, and it never will exist 
 again. It's a sad reality, but I can just be glad that I had the chance to experience a true, great 
 MMO. It's just important for people to know what the old MMOs were: exactly like a digital version 
 of a sit-down pen-and-paper RPG session. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
