-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultima Online: Lord Blackthorn's Revenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ultimaonlinelordbr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 79 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Feb 24, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its uniqueness has allowed Ultima Online to boast an unprecedented record for commercial longevity, 
 but the game is finally running out of steam. 

 In less than six months, Ultima Online will celebrate the fifth anniversary of its initial retail 
 release. Ultima Online is still the only massively multiplayer game that meaningfully attempts 
 to create a virtual world in which you can develop characters that can be adept at activities other 
 than devastating resident fauna. While that novel aspect of the game may still appeal to new or 
 established players, Ultima Online is otherwise so dated that it is unlikely to be able to sustain 
 its unprecedented commercial longevity. Lord Blackthorn's Revenge is the most recent, and least 
 ambitious, of the four major iterations of the game, and it's unlikely to induce new players to 
 an increasingly dated game.           This release marks almost five years since Ultima Online 
 launched.    

  Ultima Online has changed a lot since it was initially released in September 1997, but Lord Blackthorn's 
 Revenge doesn't significantly alter the game's status quo. Lord Blackthorn's Revenge adds a relatively 
 small new area to explore, which is located in the center of the large continent introduced by 
 the game's last major expansion, Third Dawn, and adds a handful of new items to craft and monsters 
 to fight. The new monsters are largely cyborg creatures designed by popular comic book artist and 
 action figure designer Todd McFarlane. Although the first couple of games in the core Ultima series 
 had science fiction elements, the introduction of these science fiction monstrosities seems incongruent 
 with the medieval swords and sorcery setting established by the past 20 years of Ultima games. 
 Their inclusion doesn't seem to be indicative of a significant change to Ultima Online's design, 
 however, and was more likely just motivated by a desire to at least get some utility out of designs 
 previously created for Ultima Online's aborted spin-off, Ultima Worlds Online: Origin. The Lord 
 Blackthorn's Revenge iteration of Ultima Online plays almost exactly the same as the Third Dawn 
 version of the game.   

  Even the developers seem to be treating Lord Blackthorn's Revenge as a less significant event than 
 the earlier expansions. The first two expansion packs provided purchasers with a large bound paper 
 version of the game's playguide manual, but that practice was abandoned for the Third Dawn release. 
 Lord Blackthorn's Revenge also ships with only an abbreviated version of the game's playguide, 
 but the developers haven't yet bothered to update the online version of the game's manual to account 
 for the changes introduced by the new iteration. The new creature types have been gradually introduced, 
 while the game's overall plot is developed through in-game events, but such events do a poor job 
 of conveying any comprehensible storyline. A comic book and an unpainted action figure are included 
 with the retail release of the game to help introduce the plot developments apparently contemplated 
 by the expansion, but the new fictional elements are unlikely to have any significant impact on 
 the experience offered by Ultima Online. As always, the generation of novel events remains primarily 
 dependent on the efforts of Ultima Online's players, just as in many of the multiuser dungeons 
 (MUDs) on which Ultima Online was originally modeled.           New monsters designed by artist 
 Todd McFarlane populate the land.    

  While it doesn't introduce significant changes, Lord Blackthorn's Revenge is likely still a worthwhile 
 upgrade for existing Ultima Online players, particularly if they are still using the game's 2D 
 client software. The 3D client introduced by the Third Dawn expansion has proven to be less popular 
 than Electronic Arts anticipated, and Lord Blackthorn's Revenge recognizes the continuing appeal 
 of the 2D client by finally letting players access the lands introduced by Third Dawn using the 
 2D client. Rather than continue to hope that players will eventually migrate to the 3D client, 
 the developers have enhanced support for the 2D client by improving some of the game's 2D graphics. 
 Lord Blackthorn's Revenge also finally retires the game's dated MIDI music by replacing it with 
 MP3 digital tunes. The new player tutorial has also been improved, and there are also a few general 
 interface tweaks, but Lord Blackthorn's Revenge will primarily appeal to existing players. Just 
 having access to new areas to explore, creatures to fight or harness, and items to craft or otherwise 
 acquire is probably reason enough to justify an upgrade for fans still enamored with the existing 
 game.   

  The release of the latest iteration of Ultima Online is an appropriate occasion to summarize the 
 game's current state, particularly to allow gamers who are either new to Ultima Online or who abandoned 
 it months or years ago to judge whether it would now be a worthwhile purchase. If you played Ultima 
 Online since the Third Dawn expansion was released and didn't enjoy the experience, the latest 
 iteration won't prompt you to change that opinion unless the sole reason for your dissatisfaction 
 was the inability to use the 2D client to explore the entire gaming world. If you only played the 
 game prior to the Renaissance expansion or have been avoiding the game because you heard horror 
 stories of characters being consistently killed or looted by other players, you can now completely 
 avoid that sort of harassment. If you actually liked the prospect of fighting other players, you 
 can either engage in sanctioned guild battles or just hop in a moongate to travel to an alternate 
 version of the game's main landmass where you're still free to hunt other players, subject to some 
 punitive sanctions for players designated as murderers. On a dial-up connection, gameplay is still 
 more susceptible to lag-induced slowdowns than more recently released online RPGs, but optimizations 
 introduced by the developers combined with the fact that areas are much less likely to be overpopulated 
 than they once were now usually make lag inconsequential. Accordingly, the two biggest problems 
 with the initial release of Ultima Online (the game's poor handling of Internet lag and being forced 
 to deal with player-killing and other antisocial behavior) have been rectified by the game's subsequent 
 development.    

 A number of other causes of frustration have been addressed since the game was initially released. 
 The inclusion of a comprehensive tutorial, additional character-development templates, and a personal, 
 daily "power hour" now make it considerably easier for neophyte or casual players to quickly develop 
 characters who are capable of exploring the gaming world. No longer are you required to first waste 
 several hours pounding practice dummies and chopping wood or fishing to acquire the basic skills 
 and money to make a character viable for venturing out of the game's civilized areas. You can now 
 equip a new character with a decent set of equipment and have the mandatory skills for the type 
 of character you want to play within a couple of hours of booting up the game. Fleeing in terror 
 from puny bunny rabbits is now only optional, thanks to the gameplay changes introduced by the 
 past several game iterations.           Vanquishing foes isn't the only thing you can do in Ultima 
 Online.    

  The character-development system remains unique among online RPGs. Games such as EverQuest and 
 Dark Age of Camelot are hack-and-slash treadmills that primarily motivate characters to gain experience 
 levels so that they can gain level-based abilities and be more effective in combat. You are encouraged 
 to kill monsters to get better equipment and more experience points to, in turn, gain character 
 levels so that you're better able to kill more monsters and get even better loot. Ultima Online 
 offers more varied gameplay to players who want to interact with the gaming world other than by 
 chopping up monsters, and its skill-based character-development system is more consistently rewarding, 
 since characters constantly gain incremental improvements to their skills based on their current 
 activities. While other online RPGs let you craft weapons or other equipment, Ultima Online lets 
 you delve into non-combat-oriented activities in much more detail. While many gamers will find 
 it tedious to spend hundreds of hours clicking on pixilated trees or virtual water to develop a 
 lumberjacking or fishing grand master, other gamers will be enthralled by the opportunity to create 
 their own shops and hire nonplayer character vendors to sell the fruits of their arduous labor. 
 Ultima Online offers at least as robust a variety of non-combat-oriented activities as The Sims 
 and has a similar kind of appeal, since many players seem dedicated to ensuring that their virtual 
 abode is appropriately decorated with exactly the correct ensemble of handcrafted furniture and 
 luxury items.   

  While Ultima Online may offer the best virtual sandbox of any of the currently available online 
 RPGs, it is extremely dependent on the communities of players that have developed for any larger 
 sense of purpose. Aside from a handful of tasks in the introductory tutorial and the basic escort 
 duties you can get from nonplayer characters, there are no quests whatsoever in the game. Previous 
 expansions have actually made nonplayer characters less interesting than they were in the game's 
 initial release. You used to be able to carry on detailed conversations with NPCs, and one of the 
 most frequently iterated war stories of the developers involved franchise founder Richard "Lord 
 British" Garriott being deceived into believing that he was speaking with another human player 
 when he encountered his first NPC. You'd have to be a complete blockhead to make the same mistake 
 now, since the desire to appeal to players located around the world who spoke a variety of languages 
 prompted Electronic Arts to radically simplify the conversation system to a handful of basic words. 
 The latest expansion ensures that those words  are always available 
 for display in a convenient menu, but NPC conversations are now more simplistic than they've been 
 in any Ultima game since 1983's Ultima III. Because an employee-wages lawsuit was brought by player 
 volunteers, player-generated events are also less frequent than they once were. Both those developments 
 make the gaming world less interesting than it once was.   

  The game's interface and combat systems are both poor, especially relative to those in other online 
 RPGs. The maximum resolution available in the game is 1024x768 in full-screen mode or 800x600 in 
 the windowed mode offered by the 3D client. While those resolutions are comparable to those offered 
 by other isometric-perspective RPGs, the game's graphics still look comparatively dated and simplistic. 
 The interface is awkward, and even using the game's windowed mode, it's difficult to retain access 
 to all of the information you'd expect to have readily available and yet maintain a relatively 
 unobscured view of a decent amount of the gaming world geography. While you can press the Ctrl/Shift 
 keys to bring up more-accessible text descriptions of items and creatures currently onscreen, it's 
 often difficult to target monsters that are lurking around trees or other obstacles or fighting 
 with other characters. For a multiplayer game, Ultima Online is surprisingly inconvenient to play 
 with a group of other adventurers, since there's no way to automatically share loot or coordinate 
 movements or attacks. While you can have your character automatically follow another character, 
 it's very easy for your character to get dislodged on terrain when traveling even short distances. 
 Even once you've gotten organized, group combat against monsters tends to devolve into chaotic 
 melees near creature respawn locations, with creatures reappearing so rapidly that it's difficult 
 to maintain an organized hunt. Fortunately there are a number of things to do in Ultima Online 
 other than hunt monsters, because the game's combat is both simplistic and difficult to control. 
           Ultima Online has been around for years, and it shows.    

  Probably the most promising new development is the introduction of a system that encourages you 
 to role-play your characters in accordance with the virtues that played a key role in the core 
 Ultima series. The virtue system hasn't been entirely implemented yet, but it is eventually intended 
 to provide you with the opportunity to essentially have your characters embark upon Ultima's famous 
 "Quest of the Avatar" to achieve a path of enlightenment. It's a laudable attempt to give Ultima 
 Online a larger sense of purpose, but to date it hasn't been executed in a manner that provides 
 a very compelling experience.   

  Whether or not you'll enjoy Ultima Online depends on whether you find appealing the prospect of 
 establishing your own objectives within a virtual sandbox and then constantly repeating a number 
 of relatively mundane tasks to achieve those goals. That's not tedious to players who are excited 
 by the prospect of living a virtual profession in a gaming world that's not entirely focused on 
 battling monsters. However, the graphics, interface, and combat system are so cumbersome and dated 
 that Ultima Online's appeal is becoming increasingly niche. Its uniqueness has allowed Ultima Online 
 to boast an unprecedented record for commercial longevity, but the game is finally running out 
 of steam.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
