-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultimate Ride Coaster Deluxe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/ultimateridecoasterdeluxe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 22, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 38 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive
Developer: Gigawatt Studios
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Mar 31, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Coaster Deluxe is essentially just a slightly better version of the original Ultimate Ride. 

 
  Disney's Ultimate Ride Coaster Deluxe is a roller coaster design game that lets you build and 
 ride your own coasters in one of several 3D virtual environments. It's an updated version of Ultimate 
 Ride, which was released in October of last year, and it includes several improvements such as 
 new track types, coaster parts, and themes. While the game's improvements add some fun new options 
 to the Ultimate Ride experience, Coaster Deluxe is essentially just a slightly better version of 
 the original game.           Coaster Deluxe lets you build your own coaster...    

  Like its predecessor, Coaster Deluxe allows you to build your own coaster in a free-form sandbox 
 mode, modify a prebuilt coaster, or try to complete one of a number of puzzlelike scenarios. In 
 the free-form mode, you have access to the complete range of coaster types -- wooden, steel, hanging, 
 and the new standing and flying types -- and you can build any coaster you choose, providing it obeys 
 the laws of physics. The game contains several different 3D environments in which to build your 
 coaster, as well as a number of decorative objects and props to add some pizzazz to the ride.  

  In the game's imagineer mode, you must complete a partially built coaster according to a set of 
 specific requirements, such as building a coaster with a certain number of loops, building it so 
 that the ride stays below a maximum level of vertical or horizontal G force, or building it within 
 a specific time limit. The early imagineering scenarios also serve as a partial tutorial for the 
 game and an introduction to the game's various features. Completing the requirements of a scenario 
 will open up additional scenarios -- the game has a total of 50 -- and a coaster that goes above and 
 beyond the requirements may also be awarded with a bronze, silver, or gold medal. If the in-game 
 rewards aren't enough for you, the official Ultimate Ride Web site hosts an ongoing coaster competition 
 that lets players upload their best custom coasters to be rated by other players.   

  The actual building of the coaster is fairly straightforward. Beginning with one of several different 
 start/stop stations, you extend the coaster by adding various track parts, such as straight sections, 
 curves, loops, corkscrews, or the new half loops, shallow curves, and half corkscrews. As you build 
 your coaster, you can keep track of the coaster's speed and G forces by watching a simple status 
 window. Additional track elements such as accelerators, chain pulls, and brakes can be added to 
 help control the speed of the coaster in specific areas. Since all coasters must obey the laws 
 of physics, you can't let the speed drop below zero at any point in the track or the coaster will 
 not complete its circuit. In order to complete your coaster, you have to bring the track around 
 to the start/stop point and click the "complete coaster" button for the computer to automatically 
 finish the circuit and connect the remaining track parts.   

  Once a coaster has been completed -- or even before the coaster is complete -- you can ride it in a 
 first-person 3D perspective or watch it from a few third-person 3D perspectives. The graphics and 
 sound effects do a pretty good job of giving you the feeling of riding the coaster -- sometimes to 
 the point where you'll feel yourself leaning into upcoming turns and loops -- but the experience 
 is somewhat lonely since there are no other riders on the coaster and the traditional sounds of 
 screaming are completely absent. On the other hand, the game's soundtrack manages to provide a 
 pleasant background melody while building or riding without becoming overly repetitive or annoying. 
           ... then ride it from a first-person perspective.    

  Although the new track types and parts add some variety to Coaster Deluxe, the game still has some 
 of the minor problems found in its predecessor. While individual track parts can be tweaked -- banked 
 right or left, tilted up and down, and extended or shortened -- one issue that can be somewhat frustrating 
 is that once a coaster is complete, it is difficult to switch parts in the middle or the beginning, 
 since the coasters are built and dismantled sequentially. The only way to cut or switch a part 
 in the middle is to delete track parts from the end of the coaster all the way back to the element 
 you want to change and then rebuild the entire track afterward. Another minor issue is that while 
 your coaster may adhere to all the requirements in a particular imagineering scenario before it 
 is completed, once you let the computer auto-complete the last bit you may find that a particular 
 G force is out of range or that the time limit has been exceeded. Similarly, once you have completed 
 a track, the game will tell you what could be done to improve the coaster to win a medal, but the 
 interface makes it tricky to go back and improve the coaster.   

  In spite of the game's few shortcomings, Ultimate Ride Coaster Deluxe is an enjoyable roller coaster 
 design tool and simulation that improves on its predecessor with more missions and a better variety 
 of track-building options. While its heart is a functional and straightforward coaster building 
 tool, the game's imagineering mode makes it a fun game that should challenge fans of physics-based 
 puzzles and give roller coaster fans of all ages enough twists and turns to tide them over until 
 their next visit to the amusement park.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: huladog123
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Roller coaster tycoons have always been fun hits for the PC, and Ultimate Ride Coaster Deluxe definitely 
 meets the requirements to be an enjoyable tycoon. But instability problems with the game's graphics 
 and sound make it somewhat frustrating when a well-built coaster doesn't turn out like you wanted 
 it to.
  
  The aim of the game is simple. You select the type of coaster you want to build and the environment 
 you want to build it in, you construct the coaster and customize the colors any way you want, and 
 then once you add the finishing touches to the coaster and environment, you can ride it. If something 
 is a little off-whack, you are given the opportunity to edit your roller coaster to make it work 
 better. The construction engine is simple, quick, and easy to use, but it sometimes tends to freeze 
 up and become stuck for a few moments. In order to design numerous unique coasters, you need to 
 have a creative, patient mind that is willing to spend time fixing errors and mistakes, otherwise 
 you'll end up building the same coaster each time (and really crappy ones too) . The construction 
 engine offers you everything imaginable to build the perfect coaster like corkscrews, loops, slope 
 and bank adjustment, chains, accelerators, decelerators, etc. Construction can get a little boring 
 and tedious, but actually riding your coaster is a real thrill if you know how to do it right.
 
  
  There are quite a few graphical issues that pop up in this game. The coaster always rides nice 
 and smooth (unless you have sharp turns on the track) , but the objects and creatures that you can 
 set up around your coaster are very poor in structure, color, and detail. Objects and creatures 
 in motion will pass right through your coaster as if it were holographic, and most of the movements 
 are stiff and unnatural. Likewise, the support beams for a section of track can pass directly through 
 another section of track that exists below. And when you ride a coaster with such a scenario, you'll 
 pass right through the pole as if it wasn't even there. The wood on the wooden tracks is paper 
 thin in reality and has graphical issues with color processing on some computers. To top it all 
 off, some of the landscapes lack detail and don't have a proper appearance.
  
  The soundtracks that play in the background have poor quality and don't suit a tycoon very well. 
 Some of the fanfares that play right before your coaster takes off are pretty sweet, though. Sound 
 effects from objects and creatures stationed around your coaster also have poor quality, and other 
 sound effects i. e. the screaming of the passengers doesn't even fit into the game because there 
 aren't any passengers.
  
  Ultimate Ride Coaster Deluxe is a fun game, but the problems and lack of value pertaining to the 
 graphics and sound really take away from the overall score significantly. If you're looking for 
 a fun tycoon to play, go ahead and pick this game up. If you choose not to buy it, you really won't 
 be missing out on anything. I personally would recommend playing better simulators like the Roller 
 Coaster Tycoon series because this game's engine is somewhat broken and stale. However, you might 
 just find yourself coming back to this game for more after it has been sitting on the shelf for 
 a year or two.
  
  Score: 5.2
  Grade: C-
  Preference: Substandard 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
