-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultima Online: The Second Age
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ultimaonlinethesecondage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 87 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Second Age adds some nice new features and fixes a few things, but it introduces a whole slew 
 of its own problems. 

 My brother and I have been playing Ultima Online off and on since the early days of the game's initial 
 beta test. We entered the online world of Britannia as wide-eyed adventurers, somewhat naive in 
 our hopes of establishing a name for ourselves as heroes in the legendary lands of our favorite 
 role-playing series. Over a year later, after playing and suffering through countless bugs, numerous 
 deaths at the hands of player killers and server crashes, and a world gone mad with house building 
 and grand-master titles, we are disillusioned, bitter, and even somewhat paranoid veterans. No 
 longer do we log onto UO for the novel joy of participating in a truly unique gaming experience. 
 Rather, we merely find ourselves reluctant to give up on characters that took so many months to 
 whip into shape. That and we have to justify the fact that our credit card companies are nailing 
 us for $10 every month.  

 When Origin announced Ultima Online - The Second Age, we looked upon the news with mixed emotions. 
 On the one hand, you have an expansion pack that promises to add more lands to explore, more creatures 
 to fight and tame, and more gameplay features to ease your suffering. On the other hand, you have 
 a game developer expanding upon a game that still isn't quite where it should have been when it 
 was released. To us, that seems sort of like declaring a foreign war to call attention away from 
 domestic unrest. Still, we ventured boldly forth into the new lands, eager to encounter the challenges 
 of this untamed realm.  

 Unfortunately, The Second Age makes a fairly awful first impression. After buying and installing 
 the new software, you might expect to be able to move quickly and easily into the new lands. This 
 is not necessarily the case.   

 Should you choose to enter the new lands via the Moonglow gateway (which appears to be the only 
 gateway that takes you from a guarded location in Britannia to a guarded location in the new lands) , 
 you must first say some magic words. Of course, there is nothing in the game's printed manual or 
 readme file about these words. You simply have to find them for yourself. So after what seemed 
 like a lifetime of searching through files and asking for help from other players, we finally discovered 
 the following: To move from Moonglow to Papua (one of the two villages in The Second Age) , you 
 must say "recdu" while on or near the teleporter. To return, you must say "recsu." Seems to us 
 that a simpler method would be better - especially when you consider that this is the only one 
 of the landlocked gateways that requires a password (why not make them all the same?) .  

 After we made it into the new world, things improved somewhat. One of the new features in The Second 
 Age is support for player-built cities. Because of this, the only premade settlements in The Second 
 Age are relatively small and sparse. Delucia is a decent-sized town at the southwest corner of 
 the rectangular world map, while Papua is a smaller town of grass huts closer to the center of 
 the map. Someday, player-owned dwellings will fill out these towns and give rise to others, but 
 it's a little too early to report fully on that aspect of the game. We're just hopeful that it 
 goes smoother than the messy home building in Britannia. It often seems as if you can't take two 
 steps in that world without running into somebody's house.  

 For the most part, the lands surrounding Papua and Delucia are much like those in Britannia. One 
 notable difference is the abundance of wildlife and monsters - a major improvement over Britannia 
 where creatures only seem to be regularly found near a handful of key, well-known respawn sites. 
 In The Second Age, deer and other wildlife roam in large numbers. Monsters are rather plentiful 
 and - better yet - well balanced so that players of all skill levels can find something they can 
 handle. There are a few too many snakes (one of UO's most annoying creatures) and giant toads, 
 but otherwise the monster population is quite good. Respawn rates seem to be much better in the 
 early going, but that could just be the result of fewer players (predators) in the new lands.  

 The two new races, the snakelike Ophidians and the spiderish Terathan, are impressive and tough 
 to kill. Both races include multiple types of fighters and mages, so you have to be careful to 
 check which type you're actually fighting, lest ye get summarily whupped upon. Ostards are the 
 new, rideable creatures, and they look a bit like a cross between a bird and a small dinosaur. 
 Other new creatures include the mammoth Titans, a formidable Cyclops, a magic-wielding red mongbat 
 (or imp) , and a bunch of ice and frost variations of familiar UO beasties.  

 While the monster population and respawn rates are much better than in the original UO, one other 
 aspect of the new world is much, much worse than its predecessor. Simply put, the terrain in The 
 Second Age is horrendous. The art is the same, but the layouts look very much like the work of 
 someone who discovered the terrain editor and was unable to practice restraint. It is vastly overdone 
 and unconvincing, with swamps, plains, mountains, and lava pits all thrown together without any 
 sense of purpose.  

 The terrain design is made all the more annoying by the many oddities of the UO landscape that have 
 carried over to the new lands: impassable wildflowers and mushroom patches, saplings that can stop 
 a warrior where an Ettin can't, that sort of thing. These ridiculous terrain glitches have gone 
 from being mere annoyances to obstacles requiring teleportation or long detours. According to Origin, 
 there are areas of the new lands in which this was done on purpose, and (even worse) it was done 
 to accommodate players who rely on ranged weapons and magic. So rather than free up as much space 
 as possible within the tight borders of the new lands, Origin has instead packed the new lands 
 with obstacles.  

 And with sections of the landscape purposely designed with ranged weapons and magic in mind - the 
 offensive combination preferred by most player killers - Origin has actually tailor-made an ambusher's 
 paradise of gullies, ravines, canyons, and unreachable sniping spots. This simply boggles the mind. 
 One would imagine that Origin would take every step possible to eliminate (or at least severely 
 curtail) the player-killing problem in UO.  

 UO's perspective problems have carried over to The Second Age as well, making it tough to spot a 
 slope or a ridge, especially when it's covered with too much vegetation. To make matters worse, 
 there are several spots where you can actually fall from enough of a height to wound yourself (resulting 
 in a particularly startling scream from your onscreen persona) . The nonsensical road system is 
 equally annoying. In UO, a road is the only path that you know will (eventually) lead to safety. 
 In The Second Age, many roads go nowhere at all (a real pain when you're trying to learn the route 
 from Delucia to Papua) or lead to dead ends. Dead ends abound, in fact, which is an awfully frustrating 
 state of affairs when you're trying to navigate these new lands on foot.  

 There have been mutterings about the new lands being based on a mysterious lost land from previous 
 Ultimas. Even if this is true, we couldn't help feeling that the new lands were a bit contrived 
 and tacked on. Why not have a "new land" that already was a familiar part of the Ultima storyline? 
 Serpent Isle, for instance, or the Gargoyle lands from Ultima VI? Overall, The Second Age just 
 feels a little forced and does not mesh well with the Ultima world.   

 On some of the more basic fronts, The Second Age gives us the big-window feature, which is actually 
 now available to all UO players. This welcome new feature lets you arrange miscellaneous items 
 (paper doll, backpack, etc.) around the border of the game window instead of on top of it.  

 Server load on the new lands varies pretty widely. At peak hours, you can't swing a dead mongbat 
 without hitting a dozen other players (at least one of which always seems to be a player killer) . 
 At other times, the servers seem to be nearly vacant. Performance issues are still a concern, and 
 lag still causes as many deaths as most monsters in the game, but in general we found performance 
 in The Second Age better than in "old" Britannia. Time warps and server crashes still occur frequently, 
 though not nearly as often as in the unstable days of UO's infancy. Also, morning players are still 
 plagued by Origin's baffling backup system, which apparently stops saving data at around 10:30am 
 but allows players to keep playing for another hour or so before taking the servers down for maintenance. 
 Here's an idea: When the backup is done, take the servers down immediately or come up with an onscreen 
 icon to indicate that the backup has finished, but the daily maintenance has not yet taken place. 
 This way, players won't lose an hour or so of hard-earned advancement simply because they missed 
 the fleeting "The Servers Are Going Down Soon" notice.   

 Still, The Second Age is a no-brainer for current UO players. At only $6.95 to upgrade, it's hard 
 to resist the idea of an expansion pack that provides more room to breathe and more creatures to 
 fight. Newcomers to the UO universe should be a bit more wary, however, especially with other games 
 like EverQuest just around the corner. The Second Age adds some nice new features and fixes a few 
 things, but it introduces a whole slew of its own problems. Does this mean that we won't play the 
 game? Of course not. We'll still log on every day to bash monsters, gather gold, and build upon 
 our reputations. That's just part of the love-hate charm of this addictive and frustrating game. 
 But we had honestly hoped for more from The Second Age and, after all this time, from the state 
 of Ultima Online in general.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheDreadIfrit
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  It has been 4 years since I have played any form of UO, almost 9 years have passed since I started 
 playing and 7 years since this expansion was released, But 7 years later I'm sitting here trying 
 to write a review about the rise and eventual downfall of what I consider not only the greatest 
 MMORPG of all time, but the greatest video game of all time, Period.
  I spent some time wondering how I can word this review in a way for it to make sense for those 
 who never experienced it and at the same time explain why the game was so much better in the beginning 
 years to those who only experienced it towards the end. Technically UO is still alive and running, 
 but to those thousands of people who experienced and helped shape the game from the start, it died 
 over 5 years ago. UO really was the first and last MMORPG of it's kind. The gameplay, community, 
 and rule set was, and always will be unique to UO and never, in any future MMORPG will be recreated, 
 or even attempted to be recreated for that matter. 
  When UO was released to the public in late 1997, to be blunt, it was a piece of crap. It had more 
 lag issues, bugs, and gameplay problems than I have time to list... Today, this would be a death 
 sentence, 8 years ago, you must realize none of this mattered. 8 years ago it was 'cool' to see 
 another guy on the screen who was actually another person. It was unique, it was new. Gradually 
 the game improved. Bugs were sorted out, PvP was improved, PvM was improved, balance was added. 
 This change was almost entirely accounted to the release of T2A: The Second Age. While on paper 
 the T2A expansion was simply just the addition of new lands and a few rule and skill changes, in 
 reality it was so, so, so so so much more. I could spend days trying to explain the changes to 
 the Noto (Notoriety) system, Skill locks, PKing issues, housing changes, and so much more, but 
 I won't. It would take too long, and would not accomplish enough. Theres a reason why this relatively 
 short lived (approx. 2 years) time period that ended over 5 years ago is remembered and longed 
 for by the thousands who experienced and loved it today in 2005. The UO: T2A (Ultima Online: The 
 Second Age) time period, in a nutshell consisted of this.
  
  Each player had a set of skills, stats, and what I will refer to as "social status" to make it 
 easier to explain. You had your character, each character could have a total of 700.00 points in 
 'skills', with a maximum of 100 points (Grandmaster) status in any given skill. This made the typical 
 character aspire to 'Grandmaster' 7 distinct skills. Each combination of skills made each character 
 unique, and any given combination was allowed. While PvP characters typically stuck to strict planned 
 out 'templates', many players would experiment with different combinations and theories. That character 
 next had their 'stats'. Stats, like skills, had a cap. For the stats the cap was 225 points. There 
 were 3 stats and every character, regardless of type had some of each. There was Strength (str) , 
 Intelligence (int) , and Dexterity (dex) . A mage character would typically have had 100 str, (str 
 which is also your HP or Hitpoints) and 100 int (int is also mana, which is used and regenerates 
 before and after you cast a spell, and 25 dex (Dexterity, how fast you can swing a weapon) . While 
 a warrior character would have 25 int typically and 100 dex. Now heres where OSI hit the nail on 
 the head as far as PvP goes with UO: T2A. The combat system, while it seemed to be pretty simple, 
 was in fact more involved, required more skill, had more combinations of tactics involved than 
 any MMORPG has had to date, and in my honest opinion will hold that title for a long, long time. 
 While simple, and without too many combat 'spells', UO managed to somehow incorporate more thought 
 into its combat system than seemingly possible. Skilled players, sometimes had duels (a 1 on 1 
 match of spell casting and combat trying to kill the other player by getting his hit points to 
 0) that lasted sometimes well over an hour. Each spell you cast, or hit of your weapon on the other 
 player would take away his health points. with 100 health points and spells and weapons that do 
 damage of sometimes up to 40 hits a piece, this seems pretty simple right? Wrong. Players could 
 organize combos to sometimes do almost 100 damage a piece (The most famous being Explosion [which 
 had a short delay before damage hit] , Ebolt [energy bolt] , and the Hally [Halberd, the most popular 
 weapon for a mage] , combination, which if executed perfectly would cause the 2 spells and the weapon 
 damage to hit at the same time. That other player, if skilled enough, would have timed his Greater 
 Heal spell correctly and healed much of the damage. The casting player, now exhausted half of his 
 'Mana' and will use his Meditation skill to regenerate it at a good pace, or attempt to follow 
 up his attack. It sounds complicated, and truthfully, it is and it isn't. It's hard to really explain 
 in a way to make someone who never played, understand, but it's a pretty straightforward concept. 
 Spells took time to cast, depending on their 'Circle' (Their are 8 circles of spells, progressively 
 each circle takes more mana to cast, requires more skill in Magery to successfully cast, and for 
 combat skills, typically cause more damage) and if a player is successfully struck during the very 
 brief time he was casting a spell, his spell would be interrupted and he would fail to cast it. 
 This further advanced the PvP and made getting a decent combo off even harder and required more 
 thought and timing. The combat system was great, applied to all forms of PvP, whether it be Group 
 Fighting, PKing, Dueling, etc, etc. To be a top contender, each player had to strongly consider 
 what I will refer to as "Cross Training". A 'TANK' Mage, was a character that had Mage skills, 
 and a combat and the combat tactic skill, while many Warriors or "Med Warriors" had Magery in order 
 to cast spells usually for a defensive purpose. While a tank mage did not have the dexterity to 
 become a good weapon striker or the Ability to heal with bandages, and the warrior was not able 
 to be a great spell caster with low intelligence, it was still considered a necessity. Simply put, 
 the replay value of this games combat system was the best their ever was and probably the best 
 their ever will be regardless of how todays game have infinite more spells and possibilities.
 
  Next was your characters status, while you had 5 character slots per account per shard (server) , 
 most people had a Main character, and 1 or 2 other characters for gameplay. Since creating a perfect 
 character took time, people rarely had 5 different 7x GM characters (7x GM = 7 skills with 100 
 or grandmaster status, or a complete character) . Your characer's name would appear, at any given 
 time Blue, Red, or Grey. Blue is the normal color of an essentially law abiding citizen, grey was 
 the mark of a criminal (A criminal would remain grey for 2 means after committing a crime, usually 
 a Thief or attacker of a blue) and Red was the semi-fully permanent mark of a Murderer. Attacking 
 a blue citizen would turn you grey and if you kill this person would give you a murder count, 5 
 Murder counts and you turn Red. A grey person can freely be attacked by anybody for the duration 
 of their 'Greyness'. If you attack a grey person, they will remain grey to you as long as you are 
 in combat and may turn blue to everybody else after 2 minutes of committing their crime. As long 
 as they have not attacked you and tried to kill you. The two minute timer starts the second after 
 they FINISH committing their crime. therefore if they attack you, they will remain grey and the 
 two minutes will start right when they are no longer 'committing a crime'. The game has many safe 
 zones, or Towns, that are guarded by towns guards. Commit a crime in town and their is good possibility 
 that if a guard witnesses or is called on your crime that you will be killed immeditately. Red 
 characters, or Murderers, abbreviated by PK (Player Killer) , are Killed on Sight upon entry into 
 any guarded town. For this simple reason, PK's were outlaws from society. Outside of town, you 
 had an entire world of Dungeons, forests, player housing, Caves, Mining Areas, Oceans (Sailable 
 by a boat) . The common misconception about the game is that, during this time period 'Anybody' 
 could be attacked by "Anybody" else 'Anywhere'... This simply is NOT true in the least bit. First, 
 as mentioned before, PK's were not able to enter towns, even if they were allowed to, they would 
 likely be attacked by Dozens of people instantly and killed. Outside of towns PK's were allowed 
 to roam free, now another common misconception about the game is that PKing was so out of control 
 that if you stepped foot out of town you would be killed immediately and all your items would be 
 lost, this is also untrue. Blue characters, and mainly blue PvP characters immensely outnumbered 
 the amount of Red/PK characters in the game. Many unguarded areas of the game were so densely populated 
 (espcially during the games peak) , that for a PK to go to a popular unguarded area they would essentially 
 be committing suicide, or would have to have a pack of atleast 10 other bandits to travel with. 
 Especially after the introduction of 'Stat Loss'. I will briefly explain stat loss. It was thought 
 by many that the PKing was getting out of control, mainly because certain PK's were routinely harassing 
 and killing weaker, trade characters. People were getting angry and were continually complaining 
 to the makers of the game. At this point people were more experienced and many more players were 
 turning to 'The Dark Side' so to speak. The creators intervened and implemented what some argue 
 was a good idea and some argue was a horrendous idea and introduced 'Stat Loss'. What this meant 
 was that for each 'Short Term Murder' count, over 5 you would be in danger of Stat Loss. Every 
 time you killed somebody you received a short term murder count and a long term murder count. Short 
 term was 8 hours, long term was 40 hours (These are in game REAL LIFE hours) . the long term count, 
 over 5 makes you red, and will remain that way until the hours are up. Someone who may accidentally 
 kill too many people may only be red temporarily, depending on how they behave, while any real 
 PK is essentially Permanently Red. (40 hours PER KILL, multiplied by sometimes hundreds of kills 
 is enough to consider permanently red) . The 8 hour, Short Term murder count, which lasts 8 hours 
 per kill, as I stated previously, puts you in danger of Stat Loss. Again, Full time PK's are essentially 
 permanently in stat loss due to the number of kills they usually have. Assuming a PK is in stat 
 loss and dies, upon resurrecting he will lose a percentage of his stats and skills permanently 
 and have to spend time reworking them (Up to 25% at one time I believe) . This caused a few things, 
 besides an outburst of rage from players suck as myself who played PK characters, we saw 1.) a 
 HUGE HUGE drop in the amount of PK characters. 2.) PK characters having less skills and few grandmaster 
 skills. The reasoning behind the first is obvious, nobody wants to lose their hard earned skills. 
 The second was caused by the fact that even if you are careful, and a great player, you could lose 
 connection and die, or just make one mistake and die and lose your PK's skills. Now as your skill 
 rises, the harder it is to gain, from 0-10 in a skill takes a couple of minutes, while 90-100 can 
 take anywhere from 10 hours - 2 months depending on the skill. Dying one time and losing months 
 worth of work didn't sound appealing to many players. So the PK's who chose to deal with the stat 
 loss changes and continue to murder were no longer running around with perfect characters due to 
 fear of losing them, they were running around with characters with maybe 1 or 2 of the easier skills 
 to Grandmaster and 80's-90's in others. Now in addition to being freely attacked by anybody, they 
 were also disadvantaged. Don't get me wrong, you could choose to PK with a perfect 7x character, 
 but the risk just seemed to great now. I personally, hold the record to this day for the amount 
 of kills in stat loss on my server and one of the top 5 EVER in the game, so my credentials are 
 credible, and while many of my former PK brethren will disagree with me, I think stat loss was 
 actually a good idea and it did help the game as a whole. Yea it was bad for me and other PK's 
 but you have to look at the whole picture. As a PK their were a few less recognized benefits from 
 the stat loss patch that was added. First were the bounty boards we had. Each person you kill can 
 put a bounty on your head, kill enough people and that bounty adds up, anybody at any time can 
 go to to bank and look at the bounty board. PK's (for an egotistical purpose) always wanted to 
 be #1 on the bounty board on their server. It was like a badge of honor, everybody wanted to kill 
 you, everyone feared you, and everyone respected you. And second, now being a PK actually meant 
 something. It basically said, "Hey, I'm risking my skills if I die and resurrect, you can't stop 
 me, and I have the balls and the skill to continue". Before, anybody could be a PK, and it didn't 
 take much, because their wasn't much to lose. Now, you were a badass, plain and simple. I loved 
 the feeling I would get when I would come to an area, people would see my name and then watching 
 them all scatter like a tornado was coming through. I loved how It felt to be the 'Most Wanted' 
 person on the server. An interesting side note, at one point in my 'career', my bounty had actually 
 reached an unbelievable amount of over $1 Million with 3000+ kills and I virtually had every single 
 person in the game trying to find me to collect the bounty. (a bounty is collected after you kill 
 a PK, cut his head off and give it to a guard) .
  The community during this time period, is once again, unmatched by any game anywhere. At this point, 
 you had to rely on other people to succeed. Going the route of the loner was always an option, 
 albeit a much much more difficult one. Their was an economy. Some people chose to hunt dangerous 
 monsters for money, some chose to create trade based blacksmith, or tailor characters to supply 
 others with Armor, Weapons, etc, to sell to those warriors fighting the monsters, to create a profit. 
 Some relied on Treasure Hunters to sail the oceans and find treasure. The game was a perfect community, 
 you relied on everyone else, whether indirectly or directly. The Blacksmith relied on the PK to 
 klll people and loot their corpse of their weapons so the victim would pay the blacksmith to make 
 them more, the Rares hunters relied on the warriors who would scourge the dungeons and find rares 
 to sell to them, and so on and so forth. Again, it was a perfect community, full of the Good, the 
 Bad, The Thieves, Alliances, Betrayals, Real Estate and so much more. 
  Players could actually own and 'place' houses on open land outside of towns, so essentially you 
 'owned' part of that game if you had a house. a House was many things to many people. It was a 
 store to sell goods for the merchant, another space to hold loot for the wealthy person, a hideout 
 for the PK, and so on and so on. Houses came in many sizes, the larger they were the more expensive 
 and sought after they were. They could be put on 'Ice Island' (A large frozen island... of ice) , 
 outside of a town, practically anywhere.
  
  But, all good things eventually come to an end. By late 1999, those players who never wished to 
 take the time to strategize, those who did not want to risk anything and did not wish to adapt 
 to a difficult, at times heart pounding game, won over the developers. The next 6 months was a 
 psuedo Holocaust for anybody who chose to play a less than upstanding character. Game Masters were 
 permanently banning accounts of PK's at will (While PKing was not illegal, they would come up with 
 phony, or to put it bluntly B. S reasons to ban you) , myself included. They were now catering to 
 a younger, newer, less involved crowd that won them over with one thing. It starts with an M and 
 ends with a ONEY. An interesting analogy: If you were a restaurant owner, and you had a tremendous, 
 quality filled steak on the menu, and the best chicken around... Assume you had 100 loyal customers, 
 who loved you, respected you and couldn't get your dishes anywhere else. Would you offer more food, 
 with a much lesser quality, knowing you would lose your title as the best restaurant around, if 
 you could appeal to say 150 customers, who werent necessarily loyal and believed in your formula, 
 but just gave you money and lose your loyal long time patrons? If you understand that analogy, 
 then you understand what happened to Ultima Online. Mid 2000 saw the patch of UO: R to the game 
 (UO: Renissance) . This patch opened the flood gates for people who did not want to risk losing 
 anything, did not want to interact with anybody, people who wanted easy skill game, people who 
 wanted easy PvP that required no talent, people who did not want to work for what they could gain. 
 This patch had changed the game so drastically that most of UO's longest, most loyal, famous and 
 most skilled players took it as a personal insult and left the game forever, not looking back (I 
 actually stayed around for another year and a half and slowly became less and less of a 'legend' 
 as I once was, until I finally quit altogether due to my disgust with what the game became) . Not 
 just the PK's, not just the thieves, but also the hard working tradesmen who at one point were 
 actually needed. The problem is that the changes were made to EVERY server, all 20-30 of them at 
 the time. Origin didn't open up 5 or 6 new servers with the new ruleset, they patched it onto EVERYTHING. 
 UO: R saw another land added to the game that was called 'Trammel'. Trammel was an exact replica 
 of the original land, except trammel was compeltely safe, no one could be attacked, no one could 
 loot you or steal from you. You could basically have all the reward with none of the risk. This 
 made gaining money in trammel unbelievably easy. Reds were not allowed in trammel. Tradesmen were 
 no longer needed since skill gain so so simple now that everybody had a tradesmen character to 
 supplement themselves. The economy was in ruins. Money was so easy to come by due to the fact that 
 their was virtually no risk in obtaining it anymore. Nobody had any reason to hunt monsters in 
 the old lands and risk being killed so they didn't, you werent forced to interact with anybody 
 anymore because the game was made to be so easy that anybody could succeed. It went on and on and 
 on. The PvP system was virtually destroyed. It was made to cater to those who were unable to take 
 the time to learn and benefit from the old system. Literally overnight, the game... well the heart 
 of Ultima Online atleast, died. Hopefully in this long essay I made a bit of sense to those who 
 have played UO but never knew what it 'was' like and have been swayed by untrue rumors about how 
 bad the game supposedly was. And hopefully I brought back memories for those who were there with 
 me during the good times. UO was great, T2A was the heart of UO... And while it was only around 
 for 2 short years. The creators and the entire development team at OSI truly created something 
 magical.
  
  -Ifrit (1997-2002) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
