-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultima Online: Age of Shadows
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ultimaonlineageofshadows/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 25, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 216 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Feb 8, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Age of Shadows' many enhancements help make Ultima Online quite possibly the most interesting game 
 it's ever been. 

 After an unprecedented five years of commercial longevity, Ultima Online continues to battle for 
 the attention of fans of massively multiplayer online role-playing games in an increasingly competitive 
 market. Last year's expansion pack, Blackthorn's Revenge, was an unambitious release that highlighted 
 the game's maturity, both because it seemed to have outgrown the problems that plagued its initial 
 release and because the developers appeared to be running out of new ideas. However, Age of Shadows, 
 the fifth expansion pack, introduces significant gameplay changes and breathes new life into Ultima 
 Online. Unfortunately, these changes have also reintroduced problems that had previously been addressed. 
           The new territory of Malas hosts a variety of exotic creatures and some interesting geographical 
 features.    

  In most online RPGs, players spend almost all of their time hacking and slashing away at monsters 
 in order to make their characters stronger and better equipped by gaining experience levels and 
 acquiring loot so that they can then spend their time hacking and slashing at even more challenging 
 monsters. It's a simple, addictive formula, but it's so common to online RPGs that many players 
 simply refer to these games as "level treadmills." Other than repetitively dispatching monsters 
 or, less frequently, battling other players, there's generally little else to do in online RPGs. 
 Although these games typically include at least a rudimentary system for crafting items, Ultima 
 Online remains the only game of its type that comprehensively attempts to create a virtual world 
 in which you can develop characters who are adept at activities other than devastating the resident 
 fauna. It's a trait that meaningfully distinguishes Ultima Online from its competition and likely 
 explains the durability of its appeal, in spite of its increasingly outdated interface and combat 
 system.   

  Age of Shadows is largely successful at both making Ultima Online's virtual world even more compelling 
 as well as enhancing core gameplay by significantly modifying the combat system. The most far-reaching 
 and controversial change is the adoption of an entirely new magic-resistance system. In previous 
 versions of the game, all damage inflicted upon your characters was treated in the same fashion; 
 there was only one type of damage, and armor and magic resistance offered correspondingly universal 
 protection. Age of Shadows diversifies the generic treatment of character damage by introducing 
 five different damage types: physical, cold, fire, poison, and electricity. Every type of spell 
 and attack inflicts one or more of these damage types, and armor no longer provides universal protection 
 against all types of damage. This addition fundamentally changes the combat system and provides 
 additional tactical depth to player-vs.-player combat.   

  Another significant change to the combat system is the introduction of special attacks for each 
 type of weapon. Once your character earns at least 70 skill points using a particular type of weapon, 
 you acquire the ability to launch a more devastating type of attack. Upon earning 90 skill points, 
 a second special attack becomes available. In addition, Age of Shadows introduces 10 new weapon 
 types, so overall, combat is more interesting, especially for melee combat characters. Monsters 
 have less health overall, but to offset this change, you no longer get damage bonuses while fighting 
 them, while pets and other controllable creatures have been weakened so that you must be more actively 
 involved in fighting battles. Though some veteran players (who had previously mastered the earlier 
 versions of combat) may find the new changes annoying, Age of Shadows' changes do, in fact, result 
 in faster, more involving battles.           Paladins and necromancers probably shouldn't team 
 up like this. Their new skills and abilities conflict with each other.    

  Age of Shadows also adds another landmass to explore, Malas, which is considerably larger and features 
 a score of new creature types of various sizes and fantastical shapes. Unlike the misplaced batch 
 of robotic characters that were introduced in Blackthorn's Revenge, the new creatures in Age of 
 Shadows fit well within the game's medieval fantasy setting. The expansion's large new dungeon 
 gives players who cooperate in teams access to the best new magic items, providing an additional 
 social activity to a game that is otherwise extremely accommodating to solo adventurers. Ultima 
 Online has always lacked a decent quest system, since quests have been limited to a few introductory 
 tasks, as well as escort or rescue missions. While that's generally still the case, Age of Shadows 
 introduces several significant new quests and puzzles to solve.   

  Two new character templates -- the paladin and the necromancer -- and their associated skills have 
 also been added. Using a book of chivalry, paladins can use a variety of spell-like abilities, 
 including one that lets you teleport without needing a mage's recall spell. Necromancers have their 
 own magic spells, like animate dead, and also can assume various physical forms. Any established 
 characters can be modified to become paladins or necromancers by developing the associated skills, 
 and new characters can conveniently choose from templates designed to emphasize these skills. Like 
 each of the territories in the past four expansion packs, Malas doesn't allow nonconsensual player 
 combat or theft, but the expansion's general changes to combat as well as the new paladin and necromancer 
 templates do change the rules of player-vs.-player combat. Fans of player-vs.-player battles will 
 also appreciate that they no longer lose statistics when slain and that they can now use recall 
 spells to travel to and from Felucca, the only area in the game where player-vs.-player combat 
 is still permitted.    

 Age of Shadows enhances your ability to immerse yourself in the game's virtual world by introducing 
 customized housing. Provided you can find a suitable location and have the necessary funds, you 
 can now customize the construction of a virtual home. Coupled with the already existing ability 
 to manufacture or find an immense number of unique items and the recent addition of a comprehensive 
 gardening system, customized housing gives you the opportunity to decorate and otherwise personalize 
 the environment for your characters in a manner that may ultimately be as addictive as such features 
 proved in The Sims. To free up virtual real estate to give you better access to this feature, the 
 new land of Malas has been designed to accommodate 1,500 new housing locations for each server 
 shard. However, there was such an overwhelming existing demand for housing locations that most 
 of the choice new spots were scooped up almost immediately. Despite the abbreviated opportunity 
 to partake in the land rush, customized housing is a great new feature that more players should 
 get the opportunity to enjoy once the recently introduced "one house per account" rule forces all 
 of the virtual real estate barons to reduce their holdings to a single lot.           Dungeon Doom 
 is a huge new dungeon located in Malas. It contains some team-based puzzles.    

  Unfortunately, Ultima Online has a history of technical problems when it comes to managing server 
 load and server lag, and these problems remain as ugly as ever. Probably as a result of the mad 
 rush for housing spots immediately after the expansion's commercial release, it became frustratingly 
 difficult to upgrade accounts, access servers, or even make any progress within the game due to 
 frequently horrific lag delays. Server stability and performance deteriorated so badly that Origin/EA 
 was recently forced to take servers offline for extended periods of time. Even worse, players lost 
 the benefit of many hours' worth of achievements when servers had to be reset to their status as 
 of an earlier point in time. It's not surprising that a major upgrade would have a few teething 
 problems, but these issues are difficult to overlook, especially considering Ultima Online's past. 
   

  Then again, these technical problems may be related to the sheer number of changes that have been 
 introduced over the past five years. Aside from introducing new territory, the various expansion 
 packs have changed the core game's karma and reputation systems; modified and introduced skills, 
 spells, and abilities; significantly revised the combat and housing systems; introduced a system 
 of virtues and expanded the roles of guilds and factions; eliminated theft and nonconsensual player 
 combat in most areas; and also allowed the use of third-party programs such as UO Assist and UO 
 Automap. All of these modifications have resulted in a tremendously complicated system of rules 
 (and equally complex technical aspects, no doubt) , especially since many older rules have exemptions 
 for longtime players. The developers have generally done an admirable job of responding to bugs 
 and exploits, but the game's complexity makes it less accessible to new players and may never allow 
 it to consistently provide as stable and lag-free an experience as offered by other online RPGs. 
   

  Age of Shadows makes other minor changes and tweaks to the core game, though these don't affect 
 Ultima Online's gameplay significantly. The windowed interface for the gaming world is now easier 
 to resize, and hovering your mouse over items will now automatically bring up descriptions, although 
 it's still often awkward to target creatures or get feedback, especially during periods of lag. 
 Ultima Online previously offered support for a 3D client and a 2D client, and Age of Shadows (and 
 all its new areas) continues to support either. The 3D client offers a few additional graphical 
 perks, such as trees that sway, but the 2D client is still at least as viable an option, especially 
 for player-vs.-player combat, since it seems to provide quicker response times. The 2D client is 
 also still very playable on computers that are several years old, although the hard drive space 
 requirements have significantly increased with recent expansions. There have been no notable changes 
 to the game's sound effects or music, which remain relatively basic for a role-playing game.   
         The 3D client features some new graphical effects, such as swaying trees and better lighting 
 effects.    

  Age of Shadows has other new features, such as allowing players to craft magic items and purchase 
 insurance on their items. The expansion also makes other changes to level the playing field between 
 veterans and beginners so that veterans have less control over the game's virtual economy. In addition, 
 Age of Shadows features a "guaranteed gain system" that ensures all players benefit from whatever 
 time they spend with the game, even casual players who don't have a lot of time to invest. Finally, 
 new players who wish to purchase a high-level character can do so directly in the game, without 
 having to turn to the eBay black market.   

  Age of Shadows' many enhancements help make Ultima Online quite possibly the most interesting game 
 it's ever been. Despite being over 5 years old and featuring a dated interface and relatively simple 
 graphics, the uniqueness of Ultima Online's design allows it to retain a significant audience and 
 appropriately rewards this audience with commercial longevity. But while veteran players may be 
 accustomed to Ultima Online's problems with lag and server load issues, it's more difficult to 
 recommend the game to new players, since Ultima Online still seems unable to consistently overcome 
 its technical problems.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: staind311ne
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  If you were to compare most other mmorpg's to U/O you would find that the graphics are very basic. 
 However what the game lacks in graphics it makes up in game play. A person can spend countless 
 hours playing and still just touch the basics of the game. Most people (now days) want to play 
 a hack/slash type rpg. If you are one of these people then this game is not really for you. The 
 game allows a player to decide on what his/her job will be through out the game. what I mean by 
 that is a person concentrates on his/her stats to make the char. better at the profession he/she 
 choices. Example. If you start out as an miner you would concentrate on bringing your mining skill 
 up. It goes a lot more in depth then just that to bring that skill up. You have to work on bringing 
 your basic stats up to produce better results in mining. 
  The only other problem that I see in U/O other than the graphics would be, the time it takes a 
 person to level up in stats. This game is one that a person must dedicate a lot of time to. Its 
 not one that you can just play a couple hours and expect to kick butt. It can take (literally) 
 a couple months of dedicated playing to notice a differance on how you char. performs in U/O. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtreusGS
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 5, 2004 11:10 am PT
Review:  This release of Ultima Online introduces some very good features that focuses on the strengths 
 of the game in contrast to other MMORPGs. The graphics client has not been given any upgrade - 
 though new images have been added to the game. However, the biggest changes are found in the addition 
 of a new land mass (Malas) , combat changes, customizable housing, and a new dungeon - that comes 
 with new items.
  
  The combat changes are liked by some and hated by others. It can be argued that the changes make 
 combat more item based than skill based. Also, with the introduction of the new dungeon, Doom, 
 artifacts (uber items) have been introduced that can cause some combat balance problems.
  
  However the strength of the game has long been in communtiy style gameplay. With the addition of 
 the new land mass, though it has become like a trailer park, the opportunity for most players to 
 own houses allows all players to experience that side of the game. And customization of the buildings 
 gives a player the ability to immerse him/herself into the game.
  
  Overall, the Age of Shadows is a solid expansion. Though many will argue over the value due to 
 the changes in the combat system, the developers are frequently making changes to ammend some of 
 the unbalanced issues. so, this game, in my opinion is still of solid value. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
