-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultimate Ride
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/ultimateride/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 60 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive
Developer: Gigawatt Studios
Genre: Action
Date:     Sep 30, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultimate Ride has a great basic premise that is sure to appeal to roller coaster fans of all ages. 
 

  At its heart, Ultimate Ride is a roller coaster design tool that lets you create and experience 
 three different types of coasters -- wooden, steel, and hanging. In addition to a straight free-building 
 mode that lets you build any kind of coaster without restrictions, the game features what it calls 
 the "imagineering mode," which is a series of puzzle-solving scenarios where you must build or 
 modify coasters to meet certain requirements. Once you've completed a scenario, a new puzzle is 
 unlocked, and the game may award prizes when the completed coaster goes above and beyond the minimum 
 requirements.           Ultimate Ride lets you build your very own roller coaster...    

  Ultimate Ride is visually pleasing, if only for the somewhat simple pleasure of experiencing a 
 roller coaster from a first- or third-person 3D perspective. Technically, the game's graphics have 
 some rough spots and omissions -- if you're a stickler for realism, the lack of couplers between 
 cars and the somewhat blocky and oversimplified 3D objects can be disappointing. Similarly, it 
 would have been nice to see passengers in the cars. The graphics are functional, though, and the 
 multiple camera views and mostly smooth ride animations do a good job of conveying the feeling 
 of being on a coaster, occasionally to the point of bringing your stomach along for the ride -- so 
 if you're squeamish, be wary.   

  The game's sound effects are decent, but the music quickly gets repetitive, even with the multiple 
 choices and styles provided. Luckily, the music can be turned off, and riding the coasters without 
 the music feels far more realistic and gives a greater emphasis to the effects of the coaster itself, 
 such as the clinking sound as cars are being dragged uphill by the chain, or the whooshing sound 
 as cars accelerate around a curve.   

  Most of the puzzles in the imagineering mode do a good job of giving you a framework with which 
 to build a coaster without restricting your freedom to be creative. Typical requirements include 
 building a coaster that goes through a series of colored rings; maintaining a minimum average speed 
 or duration; or completing a specified series of coaster elements. In addition to fulfilling the 
 scenario's featured requirements, you must also ensure that coasters maintain enough momentum to 
 complete the round trip, and you must also often adhere to safety guidelines that put a limit on 
 the vertical and lateral G-forces experienced by the passengers.   

  The majority of puzzles begin with a partially completed coaster, and you must add and modify track 
 parts using a fairly straightforward interface. Track parts, such as straight sections, curved 
 sections, loops, and corkscrews, are added to the end of the existing track, and once in place 
 they can be lengthened, shortened, banked right or left, and raised or lowered. If you need to 
 edit a previous section of the track, you can either click on it directly using the mouse, or jump 
 back and forth between parts using the keyboard commands. Eventually, you must bring the track 
 full circle to join up where it started. While the game is somewhat intuitive and its electronic 
 manual gives a good description of all the commands, an in-game tutorial would have made the learning 
 process smoother for those who aren't used to designing and building 3D objects.   

  Where the game gets tricky is when a coaster doesn't meet the safety guidelines or another requirement, 
 and you have to adjust it. If, for example, you add an accelerator to your coaster to meet a minimum 
 average speed of 40mph, you could find that the added speed causes your passengers to experience 
 a lateral G-force around a curve that exceeds the safety guidelines. If you then bank the track 
 more steeply, that could cause the vertical G-force to exceed the guidelines. If you instead choose 
 to make the curve less sharp, that could move sections of the track down the line and cause a collision 
 problem. More extreme track parts, such as loops and corkscrews, can easily exceed the safety guidelines 
 if not carefully used. The game avoids being frustrating by encouraging the trial-and-error approach, 
 and even if a coaster doesn't yet fulfill the requirements, it's still fun to ride.   

  Fortunately, the game interface makes it easy to see which requirements have been met and which 
 still need to be met. In addition, if a safety guideline is broken, it is just a matter of hopping 
 through the series of track parts while watching the force monitor on the screen. One thing that 
 makes adjusting tracks somewhat difficult is you can't switch one track part for another without 
 replacing all the track parts after it.           ... and then take it for a spin.    

  The game's puzzles provide plenty of challenge for amateur coaster designers, and the rating system 
 gives you an incentive to continue working on tracks even after the basic requirements have been 
 satisfied. It's easy to spend an hour or more trying to get a coaster just right if you're inclined 
 to do so, but many puzzles can be solved in a variety of ways, some of which take longer to build 
 and test than others. For those who prefer to build their own coasters from scratch, the free-building 
 mode includes plenty of environments, objects, and decorations within three basic track themes -- outer 
 space, medieval, and futuristic. For additional incentive to build the best coaster, Disney Interactive 
 has set up a Web site where you can submit your custom tracks to be rated by other players.   

 
  Ultimate Ride has a great basic premise that is sure to appeal to roller coaster fans of all ages. 
 While the game's graphics and sound could use some improvement, they do a good job of conveying 
 the sense of riding a coaster while in the 3D ride mode, and the straightforward interface and 
 graphics in the build mode make it easy, once you've learned the basic commands, to design and 
 create a coaster. If you've ever wanted to see what it would be like if your favorite coaster had 
 just a few more loops in it, or if you just want to build and experience some roller coasters without 
 experiencing that weightless feeling in your gut, Ultimate Ride is a good choice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest roller coaster games ever if not the best. The good thing about this game is 
 that you can go as fast as you want if you turn off friction which is always pestering me. One 
 great thing about this game is you can make three different types of roller coasters and they are 
 steel wooden and hanging roller coasters. The only thing that this game actually lacks is excellent 
 graphics. Although they are not perfect they are still very good graphics for the 1990s. This game 
 is a very addicting game and i am sure that you will like this game as much as i did. This game 
 is the best roller coaster game of its time and even perhaps the best one of all time. This game 
 deserves the number one roller coaster game of the year and of any year because of how great it 
 is. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
