-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultima Collection
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ultimacollection/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.9, 8.5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 133 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Feb 28, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Ultima Collection is a praiseworthy historical document, an excellent value, and paradoxically, 
 an unfortunate disappointment. 

 At last, by popular demand, Origin's venerable role-playing series is available all on one CD-ROM. 
 Most of it, anyway. The Ultima Collection is a praiseworthy historical document, an excellent value, 
 and paradoxically, an unfortunate disappointment. For while this collection presents ten of the 
 most important role-playing games ever designed on a single disc, its self-conscious omissions 
 render the Ultima Collection hopelessly incomplete.  

 The Ultima Collection contains every game in the Ultima series as well as creator Richard Garriott's 
 first published release, Akalabeth. Many of these remain timeless and incredible role-playing games, 
 while some haven't aged as well. Don't expect much from Akalabeth - it's practically 20 years old. 
 Ultima II and III also feel pretty ancient. With somber-looking CGA graphics chock-full of drab 
 black, gray, cyan, and magenta, these two games are much more cumbersome to play than their descendants. 
 The Ultima Collection includes the late '80s full-color remake of Ultima I (as opposed to the original 
 release) whose visual improvements help make it a rather pleasant dungeon hack even today, though 
 it lacks the depth and detail embodied in the later games in the series.  

 Ultima IV is the most tightly woven game in the series. With clearly defined goals, an epic plot, 
 and a powerful game engine, Ultima IV is a classic. Even so, Ultima V is its hands-down superior, 
 with a more streamlined engine, superb graphics that retain their charm to this day, and an awesome 
 story worthy of the Ultima tradition. Ultima VI marks perhaps the greatest graphical leap the Ultima 
 series has ever accomplished, with the introduction of 256-color MCGA graphics. The scale of the 
 world is many times greater than even the vast Ultima V, and the story, centered around the seemingly 
 malicious race of Gargoyles, is thought-provoking and exciting.  

 Ultima VII consists of two stand-alone parts. The original Ultima VII is the most gorgeous game 
 of the series, with its vivid and full-scale world that truly feels alive with secrets and detail. 
 Its plot, dealing with an enigmatic new religious society and the evil being called the Guardian, 
 is unforgettable. A real-time combat engine and fully mouse-driven interface made Ultima VII feel 
 somewhat simpler than its ancestors, but in retrospect the game remains a marvelous achievement. 
 Serpent Isle, the continuation of Ultima VII, is often considered the best Ultima ever made. Though 
 its look is mostly borrowed from Ultima VII, Serpent Isle offers a huge quest and some of the most 
 fascinating characters and situations ever to be found in a role-playing game.  

 In light of Ultima VII and Serpent Isle, it's little wonder why most everyone hated Ultima VIII 
 when it was published not so long ago in 1994. The frightfully simplistic game mechanics combined 
 with action-oriented puzzles and a loathsome combat engine frustrated most long-time fans of the 
 series. Nonetheless, the game is not without merit; a complex spell-casting system and an uncompromising, 
 morally ambiguous plot make Ultima VIII a worthy quest for those willing to get acquainted with 
 its elusive gameplay. But sadly, even the once-impressive 3D-rendered graphics look practically 
 amateurish by current standards, making Ultima VIII an infinitely cumbersome game.  

 The Ultima Collection is missing the two spin-off series: the outstanding 3D first-person Ultima 
 Underworlds and the artful Worlds of Ultima games. Ultima Underworld is sold separately in stores 
 either on the discount bin or as part of Interplay's Ultimate RPG Archives. But the Worlds of Ultima 
 games are casualties of the times, nowhere to be found and utterly forgotten by all but the most 
 die-hard fans. Based on the Ultima VI game engine, the Worlds of Ultima games cast the Avatar in 
 wondrous, new lands. Savage Empire, the first Worlds of Ultima game, pits the Avatar in a prehistoric 
 setting filled with dinosaurs and Stone Age tribesmen. Among other things, the Avatar constructs 
 rifles and gunpowder from natural items, sets a trap to kill an enormous Tyrannosaurus Rex, and 
 befriends an ancient reptilian race. Savage Empire, let alone any reference to its existence, is 
 not included in the Ultima Collection. The second Worlds of Ultima game, Martian Dreams, is in 
 several ways the most ambitious Ultima ever created. The Avatar is trapped on the planet Mars along 
 with Earth's most important modern historical figures from Vladimir Lenin to Andrew Carnegie, and 
 with their help he must find a way home. In doing so, he steps into his own dreams to uncover the 
 fate of a Martian race on the brink of extinction. Martian Dreams is also entirely absent from 
 the Ultima Collection.  

 Omissions notwithstanding, the Ultima Collection does a good job presenting the ten games it does 
 contain. Akalabeth and the first six Ultimas are readily playable under Windows 95 (even in a window) 
 and run fine even on fast machines with the help of the included speed reduction utility. Getting 
 Ultima VII and VIII to work is more challenging because of their unorthodox DOS-based memory management, 
 and unless you have DOS drivers installed on your computer you won't be able to play them at all. 
 Also contained in the package is a complete atlas featuring reprints of the maps included in the 
 Ultima games over the years. At the same time, each game's original manual may be found on the 
 CD-ROM in Adobe Acrobat format, while copy protection and all important general information are 
 also accessible in the Collection's printed documentation. And to sweeten the deal all the more, 
 the Ultima Collection includes video interviews with the series' creator in which he discusses 
 the origins of the series and where he wants it to go.  

 While the Ultima Collection does not necessarily promise to give you every Ultima ever made, its 
 failure to include the Underworld and Worlds of Ultima games makes it feel painfully incomplete 
 for the fan hoping to get his hands on a complete archive of Garriott's work. But it does contain 
 several of the best role-playing games of all time. It's a package worth owning for any number 
 of reasons, not the least of which is that half of these games are still perfectly worth playing 
 for the first time, or playing all over again.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the Ultima series are my favorite pure RPG games. Richard Garriot was really inhaled 
 when developed the Ultima games. Its featured story, gameplay, sound and graphics are uneven. Usually 
 I don't spend time with narratives in game, but this one really drew my attention. Let's do a quick 
 overview about it:
  
  In Ultima I, a champion was summoned by Lord British to stop Mondain from destroying the land of 
 Sosaria. The champion was victorious, and brought peace to the land. In Ultima II, Mondain's apprentice 
 and lover, called Minax, raised more powerful than her master, allowing control over a whole army 
 of foul creatures to once again attack Sosaria. The champion was able to kill the entire army as 
 well Minax. The triumph of the hero was short, however. In Ultima III, the child of darkness Exodus, 
 son of Mondain and Minax, grow up and carry out a campaign to revenge his parents, destroying then 
 Sosaria. Once again, the champion appeared and killed the beast Exodus. With the peace on the land, 
 Lord British united all the people in Sosaria and formed the kingdom of Britannia. In Ultima IV 
 (probably the best in series) , the champion was called to establish the Eight Virtues and by seizing 
 the Codex of Ultimate Wisdom from the depths of the Stygian Abyss. At this time, the champion received 
 the title of "Avatar", the Champion of Virtue.
  
  In Ultima V, by removing the Codex of Wisdom from the Abyss, the Avatar woke up the three Shadowlords. 
 They dethrone Lord British and rule Britannia with chaos. The Avatar was called one more time to 
 banish the Shadowlords and save Lord British from the underworld. After that, Lord British was 
 free and his throne regained. But, by doing this, the Avatar caused a powerful series of earthquakes 
 as the vast network of subterranean caverns was destroyed. Much of the gargoyle race did perish 
 in that tragic cataclysm. This is where Ultima VI begins, when gargoyles start attacking Britannia 
 and even attempted to assassinate the Avatar. They trapped the Champion of Virtue, who eventually 
 was rescued by his companions. At last it was revealed that the Codex of Wisdom, which had been 
 removed from the underworld by the champion, was actually the property of the gargoyles. Therefore 
 the Avatar placed the Codex into an ethereal void where neither human nor gargoyle can reach it. 
 With this, the conflict between gargoyles and humans is over.
  
  Then arrives one of the best titles of the series: Ultima VII, divided in four games: The Black 
 Gate, Forge of Virtue, Serpent Isle and Silver Seed. The very latest releases of the game have 
 included both parts and both of the expansion disks, which is the case of this Collection. Ultima 
 VII starts with a struggle between the Avatar and the Guardian, a foul creature that wants to rule 
 Britannia. The Avatar destroyed the Black Moongate from where the Guardian was coming through. 
 Then the Champion of Virtue traveled along outside Britannia to the Serpent Island, to meet an 
 ancient civilization that will give important clues about the location of Batlin, the one that 
 summoned the now destroyed Black Gate, which almost brought the Guardian to Britannia. Meanwhile, 
 the Avatar, in the journey to meet the Serpent, was captured by the Guardian and launched the champion 
 to a different world called Pagan.
  
  Here starts Ultima VIII. The hero is now in a different place and alone. This title brings a deep 
 story. Let's do it quickly: The Avatar needs to defeat the four elemental Titans to return to his 
 home world.
  
  As you can see, I love Ultima. Even today I remember almost all the narrative and the aspects of 
 each game. In general, players prefer Ultima IV and Ultima VII: Serpent Isle. This is quite obvious 
 since those ones brought a lot of innovations, like gameplay and amazing graphics. Personally I 
 like for most Ultima VIII Pagan which, even with its problems, it's a very nice RPG.
  
  The problem with Ultima Collection is that you can't run it on both modern machines and Windows. 
 It barely runs on Windows 9x... you'll need some older drivers to do it. Forget about running Ultima 
 in Windows 2000/XP (and, obvious, in Vista) without a DOS emulator. Probably the best way to run 
 Ultima games today is using a boot-disk. You'll have problems especially with Ultima VII and VIII, 
 because of the virtual memory. Also another problem in Ultima Collection is that it doesn't come 
 with the Underworld series, an amazing first-person RPG adventure, and Worlds of Ultima (Savage 
 Empire and Martian Dreams) , which used the Ultima VI engine. So, even with this collection, you 
 will not have all official Ultima titles.
  
  You can be pleased with graphics only in Ultima VII: Serpert Isle and Ultima VIII Pagan. Take a 
 moment. This can be a shock, but Ultima I, II and III uses only four colours (gray, black, magenta 
 and cyan) in their graphics engine. Only Ultima IV uses a better engine that can satisfy a little 
 a regular RPG player. Gameplay also became better in Ultima VII, with real-time combat. Until then, 
 all Ultima games used turn-based combat.
  
  Sound is good in Ultima VII and VIII, but it's also okay in Ultima V and VI. The music is amazing 
 in both Pagan and Black Gate/Serpent Isle. There isn't voice acting in those games, only in Ultima 
 VIII at a few rare moments (when you meet Hydros, for example) .
  
  I think Ultima Collection has a perfect gameplay value. As you can see, you'll have more than 40 
 hours of enjoyment playing this outstanding RPG collection, even without multiplayer or advanced 
 difficulty settings. Each Ultima game is unique in its own way, and there aren't too many games 
 that possess a so intriguing story as these ones; and you'll need to learn a bit about Ultima's 
 universe to finish this collection, believe me.
  
  The complexity of Ultima isn't only in the storyline, to be honest. The spell-casting system is 
 also very difficult to understand, especially in Ultima VIII Pagan. You'll have to use reagents, 
 books and other items just to cast a simple spell. Also, there are some hard puzzles to solve, 
 again particularly in the eighth installment of the series. There are puzzles that you'll only 
 be able to solve if you read every single book and scroll that you can find in the world of Pagan, 
 not to mention the extra attention to the dialogues, as you can't read then twice sometimes. But 
 "almost-impossible" quests don't happen often in Ultima IV, V, VI or VII, only in Pagan. This can 
 be either a good or bad thing, it really depends on your taste. Personally, I love to spend time 
 exploring every place and reading every text that I could find. In Ultima I, II and III you won't 
 find too much challenge, since those games are very simple. I think that the main problem is to 
 be creative to imagine the world, monsters and items, considering that the graphics and sound doesn't 
 help in that matter. It's required to be as imaginative as Julio Verne here or at least crazy enough 
 to interpret the most obscure dreams by Richard Garriot. =)
  
  There are some cool gameplay features in Ultima, especially in Ultima VI and VII, which allows 
 you to play with some companions (Shamino, Iolo etc) . Yes, it means that you'll fight Britannia's 
 monsters with a party. Of course, you'll only be able to control one character, but it's nice nonetheless. 
 It's too bad that this concept wasn't recycled in Ultima VIII Pagan.
  
  Expect to hammer your mouse when playing Ultima VIII Pagan. This is a huge problem, since almost 
 all commands require you to double-click the left or right mouse buttons. In addition to this issue, 
 Ultima VII and the following sequels lets you interact with a lot of objects in the world, such 
 as candles, chairs, keys, barrels, chests etc, and move then to a position of your choice. The 
 problem is that sometimes it can be a pain to do this, but in general it's cool and eventually 
 necessary (as some important objects are placed behind vases, for example) .
  
  Both the world of Britannia, in Ultima IV, V, VI and VII, and Pagan, in Ultima VIII, are free to 
 explore, although there are some locked areas that you need to complete a quest before entering 
 in these places. This brings a non-linear experience, noticed first in Ultima IV. However it's 
 pretty obvious that your quests are quite linear, but you don't need to visit places in order at 
 any time of the game.
  
  We can discuss about Ultima Collection in an endless review, but I'll stop here. I miss a lot Origin 
 and its games. Only Garriot and Origin's developers were able to create such a great RPG. But believe 
 me, if you have this collection and Ultima IX: Ascension, you'll have a lot of hours of gameplay. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
