-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultima IX: Ascension
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ultima9ascension/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 10, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 362 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultima IX comes across both as an epic and a farce. 

 Ultima IX: Ascension is one of the most important games released in years. It's not just the only 
 installment of the Ultima series proper in half a decade, but it's also the final game in the highly 
 respected, long-running line of role-playing games. Origin has also announced that Ultima IX will 
 be the last single-player game it will ever release, and there's still more at stake because this 
 last Ultima abandons the series' traditional top-down perspective in favor of a third-person fully-3D 
 engine.  

 Fortunately, fans of the series will find that the new perspective is mostly unobtrusive and the 
 3D interface for jumping and climbing is actually rather effective, and they will be pleased to 
 find that Ascension is filled with references to earlier games in the series. At the same time, 
 Ultima IX assumes no previous experience and does a great job of acclimating newcomers to the world 
 of Britannia and in setting the stage for the final showdown between the Avatar and his archenemy. 
 However, Ascension isn't likely to win over anyone who doesn't already cherish the series, because 
 even in spite of its many positive traits, it's a game whose ambitious design ultimately caves 
 in upon itself due to the game's inconsistent quality and many technical problems.  

 Ultima IX looks so good that its sacrifice of performance for the sake of quality is almost worthwhile. 
 It features a three-dimensional Britannia that looks much like fans of the series must have imagined 
 it based on the old Apple II games. In Ultima IX, the lush vegetation, rolling hills, mountain 
 peaks, and classical architecture that lend the fantasy world of Britannia its distinctly plausible 
 appearance all serve to effectively convey the seamless alternate reality that Ultima fans have 
 always hoped to see. Although you can't see very far into the horizon no matter how you adjust 
 the view setting, the sheer detail in any single location in Britannia is impressive. The world 
 is never static; birds and butterflies flutter about, the weather and ambient lighting change slowly 
 as the day passes, and the scenery is consistently unique no matter where you are. There's plenty 
 of detail whether you're outdoors or not. You'll also find yourself traveling beneath Britannia, 
 and what you'll experience in its various subterranean settings, such as catacombs, sewers, and 
 prisons, is nearly as diverse and impressive as the plains, swamps, and snowfields on its surface. 

 However, this stunning new Britannia is not uncompromising. It's on a substantially smaller scale 
 than in previous Ultimas, such that players revisiting the land may feel claustrophobic or disappointed 
 as they jog along its short roads. But by any other standards, the world of Ultima IX is as beautiful 
 as it is expansive. The seamless transitions between surface and underworld areas further accentuate 
 the feeling that you're exploring a life-sized living, breathing world. Unfortunately, the various 
 creatures and characters that inhabit the world don't look nearly as good as the world itself, 
 and their blocky features come across as generic and uninspired compared to the intricate scenery. 

 Would that the plain-looking character models were the biggest problem with Ultima IX's graphics. 
 Unfortunately, the real concern is actually getting the graphics to run at an acceptable speed, 
 which will prove to be the greatest challenge of Ultima IX for anyone who doesn't own a top-of-the-line 
 computer with a 3dfx card. Ultima IX isn't a fast-paced game, so you'd think a low frame rate wouldn't 
 be cause for alarm; however, the poor graphics performance is such that it can make extended play 
 sessions very hard on the eyes, yet the game's languid pace makes such marathon play sessions necessary. 

 Ultima fans will be glad to know that such play sessions necessarily involve a great deal of conversation 
 with Britannia's inhabitants. These players will also find that the process of interacting with 
 the characters of Ultima IX is identical to that of the last several games: You choose what to 
 say from a few different choices at a time. Ultima IX's dialogue generally doesn't give you much 
 choice in how to respond so much as it lets you choose the order in which you acquire particular 
 information, although you'll sometimes have to make decisions that are significant and even drastic. 
 Part of the reason you'll spend a lot of time in conversation is that all the dialogue in Ultima 
 IX is spoken and thus takes longer to get through than if you simply read the subtitles. But that's 
 only if you actually listen to it, which you shouldn't; the fact is, Ultima IX's voice acting is 
 almost uniformly horrible. Almost every character speaks in some sort of awful, inconsistent accent 
 that trivializes not only the gravity of the game's premise, but also the characters themselves. 
 Even the Avatar himself sounds inappropriate, not so much because of the characterization of his 
 voice, but rather because of his deadpan delivery. At least the game's symphonic soundtrack fares 
 better, but it becomes disturbingly repetitive in short order. You may as well toggle off the speech 
 if not also the music, though whether or not you actually listen to Ultima IX, you'll find that 
 the game's dialogue is consistently dry and straightforward and that the plot is interesting only 
 because of its situations rather than characters.  

 Whether the plot is interesting in the first place is further cause for concern. Unlike previous 
 Ultimas, in which the purpose of the Avatar's goal becomes clear only after hours of deduction, 
 in Ascension, your goal is projected quickly and clearly. Although there are plenty of unpredictable 
 and oftentimes effective plot twists over the course of the game, that the overall goal remains 
 consistently evident paves the way for Ultima IX's unrelentingly linear structure. There is no 
 inherent problem with a linear story; on the contrary, such a narrative can be much more complicated 
 and cohesive than one that lets you experience it from any direction. But Ultima IX is linear not 
 for the sake of a complicated plot, but more so in an effort to prevent you from ever getting lost. 
 As such, the game confines you to small areas at a time - you'll be trapped on an island or in 
 a dungeon until you solve it - and this diminishes the sense that you're actually free to explore 
 Britannia. Though you'll find the occasional reward if you carefully investigate the outskirts 
 of each environment, more often than not, you'll feel as though you're being punished for straying 
 from the designers' intended path. You'll either end up wasting your time, or in the worst cases, 
 you'll actually break one of the game's quests by completing its objectives out of order, thus 
 making victory impossible.  

 Such problems are so numerous and apparent in Ultima IX that they cannot be overlooked. An almost 
 immediate patch fixed dozens of problems in the retail version but put just a small dent in all 
 the technical problems that plague Ultima IX to its very core. Quest problems notwithstanding, 
 the game is prone to crashing, the Avatar is prone to getting hopelessly stuck on objects, and 
 his enemies, no matter how big or how powerful, are consistently mindless.  

 The combat system in Ultima IX is utterly inept; it's evident the designers had no idea how the 
 actual fighting should work, even up through the very last moments of development. Because someone 
 must have insisted on making the game action-packed, and someone else must have insisted the game 
 shouldn't require much manual dexterity, the consequence is one of the worst combat systems in 
 a role-playing game to date. You simply draw your weapon and hammer the left mouse button as quickly 
 as you can, which wouldn't be so bad if the game did a decent job of letting you know you were 
 actually hitting anything. Dodging your enemies is essentially impossible; then again, you don't 
 really have to, since most of the time your enemies just stand there and let you kill them. You 
 can learn new weapon techniques as the game proceeds, but there's no real reason to do so. Besides, 
 you can avoid most any fight by simply walking around the enemy, and you don't gain experience 
 for fighting anyway. In fact, the only benefit of fighting is that your fallen foes, both human 
 and animal, drop gold coins whenever you kill them. The terrible combat along with the terrible 
 voice acting sucks all the drama right out of most any significant hostile encounter in the game. 

 The combat and acting actually cheapen the quality of the game. Ultima IX comes across both as an 
 epic and a farce; you'll try to take it seriously as you play, because the game's beautiful scenery 
 and grave situations demand it. But there's nothing serious about the Avatar letting out a battle 
 cry as he hits a giant rat in its back and collects its gold, nor is it possible to keep a straight 
 face while listening to half the characters in the game. And though the game has a lot of variety, 
 some sequences are far weaker than others and sink to the very lowest form of role-playing cliche, 
 as they force you to stumble blindly through pointless mazes in search of keys and whatnot. Add 
 to this the game's long list of technical problems, a selection of which is guaranteed to adversely 
 affect your experience with the game, and it's plain to see that Ultima IX isn't really worth it. 
 However, such a warning probably won't discourage the devout Ultima fan who would force his way 
 through the game regardless of any fact or opinion that indicates he should do no such thing, if 
 only so that he could see the 20-year-old series finally reach a conclusion.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HeroJH
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Remember the time this game came out. At the time, for me, this game was wonderful. It was one 
 of the first full 3d free roaming games with side quests and variable main quest (in regards to 
 choosing characters and choices of finishing.) The music and ambient sound of this game was great 
 for it's time, and, to me, still exceeds some games today. The graphics were quite good for the 
 time if you had a great system, but still appreciated at lower settings, despite it's poor performance 
 on most computers. I hope that this isn't the end of this series, it could make such a great comeback 
 today in the times of the XBox 360. If you enjoyed Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion recently, this was 
 about that scale at the time it was released. To me, as a guy that's played PC gaming since PC's 
 came out, it holds fond memories to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nephayugi
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Considering this game was created in 1999, Ultima IX's graphics are good for when it was released 
 making the only positive aspect of the game.
  
  The most negative aspect of the game is the plot or the lack of it. This game it is not a true 
 sequel of the others. Full of plot holes, broken promises, mistakes, etc makes this game a very 
 disappointing and a waste of time to Ultima series fans like myself (I'm still waiting for the 
 true sequel) .
  
  Aspects of the game that shows that they didn't look to the others Ultimas:
  There has never 
 been a connection between shrines and moongates.
  They forgot towns or maybe they didn't have time to explained what happen. (Like other things. 
 Many Things!)
  Events that happen in Ultima VII are ignore like other things.
  ...
  
  Also the game is full of glitches. From time to time I have to reinstall the game due to the fact 
 that after some playing time it crashes and when I load the game crashes again and again and again. 
 
  
  
  It was a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gold_horde
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Ultima IX is the only ultima game ive played of there series. May not have the best graphics for 
 now a day games but its fun. Its sorta like the Morrowind of when it came out! When i first played 
 it my computer didn't allow it to run the best. Like the water you couldn't go under (couldn't 
 see) and yea. Well i played it on a different computer and thought it was splendid. Its the game 
 thatt wont get me bored. Otherwise its really great because you can do what ever you want. Like 
 you can challange the gaurds to a fight and still loose. : ( You can do alot in so many ways. Its 
 the game that has many gliches but are really funny. I suggest you to play it. Now if i had the 
 chance, i would redo the game with better graphics. All though it did come out back then it still 
 woould be better. If i had the chance also i would play the whole series. You have a great variety 
 of choices with the voice aspects. They did great on the Npcs. I suggest you to play the other 
 ones first (if you can find them) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knux15
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Considering this game was created in 1999, the game has still grabbed my interest now. Back in 
 99 I tried to play the game and it was actually to much for the computers at the time. I just recently 
 put in the discs and tried again and for the last 3 hours I have been back into Britaina as the 
 game hero Avatar.
  
  The good things include:
  
  One of the Grandfathers of RPG games.
  Snappy Fast Game Play
  Special Effects that still impress 
 me at times
  And... Several paths to take
  
  Some Things That Show The Game's Age:
  
  Graphics look utterly horrible for this day and age but still aren't pixelated
  Sound system 
 is the most corniest thing in the world
  Battle is very linear with the normal *stab stab* gameplay
  Controls both on ground and in water 
 take a hell of a long time to learn
  Books can freeze gameplay for a max of 10 secs but DO NOT crash the game.
  
  Bottom Line:
 
  
  The game was its version of Top-Notch in the late 90's but ever with the legacy of age it kicks 
 the ass of some other games made today. I would gladly have payed $15 for this game still today. 
 (Original Price back in the day was $39.99) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoakwind
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Is there anyone out there who could tell me where I can find the last video part of the game after 
 you kill the Daemon ? Or tell me how to unbug the darn game so I can watch the end part of the 
 game . If you have any pictures of it or know someone that does please let me in on it . Other 
 wise the game was better than WOW. I wish they would make more games like this one. I give it a 
 9.7 out of 10. I really injoyed the virtues, food you ate, spells you had to make by gathering up 
 plants, resent, and other supplies to create spells. The armor and weapons was awsome. You could 
 swim in the water or under water. You could climb things and jump from it. it had moutains you 
 could climb. the views were incredible. I like that you could travel by a ship or teleport. I tell 
 you people out there this is a game they should make more adventures for this game. Add ons would 
 be awsome. To think about it . This game is as good as world of warcraft. Many other ways except 
 being online it is better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3DO_Lives
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Ultima IX: Ascension was released back in Christmas '99. A lot of reviews were written about this 
 highly anticipated sequel that was the final end to the third trilogoy of the Ultima series. Many 
 of these reviews were quite brutal on Utlima IX, and to the reviews' credits, for many understandable 
 reasons. I purchased this game for Christmas in '99, and played a good deal of it in early 2000. 
 My computer at the time (along with everybody else's) , could barely run Ultima IX. I fell out of 
 the game for a while, until Sept 2003 when I purchased a new computer with very high gaming capabilities. 
 I then rediscovered the game and have played it all the way through over the past 2 years. In looking 
 online at everyone's reviews at the turn of the milleanium, I feel that Ultima IX now deserves 
 a second look.
  
  First, let's cover my Ultima qualifications. I am no stranger to the series. I have played Ultima 
 3 and 4 on the NES, and Ultima 7, Ultima Underworld 2, and Ultima Online on the PC. I am very into 
 the storyline of the series, and like many others, was highly anticipating the release of number 
 9 twords the later 90's. I have played my fair share of RPGs here and there, from recent hits such 
 as Final Fantasy, to old school hits such as Might & Magic in the 80's. That being said, I can 
 look at Ultima IX pretty objectively. 
  
  Well, Ultima IX is certainly the most interesting PC game ever made, in that it has huge plusses 
 and huge minuses. First the plusses.
  
  Ultima IX's graphics are unbelievable for when the game was released. The entire world is rendered 
 in full 3D, and it is breathtaking. Now that I have a stronger computer a few years later, I was 
 able to play the game on its ultra highest settings. Well, in late 2003, the graphics on the highest 
 setting still amazed me. 4 years after its release, the graphics are as good as any new game to 
 come out. You see the detail of every blade of grass, every mushroom, every flower. The world is 
 not "flat", it curves, bows up and down, you name it. Just walking down a sidewalk looks like a 
 real life sidewalk it that it has hills and curves slightly as you walk along. The sky is detailed, 
 and looking up at dawn or dusk just takes your breath away. I found myself using the "snapshot" 
 option all the time just to be able to look at the landscape later. The water affects are well 
 done, and when you are underwater you get an incredible "morphing" affect. Lighting affects could 
 not be stronger. 
  
  The game's sound is great as well. The music of each town is well done, particularly the "sad" 
 versions of each town's music (every town has a before and after theme of you saving the day) . 
 Also, the different versions of fighting music are bold and appropriate for the action. Sound effects 
 are decent. The voice work is decent too, with each conversation not just text as in previous Ultimas, 
 but now actually spoken. 
  
  Ultima IX, as promised over the years, has an epic storyline. The Avatar has returned to Britainia, 
 only to find it in ruins by the Guardian. Every aspect of the world has been corrupted. The land 
 itself is in ruins, and all the people are acting in ways opposite from the virtues they are supposed 
 to follow. The storyline is definitely an all or nothing, fight to the finish.
  
  The game is long and fullfilling. To get all the way through the game is at least 40 hours, definitely 
 on the long side even by RPG standards. There are plenty of side quests to work on and areas to 
 explore. Because of the detailed 3D nature of the game, many secrets can be well hidden underneath 
 objects, in ceilings, etc.
  
  Finally, despite what some reviewers may say, the basic gameplay of Ultima IX is true to past Ultimas. 
 The system of following each of the 8 virtues is still in affect. The Avatar has two main objectives 
 for each of the 8 cities. The first is to turn the people around to following their respective 
 virtues, which I find to be a nod to the great townspeople interaction from Ultima 7. The second 
 is to venture through and conquer each of the 8 dungeons, which was used back in Ultima 4 and 5. 
 All in all, the game's foundation is great and epic, and the basis of what you need to do is true 
 Ultima.
  
  OK, now on to the bad.
  
  Ultima IX is scaled down in many respects. The original plotline of the game was not used, and 
 in is place is a fairly simple one. The game is very linear (you can for the most part only go 
 to one town at a time, in their order) . The purpose of each of the towns is always the same, fix 
 the shrine by gathering the town object and the dungeon object. Because of the move to 3D, the 
 world itself is proportionally much smaller. You can basically walk across the world in only a 
 few minutes. In Ultima 7, Britain was a grand city with over 50 separate buildings. Because everything 
 in Ultima IX is 3D and highly detailed, they could only have about 10 to 15 buildings. Cove, one 
 of the smaller towns, only had 3 buildings! In Ultima 7, townspeople went to work in the daytime, 
 sleep in their homes at night, and even hung out at the bar sometimes. In Ascension, no dice. People 
 just stand around 24/7, and many have no actual homes. In Ultima 7, there was rich dialogue possible 
 with every townsperson, and they would remember your past conversions. Uh uh here. Everytime you 
 talk to the same townsperson, you must go through an introduction as if you just met. I've talked 
 to the Britain jeweler about 50 times now, but I guess the Avatar doesn't remember him. Conversation 
 trees are screwed up at times and information is left out. You just need to get lucky sometimes 
 that you picked the right response in a conversation.
  
  Many gameplay elements are just plain weak. Fighting, for instance, is in real time 3D as in the 
 Underworld series. However, it just does not feel right. Really all you do is walk up to enemies 
 and stab them. Sometimes the enemies just stand there and take it. There is no experience to gain 
 from fighting as in most RPGs. The only benefit in killing monsters is the gold, in which every 
 monster leaves behind gold. Yes, giant rats carry money in Ultima IX. Sometimes the system of acting 
 virtuous is unclear. Just by having seemingly innocent, respectful conversations with characters 
 leads them to get mad and attack you. If you attack back, you may or may not be punished for unvirtuous 
 behavior. Some of your old friends from previous Ultimas are corrupted and attack you in the dungeons. 
 You are supposed to not kill them, but it unclear sometimes who they are! Without any dialogue, 
 a wizard attacked me in a dungeon. I fought back and killed the wizard, but later read online that 
 this was one of my former friends. The system is just too ambiguous, and should have been polished 
 better. The game in general, from its dialogue, to its combat, to its virtue system, just needs 
 more polish. Finally, the fun factor of having your party full of friends has been lost. You must 
 brave Ascension alone. This fits the storyline well, but even so, you should have more conversation 
 with your friends (Iolo, Shamino, etc.)
  
  Now, a big dispute I have with other reviewers is the glitches in the game. Many reviewers said 
 that the game was unplayable and would crash all the time. A few years later I can say that this 
 did not occur for me. My computer is now powerful enough to handle the game. Perhaps Ultima IX 
 was just a little ahead of its time. Patch v.1.18 is out, and it handles most problems. The only 
 problem I had running the game this time around was some sound troubles, but I attribute that more 
 to my computer's sound capabilities that did not exist in '99. I think it is unfair to lower the 
 rating of this game down significantly because it would not play. It plays fine now.
  
  All in all, this is a strange game. It does so many things really well, and so many things really 
 poorly. Gamespot's remark that it "succeeds as both an epic and a farce" is a good summary. But, 
 at the end of the day it is a beautiful game with many hours of RPG fun. Its core gameplay and 
 story is great, it just wasn't polished all that well. I found playing it very enjoyable on and 
 off over these years, and I therefore feel that its low ratings in the past are not warrented. 
 Factoring everything in, I would say a rating of 7.8 is fair. The game plays great now, it was 
 ahead of its time. If you find it in a bargain bin somewhere, in my opinion, it is worth it.
  
  The big disappointment was that this game could have been a 10. If the original plan of a more 
 orthoginal view similar to Ultima 7 had been followed, I believe all the scaling back of elements 
 would not have occurred. It would not have been as daring and bold of a game, but it would have 
 been tried and true and polished. That is why Ultima fans are upset, it's not a bad game, it just 
 could have been great. I equate Ultima IX with the Star Wars prequel trilogy. They are good movies, 
 the disappointment is that with a little tweaking they could have been great movies. Ultima IX, 
 with just a little nudge, could have gone from 7.8 to 9.8. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
