-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Under a Killing Moon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/underakillingmoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 8.5, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 180 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Access Software
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1994

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Under a Killing Moon is an excellently wrapped package with some less than compelling contents. 
 

 Under a Killing Moon (UAKM) is an excellently wrapped package with some less than compelling contents. 

 You play Tex Murphy, the bumbling, disheveled detective from two previous Access adventures, Mean 
 Streets and Martian Memorandum. You wander at will through his sharply detailed 3-D environment, 
 examining objects, opening drawers, and talking to characters. Tex's gaming world is huge, ranging 
 from his cluttered office and nearby dark alleys to a glittering mansion and a gargantuan space 
 station. Your goal? Save the world. You'll accomplish this by exploring (high and low) , gathering 
 clues and items, solving typical adventure puzzles, and conducting interminable interviews. Experienced 
 adventurers will find that the gaming elements are moderately challenging and if you do run into 
 a brick wall, UAKM has an easy and effective built-in hint system. The game's install process sets 
 a standard for ease-of-use that is thankfully becoming more common. Problems arise in the acting 
 and dialogue. Both are uniformly stilted.   

 Access hired some "name" actors to lend UAKM some Hollywood cachet, but they have only minor roles 
 and offer less than stellar performances. Most of the acting was done by Access employeesand 
 it shows. Dialogue is more interruptible than interactive since you select questions and listen 
 to responses one at a time. And the storyline, while complex and deep, unravels awkwardly. Nevertheless, 
 the overall experience is entertaining and full of surprises. Access has created a clever story-telling 
 engine; it's the ingredients that need work. A little more time spent on designing a creative story 
 and finding qualified personnel to portray the game's many characters would have gone a long way. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  The adventure genre was once incredibly popular. One of its major downfalls over the last decade, 
 I believe, was a complete lack of innovation in the gameplay. There are certainly some gems which 
 largely stick to the tried-and-true adventure formula, Grim Fandango and The Longest Journey just 
 to name two, but such shining examples seem to be more and more rare these days. In 1994, Access 
 Software went a whole new direction with the adventure game, a direction few adventures have attempted 
 in the 14 years since. They created a fully 3D world to explore. There were no fixed viewpoints, 
 no pre-rendered backgrounds. That game was Under a Killing Moon.
  
  The protagonist of Under a Killing Moon is Tex Murphy, a down-on-his-luck PI living in a run-down 
 part of Old San Francisco in 2042. Under a Killing Moon uses full motion video (FMV) and Tex is 
 played by Tex Murphy's co-creator and former president of Access Software, Chris Jones. For a newcomer 
 to acting, Chris Jones does some excellent voice work, and his acting is largely well done (though 
 he improves substantially in the two sequels to this game) . Chris Jones is joined by the Russell 
 Means, Margot Kidder, James Earl Jones, and the late Brian Keith. The FMV shouldn't scare people 
 away, though, as the performances are well-done for the most part, though a few of the secondary 
 characters are much less impressive.
  
  The plot revolves around a mysterious cult that is tied to the Crusade for Genetic Purity, a movement 
 to rid the world of the mutant humans that were a product of the fallout from World War III. The 
 game is a mixture of drama and comedy and is executed well. The atmosphere of the game is one of 
 its many strong points. There is a lot of variety in the locations you will visit throughout the 
 game, and each has its own unique feel. When urgency is required, you definitely feel it from the 
 visuals, music, and sound effects.
  
  The gameplay doesn't differ that much from other adventure games. In general the puzzles fit well 
 into the story and are rarely so obscure as to be downright silly. Tex hunts for clues scattered 
 about the environment and can use the items he collects to progress the game. Should you ever get 
 stuck, Under a Killing Moon has a full hint system which lists every step necessary for completing 
 the game. This means walkthroughs are completely unnecessary.
  
  Though not as strong as in its successor, The Pandora Directive, Under a Killing Moon has decent 
 replayability value. Though they don't influence the outcome of the game, selecting different conversation 
 options can frequently yield funny or interesting dialogues between Tex and the other characters. 
 By exploring the world again you may well find new things, and hearing Tex describe them is often 
 worthwhile. Even today I can turn this game on and find something new in it. Finally, Under a Killing 
 Moon has a points system, with 1000 total points possible. Simply passing the game is no guarantee 
 of getting the maximum score as many actions that provide points are optional. Trying to obtain 
 the maximum score adds another layer of replayability to the game.
  
  Though DOS-based, Under a Killing Moon can be run on modern machines using DOSBox, and creating 
 images of all four discs and then mounting them to four separate drives in DOSBox is handy and 
 will eliminate the need for disc swapping. I'd highly recommend any fan of adventure games get 
 their hands on this one if they haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viberooni
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  MS DOS was rough stuff. Kids today are spoiled with their OS Warp and their Long Horn. Yet sure 
 as rain I still remember plenty of my favorite DOS commands as though it were yesterday, the same 
 as most folks who once owned a 386 or 486. Monkey. exe, can't forget typing that in. Wolf3d. exe 
 was a good one. Vikings. exe always meant a fun time was in store. However my favorite words to 
 type into that foreboding monochrome prompt had to be moon. exe. As soon that golden Access Software 
 logo started spinning around you couldn't wipe the grin off my face even if you smacked me upside 
 the head with a crowbar. Or a convincing Inspector Burns costume.
  
  Under A Killing Moon got a 6.9 from Gamespot back when it was released in 1994. Although it's been 
 years since I've taken the title for a spin due to incompatibilities with my current setup, I'm 
 left with the memory of one of the most engrossing, well written, funny, interesting and atmospheric 
 games of it's time. A futuristic noir adventure where you play a private detective down on his 
 luck in post World War III San Francisco? And it's full of great dialogue, an amazing lead character, 
 a 3d world to explore, humor, suspense, interrogation and clues, plus plenty of great puzzles to 
 push the mystery along? The whole thing works much more often than it should on many different 
 levels. If you can forgive a few shortcomings, UAKM will no doubt find a place in your upper echelon 
 of classic Adventure games.
  
  Sure the acting got rough in places, but usually in an amusing way. The actors were, after all, 
 Access employees for the most part. Ardo Newpop, man that guy cracked me up. Overall though this 
 game was an example of FMV done right. It completely added to the experience and made the universe 
 come alive with personality. The characters were all interesting with some great branching conversations, 
 the story was well paced, enjoyable and epic while remaining wholly original throughout. The control 
 scheme, a cross between an FPS and an adventure game, feels natural and the UI is fun to use, if 
 a bit excessive. Music is varied, well composed and appropriate even if it is a MIDI soundtrack. 
 Tex can interact or comment with a good deal of his surroundings, and the challenging puzzles are 
 memorable and well implemented inside impressive (for it's time) 3d environments. Some pixel hunting 
 required, but no more than other Adventures. And the chapter screens.. the swell of the sax, oh 
 man.. gives me shivers just thinking about it. Also James Earl Jones plays God, and when you die 
 he tells you why you messed up before sending you back to earth. That's always a plus in any game.
 
  
  The slightly more popular sequel Pandora Directive took things to a new level, no doubt. The acting 
 improved, the storytelling was tighter and more polished, most everything great about its predecessor 
 was in there as well. But there's still something magic about Under a Killing Moon, the risks it 
 took to try and create a cinematic experience and it's surprising success, technological limitations 
 be damned. It almost feels like an indie game, a group of friends with a dream and a bluescreen. 
 Tex Murphy is a great character, maybe one of the most underrated game heroes of all time, and 
 I just think it's sad that his legacy seems to be gone forever at this point. Overseer was supposed 
 to be the start of a whole new direction for the series but as it stands, Polarity, Trance and 
 Chance will forever be unrealized save for inside the minds of Aaron Conners and Chris Jones. For 
 shame, Microsoft, for shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Well its kind of hard to review a game which is this old. Although It has such resonance with me 
 I shall try. 
  
  It sort of looks like it is held together with duct tape and string but that just seems to add 
 to its charm. Underneath the flawed exterior you have a simply engrosing story with some really 
 well put together scenes, interesting characters and one down on his luck PI. 
  
  You play Tex Murphey, a down on his luck Private Investigator whos idea of a full breakfast includes 
 a ciggy and a couple shots of burbon. His self depricating humor is just right and really makes 
 you want to continue playing just to hear what he is going to say next. You live in a world ravaged 
 by nuclear fallout., filled with mutants and plenty of intriuge. 
  
  It starts you off easily by trying to solve a simple pawn shop break in, and then the story really 
 picks up from there. You will find yourself digging through dumpsters, interviewing people, trying 
 to piece together a terrific mystery. 
  
  The game is broken down into 2 types, a fully 3d environment, where you can look around and under 
 things. Then a 2d camera view where you interogate people giveing you multiple questioning options. 
 Both serve there purpose although I have no idea why they didnt go for the typical WASD FPS interface 
 for the free roaming bits. The interface is a bit cumbersome but you get used to it.
  
  The acting a bit spotty but in some places it really shines. In some cases you would swear you 
 were watching an actual hollywood movie. Oh and did I mention that it is also voiced by James Earl 
 Jones???!??!? James Earl freakin' Jones for crying out loud! If there is a better narrator out 
 there I would like to see it. When he starts quoting edger alan poe before it really sets the mood. 
 
  
  Such charm and wit in a game is rare to find, but this game has it in spades. The writing as a 
 very Tim Shaeferish quality to it. The strange thing is that every 3 years or so I will pull this 
 game out and play it again. Even though getting it to work under a new version of windows is a 
 bit like trying to shoehorn your foot into a pair of shoes you had in elementary school. It is 
 like a good book that you happen to play. 
  
  If you can find a copy on ebay or borrow it from a friend you could find yourself pleasetly suprised 
 and against all apperent odds actually having fun. And remember...
  
  Danger is like jello, theres always room for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omar80
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 12, 2004 12:06 pm PT
Review:  My score of this game is based on how it would have stacked up in 1994, not today. I don't think 
 that your average gamer would have enjoyed UAKM, it's basicly an interactive movie, and only an 
 average one at that. I enjoyed UAKM because of it's Sci-Fi and humor elements, and the graphics 
 were crisp too. As far as gameplay goes you are usually in a room with a few views available to 
 you, you can click on any number of objects, and these objects are what you use to solve various 
 puzzles and advance the story. This can prove a challenge, but the game has a hint system that 
 tells you everything you have to do. Using this can hurt your score, but who cares, the whole point 
 of using it is to find out what happens next anyway. This game was alot of fun back in the day, 
 if you see it at a garage sale or used game store for only a few dollars pick it up, you won't 
 regret it. -Omar 08-12-2004 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrlGmr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2003 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I rarely give a game all 10s. The review for this game is way, way off base. This was the first 
 Tex Murphy game I played. I actually rented the game first from a place that rented PC games (before 
 CD-Rs and RWs became common) , and beat it. I liked it enough that I actually bought the game. For 
 the time, the graphics were awesome. Acutual 3D games were rare, but in this game you can actually 
 crouch down and crawl under things, for instance. There's one part in the game where you have to 
 crouch down and look up under a table. The environments are 3D, but the characters are sprites, 
 which means they face you all the time. But it really isn't a big deal. The story is also very 
 good, and the voice acting is top notch. Getting the game to run on anything but DOS is quite a 
 trick, though. But it is possible, as there are workarounds. To find them, you can visit the Unofficial 
 Tex Murphy site. Just look for it on Google. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
