-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Undercover: Operation Wintersun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/undercover/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Spy-story plot had potential.
 A couple of intriguing set-piece puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Situations are either nonsensical or derivative.
 Over-the-top voice acting.
 Lots of bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 6.3, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 107 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lighthouse Interactive
Developer: Sproing
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 28, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spy-story noir meets ridiculous adventure-game puzzles in this misguided tale of Nazis and nukes. 
 

  As with far too many adventures, your enjoyment of Undercover: Operation Wintersun depends almost 
 entirely on your tolerance for nonsensical puzzles. This Sproing Interactive game really knocks 
 it out of the park when it comes to that sort of thing. It boasts a greatest-hits collection of 
 maddening adventure-game absurdities, such as digging a potato out of the garbage to distract a 
 crow in order to listen in on a conversation (in the very first scene, no less) , as well as outlandish 
 chem-lab solutions to mundane problems such as getting through locked doors. Anyone who can solve 
 this spectacularly hard game without resorting to a walk-through deserves a ticker-tape parade 
 like the kind they used to give generals and astronauts.  

  So, you've got what you might call a niche game here. However, the storyline sets forth a great 
 spy thriller for the masses that plays out like a lost Hitchcock movie from his WWII period. You 
 play British nuclear physicist Dr. John Russell, an everyman (who looks a lot like a young Eugene 
 Levy with shorter hair) recruited by MI-6 in early 1943 to go undercover in search of the truth 
 about Nazi efforts to detonate an atomic bomb. It's a quick rush from the initial debriefing to 
 a scavenger hunt through various German research facilities, and then a scramble to Stalingrad 
 for a 007-style disarming of a prototype nuke. Aside from the high-school Shakespeare overacting, 
 this story plays out as a respectable, literate spy thriller that manages to build tension without 
 leaning on clichs like sinister, trench-coated Nazis and "Ilsa, She-Wolf of the SS" types. The 
 only real annoyance is the accompaniment of a trio of supposed espionage experts who are as useless 
 as red shirts in a  Star Trek  episode (if not quite so prone to untimely deaths) .  

           Don't mess with the SSwhich can be accomplished quite nicely by not playing this 
 game.      

  Not that the plot matters. It's impossible to appreciate the noirish script when you're constantly 
 wondering what the heck you're supposed to be doing. Undercover throws you into one ridiculous 
 situation after another. If you're not collecting every little bit of junk that litters the scenery 
 like some foppish Brit version of Fred Sanford, you're forced to deal with the most convoluted 
 solutions to simple problems. The developers seem to have some sort of chemistry fetish, given 
 the number of times that you need to whip up various solvents. At first, this is sort of nifty, 
 even if it's rather strange that you go to the extreme of making hydrochloric acid to get through 
 a locked door. But it soon gets flat-out stupid when you're doing things such as making some sort 
 of mineral water to soften up window putty that, in the real world, could easily have been peeled 
 off with nothing more than Russell's trusty pocketknife.  

  Even nonchemical solutions stick a pin in the great big balloon of common sense. Along with the 
 potato puzzle noted at the top, you also use a flag and floor polish to knock out a guard, deploy 
 a rat to scare off a barmaid, and rig up phone wires to electrocute a guard. Some of your stunts 
 are positively  MacGyver -ish. And just to make things a little bit more perplexing, you never 
 find uses for a fair number of items that you pick up, and many are so small and tucked away in 
 dark corners that the developers might as well be purposely hiding clues. Only a single, fixed 
 camera is provided in most scenes; given that it's typically so far away from the action, you often 
 need to engage in tedious pixel hunts.  

  Some of the half-dozen or so set-piece puzzles will also have you scratching your head raw. Granted, 
 many of these are actually somewhat enjoyable, in that they provide a break from the randomness 
 of the rest of the game. At least you know what you're supposed to be doing when they pop up on 
 the screen. Some involve such boilerplate scenarios as turning code wheels and spinning gears to 
 open secret doors, but others are more innovative, such as the nifty number where you guide a fellow 
 spy past guards by switching off lights in a specified sequence. Unfortunately, none are particularly 
 well-implemented. Even the stealth situation described above is partially wrecked by shadows so 
 dark that you can rarely tell exactly where the enemy soldiers you're trying to dodge are patrolling. 

           Some of the logic puzzles are a welcome relief from the craziness of the rest of the game, 
 although there aren't enough of them to counterbalance all the nonsense.      

  Last, but certainly not least, Undercover is also buggy. Very buggy. The game constantly crashes 
 in the opening cutscene when set to 1280x1024 resolution with antialiasing turned on. The game 
 started and remained somewhat stable only after we went with the default 1024x768 resolution and 
 no antialiasing. However, even then crashes continued to occur every so often in all manner of 
 in-game situations, and the audio would frequently get caught in loops in which the opening lines 
 spoken by a character would repeat until you skipped past them or the game fainted to the desktop. 

  At any rate, if you can't get Undercover running properly, don't bother trying to fix the problem. 
 You'd be wiser to consider this a sign and turn your talents toward something that makes more sense 
 and is easier to solve, such as the political situation in the Middle East.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: furryfuzzybunny
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The Allies are shuddering with the thought of an atomic armed Third Reich in the year 1943. This 
 game sees you in the person of the hero embarking on a dramatic quest to prevent that otherwise 
 eventuality. 
  
  In the onset cinematic we are introduced to the main character, John Russell, as he is given a 
 briefing and sendoff to his world saving mission. The huddle includes the requisite patronly figures, 
 a snarling maverick type eager for blood to act as muscle, and lurking around the edges, the bloody 
 diva of spycraft, her eponymous self. Clearly, Russell is being saddled up to perform heroic duty. 
 And expertise in nuclear physics is what recommends him for the position. I am reminded in this 
 of the send off the good professor receives in the beginning scenes of "Raiders of the Lost Ark"...... the 
 sensation is of a spring being loaded.
  
  Russell proves his puzzle solving mettle in the beginning with the adventure game equivalent of 
 finding one's way out of a paper bag. This particular paper bag happens to be a bullet scarred, 
 London building, Big Ben visible off in the distance, kind of setting. This puzzle and all subsequent 
 puzzles prepare the player for the sort of precariously placed pixel cum logic festival that some 
 celebrate, some dread. I happen to be fairly neutral on the subject. Just throw a few handfuls 
 of spaghetti at the wall, and I am happy unraveling the noodles at my leisure. I say this fully 
 aware that my leisure time involves a sizable proportion of time grinding my teeth into chalk dust. 
 Some of these noodles will have you moving from frustration, through exasperation, and ending in 
 disgust. Caveat emptor! 
  
  Character development is adequate, shining in areas, not so much in others. Russell gets the glossiest 
 treatment, which is only fair being that he is central while all others are second banana scoring 
 second stringers. He has good presence, thanks to a smooth melifluous proper Brit's vocal authenticity. 
 The makers have truly captured the tea sipping, stiff upper lipped, vaguely sunken chested, self 
 effacing, fussy mien that has endeared us to the stereotypical Englishman. He has all that, and 
 the ability to surprise us with his significant bag of tricks, one of which is an easy way with 
 Latin phrases. After all, you never know when you may go toe to toe with one of the Vatican's finest 
 in your journeys.
  
  Fashionable Ann Taylor may play second fiddle to John Russell, but she is no fawning lily. She 
 bears the good breeding and correct proportions of a well drawn character...... though her Nation 
 affiliation and brand loyalties remain doubtful through the rolling credits (which happened to 
 be done with exceptionally classy, of a bygone era, character stills) . While Russell is variously 
 wooden and spastic, she prances across the runway like a carriage horse. Though she has the condescension 
 of the queen, and I wonder if her day job actually has her working in a testicle grinding factory.
 
  
  This Historic Adventure has a decidedly prosaic touch, but gets away with it because of the material. 
 The soundtrack is tinkling orchestral, the sound effects are minimalist but appropriate, and visuals 
 are tinged in slate. I did feel I was being taken through the pages of WWII to a certain extent, 
 with the 2 and a half dimensional, pre rendered backgrounds. The dialogues were very fitted to 
 the characters and scenarios. The flickering streetlamps at night, the snowflakes falling lightly, 
 the electrical sparks cascading, and the steam rising all served to soften the otherwise cold stone, 
 iron and steel feel of Undercover :Operation Wintersun.
  
  You will collect endless articles of varying importance for your progress in the game. You will 
 be called upon to feed the hungry, slake the thirsty, unlock the doors, subvert the guards, disable 
 the bomb, and ultimately seize the day........... Carpe Diem!........ I have walked where you will 
 walk, and I can fully recommend this side track as a pleasant adventure game diversion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleaksand
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Nice 2d pre-rendered settings with atmospheric details. ~~ Got that  
 vibe. ~~ Main character has many amusing comments to share. ~~ Minimal (Yes, I know it's a point-and-clicker) 
 controls. ~~ Game auto-resets if you get caught or fail a mini-mission. ~~ Nice variety of mini-games 
 to mix things up.
  
  CONS: Too much chatter/dialogue with npcs. ~~ Unmemorable characters. ~~ Voice-acting fair to eye-rolling. 
 ~~ Some absurd puzzles. ~~ Some implausible story twists. ~~ Game crashes. (AAAGH! My last save 
 was three scenes ago!) ~~ Game over too quickly!
  
  PET PEEVES: Don't make me have to initiate EACH and EVERY question from a list of dozen. Just auto-ask 
 all of them FIRST, THEN let me choose those I need repeated or pump for more info. ~~ Unused inventory 
 items clutter. Are they for alternate puzzle solutions or red-herrings?
  
  SUMMARY: Not a bad adventure game, but the ending is rather weak.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Verry good game ... i don't understand for what have you give'd the game 3.... lool.... the puzzles 
 are hard... and the game is intersting .... so 10 score for this game...
  
  This game is a solid adventure game with the down side of being a little to short perhaps. The 
 game has average voice acting. The story line is good and follows well. The graphics are done well 
 and add greatly to the games appeal. The puzzles are challenging without being annoying to the 
 point of frustration. The characters are good and make the game interesting enough. The variety 
 of locations for each mission adds to the quality of the game as well. I would recommend this game 
 to anyone who is a fan of point and click adventure games. There were no bugs in the game as I 
 played it. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fraggy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is a solid adventure game with the down side of being a little to short perhaps. The 
 game has average voice acting. The story line is good and follows well. The graphics are done well 
 and add greatly to the games appeal. The puzzles are challenging without being annoying to the 
 point of frustration. The characters are good and make the game interesting enough. The variety 
 of locations for each mission adds to the quality of the game as well. I would recommend this game 
 to anyone who is a fan of point and click adventure games. There were no bugs in the game as I 
 played it. Enjoy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
