-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Universe at War: Earth Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/universeatwarearthassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three unique, distinct, and neat factions to play as.
 Hierarchy walkers are fun to control or take down.
 Online modes are a blast.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Can't pull the camera back to see the battlefield.
 Clumsy control scheme.
 Horrible DirectX 10 performance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,465 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Petroglyph
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Dec 10, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Universe at War has three engaging factions and some interesting ideas, but it's also saddled with 
 some annoying issues. 

  Universe at War: Earth Assault is this year's Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends. In other words, 
 it's an attempt to deliver an old-school real-time strategy game that features three incredibly 
 unique and distinct factions. And in that regard, Universe at War delivers because it does introduce 
 three alien races, two of which feel like they haven't been seen before in RTS gaming. At the same 
 time, Universe at War also sports some major flaws that hamper it quite a bit.  

           Three alien factions clash on Earth in Universe at War.      

  This is an alien invasion 
 tale where, refreshingly, humanity takes a backseat. When a malevolent alien race known as the 
 Hierarchy invades Earth to turn its inhabitants and belongings into raw material, all hope seems 
 lost. Then, a crusading army of sentient machines called Novus arrives to battle the Hierarchy. 
 Their fighting awakens a long-lost race that was hiding on Earth, the Masari. And, thus, the stage 
 is set for an intergalactic war on Earth's surface.  

  The differences among the three factions are deep. The Novus build a network node that can encompass 
 the map, which allows them to quickly shift forces around in the blink of an eye. The Hierarchy 
 is like a destructive force of nature because their harvesters scour the map for raw materials 
 while their lumbering walker war machines are like land battleships. Then there's the Masari, which 
 might be the most conventional of the three because they center on the construction of a powerful 
 base and defenses. However, the Masari have the most powerful and expensive units in the game. 
 They can also alternate between two modes: light and dark. The former lets them move faster to 
 inflict more damage, while the latter grounds all their air units to slow their enemies. When you 
 drill down and get used to them, each faction has a lot to offer. For instance, if you're the Hierarchy, 
 it's a lot of fun to just crush your enemies using walkers, but it's also fun watching those same 
 walkers run headlong into your layered defenses if you're the Masari.  

  Universe at War's single-player campaign at first follows the traditional scripted campaigns of 
 most RTS games. You begin as the Novus then move onto the Hierarchy as the game's tale of war and 
 betrayal unfolds. When you pick up as the Masari in the third act, things change. Out goes the 
 scripted storyline and in comes the global strategic metagame, which is like a big game of Risk. 
 You decide which territory to invade next and then resolve the battles in real time. It's not a 
 particularly deep strategic layer, but it does help shake up the formula a bit. When you're done 
 with the campaign, there are various scenarios that let you play the global metagame different 
 ways, or you can jump into regular skirmish mode against the system.  

           The inability to pull the camera back can be maddening at times, especially when all you 
 can see on the screen is this.      

  The game shines in the multiplayer realm, where a human opponent can exploit each faction's advantage 
 to the maximum. The artificial intelligence in the single-player game can knock you around if you're 
 not careful, but it generally doesn't vary tactics: a human does. Universe at War has the standard 
 ranked and unranked skirmish modes that you'd expect; however, the game's most ambitious online 
 feature is pretty neat. Conquer-the-world mode allows you to try to take over the world by yourself. 
 You try to conquer the individual territories on the planet by battling someone in multiplayer. 
 If you win, you seize that territory in your game. However, to partake in conquer the world, you 
 have to have Games for Windows - Live Gold. This isn't an issue if you already have an Xbox Live 
 Gold account and own an Xbox 360, but if you don't, then you'll have to pay up to become a Games 
 for Windows - Live Gold member.  

  Universe at War suffers from some key issues. The most noticeable is the zoom level, which is almost 
 nonexistent. If you can imagine playing a game with your face just inches from the screen, that's 
 what Universe at War feels like at times. It's annoying to see a single Hierarchy walker fill up 
 more than half the screen and realize that you can't pull the camera back any farther. It's such 
 an artificial and painful limitation not being able to actually see the battlefield. The controls 
 are also clumsy. If you try to click on a unit, at times, it won't register. Or if you try to double-click 
 on a unit to select all of its type on the screen, it won't register at times.  

  Graphically, Universe at War has some pretty units, like the aforementioned walkers. They look 
 almost organic in nature, with their glistening skin and bulbous curves. However, the rest of the 
 game's visuals are a bit dated, from the blocky, polygonal look of many of the characters to the 
 generally bland textures. The game does feature support for DirectX 10, but DX10 performance comes 
 to an absolute crawl, even on a high-end PC that can run Crysis at maximum detail. This occurred 
 even when all the graphical settings were dropped to the absolute lowest. Performance in DirectX 
 9, on the other hand, is excellent and smooth, even at the highest graphical settings. There's 
 very little noticeable difference in image quality between the two.  

           The strategic metagame allows more replayability than a traditional scripted campaign. 

  Upon load, the game starts with a chilling and brutal cinematic scene that wouldn't be out of place 
 in Spielberg's  War of the Worlds  movie. The scene shows human infantry brutally and mercilessly 
 cut down by relentless, unstoppable alien war machines. Unfortunately, the tone of that scene is 
 quickly lost because the game features corny dialogue that seems taken from a cartoon. The cigar-chewing 
 human protagonist is all macho bravado. Meanwhile, the sentient machines of Novus sound like Data 
 from  Star Trek: The Next Generation  trying to be cute, the Hierarchy leaders talk like they're 
 dripping evil, and the Masari are haughty nobles. The music can be pretty engaging, but because 
 each faction has its own distinct theme, the rest of the audio is also inconsistent. The background 
 sound effects of civilians fleeing in terror are neat, until you realize they're the same for every 
 single map. So whether you're battling in the Sahara or South America or Siberia, they all sound 
 like Middle Americans.  

  Aside from the unique races, Universe at War doesn't really introduce anything new to the genre. 
 If anything, this is a very traditional real-time strategy game in the vein of Command &amp; Conquer. 
 Given that Petroglyph was formed by many veterans of the original C&amp; C, that's not too surprising. 
 What's perplexing is that the game seems to miss a lot of the innovations that have rolled into 
 the genre since C&amp; C. These include newer concepts, such as the ability to zoom the camera back 
 and see broad swaths of the battlefield. So while there's stuff to like in Universe at War, there's 
 also stuff to dislike.  

   Editor's Note: This review previously contained incorrect information about the waypoint system 
 in the game. GameSpot regrets the error.      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (62 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The war for Earth has begun. Just when man's forces face utter destruction at the hand of the Hierarchy, 
 the strange Novus show up through a portal. Are they here to help? or is it a personal grudge? 
 but the war is far from over and the titanic battle awakes the old gods of Man the Masari. Awakened 
 to find their Human Children have conpletely forgotten the Gods way and are now faced with utter 
 destruction, the Masari must chose. Save their Wayward Offspring or punish them for their ignorance.
 
  
  UAW's three factions are all worthy of being their own game. Featuring Drasticaly different methods 
 of success and Recourse probuction. Both the Novus and Hierarchy must harvest natural resources 
 while the Masari can create life with pure energy.
  
  The three forces have three different methods of War. The Hierarchy focus on massive moving Fortress 
 walkers. The Novus on Mass numbers and the Masari on Powerfull units low production costs.
  
  Universe At War its a must play RTS game. Not all will like it but the vast majority will therefore 
 all should try it. Its Sci-Fi meets Action meets stratagy. Its a real Blast. Its a Universe At 
 War! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phynixblack
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:33 am PT
Review:  To be honest, If I listed off all the good things about it and ranted about pros outweighing cons, 
 I would be GameInformer magazine, While I love those guys, thats not the way I think this game 
 needs to be reviewed.
  
  
  The gameplay itself was altogether fun. I spend nearly ALL of my time in skirmish modes when playing 
 RTS as I like having control over what I gotta deal with. The difficulty setting in this game is 
 whacked, totally whacked. I set my first match against two Easy AI. Then me with a Medium AI, this 
 is a method I use in all skirmish games when I am playing my first match. Not only are my opponents 
 weak, but I compete with my AI freind, trying to mimic and keep up with him until I learn the game.
 
  
  Well, this idea went bad quick. The enemy AI, in this case the Robotic Novus, had built a hero, 
 all their building AND a superweapon before my Medium AI buddies and I, who were the clairvoyant 
 Masari, could manage to set our material sources up properly. A few short spiteful minutes later 
 I was utterly defeated, but not before the Medium AI died FIRST without launching an attack. 
 
  
  That means two things. Easy means 'REAP TIEM' on whatever planet this game was made on or the game 
 is on very uneven ground when the three armies are lined up.
  
  
  I will mention now I personally enjoy the graphics and overall look of the game, but I think the 
 Masari could look a little better. When you compare the Masari's look to the other two armies, 
 the Novus and Hierarchy seem to laugh off the Masari. The only cool unit from them seems to be 
 the arial units, but they die quickly enough to make you cry, so making too many are pointless. 
 The Novus look great, the robots and colors/textures on them made me go 'awesome' and forced many 
 Terminator and Gundam flashbacks. The Hierarchy made me want to call in Master Chief as a hero. 
 Yeah. I said it.
  
  
  Music. I mentioned this because I mentioned the graphics/look of the game. While I don't feel qaulified 
 to critic this, I got bored witht the music and found dominating instead to the sounds of classical 
 was more... errm... interesting.
  
  
  Also, something I personally dislike being a control freak when it comes to me versus computer 
 skirmishes in lack of smaller tweaks. I would like to be able to add/remove what kind of special 
 capture buildings are around. I would like to add/remove Hero types. For instance, if I want to 
 play against an AI who I want to use a specific Hero, I gotta cross my fingers and hope the game 
 uses it. 
  
  Well. I am doning reviewing this game. Which means I am out of things to say 'I don't like' about.
 
  
  If you see this game cheap, buy it. Seriously. It is worth the 10 to 20$ range when I put my own 
 price on it. It lacks what is needed to completely wow a plauyer, but it is a good RTS game, even 
 among its flaws.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mke112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:57 am PT
Review:  I am glad I bought this. I was looking for a cheap game on ebay and came across this. I had forgotten 
 about this game. Remembered I had liked what I read when it first came out, but then forgot about 
 it, well, I guess because not much more was written on it. Out of sight, out of mine, that kind 
 of thing. Anyway,, this is really a very very good game. The maps are great. The game balance is 
 good. The graphics are beautiful. Some of the upgrades are difficult to understand. It is not a 
 game you can just sit down and understand the units in 15 minutes. It takes a little time, but 
 it is worth it and gives the game some depth. I have played some multilayer games but you have 
 to wait for a few minutes because there does not seem to be many people out there in multilayer 
 land. I have the PC game, but have played against xbox and PC. The xbox live is nice.
  I have a feeling this might be one of those classics that will some day be hard to find but everyone 
 wishes they had. I plan to buy another on ebay. Check it out,, it's a great bargain bin game. 
 
  Oh,,, the regular game play is nice too. The AI seems pretty good. Another thing I will mention, 
 is the sounds are really cool. The sounds of the one alien race as their pods fall to earth are 
 very 50's alien sounding. I also like the "god light beings" race or whoever they are,, voice overs. 
 The voice acting is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  After having to put up with Empire Earth 3 for 4 hours, I guess any game would seem better, but 
 this one actually really impressed me. 
  
  I was unfortunately unable to play the Campaigns due to Technical difficulties with the game, but 
 I managed to het a few hours of Skirmishes behind me.
  
  Each Civilization is totally different from the other, making every skirmish a totally new game. 
 Each Civ looks different, has different units and differnet strategies to think out.
  
  The one thing that did put me off a little bit is the fact that there are actually more upgrades 
 than there are Units. Some might say that this is good because it makes you think more. Using the 
 right Patch or Upgrade might mean Victory or total destruction. Although this is true, I still 
 feel like I like to have an array of units to my disposal.
  
  I also sometimes felt that the Tool tips and explanations for upgrades could be shorter and better 
 to understand. You have to read this paragraph that only tells you right at the end what it does 
 which waists time and so could lead to your destruction. In stead, they could have said "+50% Shields" 
 or whatever in stead of "this upgrade makes your shields 50% stronger against your enemies. 
  
  The Graphics are great and detailed. Each unit is well thought out and very well detailed. 
 Each Civ looks completely different and the UI also changes according to the Civ you are playing 
 with.
  
  Great RTS. Better than some others I've waisted time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soiheardyoulike
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I picked the game up for a dollar off amazon and for that price it is awesome (10 dollars new there) . 
 UaW is an RTS with interesting units, an on par story, and a decent amount of variety. What bogs 
 it down is an obnoxious camera system, oddly placed hot keys, and a lack of some basic RTS functionality. 
 
  
  First the bad.
  
  1-The camera. God the game camera is horrible. It at its farthest state still feels like i am looking 
 at my troops through a microscope. And considering how big some of the more fun units are, they 
 will hog your screen. The cameras zoom is very annoying as well as the fact it is slow. Also it 
 is controlled by the w, a, s, d keys. This is not bad but the hot keys could have been placed in the 
 vicinity of the wasd, so it would at least make some sense for it being there. 
  
  2-Hot keys. This is short but the default hot keys are placed in positions that do not take advantage 
 of the camera movement keys being at wasd.
  
  And lastly
  
  3-Stupid AI, and a lack of standard RTS functionality. The ai has some problems and sometimes will 
 sit still while you blast them to bits or worse, the other way around. You units will sometimes 
 refuse to take your orders out bad programming, and sometimes they simply will invert what you 
 said. This is a big function of rts's. If the ai is stupid, you will find yourself getting angry 
 and loading and saving.
  
  the good
  
  1-3 interesting factions with pretty diverse units. The hierarchy have giant walker that spawn 
 there units on the field as well as deal a lot of damage. If the walker dies, so does some of your 
 unit production. The Novus control like standard rts characters with a set base and unit production. 
 They have to have constant power to their building though , and that makes there generators key 
 targets. The third faction was once gods and have the power of energy.
  
  2- Fun Multiplayer. The multiplayer has a lot of fun modes as well as it contains some awesome 
 moments. There is not rock paper scissors relation so fights can be pretty fun. Also GFWL is free 
 so that con is taken out of the equation. 
  
  3-GFWL improvements. Because it is free now you can play online for free as well as unlock achievements. 
 The home key activates a ui to talk to friends and compare games. It is not the best but it is 
 getting better.
  
  4- Fun game play. The game is fun with a good amount of variety. Not as much as WC 3, but still 
 it contains a good amount of missions. 
  
  end-The game did not catch on like wild fire because of some bugs , a camera who didn't want to 
 be a team player, and GFWL once costing money. For 10 dollars on amazon it is easily a good buy 
 and worth checking out.
  
  8-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  you get 4 things to do here, 
  
  
  campaign-you start out as the humans, weak and stuff, then you the little blue guys, then the hierarchy, 
 then the masasi, now ill give you a little faction overveiw
  
  humans- only available in 2 missions and cannot be used in skirmiah
  
  blue guys- cant remember 
 name, but these guys are infantry killers! they got some decent infantry but theyre very fragile
 
  
  hierarchy- a VERY powerful faction, they get huge walkers that you can build addons onto (thats 
 what i love about petroglyph!) like the one on the game cover for example =D
  
  Masasi- these guys control light and dark matter, and all their units do different things depending 
 on the matter type your switched to, when you switch it affects all units and cant be done invidually, 
 VERY powerful faction, my favorite -D like 2 factions in 1
  
  
  
  thats all the factions!... wow 
  
  TO BE CONTINUED
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Auto update, easy to control, wide selection of weapons.
  
  The Bad: Auto update doesn't work, poor graphics, after you built something you can't delete it, 
 in some missions there is to much enemy targets and you get overrun.
  
  This is so far the best real time strategy game I've played, the only one I've played. This is 
 my first real time strategy game and I'm impressed. One thing that really griped me about this 
 game is that the auto update doesn't work, I get transferred to the update website and the website 
 has been terminated, nothing there. I love the gameplay, the game is easy to catch on and control 
 it only took me a few seconds to get the hang of it. For a huge white mecha it has week armor, 
 if they could have only installed some stronger armor. The first mission of one of the hardest 
 missions because it doesn't tell you where the white house is, and how did the president survive 
 such a blast when the super mecha crashed into the white house sepessaly in his weak state? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseykenobi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  There are certain RTS games I expect to be good and others I expect to be excellent. Recently a 
 friend found Universe at War: Earth Assault (UaWEA) in a bargain bin and bought it for me. Neither 
 of us had good expectations, but it was cheap; who can resist a cheap game? I thought UaWEA would 
 be a less-than-adequate game. I was wrong.
  
  Campaign:
  The single-player campaign was interesting, introducing you to each of the three factions (Novus, 
 the Hierarchy, and the Masari) in turn. Completing Novus unlocks Hierarchy, and Hierarchy unlocks 
 Masari. Each time you start a new faction's campaign, you get slow access to the units and research, 
 assisting with the learning curve. This is a standard RTS experience. I found the campaign storyline 
 to be good. I enjoyed the in-game cut-scenes that gave depth to each of the factions. I normally 
 do not enjoy playing the "bad guys," but the story that developed in the Hierarchy campaign suited 
 me just fine.
  
  Factions:
  What really impressed me about this game is the variety when it comes to each of the three factions. 
 They are totally different, two of which I've had no real experience with in other RTS games.
 
  
  - The Novus are robotic and can travel vast distances in mere seconds with the use of special "power 
 lines." They also have a "Patch" system that allows them to apply certain global abilities from 
 your research tree.
  - The Hierarchy are organic and build units from giant mobile walkers that have various hard-points 
 for unit production, weapons, and various passive abilities. A certain number hard-points must 
 be destroyed in order to actually destroy the walkers.
  - The Masari have the ability to switch from between two different forms: Light and Dark. Each 
 form has unique advantages and disadvantages. Light is primarily for attack with bonuses to damage 
 and line of sight and Dark is for defense with the addition of an shield-like meter as well as 
 health. And unlike the other two races, the Masari need no resource gatherers. They have buildings 
 that accumulate resources.
  
  A few gripes:
  - Some may complain that the camera angle is too tight in the action and wish they could pull out 
 more. This really depends on your preference; I had no qualms.
  - Some units would not path correctly when grouped.
  - Sometimes it seemed like units would not 
 enter a control group correctly.
  
  Overall I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of the RTS genre. It is not necessarily 
 a ground-braking, but the elements are well worth giving it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  1. Technical Issues
  2. Graphics
  3. Gameplay
  4. Story
  5. Multyplayer
  
  
  
  1. Technical Issues - The game is fine at that point. No i haven't found any bugs.
  
  2. Graphics 
 - The game isn't ugly but isn't something spectacular either. For the game which was released almost 
 the same time as C&C3 the the engine should have been better. No matter that but there is a big 
 drop of FPS when you select a lot of units or when many abilities at once. I'll just say the i 
 can play Crysis at high with no problems at all, so a strategy of any kinda shouldn't be a problem.
 
  
  3. Gameplay - The best part of this game are the 3 uniques races. The are completely different 
 from each other. Each of them offers unique style of play with his advantages and disadvantages. 
 The global map is the other good function. Unlike C&C3: Tiberium wars the global map is real time 
 based so you don't have much time to think even there. Unfortunately not everything is so good. 
 The interface is crappy. Most of the commands are issued by CTRL+some key but to learn which you 
 have to go to the the control menu and try to redefine them. Despite being so unique the 3 races 
 had very few units. Less then 10 for each. A few more units would have been nice. The most annoying 
 thing off all is the complete lack of advanced unit commands - like hold position, guard and so 
 on. Half of the time i'm trying to stop my hero from rushing into the battle (usually the mission 
 ends when the hero dies) .
  
  4. Story - As almost all other aspects of the game the story is nothing special. Still for a strategy 
 it can be interesting but it is nothing which will make you play the next mission just to see what 
 will happen.
  
  5. Multyplayer - I haven't played it but the game seems to have very nice online features and some 
 kind of medal system. The more you play the better medals you unlock. The medals give some bonuses 
 like slightly better infantry armor and faster resource gather rates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xt3kn1x
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game looked very interesting. I checked out some of the game play movies before it was released, 
 and I was thoroughly impressed. Being a sci-fi fan as well as an RTS fan, I wanted to get my hands 
 on this one even if it didn't receive much acclaim from various reviewers. I went to buy this, 
 but ended up purchasing another game instead, so I rented it just to check it out. I'm glad I did.
 
  
  The game seems solid enough in concept. You start off as the human race being absolutely annihilated 
 by an extra-terrestrial force called The Hierarchy. Shortly after control switches to another advanced 
 alien non-organic race called the Novus. Sadly, I didn't make it through the whole Novus campaign 
 before I gave up. I will get to that in just a moment. First let me highlight what I experienced 
 that this game did right:
  
  Unique races: No standard "human class"
  
  Unique abilities: Many of the units I got to use had abilities that were similar to what I've seen 
 in other games, but all had their own flair and pizzazz which made them very unique.
  
  Unique controls: The ability to just highlight a group of people with a controller the same way 
 you would with a mouse and dragging a box was very ingenious. It would've worked well if not for
 
  
  The bad. Often you don't know who you have selected. I was sometimes grouping my "constructor
 units (same as warcraft peons/peasants) with military units and sending them off to battle. You 
 have to consistently hit "deselect units" (b button) after every command. That got old quick.
 
  The biggest flaw to this game which turned me off was the fact it lagged. And not like when you 
 get hit with the Zerg and you have 120 zerglings on the screen dipping your frame rate to 1. This 
 game would lag with probably 20-40 units on the screen. Additionally the units were so small (especially 
 as Novus) that it's hard to tell what's going on. An RTS game like this requires lightning quick 
 reflexes and to have sudden and sharp frame rate drops like that is unacceptable. I did not even 
 attempt to play online as I would've probably just gotten angry. So after the 6th mission I returned 
 this heap. 
  
  Rent this is if: You don't mind game play challenges. Or you are an avid fan of sci-fi no matter 
 how unplayable the game is
  
  Too bad, too. The concept seemed great. The follow through was just downright slop
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Bugs_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  this game was worth playing, because it has some great effects, however it doesnt have perfectly 
 good graphics, they are not bad, but there been better before, this game is really slow, and out 
 of sense, some factors do make sense, but the whole plot is pretty disturbing and out of logic, 
 the factions are very fantacy like, and i dont like fantacy too much.
  
  good:
  -effects.
  
  
  bad:
  -graphics
  -gameplay
  -factions
  -units, infantry, vehicle (all 
 uggly and silly)
  
  what can make this game better?:
  -as most of my reviews i provide a little advice to game makers, but the games that do not have 
 any solution because they are just dumb and boring, i dont because the game might be so bad that 
 it wont have any solution.
  -however this games has a few things different, and probably a good modification like a "war of 
 the worlds" theme would bring it up to a 9.5
  it would ber eally eexciting to have a human army fight a bunch of trypods, and stuff like that, 
 not necesary from this year but from advanced warfare of 2020 or something like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Universe at War is a brillient game that has some issues that gamespots initial review missed out, 
 some of these are very noticable but there are some that are harder to notice. 
  
  The game starts off with an excellent cinamatic that looks rich and engaging showing the Alians 
 and humans engaged in war, highly exciting.
  
  The 3 factions are excellent and really fit into the whole story of the game and its style, where 
 as the story is quite lame and there really isnt an explanation to how the Aliens found earth or 
 anything of this nature, it just starts with earth under attack and leaves it there. If you play 
 the game for a wile you find out all of the above anyway, but still it would have been better if 
 the story was layed out for you from the start.
  This game hosts Shirmish games and Online games, all of these are awesome to play and very enjoyable.
 
  
  The graphics looks really dated when you zoom right in, but zoomed right out they look very impressive. 
 As gamespot have already said the max zoom out isnt very good and at times you can hardly see anything. 
 The keys are weird as well as you use the W, A, S, D keys to move the screen with playing (Unless 
 you want to use the mouse but thats annoying) plus the scroll speed is really slow and annoying.
 
  
  There are a handful of other things with the game that are annoying such as, holding the right 
 mouse button to zoom about fast takes a second or 2 to kick in, if you left click and then do the 
 above action sometimes it wont register and you will need to rehold the right mouse button so start 
 to your delayed zooming about and you cant move the camera around like some game can, games like 
 DoW and WiC.
  
  Overall this game has some bad and annoying issues but bosts some amazing gameplay and online modes. 
 This game is a must play not nessesarly a must buy.
  
  I give this an 8/10 considering all the issues above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deihmos
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  The main drawing point of the game is the faction diversity, blows all other RTS games right out 
 the window (and about time too) . Once you master one faction you will still be absolutely clueless 
 about the others, each feels completely unique in art style and the way they play. There are no 
 units that just feel like a re-skin of another factions, even the basic infantry units are worlds 
 apart. For example the Hierarchy's main infantry is the Grunt, a twelve foot tall alien covered 
 in more armor than a modern main battle tank, it can't attack air but it is one of the best generalist 
 infantry units, capable of taking on infantry and vehicles easily when in numbers. Novus on the 
 other hand has the eight foot tall Ohm robot that fills the same niche in the build interface, 
 but performs vastly differently. It is complete cannon fodder, very little attack power even though 
 it can attack air, it instead is made for drawing fire away from units with more punch and it's 
 special ability is to hop onto enemy vehicles and detonate in a suicide attack. On the other hand 
 there is the Massari disciple is a generalist unit for taking on infantry vehicles and air, but 
 no excelling in either role. While pretty generic, like all Massari units is can switch between 
 light and dark modes, in light mode it has longer sight distance, longer range, and a more damaging 
 attack with damage over time burning. However in Dark mode it gives up firepower and range for 
 dark matter armor (think shields, but purple) which defend against damage and regenerate over time.
 
  
  Also, the blurb on the box about tactical dynamics actually isn't BS. Your forces can be customized 
 to your needs over the course of the battle. The Hierarchy has hard points on their walkers, Novus 
 has patches and Massari has Light and Dark that I described in the above paragraph.
  
  Beyond that each faction has three research trees that really spice things up. Each research tree 
 has four "suites", in order to access suite 4 of a tree you need to have already researched suite 
 3 and so on. The whole idea could be considered somewhat analogous to the General Powers in C&C 
 Generals or the companies in Company of Heroes. However instead of coming with experience you have 
 to pay for research as it takes some time to complete.
  
  As an example the Hierarchy has three trees, Assault (For tripping out your walkers, with weapon 
 accelerators, mass drivers, beam cannons and other nasties) , Mutagen (Which upgrades the Hierarchy's 
 use of radiation, which damages enemies over time while healing your own troops, gives you access 
 to brutes, huge mutated aliens with big arms and a bad attitude, and other things such as radiator 
 artillery and the feared radiation cascade) . Finally Quantum has all sorts of lethal technologies, 
 allows you to deploy Phase tanks, gives molecular hardpoint armor, enhanced plasma weaponry and 
 more.
  
  Of course you can only have six suites so you have to choose what you need.
  
  Its worth noting that the campaign isn't that great and serves more as a tutorial. The real meat 
 of the game is in skirmish and Multiplayer. Some tend to get scared when they hear the game uses 
 Games for Windows Live since they think you need to pay to play the game online. That is false. 
 The only thing missing from not paying is cross-platform and multiplayer achievements... hardly 
 anything to complain about. All your stats are still tracked on an online server as a free silver 
 member. 
  
  This is a must buy for anyone interested in RTS games. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naval
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Seeing as it was Petroglyph's first original, own ip based game, I was pretty interested in the 
 game for quite some time. After, finally getting a chance to play this it has been a mixed bag.
 
  
  Throughout the single player campaign you will be constantly be reminded of two contrasting things 
 - how much original, interesting stuff is there in the game and how much polish it lacks. 
  
  There are lots of interesting stuff in the game and each race felt fun and unique to play. 
 Walkers are one of the most interesting units in any rts ever. It's as much fun to play using the 
 Walkers and wreaking havoc on your enemies as it is using your forces effectively to take them 
 down (gives a great feeling of accomplishment) . Other units are also pretty interesting. Building 
 up the supply lines network intelligently of Novus and using them to quickly move around is really 
 awesome. The Masari, though a bit conventional, also had interesting elements like using light/dark 
 modes as per requirements . In short all the factions offer a lot of interesting options and are 
 quite a bit of fun to play
  
  Moving to the other part the of the game, that is the lack of polish. The units are really difficult 
 to control and use. It feels clunky to to move the units around and the gameplay suffers quite 
 a bit because of that. It's also pretty difficult frustrating to do simple stuff to manage unit 
 groups, see the units currently selected etc. camera controls are similarly awkward. there are 
 few bugs also in the the game, one especially frustrating bug was crashing after 10 secs of loading 
 saved game (was later on fixed in a patch - so this patch could be essential for some)
  
  The single player campaign is pretty standard although the missions for each factions themselves 
 are pretty interesting. The story while also pretty simple progresses nicely and is decent enough 
 to provide enough motivation to finish the game. The last faction campaign consists of conquer 
 the world types of missions where you conquer one territory after other, and you can go by shortest 
 rote or take your time by first controlling all the neighboring territories. this mode though pretty 
 simple helps keeping the thing fresh
  
  Didn't played a lot of multiplayer because of games for windows crap, but from what I played the 
 game seems to have lots of interesting strategic options. Graphics are decent and I personally 
 liked the unit art design.
  
  It felt like a shame that while the game offers original stuff while at the same time it forgets 
 to offer basic stuff which are common in most of the rts nowadays
  
  I just noticed one thing - the GS score, avg score, user score and my socre all are approximately 
 same 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Read the full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2275,0. html
  
  Petroglyph is not stranger to the RTS genre. Made up of former Westwood employees, its pedigree 
 was recently built by the release of the great Star Wars RTS series, Empire at War. But, looking 
 to move away from working with licensed stuff, Petroglyph has decided to create its own cross-platform 
 RTS, Universe at War.
  
  Universe at War centers around three alien races at war who have come to Earth for a final showdown. 
 Surprisingly, Humans aren't considered a faction, which is a refreshing taste and makes sense considering 
 the technical superiority of the other races.
  
  The campaign starts off just like a traditional RTS campaign, but eventually changes up to a large, 
 Risk-like metagame, where you choose the territories to invade and then play the battles in real-time
 
  
  Where Universe at War shines is its three distinct factions, a la Starcraft. The Hierarchy focus 
 on harvesting the land and humans around them to build huge, mobile walkers that can act as bases 
 and weapons platforms with different hardpoints for different upgrades. The Novus build a network 
 node that allows them to teleport forces around the map. The Masari play mostly like a standard 
 RTS races with bases and defenses, but their units can alternate between light and dark modes. 
 Light increases their speed and damage, and dark grounds air units to slow down enemies. The amount 
 of difference between these races is refreshing, and really hasn't been seen on such a scale since 
 Starcraft. When you drill down and get used to them, each faction has a lot to offer. For instance, 
 if you're the Hierarchy, it's a lot of fun to just crush your enemies using walkers, but it's also 
 fun watching those same walkers run headlong into your layered defenses if you're the Masari.
 
  
  In terms of multiplayer, Universe at War is fun and has ranked and unranked skirmish modes; as 
 well as the great Conquer-the-World mode, which takes place on the same world map the latter part 
 of the campaign does. Unfortunately for PC users, you're going to have to pony up fifty bucks a 
 year for a Live Gold account to play.
  
  Universe at War has a problematic camera. The zoom levels are extremely limited, and annoying when 
 you consider Supreme Commander's extreme camera zoom. Some controls are also problematic, as clicking 
 on units doesn't register at times.
  
  Graphically, the unit models in the games are pretty nice, with the walkers and units looking very 
 organic and detailed. Unfortunately, the textures are bland. Also, running the game in DirectX 
 10 results in extreme slow-down with little graphical difference.
  
  The voice acting in the game is quite corny at times, but the voices for the three factions fit 
 their look and ideology. The music is good, but the rest of the music is forgettable.
  
  Besides the three vastly different races, Universe at War doesn't introduce much new to the genre. 
 Unfortunately, its missing some conventions of the RTS genre such as a powerful camera. Universe 
 at War is a decent game, but RTS affectionados shouldn't be too worried if they miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  I've always wondered why aliens seem to want to invade earth all the time. What's so good about 
 our planet? Why do aliens always seem to want to attack it? If you sit and really think about it, 
 they would be coming to a world full of problems, wars and people who want to blow the hell out 
 of you and then blame it on a game. Maybe I'm just not seeing it like they do; maybe they are just 
 interested in ruling over all the hot girls on the planet? Anyway whatever the reason, aliens are 
 coming to Earth again, thanks to Petroglyph's new game, Universe at War.
  
  Taking place in to the not too distant future, the year 2012 to be precise. Humanity was just going 
 about their typical daily jobs, working, sleeping, and playing games, when suddenly the arrival 
 of an alien species know as the Hierarchy lands on our beloved Earth. The Hierarchy are traveling 
 the universe, going planet by planet stripping them of all their resources. The Earth's armed forces 
 doesn't stand a chance against the invasion and are slowly becoming eradicated. When all seems 
 lost another alien race decides to arrive on our planet. Known as the Novus, a race of sentient 
 machines existing only to follow the Hierarchy and stop them from destroying more planets. As the 
 battle rages on between the two, something is awakened in the slumber of the Earth's oceans. The 
 Masari, a one time galactic superpower race who were chased down by the Hierarchy, had made our 
 planet their home thousands of years ago. The Masari are now furious after seeing the Hierarchy 
 here, plus that's not all, they are also enraged by all the pollution the human race has supplied 
 to the once lust green planet (sounds like Greenpeace has got a new mascot) . Having no respect 
 for any of the other races, the Masari are on a warpath of revenge because of what has happened 
 to their adopted home.
  
  Petroglyph Games hasn't been around that long. They formed in 2003 and their first game was Star 
 Wars: Empire at War. They don't lack experience in the RTS genre though as the founding members 
 have worked on games like Command & Conquer and Dune. What the development studio has done with 
 Universe at War is appealing. For once Humans don't have a part in the factions you play as. Instead 
 you play them for a couple of campaign missions. It's there basically just to show you how badly 
 the human race sucks against the Hierarchy, well apart from Randal Moore, a Colonel gone General, 
 he's like some Universal Soldier, kicking the crap out of any alien that comes near him, "come 
 get some!" would be a worthwhile phrase for him.
  
  As mentioned above, the campaign has you starting off as the helpless humans. After finishing that 
 off you begin your Hierarchy destruction with the Novus. The campaign is pretty straight forward, 
 once you've played through the Novus missions, you then move on to the Hierarchy arc, then the 
 Masari arc. The Masari arc is different in terms of approach to the missions. Rather than just 
 been told what to do, you have the ability to invade places on the map. It's more of a strategic 
 feeling than the other campaigns and is a nice way to get out of the feeling you sometimes get 
 from the same old stuff repeating itself.
  
  While it is nice to have that featured, the campaign itself doesn't show off what the game can 
 do. It actually feels like a dumbed downed version as the missions limit you on what you can do. 
 The research tree is pretty none existent, so it's not like other RTS games, where they slowly 
 allow you to build up better units as you progress the story. The reason the game is like this 
 is because it's so heavily scripted and that leads to you never really getting to do things your 
 own way, which is a shame. On the other hand the game does feature a skirmish mode and some preset 
 scenarios, which feature the whole research and development tree. Players will just have to sit 
 down and make up their own stories for the skirmishes if they want a campaign like this.
  
  The thing that really stands out with Universe at War, which is also the main appeal of the game 
 no doubt, is just how diverse each faction is. The three teams play so differently that you would 
 probably think they were taken from different games. The Novus are a quick and agile group of robots 
 that can set up a network of energy nodes. The nodes can be used by the Novus so they can traverse 
 the map at blazing speeds from wherever the points are located. The Novus are a team that relies 
 on using their agility and massive numbers to out swarm the opponents. They aren't powerful by 
 themselves, but like a group of Chavs, can course havoc when together. Usually White and sleek 
 in design, the Novus look like they were inspired by I, Robot. The main Hero unit of the Novus 
 looks like a Gundam, an awesome flashy white Gundam at that.
  
  Hierarchy on the other hand are slow and powerful. A stand out feature for them are the huge walkers, 
 these are like mobile bases which take a lot of firepower to take down. They have the ability to 
 build add-ons, stuff like extra weapons, shields. It also allows you to build units. It's basically 
 a walking tank of destruction.
  
  The last of the three, the Masari, are something you'll be used to. They play like a more traditional 
 RTS faction, meaning you'll be building bases and researching new things to play with. Petroglyph 
 did spice the ancient race up, giving them the skill of switching between light and dark modes. 
 Dark is good for defence while light is good for going on the offensive. It's actually pretty amazing 
 that Petroglyph managed to make all three teams, which play so differently, extremely balanced. 
 I never once felt I was overpowered by the other team. The only thing that goes through your head 
 when playing, especially against the Hierarchy is "Damn I wish my team had one of those walking 
 beasts". They're awesome when they set out on a full scale attack on a base, and it's even better 
 when you are the ones doing it. They're probably the best race to play as.
  
  While the game's full potential doesn't come out in the campaign, it surely does in the multiplayer, 
 but yet there's a major problem if you want to get the full experience from the multiplayer. This 
 is due to players needing to have a Gold account with the Game for Windows program. It's fine for 
 people who already have an Xbox Live account and are paying for that, as they both work together. 
 It's stupid really as no one in their right mind is going to be paying 39.99 just to play a few 
 games on their Windows PC. It really has alienated a fair amount of players who don't own Xbox 
 360s, but would love to play the game on their PC.
  
  If you are a gold subscriber then you can look forward to playing Ranked matches and the excellent 
 Conquer the World. I don't think Ranked matches need explaining, they are just your typical RTS 
 fights. Conquer the World on the other hand is about taking over the entire planet. You try to 
 take over territories on the map, you click the area and square off against another opponent trying 
 to get that area too, win and you take over the territory and you can then move onto the next one 
 till you've got the whole planet in your grasps. Shame you can only play it if you are a gold subscriber, 
 a real total bummer. It probably explains why there weren't many people playing it online too.
 
  
  Universe at War is artistically beautiful to look at. It runs in both DirectX 9 and DirectX 10 
 modes. 10 seems to not be as well implemented, so using 9 is the best way to get the most out of 
 it as it runs silky smooth. The units look great, with designs that are either fresh or inspired 
 by sci-fi greats like War of the Worlds. The effects are nifty, just watching the units do their 
 stuff, the blue that oozes from the Novus as they travel at super speed or walkers blasting units 
 with their lasers, oh and not to forget the super weapons. Using them for the first time is smile 
 inducing. If there is a slight disappointment, it's that the backgrounds and maps look a little 
 dated, with bland textures to boot. 
  
  A problem that really annoyed me was the amount you can zoom out; basically you can't zoom out 
 for crap. Its highest point is still too far in, with some units, mainly the walkers, still filling 
 up a lot of your screen. I've heard that a patch is coming to fix this, but till then the problem 
 is still a pain, especially after been treated to the chocolate spread loveliness zoom of Supreme 
 Commander (all the way in, all the way out) . Overall though the positives outweigh the negatives 
 and the game looks pretty with everything turned up. 
  
  If you've played any 2D Command & Conquer games, then Frank Klepacki might ring some bells. He 
 was the composer for the series (Hell March! Yeah baby) . Now he's back with the soundtrack for 
 Universe at War. It's quite rock based, as you might of guessed with some of his past hit tracks, 
 but it fits well and doesn't break your ear drums or knock you into a coma. The voice acting isn't 
 the greatest, but not not the worst either, it's just average. The game features some lines that 
 will probably make you giggle, while others make you cringe. It feels like a cheap B-Movie sci-fi 
 flick in terms of content.
  
  In the end this game would receive a rating of 8 if it didn't go in the wrong direction with some 
 aspects. It's got some great innovative factions, fun gameplay and a nice sci-fi presentation vibe. 
 The problem is the campaign isn't well thought up and the implementation of Games for Windows Gold 
 subscription for the bulk of the multiplayer is just damn daylight robbery. PC gamers have had 
 free multiplayer for a long time and something like this isn't going to make people pay up anytime 
 soon. Yes there are achievements, but me personally; I'd take full access to multiplayer over achievements 
 any day. Ask yourself this, do you have quick pleasure with oneself or long-time pleasure with 
 multiple people? I know which one I'd take. Not everyone has an Xbox 360 that plays today's PC 
 games. If you have a Gold account then add an extra 1 to the score, if not then you will probably 
 feel like most of the other PC gaming players, pissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beachbob1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  At first I thought this was a avergae rts. It has a okay story about aliens invading earth. (Evil) 
 The story kept me entertained as another set of aliens showed up to stop them. (robots) Not to 
 be outdone a 3rd set of aliens that have been hibernating under our seas come out of hiding. (Gods) lol
 
  
  It has a conquer the world mode (mp) that has you trying to take control of earth. A feature I really 
 enjoyed. The whole Mars Attacks feel of the game I Liked too. All said a average rts.
  
  But the more I play it the more I see how well balanced this rts is. The factions all are totally 
 diffrent in the way they collect resources, base build and fight. One of the major flaws of most 
 rts's is the factions are so simiar and alot of them come down to a twitch game. (rush)
  
  UaW is a breath of fresh air for a new IP. It offers tactics and makes you use strategy. The Hero 
 units all have intersting features and the game ends up bieng one of the most polished rts's I 
 have played.
  
  Keep in mind I purchased this game in March and I DL 3 patches. So I think they fixed alot of issues 
 mentioned in earlier reviews. A buy imo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  The former Command & Conquer guys released Star Wars: Empire at War several years ago, and followed 
 it up with the entertaining Forces of Corruption expansion. For their first original title as Petroglyph, 
 they delivered a fairly amusing title.
  
  Universe at War: Earth Assault is set in 2012, hilariously enough when the world is supposedly 
 going to end, and the Earth has been invaded by a hostile alien force called the Hierarchy. Unlike 
 most games that feature both humans and aliens, the humans are actually a minor presence and while 
 the prologue campaign centers around them they have little presence in the later campaigns, and 
 are not playable in skirmishes. Anyway, two other alien factions the Novus (a race of intelligent 
 machines) , and the Masari (a mythical force that has been sleeping within Earth's oceans for millennia) 
 come into the conflict turning Earth into a War of the Worlds battlefield.
  
  One of the things about UaW that I really liked, was how every faction was completely different. 
 None of the three factions were similar at all, they gathered resources in different ways, and 
 they played entirely differently. The Novus are a hit and run race, they are able to construct 
 stealthed flow towers around the map for extremely fast travel making them useful for guerrilla 
 tactics. The Hierarchy on the other hand, are a ham fisted assault race, and their units pack a 
 punch, but not only that... most of their structures are massive robots that can easily take down 
 an enemy base if outfitted properly. Finally there are the Masari, which are a turtling race, and 
 are not required to leave their base for resources. The Masari focuses on building up a large attack 
 force and overwhelming their opponents with high quality units.
  
  Universe at War is a bit over the top when compared to some RTS titles on the market, but it's 
 all in good fun as UaW feels like a "parody" of traditional Science Fiction... particularly War 
 of the Worlds and Mars Attacks. Most newer RTS gamers may find themselves underwhelmed, though; 
 UaW plays more like a traditional RTS than the most recent titles which are pure action. You are 
 required to use strategy in building up your forces, and assaults, and resource gathering is important, 
 there are also no squads... each unit flies solo on the battlefield.
  
  Visually UaW is fairly impressive. It uses the Alamo engine that powered Empire at War, so it'll 
 feel very familiar, but the visuals had an overhaul and look a lot more detailed. Audio wise the 
 game is exceptional, great voice work combined with an epic musical score by C&C Legend Frank Klepacki 
 ensures that if anything is above average, it's the audio.
  
  Universe at War is a great game, the campaigns are a bit pointless, and the premise may seem fruity, 
 but it's good fun being able to crush your opponent's structures with your troop generating building. 
 It's unfortunate that Universe at War is being overlooked by faster paced RTS titles that require 
 little to no strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper251
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  If I were to sum up this game in one word. It's be 'mess',
  
  You are a commander of either 3 different alien armies. Or a few missions when you're a generic 
 'I can take a laser to the face' beefed up army Sergent.
  It's been so long since I've played the abysmal game. I only remember A race with overpowered super 
 death walking machines of horrible crippling pain. Some dudes who look like they've just got a 
 submarine ticket from the lost city of Atlantis, and the white computer ones. 
  All of these races lack luster! Nothing at all makes me think "Wow, that race is so awesome" The 
 best one is the computers, and all that is white robots that obviously look nothing like the ones 
 from I Robot.... Ahem.
  
  The Atlantic ones, I didn't even play because the game was so poor, and the walkers I just couldn't 
 find anyone on the campaign map fights anyway. The game is so utterly pointless, and completed 
 disregarded ANY beta testing.
  The horrible clunky controls, and embarrassingly laughable performance with DX10 leaves this horrible 
 mess, good for a door stop. Or when you want to break your MOH: Airborne CD for how frustrating 
 it is, but don't ACTUALLY want to break it and want a decoy. Usesless, and poor, it doesn't deserve 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Story: Its a alien invasion. play as the humans and 3 other alien races and stop our help it.
 
  
  Missions: Lots of missions. around 20-25 hours worth. Everything is just standard RTS missions 
 though. Pretty Boring.
  
  Controls: Keyboard And Mouse 
  
  
  Features: Lots of units.
  
  A. I.: Smart for each race. learn your tatics.
  
  Loading Times: 
 30 seconds between missions
  
  Graphics: The grahics are pretty bad in this game even with full dx10 and ultra high. Everything 
 is blocky and just looks plain ugly. The details of the enviroments are minimal.
  
  Audio: good voice acting and ambient sounds. Voice acting is great and is acted out nicley. The 
 guns sound amazing and the rest of the sound is fenominal
  
  Multiplayer: Standard RTS Multiplayer.
  
  Requirements: Internet Connection, pretty good PC 
 to run it. Mouse and Keyboard
  
  The Good: Good sound, long game, ok story
  
  The Bad: The Camera
  
  The Ugly: Everything else.
  
  Replay Ability: None
  
  The Bottom 
 Line: A overrated RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvguyofnature
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to point that out that this is an awesome game, there is no reason why you wouldn't enjoy 
 it. Even though there are some issues with the game play, I would rate it first class. Sometimes, 
 though, you will become frustrated because for no apparent reason the game closes itself and other 
 times Microsoft's Live bothers you (I blame those bastards in Redmond for that) . The graphics are 
 equal to those I've seen in most RTS games but it is inferior to those seen in C&C 3: Tiberium 
 Wars. Anyway, If you're a true RTS fan then graphics shouldn't bother you either way. What does 
 bother me, however, is the really terrible camera. The first time I played I thought my game was 
 f*cked up cause the camera couldn't be zoomed out and it was impossible to see what was going on 
 in a little more than a small radius. This bothersome issue disappears after you get used to it.
 
  
  Now about the factions. The game consists of three different divisions, Novus, Hierarchy, and Masari. 
 Novus has this feature where it allows you to create invisible network towers that allow rapid 
 deployment of troops anywhere onto the battlefield. I have never seen this before in an RTS, really 
 innovative idea. The Hierarchy are exactly the opposite of the Novus, unlike Novus who focuses 
 on speed, the Hierarchy has a number of huge units entitled "Walkers". These giant powerhouses 
 are slow but strong. However, it comes back to rape you later on because of the crappy camera you 
 can see about only 2-3 walkers on your screen at a time and thats a huge nuisance. The Masari isolates 
 itself from the other two even further with a "light/dark system" and other new ideas that may 
 or may not be confusing.
  
  Finally the storyline. I'd say 10/10. Sure, Earth falling under alien domination and another alien 
 faction hidden under Earth's oceans isn't totally believable but the manner in which it is presented 
 is enjoyable. I found myself completing the mission just to see what development occurs next in 
 the storyline. If I'm doing this then the game has a really nice storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aedelman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  May have minor flaws and an annoying camera, but alien races are so fantastic. Refreshing and innovative. 
 However, one thing that bugged me was the Masari. As soon as I played them, the arrogant ye' olde 
 times voices drove me insane. On a side note, Hirearchy, in my opinion, was by far the most awesome. 
 The weak Novus are fun too, but don't exactly quite have that sinister yet disciplined mien in 
 them, while the Hirearchy do. Strange and repetitive music took it down a bit too. If this game 
 had included a cooler race than those Masari, it would be more unique. I mean the Masari are practically 
 humans but have that superhero thing going on. They kind of look like they were pulled out of final 
 fantasy or something. The camera was tolerable, but I still say it needs to be brought at least 
 25% further out. All in all, I'd say ambitious game that doesn't seem finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royvanderhoorn
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Another Strategy game. Some developers actually tend to make stuff more interesting, for example 
 letting you create hundreds of units so you can really have a war going on. WHAT!? only 90 units? 
 That's right, this game has a max. cap units of 90 in total. This will let you only take a small 
 army, if you're able to gather them all, I suggest you leave half of them at your base because 
 when it gets attacked, your base will vanish in a matter of seconds. 
  
  Overall, it's not a bad game, but it really doesn't have anything new. A positive note is that 
 I find some units to be very cool looking, but that's about it. I'm not talking about the Japanese 
 Transformer figure, because I hate that, no, I'm referring to the Big Walkers you can build in 
 the game. It's really hard to destroy them, but that's what makes it fun.
  
  
  Anyways... This game does not have any special features that other games don't have, so I would 
 not recommend this game really, or if you're a major RTS fan, just try out this game first and 
 see if you like it. If not, there's a great chance you will be dissapointed. For those who haven't 
 played any RTS games, I suggest you go looking for Supreme Commander, should be like 20 bucks now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerMoonSix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has good potential for your run-of-the-mill RTS. The formula is getting tired and really 
 needs to be reinvented. Pretty creative in regards to the specifics of the units, battles, and 
 story. The actual game play isn't the worse thing about this game... It is the interface that kills 
 it. Useless zoom and a non-user-friendly button system are key. I found myself franticly clicking 
 around the map trying to keep up with the action and building units. It was easy to forget where 
 i had things going on. The game would be more playable if you really could back out the view for 
 a more general approach. It's a good start, and a great base to work off of... perhaps the next 
 game will be an improvement. The graphics didn't look bad, but they didn't look great either. I 
 did like the voice and music. The speech seemed to fit what was currently happening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  UAW is rather a novel RTS in that its heavily sci-fi based in a War of the Worlds remake.
  
  To say its a new game to come out at the beginning of 2008, its is distinctly old school with 
 graphics from about 4 years ago - This is hardly C&C 3 or Company of heroes. When playing it I 
 have a feeling this game was made rather tongue in cheek as everything about it is very cheesy, 
 even down to the commentary screen that you get in game.
  
  That said , UAW is worth playing (when you have nothing else to do ! ) . 
  
  To be honest, it 
 is fun but has a number of niggles, like the fact that you cannot zoom the camera far enough out 
 and it has an annoying heavy metal rock track.
  
  The story line is good but rather predictable.
  
  If there is any game it can be compared to, 
 it is Joint Task Force which had poor gfx for its time and came out about 2 years ago which had 
 a similar cartoony feel to it.
  
  
  Graphics 6
  Sound 8
  Gameplay 8
  Stability 9
  Value for money 8
  
  Overall 7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  From the beginning of its announcement UAW: EA has received a lot of attention. It has been a trend 
 in gaming these days that games rarely are capable of matching what they promise. 
  
  Earth Assault is a game that delivers on its promise but at the same lacks the definition and completeness 
 that derives this game from being a truly great game.
  
  For a statergy game UAW falls behind by allowing a very limited number of units to be present at 
 a given time. A total pop cap of 90 is just not enough. As far as graphics are concerned the game 
 looks pretty good. But you really cant enjoy the view because the camera cant be pulled back enough. 
 The disadvantage of the camera is evident as you constantly have to use the mini map in order to 
 manage your base properly.
  
  The unique game play of each faction is definitely a good point. Each faction collects resources 
 and manages its base in a totally different manner. 
  
  You will also notice that for some reason reaching is not available in the 1st 2 campaigns. And 
 it appears that this limitation only applies to the player and not the opposition AI which was 
 a bit of a let off. 
  
  The game also lacks good flying units with each faction having only one or at most two basic units. 
 But the game makes up for it by providing a good choice of ground units.
  
  All in all Universe at war will provide you with a good entertainment but dont expect it to blow 
 your mind off.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: td_tempest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I first picked up the demo for Universe at War. Honestly, I wasn't very impressed by the demo. 
 The only race you could play was the Heirachy, and while it WAS, after all a demo, it really didn't 
 seem like much.
  
  I'm happy to say that Universe at War wasn't at all the boring, limited game I expected it to be. 
 The three sides are very unique. It makes for some intresting gameplay, to say the least. 
  
  Novus favors a fast, slightly swarming kind of tactic, and if you have a good flow network 
 set up, you can be all over your opponent. The flow conduits can even double as a camera of sorts, 
 letting you see if any enemy units go near your conduits. They are also best at dealing with Heirachy 
 walkers, because of their amplifiers. Patches are also a very good way of changing your tactics 
 on the ball.
  
  The Heirachy are the typical big bad overlords of the universe. They invade Earth, wanna blow it 
 up, use the people for resources. Sound familiar ? Probably. Their walkers are without a doubt 
 the most powerful units in the game. They crush most stuff in their way. I say most, because a 
 lot of times my Novus and Massari units could just hang around under its legs. The walkers can 
 be configured to be gay weapons of destruction, but they're also your factories. So its really 
 a choice of being powerful, or being a factory. 
  
  Finally are the Massari. They're some sort of human looking alien race who've been guiding us all 
 along. They can switch between Light and Dark modes, pretty nifty, with Dark modes giving something 
 called DMA, which is a glorious name for shield, over time. Light mode makes your weapons burn, 
 and let your air units fly. The two modes also affect your superweapon, with a different one in 
 a different mode. The weapon recharges when you switch mode, which can be irritating. As it stands, 
 I spent most of my time in Dark Mode, because one research allows your structures to get DMA too. 
 
  
  Audio is pretty well done. There's some rock music that plays when you enter battle. The different 
 teams' voices fit the general scheme of their respective sides, though the Massari put me in mind 
 of the Necrons for some weird reason. Dialogue between missions is also intresting and draws you 
 into the game. You don't want to skip the briefings, but want to stay and listen. The cutscenes 
 are good too, pushing the story along without really being obvious about it. Lastly. The Novus 
 amplifier at full charge has a very piercing sound. Its really realistic. While its not bad, it 
 tends to hurt my ears.
  
  The bad points. Firstly, and most obviously, the camera. You can't scroll out. You can scroll in, 
 but can't scroll out of the standard view. Which is fustrating because a walker pretty much takes 
 up the screen. The control scheme is pretty clumsy too. Creating control groups is a bit irritating. 
 After pressing ctrl+1, you have to hold it there till you see the number appear under their hp 
 bars, or it won't stick. Finally, there seems to be problems with the AI pathfinding. My units 
 kept getting stuck on corners. They were also way too battle hungry. And for some reason, when 
 ordered to attack walkers, units tend to charge forward, instead of staying back and hammering 
 from afar. 
  
  Overall, the game is pretty nifty. Good concept, nice story overall. Especially the Massari campaign. 
 I didn't expect it to turn into the strategic warfare. If you're looking for a RTS to tide you 
 over until something else more intresting comes along, this will do nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxPureChaosxxx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  To start off the review, the game has some balanced units or a one-man-army but it's beatable.
 
  
  Pros: Great Campaign and Skirmish matches, doesn't need a powerful PC to play it, and it can do 
 Cross-Platform play.
  
  Cons: Framerate drops too quickly and Turrets attack you even when that map part is blacked out.
 
  
  Graphics: When playing UAW you may notice the detail is not Next-gen even with DirectX10 but it's 
 an RTS game so what would you expect?
  
  Story: The Campaign mode is a blast, each Faction Plays Where the last Faction left off, but then 
 the Masari storyline is like an RPG where you can choose your destination from Country to Country.
 
  
  GamePlay: When you first play UAW, you may notice that when you click on a unit there's no picture 
 of the unit or attack tab, this is because you can have an whole army of units in one group unlike 
 the other RTS games where you have to keep on switching between groups. Also when having a whole 
 army attacking a base you may notice the framerate is slowing down and will not come back to normal.
 
  
  Online: Gamespot says it all.
  
  Overall: This game will keep you busy with other RTS games that are coming out, or you may get 
 addicted to it, Oh Two more things, do not judge the game from its first Campaign level most people 
 do that and don't think that Walkers are rigged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahularunmishra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This isnt SC2... but it is a hell a lot of fun!
  The Novus and the Hierarchy are undoubtedly the more attractive of the 3 factions since they play 
 so differently.
  
  It lacks many well known RTS controls. eg: waypoints and the queue structure. 
  The units are 
 created as individuals...
  There is a cap of just 90!! this is 2008!
  
  But... imagine seeing that beast of a walker crossing a gorge! Its lovely to look at and well.. 
 a little behind the times. Needs a huge patch of a solid expansion to fix those issues.
  
  The camera was a problem... but when i downloaded the new patch; that got fixed. I can see 2 walkers 
 on the screen at one time which is a big improvement. I would like to zoom out like we could in 
 Empires at War however. (since its the same engine... i wonder why i cant do that right now!)
  
  So... its a solid game. But not worth the price maybe since quality is a bit off.
  
  But 
 still while you are waiting for SC2... might as well check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrkHammer007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Universe at War: Earth Assault is the latest game from Petroglyph Studios (Star Wars: Empire at 
 War) , founded by former Westwood (C&C) employees. It takes place in 2012, and uses the time-honored 
 "Earth is invaded by aliens!" storyline... with a nasty little twist: other than the two opening 
 missions, humanity is not a playable race.
  
  Instead, three alien factions fight for control of our planet, with mechanics so different, you 
 almost have to relearn the game when you switch between them:
  
  The Novus, a race of artificially intelligent machines (whose creators were destroyed by the Hierarchy) , 
 use a network of energy beams powered by "Flow" to both expand their base and transport units; 
 they also upgrade on the fly using "patches" to universally alter their defense and other capabilities. 
 Resources are scavenged from inorganic materials and scrap from the battlefield via bots controlled 
 from a recycling center
  
  The Hierarchy, a locust-like race of... somethings... and the game's prime villains, employ gigantic 
 upgradeable walkers as both weapon platforms and unit building structures; "hardpoints" on each 
 walker can be outfitted with various options to boost production, offense and defense, both for 
 themselves and surrounding units. Resources are literally ripped from the surrounding landscape 
 by Reaper Drones, which will grab nearly anything: buildings, scrap, people, cows...
  
  The Masari, a super-advanced human-like race (who, apparently, created the Hierarchy before being 
 overthrown by them) manipulate energy to produce structures and units, as well as alter the way 
 they fight by toggling between "Dark" and "Light" energy modes, each with advantages and disadvantages. 
 Resources are produced by engines which collect it from their surroundings; in that respect, they 
 have the least impact on their surroundings.
  
  Each side also gets three hero units, with some interesting (but not game-tilting) special abilities. 
 In skirmish games, they are unlocked by researching "suites" of related technologies; there are 
 12 for each race, but only six can be active at a time. If you change your mind, however, any research 
 can be sold back and a new one purchased.
  
  The single-player campaign comes in four phases: the prelude (2 missions with the humans, which 
 show the end of the initial invasion) , the Novus (where we're introduced to Mirabel, the lone Novus 
 "organic," and Viktor, her intelligent battle suit, through several missions) , the Hierarchy (which 
 centers around Orlok, the commander, and definitely showcases the Hierarchy's evilness) , and finally 
 the Masari (which has one scripted mission before launching into a grand strategic campaign ala 
 Risk, Dark Crusade, etc.; this was rather disappointing, given the storyline in previous phases) . 
 The dialog was nicely cheesy, as befitting a B-movie ("I wish you a statistically favorable outcome" 
 sticks in my head) and further cements it among the great '50's "saucer men" films.
  
  A "Scenario" mode is also available, allowing you to play the Risk-like metagame with any race.
 
  
  The game itself focuses on a tactical rather than grand strategic scale (like Supreme Commander) , 
 but does pretty well for itself. Combat is furious, and unit management is much more critical due 
 to extra abilities each unit has. All units are useful throughout the game and no one unit (except 
 maybe the walkers) is absolutely dominant.
  
  Design-wise, each race's units reflect the feel of the entire race: Novus units are shiny, sterile 
 white robots, Hierarchy units are brutal and organic, and Masari units look as if they stepped 
 out of a gladiatorial film (although none of Rome's pit fighters carried energy weapons) in keeping 
 with their "Warriors of Atlantis" theme. Sounds for weapons match pretty well, but seem to be recycled 
 a bit from other games on the market. An original score from Frank Klepacki (who also wrote the 
 music for the early Command and Conquer games) adds a nice solid touch.
  
  What keeps the package from being top-notch is the lack of many modern RTS amenities: infantry 
 are trained in the old, unrealistic "one-at-a-time" method rather than squads; lack of terrain 
 and cover mechanics; lack of flanking or facing bonuses; the list goes on.
  
  Technical problems also hamstring UaW. Its reliance on Games for Windows Live to register achievements 
 and play on-line caused many PC-only gamers to scramble for a missed update, which led to a lot 
 of crashes and lockups on my machine; also, since it begs to connect every time you play, if you 
 don't give it access through your firewall, more crashes ensue.
  
  Then there's the multi-player revolt: to access common on-line features such as ranked multi-player, 
 an additional fee is required for a Gold subscription for XBox Live. If you're like me, and don't 
 own an XBox360 (or intend to buy one any day soon) , this is just outrageous bordering on robbery 
 (since I don't plan on playing online much, it doesn't really affect me) . Because of this, many 
 have taken to staying away from those type of matches; keep this in mind if multi-player is a strong 
 reason for purchasing a game.
  
  Overall, UaW is a wonderfully fun B-movie-turned RTS. With some more patching, and some new features 
 added (whether by mods or expansions) , this could turn out to be the sleeper hit of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navyseai
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  - this was supose to be a x360 game not for pc, so the interface sucks
  - it requires a good graphic card to play on maximum settings
  - Even if you put it on maximum 
 settings the details aint that special
  - Play in dx10 almost the same as playing in dx9
  - Playing in dx10 = Really slow game
  - Interface make difficult to target the big guys parts
 
  - Even if you are able to click on them, your troops wont shoot it
  - Even if you are able to shoot where you want, they are shooing them Trough like they were ghosts 
 and the only part to be hit is the target, which is preety lame
  - Game interface/resolution is too big
  - Game is too limited, you have half/dozen of units which 
 make the game preety boring.
  - The factions somehow do not seem to be balanced
  - Faction heroes are are lame in firepower/Artificial inteligence
  - Units take too much time 
 dieing!!!!!!
  - Alot of other stuff, im just tired to write about it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richteralan
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for a few days.
  
  I finished first two races' campaign and they are fun. The story is gripping. The graphics are 
 not bad. You cannot compare graphics of RTS with a FPS so I'm satisfied with UaW.
  
  However, there are some serious issues about:
  
  1. Pathfinding. The pathfinding of this game 
 is virtually non-existence. Units always stuck at flat ground or just stopped moving without any 
 reason, especially when you order a large number of troops across the map. This can be VERY annoying 
 in time-crucial situations.
  
  2. Unit stance. My units always engage the enemy and chase them deep into enemy territory. No options 
 to stay ground? Wha? Am I playing a RTS?
  
  3. AI. Again, non-existence in campaign mode. Your enemy just got tons of units in the beginning. 
 I couldn't complete a mission now because my enemy at the particular mission, the Hierarchy, spam 
 3 walkers at me from beginning. I moved my base 3 times but every time I can establish my base, 
 enemy super weapon is ready and 3 walkers are at my base front door. Impossible to finish this 
 mission. It is fun to challenge this situation at first but gets really frustrating quickly.
  
  4. Camera. The walkers are cool but I don't wanna have a view camera that I can only see one 
 on my screen.
  
  5. Performance/Stuttering bug. Game stutters badly in some situation, loading unknown data. Many 
 performance bugs, e. g. when Mesari in dark mode, selecting a group of units at least halves your 
 performance.
  
  6. Hierarchy walkers cost too low and build too fast. You can build one at the beginning and start 
 walking toward enemy base while upgrading hard-points. Other two races needs to build a large amount 
 of units to counter a single walker.
  
  7. Can the announcer voices shut up for a moment? Or at least some options for announcing frequency?
 
  
  i would suggest rent it first or borrow it first. This is a fun game to play and you can learn 
 it quite quickly. But when you go deeper into the game you'll be frustrated by bugs, bored by the 
 fewer unit controls and frustrated by stuffs I mentioned above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capfuzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I do not understand the low scores. This is a very good game. If you enjoy RTS games, you need 
 to experience this game. If you are skeptical, download the eval so you can see for yourself. I 
 cannot believe this game has a score lower than Supreme Commander, because it is a hell of a lot 
 more fun to play. I think more people need to have played the game they are reviewing. The unit 
 animations are some of the best that I have seen. It is obvious that the developers spent a lot 
 of time getting all the right elements in this game. This isn't a one guy in his basement production. 
 Check it out and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalrh
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Universe at war was a game I had been looking forward to for quite some time. The fact that the 
 old dogs from Westwood where behind the development made me think this was going to be the big 
 RTS hit of the year. 
  
  But it just didnt live up to my expectations. 
  
  3 factions which could basically be taken out of any modern 3 faction RTS game. Its getting rather 
 old and I wish someone would come up with something new. 1 Behemoth faction, 1 hit and run faction 
 and 1 balanced faction seems to be the holy trinity of RTS gaming atm. 
  
  The load times where horrible on my computer. I havent seen anything this bad since Yuris revenge 
 for red alert 2. Coinsidence that that was the last RTS game theese guys made ? I think not!
  
  AI is borderline retarded. They dont seem to protect their resource gatherer what so ever. 
 
  
  while the epic stuggle between the Hierarchy and Novus was fun the whole masari faction just never 
 grew on me. The whole atlantis angle was just a tad bit to much for me.
  
  Also the zoom level was horrible aswell as the diversity among the units. I really felt like the 
 game was to simple. And when you can start destroying the Hierarchies supplies ( buildings) and 
 such before he gets them then that just takes the cake. 
  
  In many ways the game just felt to small. From the tight camera view to the small unit diversity. 
 It felt like playing a RTS game on a cellphone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrackoSoldat
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Ah. UAW: EA. I've been waiting for this game for a while now, really. However, unfortunately, this 
 game is a lot more disappointing than I expected it to be. *sigh* Alright, on to the actual review. 
 Now, the game is your standard RTS. It's not even a very good one. Sure, flying beautifully rendered 
 units by a conduit system, or attack with giant walkers may seem ... interesting... however, it's 
 not-so-unique resource systems, insane unit limits and an idiotic sci-fi story make this game a 
 shadow of what it could have been. Well, it's not THAT bad, really. The story works... but it should 
 be a little reworked with more interesting twists and also show more of the world outside the war. 
 The skirmish battles.. are... well, boring. Honestly, 90 units! And a 3 walker limit! The people 
 who made that must have been crazy. At least double it. Come on.
  
  Alright, I guess I should sum this up:
  UAW is a pretty fun game, however, when you get to the 
 very mechanics of the game, it's a simple RTS that we all have played. Sad, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisKumfi
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  UAW is a quite good take on old school RTS games. The Factions are distinct enough. The learning 
 curve is not too steep, in fact I found it holding my hand a little bit too much. Design-wise it's 
 nothing too special with the invading aliens and their tripods feeding on people and those anime-like 
 cyborgs and whatnot, but fun to look at after all. It's the old rock-paper-scissors system. Seeing 
 as that has been done so many times before, you practically can't get it wrong and they didn't. 
 I didn't play online, but I can imagine that it could be quite fun with the conquest mode and all.
 
  
  What killed it a little bit for me was the interface. First of all, you can't tell your units to 
 wait, patrol, etc. Also, you can't zoom out far enough, so those giant walkers will take up all 
 of the screen, which is fitting for their presentation, I guess, but really doesn't work out as 
 well from a gameplay standpoint.
  
  At first I thought something was wrong with my PC because I got really horrible frame rates in 
 DX 10 Mode. Seeing as I upgraded just two weeks ago, this was quite annoying. Well, I read it up 
 and it seems the engine just can't handle DX 10. Meh, not much difference to DX 9 here anyway.
 
  Also, the textures are lacking a bit and shadows look very jagged.
  
  So, again I'm waiting for patches to sort out some polish issues...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benji_online
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Ok, so it isn't the new Starcraft 2, but it has very interesting concepts- The Campaign isn't something 
 to knock you of your seats, but rather an opportunity to get started. The "Battle for Middle Earth 
 2"-esque scenario mode is probably where you'll be playing most of the time. Except multi-player, 
 of course. The 3 different factions will definitely keep you on your toes as you will spent quite 
 some time figuring out what to build -and when- and in what mix. Rent it first, as I have done, 
 to get your first hand experience, and you'll see what I mean. 
  
  Everything would be status quo so far, were it not for the biggest problems with UaW -THE BUGS- 
 
  
  I must have restarted plenty of missions due to a bug that renders a Hierarchy Assembly Walker 
 impervious to damage, or wondered why everything is moving so slowly till I deactivated DirectX 
 10 and found out that with DX9 all my Novus units could whiz around the Battlefield. Which brings 
 me to another really big, or should I say small. problem -the camera- . Sure you have the mighty 
 Walkers, but seeing them one leg at a time just doesn't seem right.
  
  And that is the credo of this game. You just can't see the full scope of this game due to plenty 
 of bugs or just broken game mechanics like the camera..
  But give it a patch or two and this game can really shine, as I couldn't find anything a patch 
 or two can't fix. So rent it for now, see if it suits you, and buy for a whole lot of fun once 
 the patches are out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Won't bother you with all "The Good" and "The Bad" reviews, will just briefly write what I realy 
 find bad in a hope that gamer reviews might be viewed by developers and could give them a thought 
 or two how to fix the game:
  
  1. Camera is really bad - tried 1600X900 and 1650X1050 widescreen, but you still want to zoom out 
 more to get a perspective of battle, like in Supreme Commander. Another thing - slow moving, not 
 possible (or i havent found) an option to rotate, etc. etc. So - pretty nice graphics, but not 
 possible to enjoy it.
  
  2. Sound - erm, is this "Space invaders" or what? Though some sounds are really great, but some 
 are really old-school and not in a good way.
  
  3. Pace of unit movement - so much anarchy, once again - not in a good way. Units running and flying 
 around, sometimes its even hard to catch them with a mouse.
  
  4. Same as with units is with buildings - i haven't found any big differences for enviroment or 
 structuring your bases, meaning that you can build anything anywhere, it doesn't matter actually.
 
  
  In general this game feels more like an arcade game than a strategy to me. And made me get my Supreme 
 Commander DVD, which i have forgotten for a while (to me it's still an ideal strategy game, but 
 somehow strangely not so much involving) - if you make a massive strategy game, make it properly 
 or you'll be forgotten realy fast. Nice try, petty it didn't came out right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andriuc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  So i've read the review on gamespot. yes the game has it's drawbacks that is true. in the beginning 
 i was very impressed by the graphics and the storyline whitch were very good. i finished the novus 
 and the hierarcy. i got to the masari and then on the entire map things began to change. i didn't 
 feel like it playing any more. it was like ... been there done that.
  Never the less i give this game a 6.5 because it runs preaty hard on not so performent pc and because 
 after you've played C&C well... there's no point in realy buying the game or playing it for god 
 knows how long. 20 hours it's all you need and U can move to a next game. And thanks God there 
 are planty of them.
  P. s. excuse my gramar , i haven't written in a long time! Thx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCGunn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Okey soo the game aint that revolutinary or innovative but the game is VERY customizable for an 
 RTS the 3 races are relly unique and the Hiearchy walkers are relly something new in an RTS working 
 as both Production structures AND battleships and i agree that the camera is sometimes punishing 
 the game is still good 
  
  The storyline isnt exactly very new but i must edmit the plot twists and backstabbing is kinda 
 refreshing for an RTS 
  
  Overall the games graphics dont seem too be that innovative and dont look that diffrent in graphics 
 , the gameplay style is old school but that dosent automaticly mean its BAD
  Its Conquer the World mode isnt new as well but it definetly gives some more replayability 
  
 
  I give the game at least a 8.5 and tops 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atheist_Jew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Universe at War is a really good game, don't get me wrong, but there is simply no way it even approaches 
 the excellence of Chris Taylor's amazing spiritual sequel to Total Annihilation. Supreme Commander 
 is an opus of the RTS genre, and there is simply no other title yet released that compares with 
 it appropriately. It changed the face of the genre. 
  
  I'm really not feeling like writing a complete review of the damn game but lets just say that It 
 needs a few things:
  
  1) I'd like to be able to zoom out farther than 40 feet above the ground. 
  2) I'd like to be 
 able to capture enemy units and buildings
  3) I'd like to not be assaulted by horrible voice acting 
  4) I'd like a wider range of units 
 
  5) I'd like the three races to be balanced. Seriously, two races have to collect resources and 
 the third has INFINITE? 
  
  I would like a member of the Petroglyph staff to explain the logic behind these decisions. Especially 
 the zooming out thing. Thank christ for user mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caleb367
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  This shoots right out of the early years of real time strategy. It's easy to get accustomed to, 
 it's just plain fun, has the most varied factions seen in recent games (even if the concepts are 
 quite unoriginal: anime robots vs. war of the worlds tripods vs. olympian gods dropouts) and a 
 good soundtrack to boot.
  
  Biggest problem i have with it, it's the atrocious interface design. I may be partial, since i'm 
 accustomed to that lovely strategic zoom of SupCom, but heck... at max zoom out, a Hierarchy walker 
 takes LITERALLY half of the screen. 
  Pathfinding's not too good either, sometimes units go for a merry runabout of a building to cross 
 a street, walkers - who can cross every obstacle, even rivers or steep cliffs - sometimes refuse 
 to move.
  Sometimes you order a build queue and the building or walker spontaneously deselects after 3 clicks.
 
  No waypoints, no way to tell unit A to follow or guard unit B (or at least i didn't manage, maybe 
 there's something wrong in my mouse clicking) which makes a real pain in the rear the obvious tactic 
 of setting a swarm of repairing discs around an assault walker.
  Strategic map is fun but simplistic in the Risk way: there's no real difference between the Appalachians 
 region and western Europe. No bonuses like in Dark Crusade, for example, or even different money 
 collected... and seems quite odd to see that a Hierarchy material extractor nets the same money 
 in the urban areas of Los Angeles and in the barren Sahara desert.
  Speaking of strategic scenario, 9 out of 10 battles can be resolved in less than 5 minutes by dropping 
 a strike team right on top of the enemy base before it gets built up... and seems to me (i'm not 
 100% sure) that there's no persistent base building (again, like Dark Crusade) .
  
  But... it's quite nice to look at, it plays out decently, it's just fun to play with and... walkers 
 rock hard, especially with the nice music in background ;)
  
  To sum it all up: Nice, but needs polishing and refining. Preferably as a patch and not in an expansion 
 pack. In my opinion, it's somewhat better than C&C 3 but still can't get near Supreme Commander. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcmembers
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  As I said this is a great game , not the perfect one but still damn good. There are some weak points 
 in the game but if U love RTS you should not miss this one.
  
  game starts with human race ( few groups of infantries and a hero) and this initiation will lead 
 you to an early predictionhere comes another old RTS story, first USA then Russia and finally 
 some old-school aliens.
  
  But U are wrong as I was ! in second mission you will face gigantic alien robot , it 's huge and 
 almost impossible to kill .Then when you lost all your hope from nowhere another weird aliens arrive. 
 fortunately they are friendly faction and from this mission forward you should forget about humans 
 ,cause this is a intergalactic war.
  
  disturbing weak point in the game is lack of command menus , when you select your units or hero 
 there are few command . In any strategy game commands like "Hold This Possession, Patrol,..." are 
 vital , Unfortunately there are no sign of basic commands in UAW. Also you better forget about minimap 
 ;)
  
  But still story, diversity and graphic are cool enough to give this game a try. If you love RTS go 
 for this game but if you are new to this game type you better start with another RTS in the market 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game. 
  
  1) The graphics are pretty darn good for an RTS; and only some environment textures (like the Water 
 textures) seem a bit low detailed
  
  2) The Gameplay is more interesting from Supreme Commander.
  
  You do not have the ability 
 to create so big armies as SupCom but
  there are some great units in this one (especially from the Hierachy )
  and some of them are truly 
 customizable...
  
  Supreme Commander Units are a tiny mess 
  
  and also every Faction in Universe is truly different (just like Starcraft) that you have to use 
 a different strategy for each faction if you want to survive
  and they do not feel the same as it happens with SUPCOM
  
  - The single player story and the 
 objectives are also WAY better from Supreme Commander and the game does not makes you tired with 
 micromanagement boring details
  
  3) Sound is OK (Not bad and not Good either) 
  but 
  Music is GREAT
  
  
  OVERALL SCORE FOR ME
  8.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I learned about this game late in the development cycle. I am a huge fan of real-time strategy 
 games, having played all of the major ones (Warcraft, Age of Empires, Dawn of War, Command & Conquer, 
 Battle for Middle Earth 2, etc.) . I usually try all of the games that release a demo first and 
 was impressed with the demo for Universe at War (UaW) , even though it didn't include a sample skirmish 
 mode. I decided to get this game and certainly do not regret it. While quite good, it still needs 
 a few tweaks, which is to be expected with a new release. But it's a welcome addition to a genre 
 that has had too many duds as of late.
  
  Gameplay: This game features the three most diverse races that I have ever seen in a game. The 
 Hierarchy fields massive, ominous walkers that double as both assault units and production buildings. 
 The Novus are a robotic race that is highly mobile, thanks to the ability to construct "flow" networks. 
 The Masari -- supposedly the inspiration behind human civilizations -- feels a bit more convention 
 in RTS terms, though they are still quite unique with light-dark fighting modes, no resource-collecting, 
 and the best-looking buildings (besides the walkers) in the game. This is not like your typical 
 RTS game, where if you can master one race then you can play them all. Each race offers a very 
 different gameplay experience, which should add a lot of shelf-life to UaW.
  
  The game comes with a few different gameplay modes. For single-player, there is the campaign, a 
 Risk-style global scenarios mode, and skirmish. The campaign allows you to play all three races, 
 in addition to the beleaguered humans whose planet has become a battlefield for aliens. It's a 
 good story with decent missions, though the missions are fairly conventional for an RTS game (i. e., 
 build a base, destroy enemy base, kill enemy leader, escort this VIP, etc.) . There are 20+ missions 
 in all, which will introduce the basic gaming concepts. Additionally, there is the global scenarios 
 mode, which is well done. This is similar to the strategic layer of games like Rise of Nations, 
 W40K: Dark Crusade, and the Total War series, where you can move armies around a global map and 
 initiate real-time battles when you invade a territory occupied by an opponent (or vice versa) . 
 Finally, there is skirmish mode, which can be customized in a number of ways. There are about 20 
 maps, with the usual overabundance of 2-player maps. Any battle that lasts any amount of time can 
 become epic in proportions, much like the end-game of Dawn of War or Battle for Middle Earth 2 
 where super-units and devastating special powers come into play. At that point, you might end up 
 witnessing upgraded Hierarchy Walkers stomping around the map, or a fully functioning and expanded 
 Novus flow network zooming Novus forces all over the place, or strategic use of the Masari light 
 & dark modes that can suddenly turn a battle. That's in addition to special abilities for nearly 
 every unit, flexible research trees, superweapons, 3 distinctive heroes for each race, and so forth. 
 It all comes together really well to offer some exhilarating gameplay.
  
  The game has only a few minor flaws that should be mentioned. In my opinion, most of these issues 
 do not affect gameplay, but some might be annoyed by them. The interface works pretty well and 
 does not obstruct the view, but it will take some getting use to regarding knowing how to do certain 
 things quickly. There are hotkeys that are helpful and can be customized. The camera perspective 
 is pretty typical for most RTS games, but the huge size of the walkers can make things a bit claustrophic 
 occasionally. Also, there is no way to set unit formations (though some units like Ohm bots automatically 
 line up) or unit stances (beyond attack-move and move-while-ignoring-enemies) . I don't really miss 
 these options, but some might. The game can require a good amount of micromanagement at very competitive 
 levels, since every unit has special abilities, research choices can be changed on the fly, Heroes 
 require attention to get the most out of them, and so on. If you are serious about playing online 
 or beating the computer (the AI is pretty decent) on the hard setting, I suggest that you master 
 one race at a time. 
  
  A word about online play. I don't typically play online, and UaW will probably not be any different. 
 There is enough single-player content here to justify buying the game, and the modding tools should 
 be out soon. However, for online gamers, it should be known that this game operates through the 
 Games for Windows Live (GFWL) system. You can sign up for a silver membership and play custom skirmishes 
 for free, but you'll need a $50/yr gold membership to play ranked matches, stat keeping, etc. In 
 2-3 years from now when many games will probably be using GFWL, the fee may be justifiable assuming 
 that the service is good. However, for now, I would settle for the silver account and see what 
 happens. It's too bad that this otherwise great game had to be a test case for GFWL. I really hope 
 that the decision to go with GFWL is not a fatal blow to the game's online potential, which is 
 huge.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful game, period. It looks as good as any modern RTS game. It doesn't have the 
 fantastic unit animation of Dawn of War or the moody, artistic maps of Battle for Middle Earth 
 2, but it's a visually appealing game. I think the Hierarchy has the best-looking units, the Masari 
 has the best-looking stationary structures, and the Novus have the most fascinating transportation 
 system to watch. Special effects such as explosions, superweapon launches, hero special abilities, 
 and so forth are well done.
  
  Sound: Some good voice acting, distinctive music for each side, and appropriate sound effects. 
 Each hero has personality, thanks to both the campaign story and their acknowledgment soundbites. 
 
  
  Documentation/Technical Issues: The manual, while functional, leaves out a lot of information. 
 For example, there is no specific information on research trees, Novus patches, Hero abilities, 
 and the like. Fortunately, you can find all of this at the Petroglyph website, and the in-game 
 tool tips are useful. But this really should have been at your fingertips in a manual, or at least 
 a .pdf file on the game dvd. I have had no technical issues with this game. No crashes, freezes, 
 black screens, nothing. The delayed release date apparently allowed Petroglyph to polish the game 
 pretty well. 
  
  Value/Recommendation: In my view, this is the best RTS game to hit the market this year. The developer 
 took a lot of chances by making the 3 races so vastly different, but it really works well. Actually, 
 the game is quite balanced for a new release, though I suppose there will be some tweaks in forthcoming 
 patches. If you like getting into the single-player content of a RTS game, there is a lot to like 
 in this package. A gold membership with GFWL is a bit more difficult to recommend at this point. 
 It all depends on how big GFWL becomes over the next couple of years and how well the gold membership 
 can be justified (I got a one-month free trial of gold membership with the game, which I suppose 
 is standard) . Anyhow, I highly recommend this game to anyone into RTS games (you might want to 
 try the demo first, though) .
  
  
  Pros:
  +Three very diverse and fun races
  +Great graphics and sound
  +Well-done global scenarios mode
  +Competent skirmish AI
  +Hero 
 Units
  
  Cons:
  -Decent but unimaginative campaign
  -Camera perspective may take some getting used to
  -Inability to set unit stances and formations
 
  -GFWL may hamper multiplayer appeal
  -inadequate manual
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonicX2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Uaw: EA
  GRAPHICS-8 , graphics are good, but there are many better looking RTS
  SOUND 8 ,decent and nothing special
  GAMEPLAY-9 ,wide variety of units to explore tactics with. 
 Some units are very cool.
  STORY/CAMPAIGN- 7 ,a passable story, but not very original. Can be occasionally frustrating and 
 difficult. Missions are generally fun to play, with interesting environments, like in alien ships 
 and by giant radar dishes. Heavily scripted.
  STABILITY- 6 ,game may crash when loading or in mid game. Annoying, but should be fixed in a patch 
 or two
  VALUE- 9 ,wide variations between each faction offers plenty of different playing styles and tactics. 
 Scenerio mode (conquer the entire world) is interesting and adds quite a bit of replayability.
 
  INTERESTING FACTOR: 9 ,interesting concepts may make you go "wow" of "cool". Good for people bored 
 with most other RTS.
  EASE OF CONTROL / INTERFACE: The units are fairly easy to control, although a lack of advanced 
 features like patrolling and structure build cues are annoying. Interface is slightly over-minimalistic.
 
  
  
  OVERALL:
  A pretty good game. The gameplay is excellent as it is interesting and exciting. However, the storyline 
 is awful compared with the rest of the game. Other issues like bugs and interface problems are 
 not too bad, and they could be fixed with patches. Cool concepts, varied factions ,and unit design 
 make it worth buying for gamers who don't mind playing RTS and have spare cash. In my opinion, 
 there are better RTS, but this one is more unusual, so if you played "traditional" RTS and got 
 bored of it, this game is a good choice.
  
  
  By DemonicX2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SePhIrOtH66
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  So far I've just played through the demo, but that was enough to get me to buy the game. Normally, 
 I'm not a big fan of RTS. There were a few good ones in the past that I liked (i. e. Starcraft and 
 Dune 2000) , but for the most part I stayed away from the genre. Actually, it was because of my 
 interest in Starcraft that I decided to give UaW a try.
  
  Anyway, I really liked this game. The graphics are pretty darn good for an RTS; some of the best 
 I've seen, in fact. The only disappointing factors of the graphics are the water detail and environment 
 textures, but that's to be expected in a game of such scale as an RTS. The explosions and effects 
 are very aesthetically pleasing, and the added heat distortion effect makes the explosions quite 
 good. The sounds aren't quite as good as the visuals, but the background music is fitting, and 
 the heavy metal theme that turns on during battles is pretty cool.
  
  Because I've only played the demo, I've only experienced the Hierarchy, but the sheer amount of 
 customization available to them basically defines how the rest of the game will look, and other 
 reviewers who have played the whole game agree. It was very satisfying to deck out a giant walker 
 with plasma turrets and just stomp all over everything while producing Grunts on the fly to do 
 away with straggling Novus bots and insignificant human fools. 
  
  That's another great aspect of the game: the insignificant human fools. It's lots of fun to just 
 demolish entire regiments of them and dozens of their most heavily armored tanks with just a handful 
 or two of guys. It's also fun to possess them and turn them on their allies, while harvesting their 
 souls for resources at the same time (at least, that's what it looked like when I turned a Hierarchy 
 gatherer on some troops) .
  
  Because I generally dislike RTS games, I was surprised that I really liked this one. The bottom 
 line: if you like RTS, you will like this game. If you like Starcraft, you will like this game. 
 Even if you don't like RTS, at least give this one a try (as long as you enjoy aliens blowing up 
 everything mankind has worked thousands of years to create) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahimbd
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  Sci-fi RTS never looked better (Starcraft excluded... obviously) . Petroglyph has pulled out some 
 serious stuff this time. As said earlier all three factions are nothing alike. Even the resourse 
 gathering technology is different. (Target the masari resource gathering structure and watch a 
 big boom!!!) Heroes really make a difference. Choosing right ability at right time can smoothen 
 up a lot of things (Use Mirabels sniper shot at the core of a walker and enjoy an early christmas!!!) 
 The tech tree really gives a different type of gameplay as you can only research upto 8 options 
 out of 15. this gives a different tactics each time you play and choosing different options gives 
 you different bonuses. Graphics is really good. But for some reason I think the audio is mediocre. 
 the badge/medal system is really good. Too bad I can't earn them in single player or skirmishes. 
 The game crashes. After being in the game for about 2 minutes the game minimises and there is an 
 error report. If you just ignore it and maximise the game, it works fine for the rest of the time. 
 But if you send the error report or close it then the game stops completely. In terms of gameplay 
 so far I have not found out any bugs yet. I agree with some other reviewers and think that attack/defend 
 option should also be included and options like queing up or rallying or patroling (ex- C&amp; C3, 
 Supreme Commender) should have also been included. You should also be allowed to zoom out a bit 
 more.
  
  UAW has its flaws but the major fun comes from gameplay and I think Petroglyph has pulled out another 
 great game. I just hope they include some features i described cause it will really help alot. 
 A great RTS after a long time and looking forward for an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth36
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I have encountered a lot of games, old games and new games but up to date none is the best, never 
 seen, of course i want a good engine, sometimes could be a massive or epic battle, and a lot to 
 do, i think im asking a lot i guess.
  
  Anyhow here to talk about the game, lucky the game's engine can play it in my computer and it plays 
 pretty good for what i have and the settings, is a laptop, duo core 1.7, 1.5 gig Ram, Win Xp Pro 
 and the Mobile Intel 945 Video Card, simple video but up to date most of the games don't play under 
 this chip set but other games can play it and with very good graphics. Is all about engine.
  
  The Graphics are very good, same as sound. The game play is ok, depends on the approach you 
 take it, unless like me that i end up with few soldiers, low resources and cornered, in which places 
 the game play in to an interesting way and i have 50/50 chance of survival. At this case everything 
 goes bad then the cheating come and splat the fun is over.
  
  The replay, dont know because i havent finished the game but most of the replay factor comes from 
 the extras like skirmish, online ,and to conquer the world. And mods for the PC for the future.
 
  
  Now heres is something of a pain of Win Live, Is a pain which slows down the program, i can remember 
 the days i could play for free because i can make a server by myself! And you need to pay for win 
 live to play other features and maps in online, for those who want to pay, hey great for you. But 
 my case i just block some processes and connections if i don't want the computer messing with it.
 
  
  I think thats all. Even so theres a similar game with big machines but is not an RTS, i could imagine 
 this game as an FPS game, where you can be any race even human and play in a massive action battlefield. 
 Anyways enough of the dreaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logic_Wins
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  UAW is alot of fun. Its not your run of the mill RTS. To sucseed you need to exersize that tactical 
 muscle in your brain. Massing units and charging through the front door isnt going to do it in 
 this game. Each race plays diferently. Not only differently from each other, but differently depending 
 on who's playing them. Through the combined efforts of the reasearch tree and the tactical branch 
 (like Novis' "Patches") this game lets the player decide how to customize each race, and ultimatly 
 what stratagy each race will take in combat. Focus has also been swayed from resorce management. 
 Although resorces do exist (in the form of power and rawmaterial) Its just a matter of building 
 a few units or building to collect them. I personally think this is needed as economy is always 
 a prime target in many different stratagies. I believe this is one of those games where, after 
 a few months in the field there will be multiple defined stratagies for each race. Which ones you 
 choose wil depend on the type of player you are.
  
  Graphics are great, although it does take a higher end comp to be able to experience their full 
 potential. Espessaly the games "Empire at War-esque" cinama mode, that lets you view the battles 
 from a cinematic perspective.
  
  All in all UAW is must have for RTS fans alike. However if your not a fan of the genre this may 
 not be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalAzz666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Let's cut to the chase, this game is an icredibly boring RTS. There, I've said it. Now that's off 
 my chest, I can start reviewing the game.
  
  Universe at War: Earth Assault (UaW: EA) is absolutely a great looking RTS game. The three factions 
 you can control are all well designed, and have a very distinct feel to them. First there are the 
 robotic Novar, a robotic race and self-proclaimed imune system of the universe. Second are the 
 Hyrarchy, a metallic conquering force that annihilates whole worlds. Third are the Masari, an ancient 
 race with ancient technologies. I know, it doesn't sound very different from most RTS games (Starcraft 
 springs to mind) , buy it works pretty well.
  
  The Novar en Masari play pretty much like a standard RTS army: building bases and massing troops. 
 There are some innovations like being able to switch upgrades, but in essence they really aren't 
 very innovative. However, the Hyrarchy are a complete different story. They don't build a base, 
 but have immense walkers that ARE buildings like construction yards and science buildings. So the 
 important parts of your base can be constantly on the move, and even take the attack to the enemy! 
 This is the coolest concept of the entire game and something that a RTS fan has to experience at 
 least once!
  
  After all this nice looking content, you'll probalby expect some very good gameplay right? Well, 
 the good news is that this game plays like an old school RTS. Think Red Alert and such, with modern 
 graphics. The bad news is that it DOESN'T play like new school RTS games like Supreme Commander, 
 games where the action is constant and fast. UaW: EA plays slow and boring, old school indeed...
 
  
  People who don't like the fast 'new' RTS games will have a field day with UaW: EA. However, the 
 game was very boring to me. Especially skirmish mode was a drag with no real thrills. Superweapons 
 suck, units play ininspired and the story is below standard. The only great thing are the walkers, 
 but they are so big that is some maps they'll get stuck somewhere on the battlefield.
  
  All in all, this is NOT the RTS relevation of 2007. Games like C&amp; C3 and Supreme Commander kick 
 this games' azz. Still, if you have money left and want another half-decent RTS, this one is worth 
 the trouble of walking slowly to the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crylio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Few words about graphics and sound and then about gameplay :
  Graphics : good and up to date // 8/10
  Sound : nothing special, standart booM!! BAaAAM!! and 
 something like that in fight. // 7/10 BUT :
  Universe at War's genius lies in its asymmetrical faction design. The three races are about as 
 different as they can possibly be, and each does everything in their own unique way, from resource 
 collection to unit building. Even StarCraft didn't go this far, and that's really saying something.
 
  Just a few examples of the differences: the Hierarchy build massive battle walkers that double 
 as mobile factories instead of buildings; Novus can convert units into energy form and quickly 
 warp them across the map through a network of cloaked transmitter towers; and the Masari can switch 
 from an offensive Light mode to defensive Dark mode on the fly to suit any given combat situation. 
 Switching from one faction to another means you basically have to learn how to play all over again 
 - on the one hand, UaW takes longer to master than most games, but on the other, you're getting 
 three totally different experiences from one game.
  SO gameplay - 10/10
  I didn't like UaW's interface. Why I can't send stop or patrol command to a unit? Don't understand... 
 But Universe at War takes a lot of chances, and most of them pay off in the form of a unique real-time 
 strategy experience. Just grin and bear the campy story and you'll find plenty to love here.
  
  SO 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junwy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Best rts game at the moment until SC2 comes out. The gameplay is great because the 3 factions play 
 sooooo different from each other that its fun trying to learn each one. Theres plenty of boom and 
 lots of things goin on. It just feels like something totally diff. Youll flip when you see the 
 walkers comin at you. I love it. the graphics are ok but its not the greatest. Thats not a big deal 
 though because gameplay is the most important thing. One of the best things that caught my attention 
 in this game is that you can be playing against xbox 360 players online soon . I cant wait to woop 
 their butts . As a pc gamer , I feel like its war against the 360 players haha. This game deserves 
 an 8.5 to 8.9 score imo. every rts game is dying right now . cnc3 , coh , supcom , .. the online 
 player numbers for those games are gettin smaller and smaller by the day. This is the latest and 
 freshest thing out right now so I hope to see some rts vets hop on this. I would recommend this 
 game to any rts fan because it really is fun and lets face it. all the other rts games that are 
 out are just dying now. Time for a change . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gacmyver
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Before you read or rate, know this:
  1. This game works for many people, unfortunately i'm not one of those
  2. My hardware is very 
 good, 8800ultra, 3ghz quad, 4gb ram, vista, all latest drivers
  3. I have not played through the whole singleplayer campaign because i can't due to crashes
  
 
  After installing this game i got crashes 3-4min into playing. After a few days i read somewhere 
 that installing microsoft live v1.2 would help, and it did. But the crashes never told me that... 
 wish it did...
  
  Now being able to actually play past prelude before crashing i was really into this game! I like 
 the easy micromanagement of your units (although its hard to find them on the map) , it makes the 
 game very satisfying when you can controll each unit group by itself while it is in a big group 
 of different units! By doing this you can decimate your opponent if done correctly (ie lots of 
 small ohm bots versus a big walker) !
  
  The graphics are nice to look at playing at maximum settings, but its not terrific or anything. 
 Music is good imo, its action-oriented with heavy guitar riffs! But the speech sounds are really 
 hard to hear most of the time, even though i turned all the other sounds down to 80 while having 
 speech sound at 100! This is bad as you loose key element chattering and therefore loos details 
 of the story.
  
  The hud could have been done alot better! On the hud, you got pictures of your heroes and pictures 
 of your build buildings, your constructors and your units special abilities. Plus a minimap, and 
 your resources and build cap. Thats it! No button to attack or defend or whatsoever! As of right 
 now there are no way to defend a certain unit, control a perimeter by patrol, queue up constructors 
 to build buildings and the like. Really bad...
  
  And more importantly you are severely limited in your zooming abilities! You can zoom out a bit, 
 but not much! If you're playing hierarchy, when you zoom out max, your walker covers up 80% of 
 the screen... not good!
  It is really annoying if you're used to other rts where you can zoom out to take a quick tactical 
 overview of the battlefield and to move your troops over moderate distances while having an eye 
 on them!
  
  The game got great factions because they play NOTHING alike! But right now hierarchy (the faction 
 with the big walkers) are really overpowered because their basic grunts are uberpowerful and their 
 walkers too. Unless you got some heavy defense and tons of units at your disposal 3 walkers will 
 totally own you and your base! Not good!
  
  This game would have gotten 8-9 from me if i could actually play it without crashes... but I cant...
 
  
  Here'st he deal:
  * Doesn't install windows live 1.2 properly so you will crash after 2-4min of playing unless you 
 manually install windows 1.2 (after uninstalling the other version) . Doesn't even tell you that 
 windows live is the cause of the crashes!
  * But once installed the game will crash randomly after 1-1,5hours of playing straight (seems to 
 be crashing when you have the most fun too)
  * Crashes 2-3 seconds after loading a saved game (but if you open menu by pressing ESC you don't 
 crash until you resume game) so save function does, in other words, not work. If you have less 
 than 10 units then the load function will not crash the game... (other people have confirmed this)
 
  * Freezes your computer sometimes so you have to reset
  * Petroglyph staff at the forums just ask you to post speccs and shaite but dont do anything and 
 say something like we can't recreate your problem, because we run an updated version that got different 
 coding ... wtf, then maybe you should run the same version as you're selling?
  
  So it gets 6.5 from me because i can't play plus other bad stuff i already explained! It's fine 
 if you don't agree about the score, but rate it if you think this review was helpful to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sympatico22
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Rarely did I see a new RTS that I expected to be different to be so empty. From the story, to the 
 interface, to the glitches, game-play, this game is deceiving. The story is not original, different 
 alien factions attacking Earth. No enough is spent to develop characters and making sure you get 
 into the game. When you consider playing with games like Act of War or Better, World in Conflict, 
 this story is boring, and to the most, lacks imagination. It's like the authors decided to create 
 an RTS game with three factions, and decided to put the humans there just for fun. The factions 
 seems so disconnected from the humans that you just don't buy the storyline.
  
  I must also comment the inferface. In a effort to simplify the interface, the designers probably 
 went too far. It's very difficult to find your units on the map. Also, controls or building and 
 units is unusually non-friendly. In addition, the AL is also quite one of the worst I have seen 
 in years. You need to control your units when performing attacks carefully. Units have no behavior 
 controls. The base could get attacked and destroyed, and they would not react. You can use dozens 
 of grunts, and they will get massacred if not controlled.
  
  I will stop there, but there could me more to say about this game. I definitively recommend not 
 buying this game. It really makes you feel like playing a poor pale copy of the RTS genre in the 
 90s, when they use to produce and release one RTS game every week to exploit the genre. Sorry for 
 the creators... this game should have been more developed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablopaul20
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  To begin with I've been following this game for about 3 months now since i saw one of the Gamespot 
 previews. The game showed promise ,especially due to the name of its developer ( Petroglyph) ,but 
 also due to the 3 distinct factions. Did the game live up to its promise? Starting the game , I 
 played the tutorial. The video tutorials were sufficient ,the interactive tutorial felt weak though. However 
 you don't need to play the tutorial, as you get a step by step tutorial in the game anyway.
  The graphics are great , not perfect though. The game engine has a couple of flaws , mainly the 
 ability to pass with your units through wrecks and also some weird animations , but is still very 
 well done and the effects are very well done.
  Gameplay is where the game shines. I haven't felt this much fun since Red Alert (I not II ) . All 
 the three races have individually pros and cons and so they make up an unique gameplay. Sound is 
 absolutely magnificent. Frank Klepacki did a great job with the music ,making each faction their 
 own music type ( hierarchy for example have a style similar to trash ,while Novus have an alternative 
 rock or electro music theme) .
  Overall ,Universe at war shines ,proving us that even oldschool games are welcome in such a year 
 full of new age strategy games ( WiC , COH and SupCom) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weifert
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Although I kinda like the fact I can use my XBOX Live acct to get ranks and medals... it is unfortunate 
 that there are not many players online... From the day I bought it, there were 2 users online, 
 2 days later after release... there are 14 - 15 users online... I do love the game, it seems that 
 it is unbalanced since 95% of the online players I play against are Hierarchy. I think Novus/Masari 
 could be improved a bit more. Personally I play Novus and have had no problems out-microing the 
 Hierarchy player. If two newbie players were to match one another, more than likely the hierarchy 
 would just need to built 3 habbit walkers &amp; Lost Ones, then go stomp stomp. The game gets a 
 8/10 from me. I cannot rate the storyline since I have not played singleplayer... I tend to feel 
 lonely when I am playing with myself... -Yoel/TsNod 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark McGann
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Universe at War (UaW) is an real-time strategy game where you play one of three alien factions 
 fighting for control of planet earth. You do not get to play the happless humans whose only purpose 
 is to act as resources for the aliens. To be fair one of the alien factions, the Novus, are semi-benevolent 
 and thus only make use of the human buildings as resources, rather then the humans themselves. 
 There are three general way to play the game, Campaign, Scenario and Multiplayer. Campaign mode 
 is your standard series of canned missions. There is a campaign for each of the three races, altough 
 you must complete them in a particular order. I've always dislike canned mission campaigns, and 
 with the excellent scenario mode (described below) I was not very motivated to give campaign mode 
 much of a chance. Still I played the first couple of missions of the Novus Campaign, and they appear 
 to be standard fare where in each mission your introduced to a few new units to use.
  
  Scenario mode addes a real-time strategic layer to the game, where you move three hero's and there 
 associated armies around the world map attempting to destroy the two other oppossing enemy factions. 
 Petroglyph's Star War's Empire at War game had a similar play mode (with territories replacing 
 planets) as does Relic's Dark Crusade game (which has a turn based rather than real time strategic 
 layer) , and UaW's is rather like a cross between them. Scenario mode is by far the biggest selling 
 point of the game. The strategic layer is easy to understand, and the choices you make there matter 
 in the tatical battles, but not overwhelmingly so. For instance you can build 'basic defense' on 
 your territories which gives your main base some modest defensive firepower in the event your attacked. 
 Other options include building spy centers to see what your enemy is doing, or manufacturing centers 
 to make better units available to your standing armies (the ones your heroes take with them into 
 battle, once in battle you can build any units your want provided you build the appropriate buildings) .
 
  
  Multiplayer mode utilizes Microsofts Games for Windows Live (GFWL) . To play custom matches and 
 download patched you only need a Silver memberships to GFWL, which is free. For ranked play or 
 Conquor the Wold Mode (which is essentially quickmatchs where the outcome affects a common map 
 of the world) a Gold membership to GFWL is need, has a monthly fee. The game includes a cupon for 
 1 free month of Gold Membership. Signing up for a Silver membership is straighforward, although 
 there is a lot of shutting down and starting up of the game initially. I have not played any multiplayer 
 matches as of yet, and thus can't comment on the quality of multiplayer play.
  
  The heart of Universe at War is clearly the tactical battles, which generally take from 10 to 30 
 minuites to finish. The control scheme is very simiple. Wether that is good or bad is a matter 
 of taste. Players who like Supreme Commander control system will likely be sorely dissapointed 
 as for example UaW doesn't even include the concepts of patrols or even waypoints (as far as I 
 can tell) . On the other hand the simple control scheme is easy to understand, use and master. The 
 UI also does a good job of not getting in the way, leaving the majority of the screen for a view 
 of the battlefield.
  
  Gameplay in the tactical battles appears to be quite different for the three factions. My experience 
 so far has only been with the Novus, who can build a relays in the game that allow there units 
 to move very quickly from one relay point to another in support of there quick strike tactics. 
 The Hireachy, in contrast build gigantic walking robots that slowly lumber across the map destroying 
 everything in there wake. Pretty much all units in the game have special abilities they can use 
 in combat in some helpful way. In addition to the typical RTS build tree for units and buildings 
 each race has three levels research paths they can upgrade durring battle. These research paths 
 works similarly to the technology upgrades in Company of Heroes. Graphics are on par for a modern 
 game. They look good and are polished. My system is running Vista64 w/ Q6600, 4GB, 8800GTX and 
 the framerate has been good in all circumstances. Overall there is a lot to like about this game, 
 but it does have some serious flaws worth mentioning. First the game has some stability issues. 
 It crashes reguarly every 30-45 minuites on the default graphics settings (twice this locked my 
 entire system) . Exploring the Petrogylph Techical support forums revealed many posts reporting 
 game crashes. After reading a bit I disabled DX10 support in the games video settings and the game 
 has been stable since (I also can't tell any difference in the graphics) .
  
  The game documentation is terrible. The manual the comes with the game has only the thinest description 
 of the different units and how they work. For instance one of the Novus unit descriptions explains 
 that the unit can infect an enemy unit with a virus.... no reason is given why you would want to 
 do this or what effect it would have (there is no obvious effect in game either) . There are in 
 game pop-up menu's that can give some helpful information, but again often miss extremely basic 
 details like does the unit have an air attack.
  
  Your individual units can be exceedinly stupid when left to there own devices. I've repeatadly 
 seen melee units stand idley by as enemy units just a few steps away attack my base. This this 
 is made even more aggravating because you lack the ability to tell a unit to explicitly guard a 
 build or other unit. The best you can do is be there to give an explicit attack order when an enemy 
 unit comes in range. While the poor unit AI is managable, it definately feels weak in comparison 
 to games like Company of Heroes and Supreme Commander.
  
  Finally I've notices an annoying UI bug that makes the build que tabs very difficult to use durring 
 combat. In general these tabs provide a simple effective interface to all your build facilities. 
 However for some reason if you have units selected in a battle the build tabs keep closing down 
 a fraction of a second after you click to open them. If your fast you can still use them, but it's 
 difficult and usually I wind up waiting unit the battle finishes.
  
  Overall I do find myself enjoying this game, especially the Scenario mode. I've always like the 
 idea of a dynamic strategic campaign to give context to the individual battles, and UaW does a 
 good job with this. In the hypotherical where my above concerns were fixed I would probably rate 
 this game an 8.5. However because of those shortcommings I'm reducing my score to 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_monkey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  So here is what i have to say i really like the ides and the overall look off the game .....
  but the tech tree...
  The game plays just the same its just micro fiddling ...
  rock, paper 
 and so on combinations...
  makes it o. k for multi games...
  but as a single or scenario game you against the computer...
  well it don&acute; t have anything 
 like the re playability that i think CoH: and the expansion have...
  Thats just my opinion...
  I would like it to look a little better as well...
  Zoom levels are 
 disturbing... i can not see it from the right angels fore me.
  The combat Cinema cam is a great id&eacute; and it worked in Starwars games they made... but here 
 it just flips to random soldier doing... well nothing...
  then right in to the ACTION from a cool angel and then ZZAAaaaaaap and away to your harvester machine 
 in a empty part off the map....
  So my Review
  Almost but not quite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  ..... every race has its own way .... just think about this game like Gears of War style 65 % of 
 the game comes from many other RTS's but perfected in everyway &amp; the 35% that remains represents 
 the pure innovation ! I want to start a bit with the story because wooow you haven't felt or heard 
 of such a story for Sci-Fi game till now its never done before &amp; superbly put .. with twist 
 &amp; turns that will allways keep you wondering many paths for the next mission ... &amp; you 
 can't choose from the beggining with what race you play the campin everything is set in order like 
 War3 style ...&amp; the story flows swiftly .... making your mind want for more ... simply the 
 artwork is amazing for each race they truly managed to make 3 distinct races from scrap &amp; ough 
 &amp; the voice acting &amp; dialog gives you sometimes the impresion that its meant to be a Sci-Fi 
 movie ! The 3 races are totaly different &amp; with pure innovative ideeas ... like the Hirarchy 
 that uses giant walkers as a portable base &amp; super strong &amp; slow units ... they rely on 
 brute force , then there is the Novus that is the most complex &amp; fun but stressfull race because 
 you can't stop for a 1 minute from moving arround ..... they are the trickster race &amp; very 
 fast bu with it you can own everybody if you know how to control it ... the Massari is in some way 
 my favorite race ... its the most easy to use it has a light &amp; dark mode ( strength &amp; speed 
 ... for short ) &amp; the strategy relys on your best decizion of how &amp; when to switch between 
 the 2 stances ! Just immagine all of this put in multiplayer ... from which i have tons of fun playing 
 with my friends .... for some players the feeling will be like an old C&amp; C games like REd Alert 
 not some EA game ... because this are the guys that worked on westwood .... so the game is like a 
 cake ( C&amp; C red alert 2 ) but with more than 1one cherry on top .... its an entirely new layer 
 ! I think that every Sci-Fi fan that loves RTS's should think about this as a must have ! &amp; 
 don't look at the reviews from some sites ... because they are all a bit underrated by 20% ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NVLAUR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  it is a game that gives you an opportunity to enjoy a few fun hours in front of the computer screen. 
 It combines the classical points of a rts game. It resembles much the command and conquer series 
 in both game play and story telling mode. The story is enticing and despite the all to common element 
 of alien invasion it manages to capture the player and make him wonder of the possibility's and 
 developments of future missions. I recommend this game to all game players who favor strategy games 
 and re joys in the experience of a new trilling game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jam188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Universe at war Earth Assault is an Awsome game!! First of all theres Three completley diffrant 
 factions with unique gamepaly for each faction. first is the HIERARCHY which has huge walkers that 
 you costimize and act as your mobile base. The NOVUS is robotic race which uses hit and run tatics 
 and a deadly black hole. The MASARI is ancient race that hid deep within the crust of Earth until 
 the HIERARCHY wake them up from their long slumber. The MASARI use the tutle tatic (makes a huge 
 base) and has the abillity to use light and dark mode (light-fast and weak, dark-slow and strong) 
 Each faction has two diffrant super weapens and many diffrant technologys to be researched. This 
 game is AWSOME!!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
