-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Universal Combat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/universalcombat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 13, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 5.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 3.9, 245 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: 3000AD, Inc.
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Feb 5, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This wildly ambitious simulation is torpedoed by an almost incomprehensible interface, the absence 
 of a tutorial, numerous bugs, and many fit and finish issues, including dated production values. 
 

  Controversy is an undocumented feature in games designed by outspoken developer Derek Smart, whose 
 previous work includes the Battlecruiser series of space simulations. So perhaps it's no surprise 
 that his latest effort, an expanded and updated take on the Battlecruiser universe called Universal 
 Combat (which began life as Battlecruiser Generations) , was the subject of litigation due to publisher 
 DreamCatcher Interactive's last-minute decision to ship the game as a $19.99 budget release. Unfortunately, 
 Universal Combat probably just isn't worth all the hassle. Much like its predecessor, Battlecruiser 
 Millennium, this wildly ambitious simulation is torpedoed by an almost incomprehensible interface, 
 the absence of a tutorial both in-game and in the poorly organized manual, numerous bugs, and many 
 fit and finish issues, including dated production values. While it may contain incredible depth 
 and a range of activities that let you wage war in almost every conceivable fashion, all of these 
 features are inaccessible unless you have hundreds of hours available to figure everything out, 
 and even then, the quality of these elements is uniformly lacking. This is the Rosetta Stone of 
 computer gaming.  

          Added emphasis on action lets you jump right into combat in space, in the air, and on the 
 ground. Unfortunately, none of these areas are as fleshed out as they should be.     

  However, the game does mostly live up to all the prerelease hype, at least where features are concerned. 
 The universe is absolutely massive. There are hundreds of worlds to explore, thousands of ships 
 and starbases, a dozen playable races, and career and caste options that let you play as every 
 sort of character from the standard ship commander to such esoteric specialties as marines and 
 medics. You can fight among the stars in immense battlecruisers, and you can fight on planet surfaces 
 or in planes. Ship-to-ship naval combat, as seen on the box, apparently didn't make the cut, although 
 you can battle on and around sea vessels. Game modes include a 25-mission solo campaign, a sandbox 
 roam option, instant action scenarios, and even a multiplayer selection. If you've played any of 
 the previous Battlecruiser releases, you'll immediately recognize many elements of play, along 
 with the tremendous scope of this design.  

  You'll also immediately recognize many familiar problems. Universal Combat is more of a demo than 
 a completed product. You can catch glimpses of real depth on occasion, though you have to play 
 for many hours to find these highlights, and you must often play for much longer to fully understand 
 what you lucked into during the first go-round. The biggest problem is the lack of tutorials. No 
 step-by-step guidance is provided in the game or in the manual, although you can download a 44-page 
 PDF tutorial for the demo. The latter does contain a lot of information (scattered over nearly 
 a hundred pages) , although the organization is slipshod, and there is no index. As a result, you 
 can't look up basic terms or skip around to answer questions as they arise while playing. The in-game 
 description of the roam mode is fitting for the game, as a whole, in that you're really abandoned 
 with "no hints, no tips, no directions, and certainly no instructions as to what you can and cannot 
 do."  

  And if any game needed interactive tutorials and thorough documentation, it's this one. The interface 
 remains ridiculously obtuse, which is hard to understand considering that Smart and his 3000AD 
 development company have been working on this series for almost a decade now. Three pages of dense 
 type are required to spell out all of the game commands. Few of these commands are intuitive, and 
 there is no way to remap keys. Even quitting the game requires hitting "Alt-Q" rather than the 
 usual "Esc." Mastery of ship interfaces requires both an intimate knowledge of hotkeys and nested 
 menus. You also have to memorize the meanings of at least a hundred acronyms that represent vital 
 ship systems. You can't go too far, for example, without understanding that activating the EMD 
 will disable the NIS, TRS, and VDD. Only the first-person interface is remotely straightforward. 

          Dogfights in space involve a lot of circling, and most of the time you can only see opponents 
 courtesy of your scanners. This may be fairly realistic, though it doesn't do much to promote excitement 
 or tension.     

  Yet not everything about Universal Combat involves drudgery. There is more of a focus on battle 
 this time out. Provided that you can get over the initial interface learning curve, the majority 
 of missions prove to be more action-packed than those in Battlecruiser Millennium. You are typically 
 thrust right into the fray, particularly in the instant-action scenarios, where you're either defending 
 against an enemy attack or leading an offensive. For instance, a mysterious weapon is en route 
 to galactic command, an opposing alien fleet must be attacked as it retreats, an aerial strike 
 force flies a sortie against an enemy base, a strike team of marines takes out an enemy gunship 
 on a planet surface, a wing of fighters engages in a dogfight, and other scenarios will be encountered. 
     

  Similar missions await you in the campaign setting, and you can find just about whatever you want 
 in roam mode. Combat is frequent, although you don't spend nearly as much time engaged in battle 
 as you do exploring space or simply going from point A to point B. The biggest issue here is the 
 absence of time compression. There is no way to speed up the tedious stretches when you're in transit. 
 So heading down to a planet from orbit takes at least five minutes of real time. Catching up with 
 enemy vessels often takes at least that long. Running across a compound to attack enemy soldiers 
 can stretch into what seems to be a marathon. Consider keeping reading material close-by when playing 
 Universal Combat.  

          Planets are generally lacking in detail when seen from space. Earth, for instance, is a 
 flat, featureless blue ball.     

  Gameplay, overall, is also spread far too thin. Not only does the immense scope of the design cause 
 big problems with accessibility, but it makes each of the battle options feel watered-down. You 
 get the impression that 3000AD should have continued to perfect space combat before venturing too 
 far on to planets. Everything on terra firma is particularly weak. First-person controls are sluggish, 
 and there is an almost complete absence of collision detection. You can walk or drive vehicles 
 right through terrain features, such as trees. Space and aerial combat is better realized, although 
 even it doesn't feel quite right. Mouse control seems soft and inexact. All craft in the game, 
 even massive battlecruisers, handle more like fighters than capital ships. Because of this, ship-to-ship 
 combat gets repetitive. Matters aren't helped any by an emphasis on circling and strafing during 
 engagements. Opponents are out of visual range much of the time, since they prefer to dart back 
 and forth while sniping at you. This may be realistic, and it may even be testimony to some impressive 
 enemy artificial intelligence, but it isn't exactly thrilling.  

  At least Internet multiplayer support has been added. Roam and skirmish (deathmatch) modes of play 
 are supported. However, very few people appear to be taking advantage of these options. Over the 
 course of a week's worth of attempts, we found an active server just one time, running a roam game. 
 Unfortunately, it didn't have anyone actually on it, and performance was very erratic. We experienced 
 a ship system failure and explosion for no apparent reason immediately after entering one game, 
 along with a couple of crashes to the desktop, and one hard system reset after returning to the 
 server. At any rate, roam play online seems virtually identical to roam play offline. There is 
 some potential here, however, as long as you coordinate with fellow players before starting a game. 
 It seems impossible to get a satisfying multiplayer game going without this sort of planning, since 
 the universe is so large.  

  Further barriers to enjoying Universal Combat are presented by shoddy production values and quality 
 control. Visuals are a good four years out-of-date. Planets look like Day-Glo pancakes. Ship design 
 remains varied and impressive, from an industrial design standpoint, but the absence of shadowing 
 effects makes them look blocky and fake. Planet surfaces are either barren, or they're jammed with 
 just one or two types of foliage. Audio quality is at a similar level. There is a lot of dialogue 
 repetition, especially during first-person ground combat, and the background noise on your starship 
 is such a cacophony of voices that you'll soon reach for the mute button. The bombastic musical 
 themes are gratingly repetitive as well.  

          Poor collision detection on planets allows you to drive vehicles right through foliage 
 and animals.     

  Stability is another serious concern. Like its predecessor, this game doesn't seem all there. The 
 frame rate regularly pauses in solo play, with hitches that are reminiscent of online lag -- especially 
 on planet surfaces. Menu screens occasionally flicker, as do backgrounds like skies on planets. 
 Drops to the desktop occur on an infrequent basis (particularly when in first-person mode on a 
 planet) , and, of course, there is also that collision detection problem noted previously. The game 
 feels like it was rushed out the door. Additional evidence of this may be seen in the way that 
 the initial-loading splash screen still features the long-abandoned Battlecruiser Generations title 
 and logo. Furthermore, the first pressing of CDs strangely lacks the autorun file needed for the 
 opening menu to automatically launch. These latter items are minor, in light of the bugs, though 
 they do point to a certain lack of polish.  

  At its heart, Universal Combat is yet another somewhat noble failure. Much like its predecessors, 
 it tries too hard to do too much and winds up falling short in almost every area. There remains 
 great promise in the core concept -- and in many aspects of the design -- but even the most dedicated 
 followers of Derek Smart and 3000AD must be wondering (by now) if this promise is ever going to 
 be fulfilled.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DrewKid4
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  I found this game on the shelf of my local Best Buy for $20, getting my only preview by the Back 
 of the Box description. The idea behind this game seemed too good to be true (a great cliche for 
 UC) . I took it home, loaded it, and began my adventure of Universal Combat! If only I had known...
 
  
  I have to just say before my in-depth schpeel about this game is that it is a horrible game and 
 NO ONE SHOULD BUY IT. Since I am an optimist, I continued to give this game chance after chance.
 
  
  You begin your journey in the world of UC as one of many many races and you can choose many jobs. 
 The basic character would be to be a Human Ship Commander, since commanders have the best ships 
 and Humans start in Earth if you want. Controls are numerous, clunky, and difficult. It took awhile 
 to get going. Apperently you control a ship of hundreds even though you seem to be only able to 
 control the ship like a first person "XWing Tie Fighter" game. The universe of Universal Combat 
 is probably the largest "universe" there is of any game, hands down. Not only is it Flight Simulator-esque 
 real time flying from planet to planet (yes, I said real-time) but all of the planets are scaled 
 as such (we'll get to this later) . 
  
  You go around the UC Universe looking for something to do, which is like watching TV in GTA IV 
 waiting for a new season of The Men's Room. Once you do find an enemy, RUN! Run as fast as you 
 can. They will find you and shoot you down and takeover your ship in no time, as you don't know 
 the controls for "Kill that Mother Faster!" After spending hours upon hours worm holing through 
 the galaxy, finding ships in red and dying within minutes, even I was tired but still fascinated 
 by how little I had discovered. I also found that you could be a Freighter Captain or a Research 
 Vessel, but this made DYING EASIER as you have NO WEAPONS OR DEFENSE from those superships.
  
  I then attempted to become a Marine or other characters that spend their time on one planet, 
 apparently using several land, air, and sea vehicles to protect their precious planet from the 
 enemy. I soon found that this enemy was Boredom and I spent a long time trying to find my very 
 own Wilson to keep me company. I searched for friendlies, as there are multiple cities on each 
 planet, which further amazed me about this empty sandbox. Traveling around on these planets are 
 also like Real-Time! Imagine flying from New York to Shanghai in Flight Simulator in a Piper Cub 
 or biplane. This is traveling around in the planets in UC. 
  
  What I saw in this game is the potential for a spectacular game. I wonder now if I even remotely 
 bought it because I thought it would be good. The point I realized is that I seem to have scouted 
 this game and have come to a realization the potential this could have. If Derek Smart gave the 
 rights to EA, EA takes a couple years and many people's lives to slave away many hours into this 
 game, you could have a potential MMORPG that many space sim and MMORPG enthusiasts would wait in 
 line for. The sheer size of the environment and number of choices given to the player is somewhat 
 of a dream for many players. The lack of control of those choices and the environment makes this 
 game a waste of time, but with enough time for a developer, this style of gaming could be a goldmine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  I got this from the coverdisc of a magazine I subscribe to and on the cover it's got all the usual 
 latest'N'greatest...
  
  Where Universal Combat (the current "Freebie") is featured...
  
  FREE GAME! (Written in pointing arrow)
  
  UNIVERSAL COMBAT
  
  "The epic space sim, 
 1000's of hours of gameplay, yours for free"
  
  and in bold "NO CATCH!"
  
  Looked on the 3000AD site and found UC is one of the games that no longer recieves support and 
 can be downloaded for free.
  
  Playing the game...
  
  Sight & Sound is no Da Vinci masterpiece, it looks and sounds reasonable.
  The concept is there! 
 The idea of playing a game where you fight all four theaters of combat is quite a neat idea.
  The control scheme is really something to be desired...
  Seriously you would get thousands apon 
 thousands of hours just trying to figure as to how to cover some ground in this "Epic Space Sim".
 
  
  But I'd would spend a greater deal more time playing either Vega Strike or Privateer: Gemini Sector 
 (VS: Privateer Redux) .
  
  Universal Combat is a "Total Knock-Off" by comparison when compared to likes of Vega Strike which 
 is an "Actual" freeware title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Ok this might have been a good game because it say's on the back of the box more than 21.000 areas 
 of interest we'll with all the reviews i guess they were lying. I played it for about 3 hours and 
 could not figure it out because its WWWWWAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYY to complicated and its got thousands 
 of bugs, for example i was about to take off from a aircraft carrier however before i took off i 
 glitched out of the game and into nowhere and there's no pause menu so you can't quit.
  
  The biggest problem is the complete lack of tutorials which will make a casual gamer go suicide 
 and the learning curve is about 5 months. the graphics are over the top bland with the same texture 
 for almost all of a planet and it can give you a headache, the sound is terrible too because when 
 you shoot in space there's no noise what so ever,
  
  There is nothing i like about this game so that's why i have to give it the lowest score i can 
 give.
  
  gameplay-0
  graphics-1
  sound-1
  value-3
  story-0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedllama
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  There are many questions that plague us in life. Why do we exist? Is there something more fulfilling 
 than the drudgery of the nine to five office job? Can we make the world a better, more fruitful 
 place for our children?
  
  And why, for the love of God, did this game come into existence?...
  
  I commend the developers 
 for going all out in creating a game containing such an ambitious mix of FPS and Space Simulation. 
 But the complexity of it lets it down immensely. Upon loading the game for the first time, I thought 
 I was going to be in for a real treat. A thinking mans FPS. Unfortunately, my hopes were quickly 
 dashed when I attempted to play it.
  
  To be brutally honest, I think I'd have more chance disarming a nuclear warhead than ever mastering 
 the pedantic, painful, and cluttered control system for this potentially good game.
  
  There are far too many key commands, reminiscent of those flight simulators where you do actually 
 require a pilots license in order to play them. The FPS section of the game isn't much easier. 
 I spent most of the time walking around looking for something to kill, and when I did eventually 
 find a red blip on my map, I didn't have the faintest idea how to get there.
  
  If you've unravelled the laws of Superstrings and proven that jam is, in fact, the grand unifying 
 force of all creation, you'll love it. If, like me, you've only been playing games since they came 
 on a 30 minute-a-side audio cassette and took twenty minutes to load, you haven't got a chance.
 
  
  Buy it. Burn it. Revel in the flames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conflict-Zero
Rating: 1.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I remember reading U. C.'s description and thinking, What a cool game... I can fly around the skies, 
 bomb actual players below me, and command an outpost above the atmosphere all at the same time! 
 
  
  But NO, it's all a joke. First of all, the graphics are something out of a highly devolved Quake 
 1. This, as you could imagine, sucks too much to believe by itself. On top of that, the interface//HUD 
 is terrrible and sometimes hard to read. The controls are where it gets worse. You can press one 
 button and something will happen that you totally weren't prepared for. This is especially true 
 when you're piloting Starships. One wrong button press, and you're somewhere in God's Ass.
  
  Look out for this game... and by that I mean DON'T PLAY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-sack
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  To any one that reads this, sorry about my spelling. it sucks, i know.
  
  Hell, i have never seen a game like this one. It has HORRIBLE graphics for the time it was released. 
 Gameplay is nearly impossible to completly understand. Even if i took the time to learn the controls 
 and commands I would hate the game.
  
  The texture on planets Including cities looks worse than Google Earth zoomed in all the way. Cities 
 are Flat for Christ sake, with a couple of ugly buildings overlapping the flat picture city that 
 they use. I wont even get started on the water. What in Hell were they thinking!! Although the space 
 graphics arnt as bad as the ground, they still were the worst possible space graphic i have ever 
 seen
  
  The gameplay is just horrible. I had nightmares after playing this such bad gameplay. It cant get 
 more Complicating as this. Ive been playing games since i was like 3-4 years old. Stuff like Doom 
 or Alien 3 (for Sega) . Every game i ever played i was Godly at. I am a born gamer and this pease 
 of work (or crap if you want) nearly made me put a bullet into my head. It would be easier to get 
 Christopher Reeves to do the Hoky Poky than figure this game out.
  
  Dont and i Repeat DONT get this game. Compared to this, Barbie would get a perfect 10. So when you 
 see this game at a store, FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, turn to the Barbie ile. I'm a straight boy and i 
 would rather play with girl dolls than play this scifi, action, space game. Plz be careful with your 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 2.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Avoid this game like an ex-girlfriend... After she's taken your money, she'll make you mad, frustrated, 
 and disappointed all at the same time. The largest problem with this game is that it could have 
 been so good! After the first few seconds of the game, however, the numerous bugs and vague goals 
 toss the good idea points right out the window. 
  Honestly, I can't write much of a review since I don't think I ever completed any missions... and 
 if I did the game didn't tell me. There are no clear objectives to any of the missions and even 
 if there were I wouldn't know how to complete them. Most games we overlook the tutorial and cut 
 straight to the chase, but with a poorly designed game such as Universal Combat a tutorial is a 
 must. Since there isn't even a hint of tutorial or intro to a storyline, we have no idea where 
 to start or how.
  Moral of this review... don't even consider installing it for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrimFire
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The Control interface is next to impossible to use you'd almost need an extra pair of arms or an 
 extra two pairs of arms to manage the awkwardness of the controls. The Manual is practically a 
 poorly written novel that upon reading it you'd think it was written in a totally different language 
 before being translated into English. NOT TO MENTION the fact that it's poorly laded out and you've 
 got to read the whole thing just to understand how to play a single mission. The in game learning 
 curve would be as if a mother bird threw the egg out of the nest to give it flying lessons. The 
 game had such high potential in the planning stages but fell on it's face in the execution stages. 
 It's almost as if they rushed it too much at the end and didn't think through well enough how to 
 make it user friendly. I'd almost rather go out and buy the programs needed to creat the game and 
 the manuals to use the programs and make the game myself so it was more userfriendly, and the sad 
 part is... It's almost that taxing just to try to understand and play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferretbio
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  GEEEEZZZZZZZ!!! It takes forever just to figure out how to move you're guy. UC is so complicated 
 and has a huge lag problem. Unless your good friend owns the game and you've played it at his/her 
 house and think it's realy cool, don't buy it! If you do you'll wish you had that $20 for something 
 else. Don't be fooled by its catchy looking cover and buy it because it looks like a better version 
 of Planet Side for alot less $$$. Trust me, that's how I got tricked in to its void of bad simulation. 
 If you have a different opinion of the game post your own review and throw trash at mine. Please. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joel_nukem_hell
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:46 am PT
Review:  well i played and own BCMG and i thought that game was grate but i did have a few times were it 
 died on me like when i would shoot a OTS missile aka orbit to surface missile :D and yes its a 
 super weapon some games give us nukes and some games give us black hole generating weapons of mass 
 destruction but what whats that you wont a game that lets you be a starship captain and lets you 
 make all the important unscripted designs you wont a game that lets you take an entire city off 
 the face of a planet well thats a game for you but thats not a just it for you is it why not kick 
 it up well thats what universal combat does it bring an even better well even better every thing 
 that happens in this game once it happens chances of it doing it again are one in a million you 
 wont see the same thing happen twice the game play is a little hard at first to get us when you 
 first start up you see things like WHI, SVI, VMI, MTAR etc etc and that can look just plain scary 
 to a new player to the game but don't let it freak you out were there is a will there is a way 
 and giving up never got Any thing done just crack open the book that came with the game in no time 
 you are a captain think of this book as a tool it is the tool to make you a starship captain no 
 were not talking a guy who cleans toilets for a living your the guy who gets to pick who cleans 
 your toilet your the captain and we all know a captain needs a clean toilet but this game isn't 
 about toilets so ill get down to what i thought of it over all i think Ive try'ed my best to get 
 people to look at the game "with open eyes and ears that will listen" 
  
  the graphics of the game aren't all that grate ill say that right off the bat because with games 
 like unreal tournament 2007 and dare i say it F. E. A. R
  we have seen GOOD graphics i mean wow those are some nice ones right well now imagine a game of 
 this size with those graphics ya that would be nice no that would be WICKED SICK but what good 
 is a game with good graphics when you need some monster PC to play it its all most safe to say 
 that its all most impossible for it to have them that good and still be as big as this so taking 
 that in to consideration the graphics are fine there is nothing horribly wrong with them were not 
 flying a bunch of card board cut outs around in space 
  
  the sound well thats a bit better then the graphics but then again this is a simulator so i don't 
 think there would be no death metal back ground music playing all the time if there was you would 
 most likely turn in to a crazy starship captain so the sound is all so fine its not grate but its 
 not ear bleeding bad either there just right
  
  now for the cream of this game its the AI the AI in this game are not dumb
  they know what there 
 doing they will use every thing in the hand book to kill you they will use blind spots to stay 
 out of the way of your point defense lasers they will use mines and missiles they will even fly 
 to you attack and cloak and Waite they will do every thing they can to stop you and you needless 
 to say have to do the same but once again a ship and its crew is only as good as its captain so 
 read your books people there life or death in this game and every game comes with them and a sheet 
 that shows you control's but the AI still is smart and they will learn from there mistakes you've 
 been warned lol 
  
  the control's now here is thin ice people like then and people hate them what do i think well lets 
 look at this if you were flying a starship with a squadron of space fighters and such do you think 
 you could fly the thing with just say asdw and the space bar and your your mouse if you think that 
 you should talk to your doctor there might be some thing wrong lol well yet they are some what 
 hard to use and to really think of it some of them you wont use and if you do you wont use them 
 a lot but if you read your book these control's aren't all that hard to remember just keep your 
 references close thats the best advice any one could give you so my over all thoughts on the control's 
 they need some work but there usable there not that bad in the long run there ok
  
  my over all don't let the game scare you from its looks read your book Ive said that how many times 
 its pretty much your only hope at being able to play thing game take notes down two as you read 
 it if your in school and got some free time in class read the book its the best tutorial you can 
 find for this game as all ways have fun and maybe ill see you out there in space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 24, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I guess I should have known from the number of second hand copies of this game, all selling for 
 what seemed a bargain price, that the promise and the actual game were two entirely different things. 
 The cover showed a game that was like Halo meets Freelancer; maybe that game exists in here somewhere, 
 but I'm afraid I don't have the patience to get there. The initial interface is the most user unfriendly 
 I've ever come across, nothing as simple as "Start Campaign" for this game, oh no... Oh, and there's 
 no tutorials either, which would have been quite useful as there's 2 whole pages of keys instructions 
 (helpfully, not laid out on a picture of a keyboard) so you start a quick battle to get used to 
 the keys, only to get shot while trying to find what key is "Go Left"...
  
  I managed to get a "Roam" campaign started, I was thrown out in my ship next to this big blue plate 
 that was apparently "Earth", next to a docking station that wouldn't let me dock. I was not aware 
 of the name Derek Smart before, but I was aware of the game "Battle-cruiser Millennium" and the 
 yawning chasm between it's promise and actual game. I will avoid anything attached to that name 
 in future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 2.1
Date: Aug 28, 2004 6:21 pm PT
Review:  From the hand of infamous Derek Smart comes this space simulation game that, as the other games 
 in the series, tries to give you everything but fails so miserably that you wonder if it was finished 
 at all.
  
  Universal Combat is an open ended space sim. You can go everywhere and do anything you want. But 
 that's the problem. ANYTHING is wrong with this game... EVERYWHERE too.
  
  Graphics look outdated, the sound effects are horrible, and the gameplay - guess what - sucks too.
 
  
  For example you descend into a planet to check it out in first person view mode. The problems start 
 at the moment you take control. You can walk through buildings, the weapons are bad modelled - 
 it doesn't even have a reload animation, which is a standard these days. Also your squad seems 
 to have problems walking. It gives the sensation of "lag".
  
  Space travel: it takes an eternity to go where you want, and I don't say it only for the impossible-to-figure-out 
 control panel, but 3000AD should have introduced a time compression feature.
  
  What surprises me is that this game needs Pixel and Vertex shading. It's just stupid. I mean, Silent 
 Hill 3 is a phenomenal game that really needs P&V shader for its incredible and gorgeous effects. 
 Turok Evolution, Deus Ex 2, you name it. But this is just ridiculous.
  
  It looks like Derek and company don't learn form their mistakes. Avoid this piece of bugs at all 
 costs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 22, 2004 5:16 am PT
Review:  Universal Combat is not much different than the previous games in the Battlecruiser Series - and 
 not much better.
  
  Compared to Freelancer and X2 - which are both very good games and highly recommended for fans 
 of space sims - Universal Combat fails in almost every area: The graphics are not up to date, the 
 interface looks awfull, the control scheme is to complicated, the missions are to lenghty and the 
 free-roam mode is straight boring.
  
  Derek Smart, controversial designer of the series, surely has great ideas and as the fifth title 
 in his series, he was finally set to deliver on these promises: A gigantic universe where players 
 could do whatever they wanted to, fight on sea, land, in the air or in space. Countless ships, 
 stations, vehicles and planets (on which you can seamlessly land) promise great gameplay, but the 
 result just doesn't play well. Some hardcore-fans of the series can overlook the various issues 
 (see some of the positive reviews) , but most gamers won't: The learning curve is just redicilous 
 (without any in-game tutorial) and the vastness of space just makes you feel lonely: Wandering 
 flat planet's surfaces for hours without seeing anyone or anything, exploring empty space or spending 
 days on finding some of the promised featurs really isn't fun for me.
  
  So I'am personally very disappointed. Being a fan of space sims for many years, spending much time 
 with X2 at the moment, I was really looking forward to Universal Combat. I wanted to like the game 
 as it was promised to be a new beginning - but as 3000AD failed to deliver on this promise, I failed 
 to like the game at all.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: junglejim99
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 14, 2004 12:35 am PT
Review:  I had heard of Universal Combat during its production, but somehow I must have missed the "Darek 
 Smart" that was attached to it. So when I saw the game in the store, I remembered all its promise 
 (land, sea, and air combat) and bought it. Not surprisingly, the box fails to have a mention of 
 Derek Smart anywhere on it for if it had, I would not have even considered the purchase. Unfortunately, 
 the game lived up to Derek's previous attempts (in his own words, he couldn't "code his way out 
 of a paper bag") . Interesting premise followed up by long periods of boredom occassionaly highlighted 
 by confusion. A waste of a perfectly good $20 bill - Live and learn (and read a complete review 
 first!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suisfonia
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2004 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Looking for a game thats better than X2? Well... Universal Combat fills that slot, it may take 
 awhile to get used to the game (about a week, yes you heard me) however reading the manual will 
 be more than enough for you get into the game right away
  
  The grapihcs are better than most of the simulater games I've seen out there, gameplay is took 
 notch. Sound is superb, along with everything else. Ship models are excellent, just what I would 
 expect from Derek Smart. Who puts more time into his games than other developers
  
  I gave this game a 10 for some good reasons, one, onlike other games, this game has an AI system 
 that, from what I've observed, adapts. Over time the enemy will use there cloaking system to attack 
 you and it takes skill and good observation skills to notice where the enemy is.
  
  Same thing goes for pilots, its true, one simple fighter CAN bring down a mighty cruiser or carrier 
 if your not careful. The capital ships PTA system may be useful, but there are blind spots that 
 the enemy can and will exploit 
  
  Overall, the game is better than BCMG. And focus's on content, you can explore nearly 21,000 different 
 areas (hmm good for 9 whole months of fun if you take it slow and easy and take your time) 
  
  Theres more to this game than what meets the eye, the campaign itself is challenging and should 
 only be tried by those who have the confedence that they can get through the first mission without 
 running out of reactor fuel (which, btw you only have a certain ammount at the beginning of the 
 game. You have to buy the rest, which is easy as long as you can find a nice steady supply of income.. 
 Like ooh I dunno - Mining! ;-) ) 
  
  So far I've had no problems with this game, runs smooth on my system and have had no crashs. So, 
 if your looking for a fun game then this is for you... that is of course if you don't mind READING 
 the manual first, cause this is one game where you MUST do just that or else you'll be completely 
 lost 
  
  Just a heads up, its not displayed on the box but this game does require Vertex Shading. If you 
 card supports it then your in bussiness ;-)
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
