-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Universal Combat: A World Apart
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/universalcombatholdtheline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's a dense and complex game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Incredibly labyrinthine interface and overly wordy manual make for a steep learning curve.
 Graphics and production values look more like 1996 than 2006.
 The first-person sequences are a joke.
 Frequent bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 5.0, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 74 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3000AD, Inc.
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Aug 15, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This stand-alone expansion to 2004's Universal Combat adds a few new features, but it can't make 
 up for dated production values and some dubious gameplay. 

  While the once mighty space simulation genre has pretty much gone the way of the dinosaurs and 
 the dodo, developer Derek Smart has continued to persevere on his long-running Battlecruiser games. 
 Smart has been working on the Battlecruiser games for a decade now, and the series itself got a 
 name change in 2004. The latest game in the series, Universal Combat: A World Apart, is essentially 
 a stand-alone expansion to 2004's Universal Combat, adding some extra content in the form of campaigns, 
 vehicles, and character classes. It does very little, however, to address Universal Combat's dismal 
 production values, incomprehensible interface, and other issues.  

          Take command of a mighty starship that flies and fights like a fighter.     

  Universal 
 Combat takes its name partly from the fact that you can explore and fight in a huge galaxy, and 
 because you can battle it out as a starship commander, a fighter pilot, and even as a grunt on 
 the ground holding a rifle. However, this broad design is simply too ambitious for its own good, 
 as Universal Combat doesn't really do any of the three particularly well, and it does some of the 
 modes terribly.  

  At the heart of the game is the starship command simulation, where you take direct command of a 
 gigantic starship. You can fly around the universe in an open-ended and free-form campaign mode 
 or "roam" mode, or you can take your ship into battle in a handful of premade combat missions. 
 However, even though your space carrier flies and fights like an oversized fighter, there's an 
 incredibly steep learning curve that you have to surmount. And while A World Apart actually adds 
 a tutorial to Universal Combat (something sorely missing in the 2004 release) , it isn't as helpful 
 as it sounds. The 97-page tutorial is dense, and it requires you to constantly refer to the separate 
 101-page manual in order to make sense of the alphabet soup of acronyms that it throws at you. 
 In terms of complexity, Universal Combat is about as complex (if not more so) than some of the 
 high-fidelity combat flight simulators out there. So if your idea of fun is sitting in a cockpit 
 and tinkering with an endless amount of buttons, then you may feel a bit at home with Universal 
 Combat. Anyone looking for a fast, simple, Wing Commander-style action game should certainly look 
 elsewhere.  

  In theory, this is a game that should appeal to anyone who has ever wanted to be Jean-Luc Picard, 
 sitting on a bridge and issuing orders to explore a huge galaxy. There's a huge galaxy in this 
 game to explore, as you can travel from system to system, interact with countless vessels and stations, 
 and explore strange new worlds. However, the execution just feels off, and you'll encounter plenty 
 of frustration along the way. For example, it can take so long simply to get from point to point 
 that you're left twiddling your thumbs while staring at the screen. The combat also can be a frustratingly 
 short and brutal experience, as your huge warship can get taken out in just seconds.  

  It also doesn't help that the production values vary from poor to abysmal. The space graphics look 
 ancient, especially in comparison to the handful of sleek, cutting-edge space sims that have been 
 released in recent years. Models and textures look blocky and bland, and the game has trouble getting 
 even the little details right. For instance, clouds whip around planets at about 500,000 miles 
 per hour, and the star field in front of you suddenly changes if all you're doing is selecting 
 an item from one of the menus. We also encountered a weird bug half the time that sent our ship 
 into an uncontrollable clockwise spin. The only solution was to quit out, restart the game, and 
 then repeat if the spin was still there.  

  The fighter pilot aspects of Universal Combat won't have you ditching your precious copies of Wing 
 Commander and X-Wing, either. The space combat is just lackluster, and the only interesting feature 
 is the ability to conduct strikes on planetary targets, but the planet-side missions end up feeling 
 like a decade-old flight sim, only nowhere near as interesting. The flight modeling is also poor, 
 and we couldn't even die when we purposely flew nosefirst into the ground. Instead, we simply leveled 
 out and "flew" around like we were in a car. Again, don't feel a rush to toss out your favorite 
 old flight sims.  

          Confused? Apparently, there is no gravity on alien planets.     

  However, it's the 
 first-person sequences on the ground that make the rest of Universal Combat look stellar in comparison. 
 Virtually every shooter made in the last decade looks and plays far better than Universal Combat. 
 You'll discover horribly splotchy and bland textures, incredibly empty environments dotted with 
 triangular "hills," bitmapped foliage and trees that you can walk through, and absolutely no sense 
 of physics whatsoever. One of the really dubious moments was when our small squad of three marines 
 literally walked up a sheer cliff. Combat itself is ugly and unforgiving, as the graphics are so 
 crummy that you often can't see the enemy soldiers shooting at you until it's too late. Collision 
 boxes are so badly placed that you'll "run" into objects that are a meter away. Animations are 
 also pretty crude, as the reloading sequence for the rifle has you putting it on your shoulder. 
 The list just goes on and on, and it's a wonder why Smart simply doesn't just cut this feature 
 altogether and focus on improving the other sections of Universal Combat, because this game is 
 absolutely lousy as a shooter.  

  There is a multiplayer mode in Universal Combat, but good luck trying to find anyone in the handful 
 of servers that are online (this doesn't bode well for Universal Combat Online, the next chapter 
 in the series, either) . Simply put, this is a series that needs to lose a few features so that 
 its creator can concentrate on improving the stuff that does work. This is also a series that desperately 
 needs an infusion of new technology. Yes, graphics aren't everything, but you've got to at least 
 make the game pleasant and interesting to look at. However, there are some good ideas lurking somewhere 
 in Universal Combat, but you need to have the patience of Job in order to appreciate them.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Suisfonia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Granted.. perhaps the graphics are a tad out-dated I will degree, but name one game that's been 
 released that hasn't the complexity or addiction that UC has.. can't find one? What? X3? Don't 
 make me laugh..
  
  UC AWA add's a few new things to the game. Some improved graphics and sounds, although the first 
 person sequence is a bit harsh, it does take some getting used to, and for someone who plays a 
 marine for most of his games, it isn't that hard to use at all
  
  All in all, this is not a game for those who lack the warrior spirit, it is also not a game for 
 those who hate challenges 
  
  If you want a challenge, then by god buy this game and accept the challenge. It will take time 
 to get used to I will guarantee that, it isn't exactly the type of game that you can just install 
 and fly off in your newly acquired Firestorm and go after a station or two, it does take time and 
 patience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roencaco
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  Has usual, if you had white you wanted black and vice versa, the game is vast and complex, normally 
 that shoud be good because give more value to the title, but if you are the cain of person than 
 like to start and end the same day, you have 2 option, forget this title because you will expend 
 too much time in it, or accept the challenge and enjoy it.
  
  For bugs don't worry too much there are few but for sure will be patches for it.
  
  If you 
 like space combat sim, you will like it.
  
  In deep, you will get a good game to play for several hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:11 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Derek Smart's Battlecruiser 3000 AD from the beggining. Now it just got better 
 and better. There are a few bugs... any game has a few... but there are also patches to fix them. 
 This game offers a gigantic universe to explore and fight, even if it will take some time to acctually 
 see all the features. This game is lacking a tutorial but if u take your time and look over the 
 100+ pages documentation you will find out about all the systems, ships, weapons, planets, and 
 much more. The game's unique feature is that you also need to keep your eye on the crew , even 
 in the middle of the battle. Enemy ships can and WILL teleport marines on your ship to kill you. 
 In space the targets are easy enough to kill or flee from them but on a planet's surface things 
 change. Many people don't like that the game is running in real time, so it will take some good 
 (real) days to make a good ship and to learn all it's functions and systems.
  
  You will need to spend at least 50 hours to fully understand the game and to see some great 30+ 
 ships battles. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
