-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal Mission Pack: Return to Na Pali
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/unrealmissionpackrtnp/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 22, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 223 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Legend Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     May 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Return to Na Pali, arriving approximately one year after the introduction of its parent product, 
 simply fails to innovate. 

 One year later, it's difficult to remember much about Unreal's single-player experience. Only vague 
 memories remain: The first level was impressive... then, nothing. And now, Legend Entertainment's 
 mission pack, Return to Na Pali, has been released and arrives with a dull thud, letting gamers 
 reexperience the famous Unreal fugue state.  

 The game starts promisingly enough, with a well-done engine-rendered scene depicting your rescue 
 from space. Having been saved, you are immediately dropped back onto the planet so that you can 
 find an object and escape again. In order to accomplish this switch-finding metatask, you must 
 attend to the business of flipping a series of smaller switches spread across 15 levels. In an 
 attempt to maintain some semblance of a plot, each level ends with your character dictating a log 
 entry. In the sordid tradition of casting from the shallow thespian talent pool available around 
 the office, Return to Na Pali's voice acting ranks among the worst ever recorded. It's as if Legend 
 recruited an especially nerdy junior high schooler to write and perform an oral report on the topic 
 of "What I Did in the Preceding Level." If you're not in the unenviable position of having to finish 
 the game for review purposes, you'll find yourself loudly cheering the enemy and waving a homemade 
 pennant on which you've written "Skaarj," or simply flinging your character off one of Unreal's 
 beautifully rendered cliffs, as you try to silence that awful voice.  

 With the engine and the majority of the monsters, weapons, and textures already in place, the developers 
 at Legend should have been able to concentrate on adding memorable set pieces, both as scripted 
 events and surprising architecture, to Na Pali's single-player game. They could have effectively 
 created the great solo campaign Unreal lacked. Regrettably, the experience is a forgettable death 
 march through too many familiar-looking levels. You'll sense that, by the end, even the designers 
 had had enough; the final boss encounter ranks among the genre's most unexciting. You probably 
 won't even realize you're engaged in a critical battle until the appalling narrator wraps everything 
 up.  

 Two new creatures have been included in the mission pack. The first, and best, is the pack hunter. 
 This fast little horror looks like a baby velociraptor, travels in groups, and emits a nerve-wracking 
 wail. Once a few of these things get on top of you, death is almost assured, so they must be picked 
 off at a distance. Their pack behavior is interesting - one alone will usually run from you, only 
 to return with a few friends.  

 The space marine is a heavily armed terrestrial soldier wielding an instant-hit automatic rifle 
 and a rocket launcher. While packing some serious heat, he's relatively fragile and can be taken 
 out with a few good blasts. These marines show up midway through the game for one pitched battle, 
 then, strangely, are never heard from again. Since the designers went through the trouble of creating 
 the marines, and the story would justify their constant reappearance after the first encounter, 
 it's a mystery that they are not utilized more often.   

 Two monsters later, the developers apparently ran out of ideas completely and created a third "new" 
 monster: a spider. That's right - as seen in every other game ever made. In case you're thinking 
 that in this implementation the spider does something interesting, let's just say that if crawling 
 around and shooting poison is interesting to you, then, yes it does.  

 Unreal, known and often reviled for the wacky, evil clown-like design of its armaments, needed some 
 familiar-feeling, -sounding, and -acting guns to balance out its arsenal. Legend provides three 
 new weapons and, wisely, doesn't get tricky with any of them. Each is an old favorite sorely missing 
 from the original game. The combat assault rifle is an ammo-chewing instant-hit automatic weapon 
 that can also be used in its secondary firing mode as a supershotgun. The other two firearms, a 
 grenade and rocket launcher, are both immediately recognizable and satisfying. They each have an 
 alternate mode - delayed detonation for grenades and remote guidance for rockets - that adds a 
 little zest to each in turn.  

 Included in Return to Na Pali are seven multiplayer maps and four new multiplayer game modes. To 
 compete with the numerous and ingenious (not to mention free) fan-created modifications readily 
 available on the Net, these features would have to be something special. They're not. One of the 
 new mods, marine match, is a botmatch variation in which all the opponents are space marines, and 
 you pit yourself against this little-seen enemy. The other three, gravity match, cloak match, and 
 Terran weapon match, are each equally forgettable. Cooperative play is also included, but you cannot 
 play the solo campaign straight through and must load and play each level individually.  

 For a game as extensible as Unreal, the challenge of making an impact with an expansion pack is 
 inversely proportional to the age of the original work. Each passing day brings new and more sophisticated 
 competition from the game's network of amateur developers. Return to Na Pali, arriving approximately 
 one year after the introduction of its parent product, simply fails to innovate. While professional 
 enough, it is wholly lacking the spark of inspiration necessary to maintain the interest of all 
 but the most die-hard Unreal fanatics.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Unreal - Return to Na Pali is the official mission pack released one year later after Unreal however 
 this game is overlooked by the mega-success of Unreal Tournament 1999; never less still enjoyable 
 to play.
  
  The game starts off right after the events of Unreal. Your ship drifted in space only to be picked 
 up by 'UMS Bodega Bay' only to send you back to Na Pali to recover an important data core from 
 a crashed starship 'The Prometheus'. This time you are more prepared... time to lock and load... and 
 don't forget to pack your lunch. You forgot your lunch didn't you? Well the UMS Bodega Bay did 
 provide you some scuba equipment for that late night swimming and a dispersion pistol...
  
  Log entry: Whoever built this place must of have been a real sadist...
  Reported by: Gina's report 
 on the Velora Temple
  The overall game has the same effect as Unreal. Beautiful landscapes dotted with Nali cottages, 
 cows mooing in the distance, the sounds of rushing water, and eerie temples all compliments the 
 terrific soundtrack. There are some new music for your listening pleasure as well as two new creatures 
 being the poison spitting spider and the pack hunters.
  
  What's different though is that the player will automatically record a log entry every time when 
 exiting a level. This makes the game more enjoyable to play as it immerses the player as if they 
 are trekking in search for the wrecked ship and then to beam-me-up Scotty.
  
  There are also three new weapons for your enjoyment; the grenade launcher, rocket launcher and 
 the fine-looking, ammo-chewing Car Assault Rifle. Handle with care.
  
  Log entry: I used of being bitten, hacked, shot, stabbed or blown up...
  Reported by: Gina on 
 her sorely missed friends
  Your old acquaintances are still here; the Skarrj, bButes, Devilfish, Kralls and of course the 
 lovely, irresistible titans. Also special guest appearances are the pack hunters, spiders and mercs! 
 Yes the mercs have arrived!
  
  Log entry: I could be crushed, sliced, diced, burned or skewed...
  Reported by: Gina's whining 
 report on... just that whining.
  And there are traps. They won't stop for no-one.
  
  Book entry: Our struggle with the sky demons lives on. We pray for the saviour to return to us, 
 but our prayers go unanswered...
  Written by: Anonymous Nali
  Considering the release of Na Pali arrives one year later, as mentioned before, this game was over-shadowed 
 my the mega success of UT1999. Not that that was a bad thing, it's just that if the game was released 
 earlier than maybe it would have the recognition it deserved. How can one person have enough of 
 Unreal?
  
  Totally Unreal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Return to NaPali, the relatively overlooked expansion to Unreal arrived one year after its source 
 game and wasnt received well due to it simply being too much like Unreal. If you enjoyed Unreal, 
 however; Return to NaPali is worth at least one play through for the interesting new places to 
 journey through alone. You once again play as Prisoner 849 who was rescued by a UMS starship and 
 given two options: Help them find a crashed UMS ship on NaPali or die. After accepting to take 
 the mission youre sent down to NaPali (more comfortably this time) and your journey begins again.
 
  
  Return to NaPali is not very different from its source game, but some of the new levels are interesting 
 and a lot of work was put into their design. Unfortunately the mission pack is only a fraction 
 as long as Unreal which is to be expected, but don't let this turn you away. The expansion also 
 features a few new Terran guns which are basically futuristic versions of modern day weaponry. 
 Along with the new weapons there are several new enemies thrown into the mix including small carnivorous 
 reptiles and giant poison spitting spiders.
  
  The graphics in the expansion obviously remain the same, but this mission pack features a combination 
 of recycled music from Unreal and some new music which is just as good as what was in the original 
 Unreal. The game also features some voice acting for the main character who now speaks during brief 
 log entry sequences between areas. Ill be blunt; the voice acting is bad, very bad. I recommend 
 skipping all of the log entries possible unless you absolutely must hear the useless information 
 that is blurted out during these sequences, but youre better off just moving on with the game 
 since theres no important story details. In fact, theres no story details in these sequences 
 at all; its just Prisoner 849 ranting on about how his or her life sucks and that the universe 
 is against them.
  
  Unreal: Return to NaPali is a solid expansion to Unreal, and if you enjoyed the original game this 
 mission pack is worth playing through at least once. It features new, and well designed places 
 along with some interesting new enemies and weapons. As long as you can get past the lousy voice 
 acting and simply want more of Unreals action\adventure gameplay then Return to NaPali is for 
 you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
