-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal Tournament 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/unrealtournament2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Low-gravity instagib matches are still thrilling and crazy.
 Warfare mode offers some deeper, somewhat more strategic play.
 Good, solid map design.
 Great graphics that scale well to fit mid-range machines.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Front-end interface has too many menus and selections to move through, which makes it feel sort of like a console game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 4,337 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 19, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unreal Tournament 3 doesn't make huge changes to the formula, but still ends up feeling fresh, fast, 
 and very fun. 

  Unreal Tournament 3 probably shouldn't feel as fresh and as exciting as it does. When you get down 
 to it, UT3 doesn't change a lot of the things that you liked about Unreal Tournament 2004. It's 
 still the same fast-moving and action-oriented first-person shooter. Yet the game's new maps, the 
 requisite graphical overhaul, and easy-to-understand gameplay modes all feel great. The way the 
 shooter genre has changed over the three years since the previous game is also a factor. With most 
 other games slowing things down and going for a more realistic, militaristic pace, UT3's hypercharged 
 gameplay explodes out of the gate feeling refreshing and new.  

           Unreal Tournament 3 doesn't reinvent the UT franchise, but considering how much shooters 
 have changed since the last one was released, it still manages to feel surprisingly fresh.     

  The UT games have never been about single-player action, but like in the previous games, there 
 is a campaign mode in UT3. It's a series of matches against bots wrapped around a basic but uneventful 
 storyline. The big switch this time around is that Unreal Tournament is no longer a sport. Now 
 it's war, and you play as a character on the hunt for revenge against an evil Necris woman who 
 led an assault against unarmed civilians on your colony. You and the survivors of the attack join 
 up with a corporation, fight to gain territory held by other corporations, and so on. It's little 
 more than a five- to seven-hour training mode to help you get up to speed on the maps and the modes 
 so you can go into multiplayer with a fighting chance. One cool addition is that you can play the 
 campaign mode online with up to three other players. Although joining other humans to combat the 
  bots isn't exactly the most fun you can have in this game, it's 
 more compelling (and easier) when you're playing with other people. You can set the skill level 
 of the bots, too. At the lowest setting, they're complete idiots that won't even bother to turn 
 around and fight you if you start shooting them from behind. The highest setting, godlike, is appropriately 
 stiff, though not entirely impossible. It's just tough to fight against opponents who rarely miss. 

  The maps you'll see in the single-player campaign are the same maps you'll see online, at least 
 until the mod-making scene shifts into high gear. You'll get into matches using a typical PC-style 
 server browser, but the game tries to keep you away from a full list of every server running by 
 moving you through some console-game-style menus to filter down to the gametype you want to see. 
 UT3 comes with six different modes of play. Deathmatch is the standard free-for-all battle. Team 
 deathmatch, as you'd expect, breaks you up into two teams. Duel is a one-on-one mode where two 
 players go at it while other players spectate. All three of these modes are played on the same 
 set of deathmatch-friendly maps. UT3 also has a standard capture-the-flag mode, complete with the 
 translocator, the teleporter gun that has made UT's take on CTF stand apart from most others. There's 
 a new vehicle CTF mode, which takes the standard CTF concept and places it onto larger battlefields. 
 As the name suggests, you have a number of vehicles that you can use toward your goal of grabbing 
 the opposing team's flag and getting it back to your base. The largest mode is called warfare, 
 and like onslaught mode before it, it's played on even bigger maps, with more vehicles.  

  Warfare is a node-based mode where each team has a base with a power core that needs to be damaged 
 and destroyed for a victor to be declared. The power core is linked to other nodes at various spots 
 in the map. You must push forward, capture nodes, and link them together until you've got your 
 team's nodes linked to the opposing team's base. At that point, you can damage the enemy core and, 
 ideally, blow up it for a victory. There's a ton of pushing and shoving back and forth across the 
 map when two great teams square off, and it's also the most strategic mode. It differs from onslaught 
 mode by offering secondary objectives, like unlinked nodes that can be captured to give a team 
 forward spawn points and access to more vehicles and a countdown node that will occasionally drain 
 energy from the enemy core if you control it. Each of the objective-based team modes comes with 
 its own set of maps.  

  Overall, the map quality is high, with plenty of symmetrical, interesting level layouts for the 
 objective-based modes. One deathmatch map, called Gateway, has multiple areas that look really 
 different, all of which are linked together with portals. You'll also get a new remake of the classic 
 Unreal map Deck. Furthermore, the Unreal mod community has always been pretty rabid, so you know 
 it's just a matter of time before someone makes one of those "giant world" levels where you can 
 hide in a sink drain and snipe people with an instagib shock rifle while they float down into the 
 bottom of a bathtub. Yes, that's right, the instagib mode is also back in the game, along with 
 a handful of other basic mutators you can use to make quick changes to any of the modes.  

  The weapons in Unreal Tournament 3 should be old hat to anyone familiar with the series. The shield 
 gun has been ditched in favor of the impact hammer, and your default weapon is the slow-firing 
 enforcer pistol, but beyond that, the weapon differences feel limited to minor balance changes. 
 The bio rifle's gooey projectiles seem to do more damage, which makes it somewhat more useful. 
 The secondary fire on the flak cannon seems as if it flies out at a slightly higher, slower arc, 
 which forces you to make a few changes to how you aim. But again, the changes are minor. The rocket 
 launcher can still lock on, the sniper rifle is still great fun for headshots, and the redeemer 
 is still a huge missile that you can guide into targets to cause a nice, big blast that's handy 
 in some of the larger vehicle CTF games. But when isn't a large explosion handy?  

  The other gameplay changes also feel relatively minor. Recent UT games have employed an adrenaline 
 counter, which built up as you killed enemies or collected large pills around each level. When 
 the meter was full, you could activate a special ability, such as invisibility or regeneration. 
 This system isn't present in UT3. Also, the rules for double-jumping after a dodge move seem to 
 have been altered a bit. Again, these are minor differences that don't really get in the way or 
 drastically change the overall feel of the game, but they're noteworthy just the same. A more dramatic 
 difference is the hoverboard, which is in vehicle CTF and warfare. The hoverboard lets you pick 
 up a little more speed, which is useful on the larger battlefields. The catch is that getting hit 
 while on your board knocks you over, which gives enemies more than enough time to finish you off 
 as your character slowly arises from the ground. You can even do tricks while on the board, which 
 isn't useful for gameplay purposes but is still totally rad.  

  Unreal Tournament 3 uses Unreal Engine 3, the same basic set of tools that powered Gears of War. 
 As such, this is a really great-looking game on high-end machines. But even if your PC isn't top 
 of the line, the game scales better than most, giving you a playable experience on midrange machines 
 as well. But, of course, the game is at its best when you're exceeding the game's minimum requirements, 
 in situations where you can run at a high resolution and still get a great frame rate. It supports 
 widescreen resolutions, but playing in widescreen actually gives you a smaller view of the overall 
 action, given that the game appears to cut off the top and bottom of the 4:3 view to fit it onto 
 a wider monitor. UT3 certainly isn't the first PC game to have this problem, but given its highly 
 competitive nature, cutting off parts of the screen seems to be a pretty bad solution.  

           Whether you're riding a hoverboard or running through tight corridors, UT3 looks great. 

  The game's textures, character models, and animation are all top-notch when you've got everything 
 turned up. Characters can be tweaked and modified using different torso pieces, shoulder plates, 
 and more. The handful of levels that have running liquids in them have good-looking water effects, 
 too. Overall, it's a very sharp-looking game if your machine can hang with its higher settings. 
 The audio fits right in with what you'd expect a UT game to sound like. The music is high in energy, 
 the explosions and gunfire sound great, and the character voices, which occasionally pipe up to 
 taunt you when you get killed, fit right in as well. The announcer is appropriately loud and booming 
 when calling off your head shots, killing sprees, and the like.  

  It's a very basic, straightforward package, but don't take that to mean that UT3 is a no-frills 
 sequel. With its variety of modes and its occasionally crazy high-speed action, UT3 still feels 
 very different than the typical first-person shooter coming out these days. On top of that, it's 
 very exciting and just as much fun now as it has been in previous installments. UT3 has more than 
 enough content to keep you busy, and with mod-making tools included in the package, the potential 
 for more user-generated content in the future is certainly present.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (184 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TomBurnsRed
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 has fantastic graphical effects, weapons, characters and so much more. Sadly 
 there are a number of things that bring this game down but they are easy to overlook when you consider 
 the overall game value.
  
  The main plot for Unreal Tournament 3 sadly is unlike any of the other Unreal Tournament games, 
 Epic have taken out the "Tournament" side of the story mode added real story in its place. The 
 story follows a mercenaries team called Ronin, you play as Reaper who is the leader of the group, 
 Ronin is out for revenge on those who destroyed their home colony at the start of the campaign. 
 The story is lengthy and should take you a good couple of hours to beat it the first time through, 
 the earlier missions are quite simple and easy to finish however the later missions will really 
 test your skills if you are playing on a higher difficulty setting. With the campaign being this 
 way its easy to really forget that you are playing an Unreal Tournament game, luckily the game 
 play style hasn't changed a bit from the earlier titles. Unreal Tournament 3 still has the action 
 packed super fast game play that we all grew to love from it's predecessors as well as all the 
 fantastic vehicles that were introduced in UT2K4.
  
  Every weapon and vehicle in the game has also had there own makeover, Epic has re-skinned and remodeled 
 almost everything about them to keep new and fresh for this new title. This has always been the 
 case in the previous titles (except for vehicles) however they have changed so grammatically that 
 you will hardly recognise them until you start blasting away. Unreal Tournament 3 also feature's 
 brand new vehicles for the new army, Necris. The new Necris vehicles all have their weaknesses 
 and strengths as do all vehicles in the game, my personal favorite is the Viper, a small high speed 
 hit and run vehicle with a self destruct function that is extremely fun to use. Overall the addition 
 of the new and already existing vehicles makes for an excellent selection.
  
  After you have completed to lengthy story mode there are so many other things you can do, lets 
 start with Instant Action. Instant Action is a type of skirmish mode where you can play games against 
 AI controlled bots, there are quite a few game modes to try out, there is the standard Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag modes as well as a Duel mode (1 vs 1) the other game modes 
 include Warfare in witch your team attempt to link nodes together so that you can attack and destroy 
 the enemy core (Includes vehicles) and Vehicle Capture the Flag that has the same rules as the 
 standard Capture the Flag mode but includes vehicles. Sadly Epic has taken out the Assault game 
 mode that was very popular in the UT2K4 game, also I was sad to see no Bombing Run mode that was 
 also very popular in the older titles. Non the less the modes that are included in the UT3 package 
 are very fun and will keep you entertained for some time.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 also see's a return for the Mutates. Mutates are special settings that can 
 be applied before you start a game to add a sort of spice to the game, playing around with them 
 can change the way you have to play the game but also will give you huge satisfaction.
  
  Another new feature that has been added to UT3 is the use of deploy-able devices, these are special 
 pickups that you can find in specific levels, they are very useful and should be used if you can 
 find a use for them, however you are not able to swap to another weapon after you have picked up 
 the deploy-able device so you need to time your pickups correctly. Pickups range from EMP Mines 
 to Slow Motion fields witch look more like green jelly, there are many others so you will need 
 to scout them out.
  
  if you get tired of playing against the AI bots then it's time to go online, online play is the 
 same as instant action mode but with other players, you can have a mixture of human players and 
 bot players in the games unless they are ranked match, then only human players can play. Because 
 online play is the same as Instant Action all the Mutates and traditional options are still available 
 to you when you create a match, the downside to playing online is that you have to sign up to Game 
 Spy in order to get started, if you already have an account then you will be alright but if not 
 then your online play will be delayed for a short time until you are up and running.
  
  With some great characters missing, great modes missing and the whole "Tournament" feel to the 
 story mode missing UT3 would have fallen below expectation, however the outstanding design of everything 
 in the game, the outstanding maps, weapons and vehicles UT3 could go down as one of the best shooters 
 out there right now, even after a year or so of it initial release, and even if you did get bored 
 of the game there is a lot of user created content out there to download and try your hand at.
 
  
  Overall UT3 is a game every true gamer should have, it is true that this game is not at popular 
 as the earlier titles but maybe Call of Duty 4 has something to do with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheepradish
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament would have to be considered the king of death-match for on line shooters, with 
 many games in the franchise now UT is back for a new fresh game for the next gen.
  
  Its the same feel but with a new coat of paint, the idea this time around is Epic has tried the 
 idea for a story based single player campaign. the story is based around a group of warriors working 
 together with familiar UT characters (for one Malcolm) , from saving earth from a massive invasion. 
 the idea points the player to learn how to play the game and game modes while each level tell a 
 story. the single player game is divided into 4 chapters. Not only is the campaign here you are 
 able to play a game with bots with various skill levels and has your typical game modes Death-match, 
 Capture the flag and a few new ones which are vehicle based. If you can find a friend you can play 
 the campaign cooperatively together. On line play works fine however if your Internet or computer 
 is old/cheap you will struggle playing over the web.
  
  Graphics are amazing and if your pc is roughly a year old you wont find a very bad run with this 
 game and the cheesy cut scenes ain't that bad either.
  
  Sadly as much as im a big UT fan this game left out lot of the content ie maps and mutators.
 
  
  im giving it an 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakaroti4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 12:54 pm PT
Review:  UT3 is a treat for any FPS fan! It has evolved into being an epic game rather than just your average 
 shoot'em up game. I have played both 2003 and 2004, but UT3 leaves these in the dust with its amazing 
 visuals and easy to learn game play which will keep you coming back for a very long time. 
  
  When everything is turned on max UT3 easily rivals Crysis and Far Cry 2 in the visual department, 
 but UT3 doesn't just stop there, its vast community of players will make this game worthwhile, 
 as it will give you almost unlimited opportunities to play the game. There is an amazing amount 
 of maps which all are different in their own right and feel like that they are part of real world, 
 each landscape captures your eyes, as if you are venturing on alien systems filled with different 
 scenarios and premium visuals. 
  
  The introduction of Warfare is a welcome surprise and gives the game an epic war feeling where 
 you can have armies of players combat each other on vast plains with tanks, aircrafts and much 
 more. Epic Games and Midway have outdone themselves to produce this high quality AAA game which 
 stands firm as an instant classic.
  
  Also the Titan Pack which has been released just a little while ago adds tons of new content and 
 game modes for free, this is really a no brainer! 
  
  I was lucky to find the collector's edition for a steel, which includes over 20 hours of tutorials 
 on how to build your own maps with the powerful Unreal 3 Map Editor, and even without these tutorials 
 everyone can have their go and produce their own battlefields.
  
  UT3 is a visual treat while still remaining intense and breathtaking at the same time. 
  
  
 GO AND BUY THIS GAME, see you on the battlefield! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mintoo2cool
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  Remember the first UT? UT99? When it came out i spawned a global phenomenon along with quake3 arena 
 and counterstrike called multiplayer gaming! UT99 was just the beginning, then came UT2003 which 
 was a big step forward from the original UT... and then came UT2004 - THE MULTIPLAYER GAME TO PLAY!! 
 if you had'nt played UT2004 online you didnt know what multiplayer means!
  
  Us UT veterans, we were ever so eagerly waiting for the release of UT2007 or UT3... but when it 
 did, and when we bought, rented or stole the game or demo , oh! what a let down it was!! so many 
 things of UT2004? gone... all gone!! single player mode sucked... it was all flash and no substance! 
 I immediately sold my CD-KEY on e-bay with days... i could not stand this game, having played UT2004!!
 
  
  bottom line... these guys screwed up! they screwed up the name of UT... they screwed up its game 
 play... its style... its everything!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamuel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:27 am PT
Review:  As a general shoot-em-up nothing takes the cake greater than the Unreal Tournament series. Starting 
 off as an alien Kill-em-all story line where a group of Human soldiers were defending the earth 
 against swarms of Aliens. Back by popular demand the Unreal engine was put back into play with 
 Unreal 2: the awakening. A disappointing game at its best, unreal fans was not pleased. But nevertheless 
 Midway was unaffected by the low grades and decided to change the game style a bit. Production 
 started during 1999 and was scheduled to finish mid 2000.
  Along with the new millennium came one of the best selling games of 2000  Unreal Tournament: 2000. 
 Instead of a storyline, Unreal became a series of match types where two teams would fight each 
 other to win the tournament. Match types like Deathmatch (DM) , Team Death Match (TDM) , capture 
 the Flag (CTF) , Bombing Run (BR) and Domination (AB) gave PC gamers something to wake up for.
 
  After the huge success with UT2K Midway created UT2K3. Possibly the best FPS to hit the shelves 
 in a century. Adding new matches  Assault and Onslaught. Also adding vehicles for players to have 
 complete destruction and domination over the enemy. 
  With next gen consoles hitting the shelves left right and center, 2007 was the gamer's year. PS3 
 X360 and the Nintendo Wii were all released and this called for a new addition to the UT series. 
 It took Midway a good year to make the next UT. Previously called UT2k7 it was later renamed to 
 UT 3. Midway were going back to a story line though not a very strong one it gave some gamers the 
 element of a purpose in playing the game. Still using the tournament style games but taking out 
 Assault and Onslaught and adding a duel game where teams would sit back while one person from each 
 team would fight.
  The story line is incredibly weak and there is not much point in even listening to what they say. 
 It can be nice though to hear some of the characters in game using scripted speeches such as Bishops 
 prayers before and after a killing headshot. There is still the option of a free game and instant 
 action which is what most of UT fans will be spending much of their time on as this is the signature 
 UT Kill/Blast- em-all. The next gen console graphics opened up Midway to make a game which looked 
 completely different but thankfully looked amazing.
  
  After playing both the PS3 version and the PC version I would have to say that PC beats console 
 any day for FPS. The quickness of a mouse will never be beaten by a joystick and the WASD will 
 never be beaten by X Triangle O and Square. Though I have to say that the PS3 version was still 
 amazing. Midway utilizes the PS3's Si-axis by giving you the option to flick the controller to 
 side hop. The R2 and L2 triggers made shooting a lot more fun and more interactive.
  
  The game has been rated down near the 60-70% mark only because it is not a completely new game 
 and has a lot of aspects of UT2k3 which got a 90%. But in my opinion if UT3 was anymore different 
 from the previous UT's then I would just not play it. UT is a game where you can go home after 
 a day at work or at school sit at your desk. Look at a pile of papers due in for the next morning 
 and then look to your screen and you just see the big U staring right at you. And you think to 
 yourselfit's time to blast some mofo with an impact hammer.
  
  UT3 is most gory and bloody UT there is with effects of Blood splatter on your screen when you 
 disintegrate an enemy with the impact hammer. I would have liked to see more of these effects used 
 within the game like when you use a flak cannon short range or when you blow the holy hell straight 
 out of the entire team with the redeemer. The weapons have all got a new look though I had nothing 
 wrong with the old look to the guns now they look just as good and just as devastating. Some new 
 additions to the guns are also very pleasing such as being able to burst shot the enforcers or 
 having a scope on the Avril.
  There is also a new arsenal of vehicles at your disposal ranging from a new version of the scorpion, 
 now with lobbing rockets as opposed to that useless green thing in UT2k3. There has also been added 
 a leviathan which is like the hellbenders Big brother seating 5 and having an ion cannon when you 
 station the beast. The Tripod alien tank is the biggest meanest and most devastating tank in all 
 of gaming history with nothing but two shots from a redeemer being able to take the beast down 
 it truly is mortifying. Featured in only 2 maps one where you cannot move around in it and another 
 where it is in the middle of the map and you need to capture the node to access it.
  Hover boards have also been added to UT3 getting rid of the translocater in Vehicle CTF. With the 
 hover board you can now carry the flag at a higher speed but get hit and you will fall off and 
 be easy prey to your oncoming enemies. You can also attach to vehicles while on your hover board 
 to get even faster boost. Good teams will have a scorpion pulling along the Flag Carrier or a Raptor 
 to carry him fling over the battlefield just don't get hit because it's a long way down.
  Though there are few recognized characters such as the GeneBoosted Humanoids (gorge, frostbite 
 etc) the new editing system allows players to change the look of their character from the head 
 to torso to arms to legs and boots. You can also add 1 2 or no shoulder pads. This gives the game 
 a little more freedom however some UT2k3 Fans are missing the old characters and the new evil guys 
 are hardly ever even touched while playing multiplayer mode.
  Some old characters are brought back though like Malcolm who is now the sergeant of the army you 
 work for. Lauren, Malcolm's ex partner, is now a mercenary working with a new iron fist group. 
 There's no connection between the two characters now which is disappointing.
  It was a nice add to see that Malcolm had come of age and looked now more like a 20 year veteran 
 rather than a Fiddy Cent wanabe. But strange that Lauren not only didn't look older but looked 
 even younger than before, making her a common topic of conversation between the friendly AI men. 
 Even though, at the same time, you are blowing her to little bits with a flak cannon.
  After playing the full campaign I decided to try out the multiplayer mode. I was surprised to find 
 so few servers alive. Though I did not expect the servers to reach the amount of Counter-strike 
 or COD:4. I did expect to see as much if not more than the previous UT2K3. Even though the servers 
 were few I managed to easily find a good game and started to play a CTF match 5v5. I found the 
 use of the 'V' commands useful when coordinating and attack and defense. After playing a while 
 on defense with the sniper rifle I decided it was time to try and win a game and went on the attack. 
 The ping difference between my computer and the server was about 250  300 ping, as the server 
 was in America. Even though I had a high ping I was still able t full play the game at a frame 
 rate of 40-60. After finishing a round I decided to try a 1v1 duel and try the new duel mode out. 
 The server settings had us using insta-gib rifles which are one hit kill shock rifles. This made 
 the game much faster as after you, or your opponent died, another player would spawn and they would 
 start the fight. The most I could stay alive was 3 kills which was a high score but not high enough 
 to win the round.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever considered yourself a serious FPS gamer and have never of Unreal Tournament 3, 
 you are either lying about being a serious FPS gamer or a console gamer (which is the same as being 
 a non-serious gamer  . *singe*) . For those of you who actually do have lives, Unreal is one of 
 the oldest pioneers of the 3D FPS genre. While games have moved on from the true Deathmatch type 
 of game, Unreal embraces it. Its unconventional (by modern standards) gameplay makes it a good 
 break from the FPS games of today.
  
  If you are a newer member of the PC gaming community and have never picked up these kinds of games 
 I will admit that you will initially be put off. For one, Unreal Tournament III has NO NOTABLE 
 single player. You will spend most of your time on multiplayer, and if you are like a lot of newbies 
 you will gravitate towards War (or the former Onslaught) . If there is one thing I hate about UT3, 
 it is Onslaught/War. Big mistake.
  
  First of all, vehicles. Vehicles are the stupidest gimmicks ever made. Now I have to admit, they 
 aren't as overpowered as 2k4, but they are still very overpowered. Any idiot in a Goliath can abuse 
 the splash damage of its huge cannon that will kill you in one hit. Many times, you will be happily 
 walking on your way towards a node of your choice, only to completely die. Your only explanation 
 is that you were fragged by someone with a Goliath. There is NO warning and you just fall down 
 dead. You always can tell which team is winning, just by counting the number of Goliaths employed 
 by a team. However, it should be noted that Epic did a very nice job with the other vehicles and 
 they aren't as abusable as before since their health have all been severely nerfed.
  
  Second of all, you have to spend a long time walking to each node of your choice before you get 
 some action. It gets boring, walking for two minutes just to get thirty seconds of action. If you 
 want to get some action right away, don't play War. They did include the hoverboard, which can 
 reduce the time between encounters, but you probably won't be using it much as a newer player and 
 probably would only use it slightly more as a seasoned player.
  
  Topping off why you shouldn't play War is the community. That's right, you get the blame for why 
 War sucks. You will never, ever, get into a game where it is not overly one sided. Vehicles play 
 a huge role in this, as most of the time the losing side is constantly getting barraged by Raptors 
 or Mantras who manage to get a few hits off. To win a game without abusing vehicles, good teamwork 
 is a must. However, as any pubscrub would tell you, the chat function is only for calling each 
 other expletives when they legitimately kill you. Occasionally, they will threaten to play each 
 other in a fair one on one duel, but no one ever keeps up there end of that deal. Now granted, 
 there will always be a couple of games where it isn't overly one sided and that there is actually 
 good competition, but it will take you a long time to find such games.
  
  It isn't impossible to have fun in War. Granted, you have to be extremely fast at grabbing a vehicle, 
 then go on one or two road rages before getting gunned down. As stupid as that sounds, it is actually 
 pretty satisfying chasing down a jumping player devoid of any defense until you finally hit him. 
 Granted, you will eventually start to feel like a jerk for ruining the game for your victim, but 
 at least your having fun right?
  
  After reading that, you might be kind of put off with a game, and you should be, War is a failboat, 
 sinking into the seas of FPS obscurity. However, you might have then just checked the score I gave 
 it, and realized I it a 8.5. Why? Because of death match. While I am sick of the gimmicks Epic 
 throws at us every sequel, I am very glad that they have done nothing to dilute the old school 
 game types. Included with the game is death match, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. Newer 
 players might initially be put off after getting completely destroyed, but after a while you grow 
 use to getting destroyed. Then, you start to get kills, and then you start to win. Unreal and its 
 cousins have always been the ultimate test of FPS skill. If you want to win, your reaction time 
 better be lightning fast, and your tracing better be spot on.
  
  But it isn't all the same. The graphics have seen a huge overhaul. Back then, Unreal had the most 
 realistic graphics of its time. Now, it is no Crysis but it still manages to keep on par. The graphics 
 are pretty scalable, but you still do need a decent video card. It has support for nVidia PhysX, 
 which you might want to look into.
  
  And don't forget single player. While I did say it had no NOTABLE single-player, it is worth noting 
 that campaign has been revamped and actually engaging (to be liberal) for a couple of hours. While 
 it still is just bot matches, the story definitely is better than the other Tournaments, but is 
 no Unreal or Unreal 2. You do unlock characters as you progress and the different paths dictate 
 which characters you unlock so you might want to give single player a try. Despite the story and 
 different paths however, it still cannot mask the fact that they are just bot-matches. Newer players 
 might want to check them out to get into the game but the bots eventually become predictable. Playing 
 against real players is nothing like playing against bots.
  
  So is it a good game? Barely playable single-player and added gimmicks? If you enjoy a adrenaline 
 filled ride, then pick it up. You will never go wrong with deathmatch or CTF in its pure, unadulterated 
 form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desdarien
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  UT3 is by far an amazing game just like it's predecessor UT2004. UT3 still gives that adrenaline 
 rush just like all of it's predecessors. If you are looking for an action and intense kind of game 
 this would be the way to go. Now for the let downs to this game. The new engine used to design 
 UT3 actually makes it so it is hard for many players to play. The graphics and everything yes are 
 outstanding but only if you can run the game. I personally have been using a newer laptop that 
 came out from Toshiba and my video card lagged and skipped every where. 
  
  UT3 is not a letdown though the game still brings that sick satisfaction that all of its predecessors 
 did when the rockets start flying. So if you enjoyed playing all of the other Unreal Tournament 
 games then this would definitely be a recommendation to anyone. 
  
  Now if you have never played an Unreal game before and want to base the franchise off of one game 
 then start by getting a feel for the game by playing Unreal Tournament 2004. So sit back relax 
 and game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halBU
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is about redemption. No, not that of the main protagonist from the singleplayer 
 story, Reaper, but about that of Epic Games' biggest title that is not called Gears of War. Unreal 
 Tournament 2003's intergalactic sports theme was quickly followed by Unreal Tournament 2004, an 
 attempt to right the ship and bring it back in line with the grittier combat and hardcore arenas 
 of the original Unreal Tournament which is regarded by many as the strongest in the series. UT2004 
 also introduced two vehicle gametypes to the series  Onslaught and Vehicle Capture the Flag, though 
 the latter was not supported with any pre-built levels and many of the levels for the former were 
 built before the gametype was finalized. It was publicly stated many times that UT3 would combine 
 the more grounded, deadly combat of UT with the fast-paced vehicle oriented gameplay from UT2004. 
 Like so many good things one might blend, everyone has a highly-personalized opinion on whether 
 or not it is a good combination. One might make a case that breaking the vehicle gametypes away 
 into an entirely different game would benefit both, but UT3 arguably does do a better job than 
 UT2004 of making it work.
  
  UT3 uses Gamespy technology to establish unique player identities and track stats, and thus requires 
 that you create an account. Once you've logged in, you are greeted with a remix of the familiar 
 Unreal Tournament menu music, clearly meant to evoke a wave of nostalgia and to underscore the 
 point that this game is a return to form. It is with great irony that the subsequent interaction 
 with the game is something of a splash of ice cold water to the face. To say that the user interface 
 is a disaster might be a bit harsh but it is arduous. It's clearly not designed for the keyboard 
 and mouse user or really even for anyone using a high resolution screen. The oversized buttons 
 and sliders are scattered from top to bottom of the screens and there's no consistency in their 
 placement from one page to the next. Tasks that ought to be a few clicks away are now buried several 
 layers deep and require careful study of the screen, sweeping movements of the mouse, and multiple 
 confirmations. Familiar options like changing your player name or crosshairs are missing.
  
  Likewise, the server browser lacks the simple ability to view the names of players in a highlighted 
 server The friends list will allow you to see if someone is in-game, but not where or what he or 
 she is playing. Joining a passworded server by IP (something common when games get advertised on 
 IRC) requires knowing and typing in a console command because no input box will pop up asking for 
 the password - it only tells you that one is required. Forget about pasting the IP in to the console, 
 because copying and pasting seems to be disabled. In between multiplayer levels, you have to click 
 on "chat" tab or all onscreen messages mysteriously disappear, and thanks to the fact that there's 
 an actual level loaded under the menu  not a playable one, mind you  your mouse cursor lags around 
 almost uncontrollably. It's a half-hearted effort at implementing such a crucial interface. If 
 it sounds like I'm nitpicking, I can assure you that I'm simply skimming the top of the list. I'm 
 actually quite loathe to be talking about the GUI when I should be discussing the game, but it 
 is a perfect parallel to how I feel when I'm fumbling about in attempt to use it I'd rather be 
 playing the game! Chances are that if you're looking for a familiar or favorite feature and can't 
 find it it ain't there.
  
  One notable thing that is there, however, is the character customization screen which includes 
 the ability to swap out things like armor, boots, helmets, and more. Sadly, there's no option to 
 choose a voice and custom voice packs look like they might be extremely difficult to implement. 
 Likewise, custom models look to be much more troublesome to set up and use than in past games. 
 For a series that has thrived on custom content, it's odd that making it easier to customize these 
 aspects wouldn't have been a priority.
  
  The patch does address some of these issues, namely some of the re-confirmations and redundant 
 buttons. It also adds some additional customization options and functionality to the server browser.
 
  
  Now the good news is that once you've "mastered" the menu, the next step is playing the game and 
 that good feeling returns. This is where the quest for redemption rings true. Flaws in gameplay 
 that plagued UT2003 and UT2004, namely hit scan dominance and game-breaking exaggerated dodge jumps, 
 have been replaced with solid, grounded, in-your-face combat. Post-patch the character models appear 
 to be much larger and you now view your opponent eye to eye instead of towering over him. The Enforcer 
 replaces the weak and inaccurate Assault Rifle and the Impact Hammer replaces the ShieldGun. The 
 removal of the ShieldGun means that the run and hide style of play is no longer effective. The 
 Impact Hammer still offers the ability to "jump" to ordinarily out of the way places and produces 
 some wonderfully satisfying on-your-screen carnage. The weapons have been tweaked to bring about 
 the aforementioned gameplay; chief among those is the reduction in the rate of fire and the amount 
 of push back inflicted by the ShockRifle primary fire. The FlakCannon has a slightly narrower primary 
 fire spread with a shorter effective range and a slightly higher arcing secondary. The Stinger 
 returns from Unreal, though in primary mode it is effectively a minigun with a slower push-back 
 secondary fire projectile. The Rocket Launcher, fast becoming both one of the most powerful and 
 complex of the weapon lineup reintroduces grenades as an alternate alt-fire function. The SniperRifle 
 is effective and satisfying to use, sporting a slightly slower rate of fire than that of the one 
 found in Unreal Tournament. The BioRifle now sticks to virtually any surface for a much longer 
 duration before exploding making it a much more viable weapon. For some reason, the Redeemer is 
 much less powerful, though the effect makes it seem as though the opposite were true. It's a superweapon, 
 for crying out loud. Was anyone really saying it was overpowered? At least you now stand a decent 
 chance of surviving if you can scramble away from the blast area with great expediency.
  
  Predictably, Deathmatch and Capture the Flag are the greatest beneficiaries of the decision to 
 go retro; Warfare, less so, since the removal of dodge-jumping makes it much more difficult to 
 stay out of the pathway of faster vehicles. Vehicle lovers, however, get the new hoverboard to 
 help ease the pain of spawning away from the carnage. It works well and is balanced by the fact 
 that a single point of damage taken sends you sprawling to the pavement. There will be no amateur 
 Tony Hawk expos breaking out in the middle of a firefight at least not for long. Well done, Epic.
 
  
  Despite all of the grand ideas of massive streaming levels and commander roles that were tossed 
 about during development, Warfare settles nicely into the role of a greatly improved Onslaught. 
 The introduction of the orb gives the hotshot loner a much needed adrenaline rush and it allows 
 the struggling team a chance at quickly recapturing the primary node, avoiding the hopeless peril 
 of trying to make a comeback that you found yourself in all too often in the original gametype. 
 Unconnected secondary nodes provide a nice risk/reward and a greater depth. Those "secondary objective" 
 nodes make it entirely possible to be pinned down to your primary node and still capture a much-needed 
 heavy vehicle or even damage the enemy core! Onslaught fans spent a lot of time developing and 
 testing custom maps and making that gametype their own so it's easy to see how the hardcore group 
 might be resistant. Anyone else turned off by the narrow focus of the original might appreciate 
 what Warfare brings to the table.
  
  The Warfare levels are also a step up from the UT2004 offerings. Not only are they beautifully 
 detailed, but each has a twist that makes it seem a little different from the next. Sure, maps 
 like Sinkhole are downright goofy in that throwing nearly two dozen players in a room full of Mantas 
 is not unlike sticking your hand in a blender, but others like Floodgate and Serenity succeed in 
 giving you a feeling of taking part in a massive war. It's altogether a much grander scale than 
 any of the original Onslaught maps, even if many of them aren't much larger. Downtown and Marketplace 
 bring a dose of urban warfare to UT3, while Dusk and the many versions of Torlan are more than 
 a nodding pass at classic Onslaught. Islander and Tank Wars seem to be the Warfare-Assault showcase 
 levels, Islander being especially fun in its Necris vehicle implementation. The level of detail 
 in these large maps is impressive and amazingly don't seem to hit your system much harder than 
 many of the Deathmatch levels.
  
  The six new Necris vehicles are all quite powerful with the exception of the Scavenger which was, 
 perhaps, inspired by SEGA's Super Monkey Ball. It's far too difficult to control to be of much 
 use although it is considerably faster than walking or hoverboarding to your destination. Its main 
 weapon seems to be little more than an irritant. The other new vehicles fare much better and, some 
 may argue, overpower their Axon counterparts. The Darkwalker holds a strong vantage point over 
 infantry and, with the right cover and a second gunner, can even dominate most of the non-flying 
 vehicles. The Fury also benefits from a bit of cover and with its sudden burst of speed can be 
 quite difficult to take down from the ground. The Nemesis sort of creates its own cover by being 
 able to raise up or crouch down. You do NOT want to get caught out in the open by someone manning 
 one of those because you will die very quickly. The Viper is also quite powerful against slower 
 moving vehicles and nodes; whatever it loses to the Manta in its limited horizontal control, it 
 more than makes up with its incredible vertical jumping abilities and its self-destruct mode. The 
 Viper, along with the Fury makes the Necris vehicles quite exciting for Vehicle Capture the Flag.
 
  
  UT3 marks the series' first official implementation of VCTF and Epic put together a half dozen 
 levels to show how they envision it being played. The ability to enter vehicles while carrying 
 the flag has been replaced with the necessity to grapple onto the rear of a piloted vehicle if 
 you're looking for a fast route back to your base. This does eliminate the favored "Manta run" 
 tactic employed by those that adopted the semi-official version in 2004, though it does allow for 
 one of the most thrilling, and perhaps cheesy, tactics in all of UT3  grappling onto a Raptor 
 or Fury! Not only do you get a great view, but you get to cling to your grapple with the knowledge 
 that a single point of damage inflicted by the enemy will likely send you tumbling to your death. 
 A successful capture of the flag while in the tow of a flying vehicle is quite a rush. VCTF seems 
 to have more than its fair share of gimmick maps and by that, I mean maps with a neutral large, 
 annoying vehicle in the center of the map and none more irritating than the Goliath found in Kargo. 
 Though the tank is restricted to a small area of a docked ship in the center of the map, it enjoys 
 a perfectly clear view of most routes and lots of cover. Corruption is a fine level that otherwise 
 seems bent on proving that the Necris vehicles are far superior to those of the Axon Corporation 
 - woe to ye who spawn on red! One gimmick map that grew on me was Sandstorm, a U-shaped level aptly 
 named for its occasional (what else?) sandstorms. Hearing those winds begin to whip just before 
 the storm reduces your visibility really gets your blood boiling. There's nothing like hearing 
 an incoming invasion long before you can see it to fill you with a sense of dread. Suspense is 
 not unlike the Facing Worlds of VCTF in that it seems incredibly simple at first, but offers some 
 hidden strategies. It's a good level for people new to the series to be introduced to the gametype, 
 no doubt one of the reasons they chose to include it in the beta demo.
  
  
  Six Capture the Flag levels seems a little meager for a series so rich in the flag capturing tradition. 
 Nonetheless, Epic has delivered what I believe to be six pretty solid levels, something that makes 
 the svelte map list a little easier to swallow. Fantastic remakes of Unreal Tournament classics 
 Hyrdo and Coret are sure to please, while Reflection and Strident fill the bill for those that 
 fear getting lost on the way to the enemy base. Strident is notable for what is perhaps the best 
 example of the right way to do a gimmick as each pass of an immense moving field results in the 
 recuperation of ten health points. I know lots of people will be irritated by the elevator mounted 
 flag stands, but it's a minor annoyance at best. Vertebrae, however, will have many people scratching 
 their heads  personally, I love it. It consists of not one, not two, but four distinct vertically 
 stacked levels on each side and a single fifth level common area. It's pretty thrilling to run 
 the flag, dropping frantically from level to level while your enemies remain just above your head 
 in hot pursuit, then battling for a lift to propel yourself back upwards towards your own base. 
 Those that demand serious CTF only will hate it, but it's easily one of the highlights for me. 
 Not to mention it sports an incredible amount of detail of the Necris persuasion and may be one 
 of the most stunning examples in the game. OmicronDawn is yet another reasonably solid, if a tad 
 bit confusing, CTF level that most will find to their liking.
  
  The Deathmatch levels are a mixed bag. All are expertly crafted, of course, and many could be considered 
 fine art in their own rights. Great care has been taken to ensure the play areas remain free from 
 clutter. The robot production line in CarbonFire, for instance, moves about the perimeter of the 
 level behind a thick sheet of glass. One of the problems with many of the maps is that they are 
 probably not suitable for competition due to size  Team Deathmatch is typically 4v4. Gimmicks 
 will also be a big source of debate as a few of the maps that otherwise might be suitable for either 
 1v1 or TDM contain traps. On the other hand, casual players have clamored for more traps similar 
 to those found in Unreal and Unreal Tournament, and on that count Epic delivers. Gateway can be 
 described as a gimmick map, featuring three entirely differently themed areas accessible only by 
 (rather ugly) teleporters. Deimos has been likened to a Habitrail hamster house and the comparison 
 is somewhat fitting. The level is an absolute undeniable masterpiece of editing work, but as a 
 deathmatch level I found it a bit confusing and the remote turret to be a little annoying. It's 
 unconventional and there are people that like that sort of level and arguably it has a place in 
 an Unreal Tournament game, it just doesn't deliver a high level of gameplay.
  
  In addition to matching the great multiplayer experience from its predecessors, Epic has stated 
 that one of its goals is to improve upon the typical Tournament singleplayer experience, which 
 has traditionally amounted to a progressive ladder or instant action against the artificial intelligence. 
 Quite a lot was made of this feature and it was one of the stated reasons that the game was pushed 
 back from its original speculated release date. On the surface, despite the rather well done smattering 
 of cutscenes, the campaign mode doesn't appear to be much more than a loosely strung together series 
 of botmatches. However, at specific points you are given a choice of battles which do affect your 
 path, though not ultimately. All paths eventually converge into one, meaning that you actually 
 have no real chance to alter the storyline and there is but a single ending. Though there are one-hundred-forty-eight 
 possible battles were it possible to lay all paths end-to-end, most people won't notice as the 
 differences between them aren't often significant. Accomplishing certain feats will allow you to 
 hold a card in reserve that can be used to give your team a little assistance. Considering that 
 several battles are decidedly stacked against you, it's a nice addition. Perhaps best of all, a 
 friend can join you in co-op mode and you'll probably be thankful should you choose to go this 
 route as your computer controlled team mates sometimes seem as though they are shilling against 
 you. My bot buddies had a keen propensity for retreating to our Leviathan and driving it into a 
 wall.
  
  Do your best to put aside the notion that Campaign mode is a singleplayer game. Rather, it is a 
 surprisingly decent tutorial with a forgettable storyline tacked on. When I say forgettable, what 
 I really mean is that I wish that I could forget it. It's the biggest bummer of an ending since 
 Unreal 2. Even accepting the fact that much of it may be intended to be tongue-in-cheek, and Othello's 
 sardonic comments seem to indicate that it may, do we really need to have a preposterous reason 
 to capture a flag? Sorry, I mean F. La. G or Field Lattice Generator. And am I actually supposed 
 to believe that my stealing a piece of cloth on a stick is somehow going to "deplete my enemies' 
 respawners"? Do I care? Not especially. This game is about a tournament after all or wait is 
 it about a war? I forget. I'm not going to fault Epic for trying because it's an easily ignorable 
 part of the game, but I hope that next time they stick closer to what the game is really about. 
 There are plenty of great stories to be told about arena combat without resorting to harebrained 
 acronyms and half-baked storylines.
  
  The Unreal Tournament series has always been known for great graphics and solid audio and UT3 mostly 
 does not disappoint. On a mid to high end enthusiast machine the game looks fantastic but any recent 
 PC, even a cheap one, can probably run it well with some compromises. An amazing amount of detail 
 has been packed in to each level and model, though I must point out that bloom does seem a bit 
 overdone in some levels, creating almost a dreamlike look that I'm not sure they were going for. 
 However, it's easily one of the best looking PC games out there right now. I've heard rumblings 
 about how there aren't as many diverse level locations in UT3, but one of the stated goals during 
 development was that they wanted a cohesive set of maps that looked like they belong in the same 
 universe and I think they've done an excellent job of that. Instead of filling the map list with 
 homogenous levels or tossing in the oddball "Okay, now Deathmatch on a viking boat!" levels, they've 
 built nearly fourty of them that have strong ties, but distinct features. The return of showering 
 gibs is quite welcome as is the violent roll and shake of the camera when you're killed. It's a 
 small touch that makes you smile a little even when it's you that is painting the scenery with 
 your own body parts. The decision to use dynamic music in game is pretty interesting as it's quite 
 cool to hear your good and bad actions punctuated by sound just like they do in film. It's very 
 subtle but effective. Most of the voices are pretty good, especially in the story mode, though 
 some of the female voices were a little unconvincing. These girls are supposed to be tough and 
 some of the aggressive taunts come off like someone reading a script in a studio. Throughout the 
 story, the f-word is tossed about pretty liberally, so it's quite odd to hear a taunt like "Eff 
 Yeah!" in the midst of a life and death struggle. Why pull punches? Weapon sounds are appropriately 
 chunky and explosions go boom.
  
  Now I'm about to spoil the ending of the singleplayer campaign for those of you that haven't already 
 seen it because I want to use it to make a point. After the final battle with Akasha, our hero 
 Reaper, having delivered on his promise for redemption, finds himself surrounded by Necris, charges 
 his Rocket Launcher, and. well it just ends. It's a remarkable parallel for the game. Epic, as 
 promised, delivers a fantastic multiplayer gameplay experience reminiscent of Unreal Tournament 
 but pulls up short of making it enjoyable to get there. I expect great gameplay from an Epic game, 
 but I also expect it to be easy to customize. It's a tradition that they have made almost a trademark 
 over the years  great game, great support, and play it your way. Indeed the support processes 
 have already started and patch one, after four betas, has just been released. It does address a 
 number of popular complaints and restore a few missing features, but there's so much more to go. 
 The weak multiplayer interface is simply shocking. Not only does that part of the game not live 
 up to the best that the industry has to offer, but it doesn't even live up to past Tournaments. 
 UT, released in 1999, was one of the first games to include an in-game IRC client and a community 
 news page, both quite innovative for their time. Where are the innovations in this area in 2007? 
 Yeah, half the people that bought the previous games never went online and all, but what about 
 the other fifty percent?
  
  From a pure gameplay perspective, UT3 delivers in a big way. Consider it redeemed. However, it's 
 currently mired down in a boatload of functionality issues. With a lot of patching and an overhaul 
 of the front end, you could easily give it five to ten more points in an overall score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leo_T_C_K
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  I was very sceptical towards UT3, but in the end I bought it because due to its low price even 
 at relative beginning of 2008.. I first couldn't believe that Kralls are Krall when they first introduced 
 in the trailer back in 2007 when game name was changed to UT3, change from UT2007. But I found 
 out later they are not that different to original Kralls and are more closely related to the earlier 
 Krall developement stages of Unreal. During the transition, there were added some new things and 
 many were removed, like the mode called Conquest and Canister Gun, having multiple ammo-types. 
 And the graphics were enhanced later with the post processing effects (which some of them are imo 
 crappy) and maps are less colourful and it seems they have got a lot of graphic inspiration from 
 GoW that way, but I like the darker and grey style much better than UT2004 cartoony like behaviour, 
 that's also one of the things that pissed me of the game, the new characters seemed like from some 
 3D cartoon movie for kids (just look at the Skaarj face of original UT2004 box and don't tell me 
 it doesn't remind you any of these 3D cartoons) and with low quality itself. UT3 is exact opposite 
 to UT2004 and as that, it really rocks.
  
  People complain about singleplayer, but it isn't supposed to be taken seriously and all and I like 
 it better than tournament stories. I have not played the console UTs or Championships, so I cannot 
 compare it with UChampionship2 story, but the UChampionhip 2 story does not attract me at all, 
 I have seen few videos and I don't really like the media like conversations with Skaarjs etc, but 
 be it. It could have been better as singleplayer campaign (even better than first UT, which I won't 
 forget for breaking some things in the original storyline, although the stories of each person 
 of the tournament were interesting to read) , but I probably enjoyed it most of the tournament singleplayers, 
 because you're slowly getting into the game mechanics that way and discover things thoroughly. 
 Yes the story is very cliched, but it's not about it, even if cutscenes are shown often and briefings 
 and the map where you choose your next path, not too different from some RTS games. No it's not 
 singleplayer at all, again it is deathmatch and game modes arranged, but this time into this singleplayer 
 campaign and there is even coop, which was planned originally even for UT2. In singleplayer you 
 assume role of main character and play with him and his team through game, to avenge destruction 
 if his colony by Krall and Necris. Sometimes there are found rather parody like remarks during 
 the game, it's there rather intentionally and not to take the explanation of capture the flag too 
 seriously, it didn't really insult me at all, I had no problem with it.
  Basically coop is the same, although the characters are now played by real players, just like Daikatana 
 coop where the game makes you that character forcibly in coop.
  
  Both coop and single ends in a rather cliffhanger, I am curious if they will continue the story 
 in the planned expansion or not, it would be good if they finished it. But the question is how 
 the new enemy in the end of game will end in that storyline, because the character appears in Unreal 
 Championship 2 and is alive, or will they break that? Well I wouldn't be surprised, because Unreal 
 series storyline is riddled with holes.
  But the Sp gameplay isn't boring (without the mutators and stuff) and the game has right pace and 
 you don't feel like some unrealistic player spending most of time in the air like in ut2004.
  Also during the singleplayer you sometimes achieve bonus cards which you can use for your advantage, 
 some of them limit the other team members, others do other things and you can only use one per 
 match, it really helps if there is some tough map ahead of you.
  
  OK we've got SP covered, let's talk about rest of stuff, there is of course instant action as usual 
 where you can confgure things and add mutators, though the UI (according to Epic itself, it's "fscked" 
 and just quick replacement) is rather consolised and is kinda confusing to use at first, plus the 
 game has gamespy login system and the server browser is not that good as it used to be, but the 
 game has new feature of adding your friends or partners and chatting with them, or to follow them 
 to the game they play or invite them. Also, when you are in game and you are downloading map, the 
 GUI stays active and you can chat with players who are already in game, or are downloading with 
 you so you don't get bored, just right in console you see their chat and even you can hear sounds, 
 even if you are still connecting. That's really nice and it is advantage, so in the end it isn't 
 that bad as it is said to be, although the GUI has flaws, also for first time in series there is 
 in built mapvote system I believe, without need of custom mapvote mutator.
  There are also other online bugs, which strangely do not appear at every servers for some reason.... there 
 is this famous demoguy bug, when the game sometimes forces you to use the player character from 
 demo.
  Oh and the characters are highly customizable as well and most of them are locked in the game, 
 you unlock them by winning the SP campaign plus knowing the codes, or just by editing INI. The 
 bots menu is kinda flawed though and many players are disapointed they can't set the bots ingame 
 as in previous games, though this can be fixed through patches as well and the demoguy bug is mostly 
 problem of wrongly configured servers it seems too, or using older versions.
  
  The gore is simply awesome in this game, impact hammer works like it should and if you rip someone 
 apart, the blood mark stays on your screen (face) for while.
  Compared to UT2004, it's really a brutal game and it also shows in fun. So no.. it's not for the 
 ut2004 kiddies who like lego stuff everywhere and weird monsters in invasion mods and lots of colors.
 
  
  All weapons just feel right, the only weapon which I first had problem with (the aiming is a little 
 harder than in previous games) was sniperrifle, but even with that I found use. And the Rocketlauncher 
 ammo switching is a little bit more compklicated too, they should have just used the same system 
 found in first games (in later games since UT2003 the grenade is removed, although firstly it was 
 meant to stay, except for utclassic mutator in ut2004) with primary fire launching rockets and 
 secondary launching grenades, they have made it a little bit complicated by need of hitting altfire 
 while holding primary (when hit once the disply shows rockets in circle, when hit twice, the launcher 
 launches grenades) .
  All the weapons feel updated enough and make more sense than its older counterparts, although could 
 still be better in some senses. LinkGun feels that it could be more realistic next time, it has 
 still kinda plastic look, as the look (except that more particles were removed) is same as in the 
 early ut2007 videos.
  
  As for the stock gametypes, there is Deathmatch, Team DM, Duel, Coop, Capture the Flag, Vehicle 
 Capture the Flag (with vehicles and hoverboards, you can't enter vehicle when carrying flag, only 
 using your personal hoverboard to move faster across map, you can grab onto other vehicles with 
 your grappling beam like thing which worky only with hoverboard, although since patch 1.3, the 
 latest one, it is not possible to grab onto flying vehicles which is kinda sad, it was fun to fly 
 in the air, but probably due to balance, they decided to cut that off, not to mention vehicles 
 feel better than UT2004 ones and more real, plus there is new set of vehicles belonging to the 
 Necris race, which are kinda controversial to use sometimes, but still are fun) and the last gametype 
 is Warfare, a modified version of Onslaught with some twists and balances, for example each team 
 can carry orb which instantly takes powernode under your control, also if you are defending node 
 (carrying orb while defending makes node invulnerable unles you are killed) , your screen gives 
 your warning if there is incoming player with orb, you should eliminate him at all costs and guard 
 the orb until it vanishes, or destroy it immediately (but by doing so you are sacrificed, so you 
 must die) .
  
  That's all folks, despite some obvious flaws ths game plays probably best of the new UTs and perhaps 
 even better than old UT. And the music... the game uses dynamic music for first time in UT and more 
 towards electronica, but it is a music that keeps pace in you and makes you enjoy game even more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zo0nerr
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 9.5 / 10
  Sound - 8.0 / 10
  Gameplay - 9.0 / 10
  Tilt - 10 / 10
  
  well... Like i'd say, very well made sequel (one of the best of 21 century) graphics that make 
 you crazy on your screen and the fastest FPS experience that you can have on this kind of graphics. 
 Everything just beautiful!
  
  I've played every version of unreal games made, and I think that none of it's sequels would be 
 better than the first Unreal Tournament, but UT 3 really got me stuck on the screen for hours.
 
  
  Some people doesn't liked this game. Most of them prefer the others previous versions of UT because 
 of interface and others characteristics that makes easier the player's life on multiplayer matches.
 
  
  Yes, every game has flaws...
  
  This game should deserve an 9/10. Anyway... it works for me, I like playin this as much as UT. 
 UT 3 Rocks.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3R0B4NG
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  For Starters UT3 isn't the third Unreal Tournament game it is in fact Nr. 4 (UT, UT2k3, UT2k4, 
 UT3)
  It is called UT3 because of the Unreal Engine 3 and that is where the pain begins.
  
  Graphically the Unreal 3 enige is one of the best if you have a High End Machine. So i have 
 one that is a little older.
  UT2004 runs PERFECT on my PC (you remember that voice saying "Holy Sh1t" when you put everything 
 at Highest? That kind of perfect.)
  
  So when i now watch at UT3 the options are so ... cheap. 3 bars i can move and thats about it.
 
  Well, if i set them at the lowest possible Setting and the native resolution of my TFT i still 
 have VERY Low FPS, not even much more as at middle or maximum Settings (like 10fps diffrence) .
 
  
  In addition to that the lowest setting looks just horrible.
  UT2004 when it first came out wasnt much diffrent, i had to set many settings to low and middle 
 to be able to play but it still looked NICE. UT3 looks on lowest worse than UT2004 on lowest and 
 runs worse than UT2004 on highest, therefore the Unreal 3 engine is just dissapointing. It may 
 look good if you have a more High End PC but with something like a 2.8GHz Dual Core and ATI HD3870 
 you will not have much fun.
  
  
  OK i would have to buy a new machine for that game.
  But like i said the unreal 3 engine is where the Pain STARTS not where it Ends.
  
  Lets just 
 say...
  in UT2004 i could click on a Link of a Clanmate which had a script installed, so that i could see 
 in his Away-Message on which Server he was playing. ONE CLICK on that Link and UT2004 connected 
 to that Server and i was in the Game a few seconds later. If it wasn't a Link i could just Copy&Paste 
 the IP into the console of the Game.
  
  Now UT3... well there is no Linkfunction, Copy&Paste does not work, we are back to writing down 
 the IP onto a yellow piece of paper to type it in again when the game finally booted up...
  
  
  So in the end UT3 is a step back from UT2004 in many ways.
  
  Even the Gameplay itself 
 is slower, why the hell did they remove the double dodge jump? UT2004 was all about the fast moving 
 and trickjumps, when your low on Health and somebody is firing at you at half a mile away you had 
 at least had a CHANCE to avoid him by just jumping away to find some health... now you are dead 
 if that guy is even able to aim just a little.
  
  I dont want to complain about small gameplay changes like this but for me its just another step 
 back.
  
  
  
  Summary:
  Only the Graphics improoved, everything else is worse and if you want to have something from that 
 neat Unreal 3 engine you gonna have to buy a new machine because on your UT2k4 rig it is just gonna 
 suck.
  
  btw. my Clan is still playing the vCTF mod in UT2004 because most of them think like i do about 
 UT3.
  
  
  
  .... another little adition to that, take a look at the Gears of War 2 Forums of EPIC. The guys 
 over there are just as dissopointed on the Multiplayer part of Gears 2 as i am with UT3.
  
  only words that come to mind are:
  
  EPIC FAIL
  
  :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  There are some popular games which make franchises which include almost popular sequels. After 
 so many years, this franchise has not lost its beauty. Let me present you Unreal Tournament 3.
 
  
  The story is common: internet play is the deeper substance of the series. Its outstanding gameplay 
 for once more is the big weapon of Unreal Tournament 3. The Warfare-strategic mode offers the chance 
 to play in a more tactical shooter, the weapons of the game still remain unique and powerfull, 
 while the maps are well-constructed with a very good design. These are the features which make 
 UT3 completely unique and challenging.
  
  In addition to all these, the graphics of the game are outstanding, while the lower PC systems 
 can track them out without serious problems, except from some bugs and glitches which exist in 
 the game. But that's why the patches were created. Unfortunately, the menus interfaces are not 
 very friendly, confusing newer players of the series. But it is not enough to keep the game far 
 away from top positions.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 continues the popular franchise with great success. And it is this game which 
 brings the difference between the best and the rest, talking about FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Bubblehead
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game, it has absolutely stunning graphics (which can be a pain on the PC if 
 you have a low spec system!) , it has immersive gameplay in which you can find yourself playing 
 it for hours on end, despite it having the same gameplay as the all of the UT's before it. It is 
 a really good shooter, and also has some tactical gameplay, however it is in a nutshell the same 
 as UT2004. The 'Warfare' mode is exactly the same as the 'Onslaught' mode with the exception of 
 nodes which are a good addition as it makes the game slightly more tactical and can really turn 
 a match around. The Axon Vehicles are also very good, with an exception of a few. The scorpion 
 has changed for the better with forward mounted blades and a kamikaze function, the raptor hasnt 
 changed at all, but th enew graphics make it look very nice! The Goliath (tank) hasn't changed 
 whatsoever, and the Manta also hasn't changed. I was a bit disapointted by the Cicada, and found 
 it very weak and imbalanced personally (I dunno if I just sucked using it!) . The Necris vehicles 
 are also very hit and miss, the Darkwalker and the Viper are amazing! They both provide very unique 
 looks on vehicles! The Scavenger is also very interesting and can be fun to play with. I was a 
 bit disapointted with the Fury, the Necris Air Vehicle, as it only had a single primary fire, which 
 was short ranged and very weak! The Nightshade I found was a bit pointless in combat, though the 
 mines are very fun to play with, however you only have a small amount (I think one of each) . The 
 Nemesis tank was also nothing special, I just think of it as a moving turret as opposed to it being 
 a 'tank'. 
  Aside from the Vehicles, the weapons are perfect. There are no cooler weapons than those found 
 in UT3. All of them move and operate as if they could actually work, and all of them have cool 
 secondary functions which would make them more potent indifferent suitations. All of the weapons 
 are also perfectly balanced, with the exception of the special weapon Redeemer (Nuke) . There are 
 plenty of maps, however no where near as many as there were to offer on UT2004. There is a strong 
 community that is dedicated to making maps that make up for this because of the 'Unreal Editor' 
 that is supplied on the disc. 
  Another difference is that there is a shortage of modes. On UT2004 you had Bombing Run, Double 
 Domination, Mutant, Invasion (which I particularly liked) none of which is found on UT3.
  One particular feature I thought was a very nice function was that the Armour, and how instead 
 of picking up a 'Power-up' You picked up little bits of armour that you could wear and protect 
 a certain part of your body from damage, or grant an added effect- like the Jump Boots, Helmet 
 or Shield Belt. 
  Another Feature that I thought was good was the 'Character Customisation' feature where you could 
 give your character some really cool looking armour! The Hoverboard was also really cool, and fun 
 to do jumps and stunts with it, while trying to avoid enemy fire!
  
  Despite my nit picking of it being very similar to UT2004, I really enjoy (ed) this game and can 
 play it for hours! It doesn't even particularly matter that this game is so close to UT2004, because 
 UT2004 was so good! The game is so addictive, and with the online multiplayer, varying difficulties, 
 and really exciting weapons and vehicles this is a must for FPS gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  FPS games have been one of the most evolving genres in the recent years. With so many being released, 
 developers are experimenting with new ideas with mixed results. But Epic Games has managed to deliver 
 a solid FPS by actually going back in time and giving UT3 an old-school style feel that feels fresh. 
 With so many super realistic shooters out there, people are forgetting that unrealistic shooters 
 can be just as fun, if not funner, and that's what Unreal Tournament 3 does. The single player 
 can be considered the worst part of the game. Despite the solid cutscenes, there isn't much of 
 a story involved and is really just a bunch of bot matches with increasing difficulty. But when 
 you look past the single player, the instant action and multiplayer is what really makes this game 
 great. Most the modes and weapons are standard issue, but the fast-paced feel really keeps this 
 game alive. Besides the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and CTF, there's a new vehicle CTF 
 with larger maps and vehicles. Vehicle CTF can be fun for a while, but after time, it gets annoying 
 when you travel across the entire map to end getting killed in 5 seconds. The other new mode is 
 called Warfare. Warfare is basically a variation on conquest. Instead of capturing control points, 
 you must destroy power nodes to link a power line to the enemy's main generator to destroy it. 
 And while this mode can be fun for a while, it suffers from the same problems that Vehicle CTF 
 has. In technical terms, UT3 looks great. As you might expect, it's powered by the Unreal Engine 
 3 which gives the game a gritty look to it combined with an excellent framerate. I'm running the 
 game on a Dell XPS 410 with an Intel Core Duo processor and an Nvidia GeForce 8600 GT graphics 
 card and makes the game run perfectly. The framerate is smooth and the muzzle flashes on the guns 
 look great. But even if you don't have a top-of-the-line machine, you can still run UT3 perfectly. 
 To summarize it, UT3 is a great game that just about any FPS fan will enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is the latest installment of the popular shooter series. While the game features 
 absolutely stunning graphics it is not the best Unreal game available.
  
  Gameplay is what fans have come to expect from the games: intense and furious fast-paced shooter 
 action that can be played in a variety of modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the 
 flag (CTF) . Unreal 3 features a couple of new modes but they are nothing spectacular; one of the 
 two new modes is vehicle CTF which is self-explanatory, and the other "new" mode is duel which 
 pits two players one-on-one against each other. The duel mode is nothing because chances are you 
 bought Unreal 3 for the purpose of inflicting pain and death to multiple opponents. The vehicle 
 CTF seems like a revolutionary idea but again-it is nothing spectacular. Honestly, things can become 
 a little old in this mode. And previous modes like bombing run and double domination from Unreal 
 2004 were omitted, and these two new modes do not fill that gap. Fortunately, standard modes like 
 deathmatch and team deathmatch are still there. To make matters worse, there seems to be an unusually 
 unhealthy dearth of maps to choose from. Each mode has its own collection of maps such as for special 
 modes like the vehicle CTF, but most of the time the modes overlap available maps. And if you thought 
 things could not get any worse I am sorry to say that they do. It seemed previous games had tons 
 of alterable options and this was especially so in UT04, but here there are hardly any, and the 
 ones alterable have a strict limit. For example the bot cap only goes up to fifteen and the frag 
 limit does not exceed one hundred points. And again, UT04 allowed up to 999 frags and up to thirty-two 
 bots could be used on any given map. Fortunately mutators make a return with options like instagib 
 and big head mode. And another problem that involves the mutators: for me I like to frag a ton 
 of people, and with the cap of only one hundred it really limits my enjoyment. And anyone who has 
 played an instagib match on any Unreal game will know what I mean because kills rack up very quickly. 
 Aside from the disappointing modes, etc., there is plenty of fun to be had in this game. Like its 
 predecessors it involves extremely fast and furious shooter action whether you are on foot or in 
 a vehicle. And all vehicles feature several very cool modes of attacking and there is almost certainly 
 something there that the player will love. The vehicles are possibly the best gameplay aspect simply 
 because they are not only fun to use, but if you use them well you can score many kills. Some of 
 them feature cloaking devices, self destruct/eject pilot functions, mine laying, etc. And if you 
 are mean enough you will have a load of fun just barreling around levels running people over. And 
 speaking of vehicles, a new form of travel is available to all players during certain modes: a 
 personal hoverboard. Each player has this cool hovering surfboard which becomes very useful when 
 running back to base with the opposing team's flag. This hoverboard allows for some cool tricks 
 like hopping over obstacles, ramping off of inclines, and even using an energy rapple to hitch 
 a ride on passing friendly vehicles. While the hoverboard is the newest way to get around there 
 is a new defensive ability that fits the game well: the ability to play dead. Yes, with the press 
 of a button you can drop to the floor and just lie there, pretending to be dead. Unfortunately, 
 if an enemy sees you do it you will be a sitting duck. This new mechanic is useful in some situations. 
 While this is not the most revolutionary mechanic ever made it still is undeniably fun and often 
 useful. The game is ultimately very fun, but due to the removal of numerous game modes and the 
 strictly limiting options the game feels stripped.
  
  Graphics here are without a doubt the most amazing aspect of this game. Everything about them is 
 beautiful, well-rendered, and utterly extraordinary. The game's environments are the jewel of the 
 graphics as they are rendered extremely well near or far. They range from lush, jungle-buried ruins 
 to downtown city streets. The maps are mostly multi-staged so players can take the high road if 
 they like to snipe or the low road for the up-close-and-personal work. Sometimes the levels are 
 so gorgeous it seems better to run around drinking everything in than it is to actually fight on 
 them. And when these levels are coupled with vehicles things get even better. The vehicles come 
 in many shapes and sizes, some only as large as a motorcycle while others are as tall as office 
 buildings. The one vehicle called a necris walker, which resembles something out of an H. G. Wells 
 novel, is the biggest and "baddest" one of them all. It not only looks extremely intimidating but 
 also it features two nasty red hot beams of energized death that can mow down players and machines 
 alike. The walker is the end-all solution to players who like to just blast everything in their 
 path, but there are other alternatives to this method. Another vehicle can cloak and lay various 
 sorts of traps for enemy players or beneficial shield zones for allies. So really whatever your 
 preference is when it comes to vehicles there will usually be at least one attractive option. Gun 
 models in the game have not only been given a new look, but also they look plain stunning. Each 
 weapon looks simply amazing, but what really stands out with them is their firing modes. Each gun 
 features a primary firing mode and an alternative mode, each very impressive. Personally, the one 
 that I like most is the link gun's alt mode which is this long beam of pure energy that can disintegrate. 
 The player models are also very well done because often the competitors are tough, battle-worn 
 men and women who are scarred and tough. They really do look like they have seen quite a bit of 
 combat. Graphics most certainly take the prize home thanks to some very original level work and 
 the amazing weapons.
  
  Unreal Tournament has always been a fast and furious game. And frankly, with poor sound it could 
 kill this kind of game because with that level of action and intensity it would need some serious 
 sound work. Fortunately, sound here comes in a close second to graphics because they are wonderfully 
 done. Many know that when playing Unreal the player who scores a kill needs to rub it to his opponent 
 or call it out to his friends, so the fun taunt feature is there. The taunts are funny most of 
 the time, and it adds even more to the sweetness of fragging someone. It is very appropriate for 
 this kind of game. And not only can the player just taunt; he can also issue orders to teammates, 
 etc. AI players generally will let you know about an approaching enemy vehicle and even what region 
 of the level it is within. They even tell you when that particular vehicle is destroyed. And like 
 in all Unreal games there is an announcer present so you know how many kills you have left, how 
 much time is left on the present match, etc. The music that was added has an appropriately fast 
 and sometimes hard beat to it to match the game. Most previous Unreal installments featured the 
 same type of tunes and they fit the overall atmosphere very well. The gun sounds in the game are 
 perfect. Never has it felt so satisfying to listen to rockets annihilate another player or a redeemer 
 missile explode. And should you really want to create a true Unreal environment you should crank 
 up the bass on your machine and let loose a barrage of rockets. Depending on the volume it will 
 sound either like thunder or like a ton of tanks are taking a shortcut through your house. Sound 
 absolutely rocks.
  
  Ultimately Unreal Tournament 3 provides a fun and bloody experience, but I cannot help but feel 
 like the game took a big step down from Unreal Tournament 2004. As a weathered Unreal veteran I 
 can honestly say that I am disappointed. And this is due to the removal of numerous previous modes 
 (assault, last man standing) , the lack of alterable options (the frag limit is the most crippling) , 
 and the dearth of maps. To make a really long story short, these are my reasons for why I do not 
 like the game as much as previous ones. All in all Unreal 3 is a fun game worthy of your PC collection, 
 but maybe not so much the Unreal series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jalexbrown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament games have been one of the staples of online FPS gaming. Their fast-paced, arena 
 gameplay makes for a great online experience. The multiple modes on online play adds enough variety 
 that you won't get bored with the standard deathmatch games. Unreal Tournament 3 doesn't take a 
 whole lot of risks. It does pretty much what the series has always done... and it does it damn well.
 
  
  Unreal Tournament veterans won't have any problems jumping into the new installment. It plays very 
 similar to previous installments, albeit a few mode changes and additions. The modes included in 
 Unreal Tournament 3 are deathmatch , team deathmatch, capture the flag, vehicle capture the flag 
 (same as capture the flag but with bigger maps that encourage the use of vehicles) , warfare (team-based 
 gameplay; take control of nodes scattered around the map to destroy the opposing team's main node) , 
 and duel (a one-on-one match with other plays simply acting as spectators) . The mode that I have 
 the biggest gripe over is the warfare mode. Perhaps it's simply because I suck at online FPS games, 
 but it's extremely hectic and can get overly complex at times. Nevertheless, the online experience 
 is the meat of the game, and if you really want to get your money's worth you'd do good to play 
 it online.
  
  The game's campaign mode (as always) only serves to train you for online play. Odds are good that 
 most Unreal Tournament veterans will skip the campaign mode altogether, which would be a bit of 
 a shame. Instead of being a simple tournament, the campaign mode now has a story about a war going 
 on that you're caught up in the middle of. Throughout the course of the campaign mode there are 
 branches where you can start doing missions in the order that you want to do them in. Really, though, 
 once you look past the superficial story you're still playing the same campaign you played before. 
 Even at that, the direction they took the campaign drastically improves the presentation of it 
 if nothing else. The other cool addition to the campaign mode is that you'll get cards as you play 
 through the campaign. These cards will allow you to do certain things (lower enemy count by two, 
 for example) on missions of your choice. This is an interesting way to give the player a handicap 
 if there's a mission they just can't get beyond. The interesting thing about the campaign mode 
 is that you now play it online with other people, which is a pretty awesome addition if you and 
 a buddy want to team up on those bots.
  
  Visually Unreal Tournament 3 is a treat. Even on mid-range machines the game will run at a solid 
 45-50FPS on medium detail, and medium detail looks good. The game has a gritty, war-torn look to 
 it as opposed to the more metallic, arena look of previous games. Even where there were ten or 
 more characters on screen with bullets flying every which way, the framerate never dropped.
  
  The audio for Unreal Tournament 3 is pretty much what it's been in the past. The interesting 
 thing about this type of game is how it seems they all use the same sound bytes. The game does 
 lack much in the way of ambient sound, but it doesn't matter because you'd never have the time 
 to enjoy it if it was present. You'd be too busy shooting.
  
  Really I don't know what bad thing I can say about Unreal Tournament 3. It's everything I expected 
 it would be. I never felt disappointed with any aspect of the game (except the fact that I'm no 
 good at it online) . Still, I can't really quite say it's perfect either. There's no flaws per se, 
 but the game does have a kind of "been there, done that" feel to it. The few risks that Epic made 
 paid off, but not in a big enough of a way that I really felt like it was a new game. More like 
 a fresh coat of paint on an old game. Still, for $20 (for the PC version) there's no reason not 
 to buy it if you're a fan of the FPS genre, even if you (like me) are no good at playing them online. 
 It doesn't matter, because you'll have a damn good time losing.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  
  Visuals: 9.5
  
  Audio: 8.5
  
  Fun Factor: 10.0
  
  Overall: 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: parrot_of_adun
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  With this one, Epic most certainly did fail us.
  
  Really, the only thing they can claim to have improved is the graphics.
  
  The Gameplay still 
 retains some of the fun from it's predecessors, and this is really the only reason I don't give 
 it a 1.0. It's still a fast paced, action packed experience, and you still just run around killing 
 everyone, with the exception of a returning gametype from UT'04 (albeit modified for the worse) .
 
  
  Core gameplay aside, it seems Epic has sold out. Every game since UC2 would suggest that they are 
 no longer interested in the quality of a game, but rather the revenue they might acquire. EVERY 
 time they just make a crowd pleaser with no real substance, most successful of which would be Gears 
 of War.
  While on it's own Gears is a decent game, taking what made it successful (super grim, extreme, 
 brutal, makes children feel like cool grownups) , and applying it to the unreal series is the biggest 
 mistake they could ever have made (short of a criminal act) .
  
  The Tournament series is now a joke. It used to be about nothing but a bloodsport that you participate 
 in, that was it, and it worked wonderfully.
  Now however, there is a story involved. A story about tournament players... NOT PARTICIPATING IN 
 A TOURNAMENT. It's simply about some guy with an uncanny resemblance to GoW's "Marcus Fenix", who's 
 trying to exact revenge on some new species that seems like a Gow-ish, more "XTREME" version of 
 the Skaarj from the previous games. These creatures apparently are a warrior race used by a corporation 
 the wipe out entire planets. Now why would a corporation want a bunch of animals to eat a planet's 
 populace? To pave the way for absurd, super-evil zombies (the new, more extreme necris) to make 
 tentacle filled, black goo covered landscapes where people once lived, the purpose for which has 
 thus far eluded me.
  
  The singleplayer has you "fighting a war" against the necris. And by fighting a war, I mean playing 
 vehicle CTF and Warzone with them (while riding a hoverboard nonetheless) . It would seem that respawn 
 technology has reached the battlefield now. And instead of just fighting in the tournament, you 
 fight a squad of 3 people to "wear out their respawner", so that you can just kill them, oh but 
 for some reason you're still using impractical tournament weapons (unlike real battle weapons, 
 like in Unreal 2: the awakening) .
  
  To make things stranger, they think up reasons for you to play things like CTF and warzone with 
 your enemy. According to them, in CTF, you attempt to take their "field lattice generators" or 
 FLaGs, which will leave their respawner unpowered, allowing them to die. And in warzone, you just 
 destroy the damn thing. BUT you have to link a bunch of nodes to power down their shielding. Nevermind 
 the likely absent reasoning as to why both your respawners are fatally linked...
  
  Then theres multiplayer. This part is definitely the highlight of the game; at least you don't 
 have cole.. uh, I mean Othello (former classic character) shouting "WOO!" at you the whole time.
 
  Fotunately, Epic barely managed to keep the gameplay fast and fun, so MP isn't a complete letdown 
 (unlike the game as a whole) .
  Even then, There is a slim pick for maps, none of which are actually any good, even the remake 
 of Deck16 is terrible. And MOST of the characters are now either gone, or changed for the worse. 
 Take Malcom for example, he was a genetically engineered super soldier that was put into THE TOURNAMENT. 
 But now he's some highly unlikable wartime commander that won't stop spouting crap that just perpetuates 
 racial sterotypes.
  
  So overall, to me, the Unreal franchise is dead. Don't waste your time with this, especially if 
 you're a UT veteran, just stick with '04. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  so as a fan of the last games of UNREAL i have to say that this game is the best so far..
  
  the gameplay is not much of a change, its like the last games but its steal great, really fun.. 
 the weapons are great, better than the last games weapons
  
  the graphics is the best thing in unreal 3.. looks awesome every thing in graphics and visual is 
 amazing and also the sounds are just great
  
  theres no story mod (after all its a tournament) , and what can i say more.. ah... the maps.. the 
 maps in unreal 3 looks great and big, lots of room to shoot and more..
  
  every unreal fan will love this great game, not only because of the great graphics.. also becuase 
 of the great gameplay.. the sounds and maps
  
  if you see this game in store.. buy it.. its really worth it i have it and i love it
  
  so 
 buy it fast UNREAL 3 rocks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnlyw
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  It just didn't feel like a very good game. Sure the ingredients were the same but I expected something 
 better but it just didn't deliever. Same old formula without assault and trys to tell a story in 
 campaign mode which kind of falls flat. They could have added assualt into the mix which would 
 have been better. It trys to hard in delivering and succeeds visually which were fantastic both 
 the FMV and the game environment but that's not the only thing to make a great game. I have bought 
 the game for less than a week and I have already stopped playing as the online community is very 
 weak and I have completed the single player within 3 days. Not to mention the continuously buggy 
 problems hindering the game (Such as unable to save ur game progress without searching for solutions 
 on forums) .
  For me, it really was very disappointing to see a great game being so .... common. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lee_Stricklin
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was hyped up and it promised to be as good as the original Unreal Tournament and even 
 have a good singleplayer, but it seems that Epic was more focused on the graphics (not even the 
 art-direction, just the graphics) and as a result we got an incomplete game that looks like a straight 
 rip off of Mortal Kombat and Gears of War. The overall feel of the game actually isn't bad, in 
 some areas it even feels better than the almost decade old classic it was supposed to surpass, 
 the weapons are perfectly balanced (well except for the over-powered enforcer you start with) and 
 the game is fun for a little bit, but you'll quickly start to notice things lacking. There are 
 hardly ANY maps for CTF and Warfare gametypes and the rest of the gametypes are basically just 
 different types of deathmatch. To add even more to the list of problems UT3 weapons do NOT aim 
 perfectly at the crosshair and there is NO center weapon option which means unless you hide your 
 weapon your stuck compensating your shots left or right. There are also more annoyances as well 
 like: dodging can't be disabled unless you tweak a file, double jumping (we've been complaining 
 since 2K3/Championship) , THERE IS LESS ONLINE TRAFFIC IN THIS GAME THAN THERE IS IN THE ORIGINAL, 
 the players weigh like a gazillion pounds and can't jump high, and various other things. Overall 
 this game was a total letdown and your better off finding a copy of the original UT or downloading 
 Nexuiz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EstebanPiecrust
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  How easily deceptive games can be today. On the face of it, Unreal Tournament 3 is a fast paced, 
 beautifully rendered first person shooter and to people first coming to the series it would seem 
 like the best thing since the word "Deathmatch" was first uttered.
  
  The first thing that struck me about this game was obviously the graphics, UT3 is vastly superior 
 to it's predecessors, for the first time character models look very realistic and the highly detailed 
 scenery makes you want to drop to your knees and cry. The level design maintains it's usual high 
 quality with cleverly laid out levels suited for various different types of gameplay.
  
  Ah the gameplay. Remember the various gameplay modes from the original games? Last Man Standing? 
 Assault? Bombing Run? Domination? Invasion? Mutant? All gone. Some may argue that none of these 
 games suit the focus of the campaign/story mode... wait a second, Assault isn't suitable? have 
 people gone mad? Assault was the most versatile game mode of the lot and would have given missions 
 far more potential for originality. Despite this, it would still have been a nice addition to include 
 these modes outside of the campaign mode.
  
  So a lot has been cut from UT3, this means a lot has been added right? I'm afraid not, there are 
 two main focuses on UT3, the vehicles (which are both wonderfully designed and original, but often 
 leaves the battles sorely unbalanced) and the story mode, which let's be honest is not so well 
 thought through, it gives you the illusion of choice but often leads you to merely play the missions 
 in a different order and even frequently replaying missions. The brand new Warfare game mode is 
 simply a new name given to the Onslaught mode in UT2004 with a few Assault aspects thrown into 
 it, all in all a poor substitute for the forgotten content.
  
  In summary, UT3 has failed in all of it's new goals. The vehicles could have been implemented better 
 and the storyline is terrible, it basically involves a rivalry between two soldiers in two different 
 armies who face off in the beginning and never really meet again until the end with a load of superficial, 
 pointless lead up throughout the rest of it. So if you're really narrow minded and want graphics 
 over a fast, fun game with plenty of extra game modes, get this game... it still maintains the 
 fast and fun elements, but when you consider that you can get the Unreal Anthology for less than 
 a tenner (which includes both the original UT and UT 2004) , offering the same fun game experience 
 with lots more to offer (let's not forget that UT is 9 years old and has more gameplay options) 
 but has limited graphical capabilities, there should be no contest and furthermore highlights some 
 of the serious problems with the gaming industry today. Shame on all of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daemiancho
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of the Unreal 3 Engine (about 4 years ago I suppose) my first thought was - 
 expect the new tournament to be the same like the others except the graphics, of course. Then was 
 the official announcement and the title UT 2007! Yeah, like EA style. Every year something new 
 but the same. 
  As the game finally arrived (with the 3 in the title) I spent some time reading the reviews. Of 
 course many of those reviews were like "Yeah, not bad, but nothing new"
  and I said to myself "Maybe they should have kept the 2007". But after 15 hours spent with the 
 game I must say it's magnificent. The dynamics, the game play, everything was as good as it was 
 in UT 2004 (my favorite part by the way) in some ways even better. And the graphics - I supposed 
 that my machine (AMD 5000+, 2GB RAM, 8600GT 512MB - not a very good choice for hardcore gaming) 
 would be good enough for medium, but even on highest the frame rate was like 30-40 fps. Very nice!
 
  About the story - well the idea of the tournament based warfare is not the best one but it suits 
 me well. As a matter of fact there are lots of cutscenes, explaining why are you fighting with 
 the other guys. I can say good things about the main protagonist, this Reaper guy, and his team. 
 Well his sister really annoyed me, but Bishop and Othello, well they're the right guys.
  The new things - the Onslaught concept evolved into Warfare with additional orb hunting. The idea 
 is pretty good but if you're playing multy you'll need guys with a little more brain in your team 
 if you want to win. The new vehicles are nice but nothing amazing. As a mater of fact the Dark 
 Walker is like a twin brother of the machines from War of the Worlds and has many common things 
 with the Strider from Half Life.
  So, based on my expectations, my experience with the final version of the game I must say: Unreal 
 Tournament 3 is a game worth playing. And it's worth playing a lot of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  unreal tournamnet 3 is just a fun game thats it everything is fun about this game its fast paced, 
 new weapons, new maps. even though its not as cool as the original unreal tournamnet its not as fast 
 either. the new maps are cool and there are new modes like warfare is a like your in a real war 
 especially in the level dusk because there are bullets flying dead dudes flying everywhere its 
 just a cool feeling. theres also duel which is nothing special its just deathmatch with two people. 
 the weapons are cool there are many of the same weapons. one of the weapons is a homing missle which 
 is cool. the vehicles are cool and are actually cool like there is this picture are alien walker 
 that is scary if it looks at you you will be thinking "im dead" then die. the graphics are really 
 really nice and the gameplay is cool if you have a pc that can handle this game go get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram_martai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Well the game itself is reolutionary, it brings back the original flavour of the first game into 
 the next generation of gaming. All the guns are the same but theres a slight edit , the Minigun 
 is now a Stinger Minigun and the Assault rifle isn't icluded anymore, the enforcer is back instead. 
 The plot to the campaign is that you are Reaper a member on the Ronin clan, your home and family 
 were destroyed in a Necris joint Krall attack, Reaper swears vengeance on Akasha the lead Necris. 
 The campaign takes you through many areas on the planet and it shows you all the kind of game modes 
 that are available to the game. There are your normal Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch games, CTF, 
 Duel and Warefare. Warefare was first introduced on UT2004 and now UT3's campaign is mainly based 
 on this game mode. There is Vehicle CTF which gets the vehicles involved, makes CTF a bigger challenge 
 as you cant take flags inside vehicles, you only have a hoverboard to move faster, if you get shot 
 you fall over droping the flag, the maps for this game mode are bigger than the average CTF map.
 
  Overall this game is a great success and it's even more fun with the Xbox Live features because 
 you can do Co-Op campaign also. The graphics are stunning and the control system is very good, 
 easily adaptable and you can get good at the game quickly with enough experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_tesT
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Sono passati ben 8 anni da quando il primo episodio di Unreal Tournament inaugur il genere degli 
 sparatutto online, soddisfando cos la voglia di frag sfrenato attraverso diverse modalit che 
 negli anni hanno beneficiato di numerose variabili, merito di una community estremamente ampia 
 e agguerrita. I due successivi episodi usciti tra il 2003 e il 2004, hanno introdotto oltre a una 
 grafica aggiornata (da sempre fiore all'occhiello della serie) anche nuove modalit nonch armi, 
 e grazie alla crescente diffusione di internet, dei clan e di un numero pressocch smodato di modification, 
 il titolo a oggi  estremamente giocato. Gli aspetti che hanno fatto la fortuna della serie sono 
 da ricercarsi in un gameplay frenetico, un ottimo bilanciamento delle armi e un'ampia variet di 
 scelta tra mappe e modalit di gioco. C'era dunque grande attesa per Unreal Tournament 3 (inizialmente 
 noto come Unreal Tournament 2007) , finalmente arrivato su PC e pronto a imporsi anche su Xbox 360 
 e PlayStation 3, ma senza sfide tra utenti di diverse piattaforme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Really you can't go rong with the gameplay it's fast, bloody and easy to get into. There are a nice 
 collection of modes here with the main hubs being single and multiplayer. the single player campeign 
 is actually a very nice feature since theres some amazing looking cutscenes and tons of missions 
 though it's not as great as the multiplayer since this is the series that made team deathmatch 
 awesome you really can't find a more fun and well put together multiplayer game.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Ok im gonna start by saying when everything is at its best this game is breathtaking. Sadly 
 there are a couple techical bugs with some odd pop in and some muddy textures. But all in all a 
 real treat to look at.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Everything about the sound is put together perfectly. The guns are loud and full of punch. The voice 
 work is great and the music is fantastic.
  
  Value 9/10
  It all depends on whether you like online or not. If you do then you'll get months of enjoyable 
 gameplay. If not then the game runs dry quickly.
  
  The Good
  The classic UT gameplay is at it's best, great looking graphics, amazing sound, plenty of online thrills
 
  
  The Bad
  The single player story could have been a little longer, if you're not into multiplayer then this 
 is not the game for you, some od technical bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthInliner
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  No unreal game will ever rival the original UT this particular one makes a feeble attempt at takeing 
 their original great concept, and filling in the gaps with vehichles and gimmicks, give me a shock 
 rifel and a flak cannon old school and I will have a ball. My only other complaint is, sure the 
 graphics look clean, but the model design is overly bulky and doesn't appeal to my personal preference 
 (i. e. CoD, CSS) Get it if the hoverboard gimmick interests you buy honestly it; s not the game UT 
 was. The gameplay mode where you have to destroy the enemy core can be fun but at the same time 
 UT is all about combat player versus player in contested zones, not snkeaking into the base and 
 unloading rocket salvos. The only thing else to say is that the way they reuse the same models 
 to produce all of their characters just leavels little in the way of personalization. Theyre are 
 better game out there, the UT diehards will say otherwise but before you check out this game take 
 a look a CoD 4 or TF2 both of which will run much smoother thatn UT3 no matter your specs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southtree
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing UT2004 since it came out and anticipated UT3 greatly. The graphic are greatly 
 improved but otherwise essentially the same game.
  Several disappointing things:
  1 Very few people are on the servers
  2 There is little control over the audio and video setting 
 compared to 
  UT2004
  3 No control over the cross hairs on the weapons
  4 Have not seen any customs maps or weapons
  I have probably been spoiled by the many mods, especially 
 the one that start everyone with a good weapon, instead of spawning with an ineffective weapon 
 and running around looking for something better, getting fragged reapeatedly while basically unarmed 
 or at least underarmed. 
  
  As an example tonight there was no one playing death match and 4 servers playing team deathmatch 
 and the BEST ping was 147
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletwaster
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 18, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The single player is horrible! Instead of a good campiagn like in Gears it has a Warpath style 
 story where you play mutiplayer match types with bots.
  The gameplay isn't smooth at all you will be screaming you're head off at this game for it's wimpy 
 weapons and how it takes forever to kill someone.
  The online is horrible everyone cheats using mods which the game ACTUALLY SUPPORTS!!!!!!! If you 
 played Gears and thought this would be similar you will be disappointed. I bought this game for 
 $10 and I still feel like I wasted my money. Take my advice do not play this. Do yourself a favor 
 and pick up Crysis, you'll thank me.
  If you play this piece of crap you will be so astonished at how bad this game is. There is no way 
 that the team who made Gears made this game.
  They had to have been drunk and said "you know what would be funny? If we made a crappy game and 
 sold it to everbody like it was an actual game"
  That has to be it. That is the only way it could have happened. It's like they weren't even trying.
 
  I can sum this game up in one word s@#t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cozm1kaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Ut3 seems fun seems great and seems much better then 04 Graphics wise. you see ut04 was a great 
 game it did so well ive had my share and stoped playing it because of all the stupid mods ppl created. 
 U cant get used to the original game because ur getting used to duel wielding flak canons and shooting 
 20 X's faster then normal. im pretty sure there going to do it to UT3 so my suggestion is if u 
 don't want users tampering around with ut3 and u like to play the game the way it comes out then 
 go buy it on a platform if not and u like then obviously get it for PC. Im more into PC games but 
 come one with all the servers and the custom game settings users bring out how the hell u going 
 to join tournament matches and such when ur used to different way of playing? Over all there isent 
 much of a difference between ut3 and ut04 both are great games both deserve to be played. But in 
 my opinion NO game can beat Q3 arena =) they should make Q3 arena reinvented Oh and for the users 
 Stop tampering around with the game leave it to the pros! peace =) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  As we know, Unreal Tournament were great games! From the beginning with Unreal Tournament, until 
 Unreal Tournament 2004, everything wan going from good to better!
  UT 2004 is the culmination!
  With Unreal Tournament 3, having on mind that we played it's older 
 brothers, we cannot say that It is excellent like them, but it still is worth the time.
  I'm not FPS lover, but how can I be attracted by UT, UT 2003 and UT 2004?
  The answer is simple 
 - they were, are and will be unique on their gameplay!
  If you are a fan of UT, and you do not have the recommended requirement for this game, you'll be 
 very disappointed!
  We have new ways of playing on multi-player, but the are not so innovative.
  Same weapons, in 
 new graphics, some new actions added, OH I MISS THE ASSAULT RIFLE! : (
  
  The bots are very easy to kill, sorry to say this, but if you kill a godlike bot on UT3, you can 
 kill an experienced bot on UT.
  The campaign is worth to play, BUT THE STORY is not necessary for this kind of FPS game. The passion 
 of the game does not lie in the story, it just something witch gives a spice on the game.
  "Flak Monkey", "Vehicle Manslaughter", "Pancake", "Top Gun", "GOD LIKE", "HOLY SH*T!!!".... That's 
 the PASSION!
  
  I haven't spent too much time on this game... I'm not interested in this one. I guess I'll play 
 UT 2004 : (.
  The game is "ambitious", but there is a little hope that after playing the older ones that you 
 will love this games like them.
  
  Not bad, in fact, VERY GOOD, NEARLY EXCELLENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_RAG
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  At long last we finally get to experience the greatness that is ut3.
  
  I got my Hands on this game and I must say is nicely done version of a UT3 for 360. The game is 
 Fast and is straight up shooter for you FPS freaks Graphics were done nicely and the Controls are 
 nice. The game lacks single player story mode but so what. Its Unreal Tournament theres never a 
 true storyline in the UT saga. Online Gameplay is where its at gents and ladies this game is only 
 for Online shoot them up hardcore pick up and go people. No bots in this so it helps with reducing 
 lag. Servers work fine, 
  
  To some ppl who are trashing this game and making people not purchase this game I got a few words 
 to tell you:
  
  Don't listen to people who say "this or that" and try to compare ut3 to gears of war or halo. It's 
 not meant to be like those games. Unreal tournament has always been more about fast intense battles 
 than immersive storylines or hundreds of different game modes which no one will play anyway.
  It's all about getting into the fight as fast as possible and take as many punks out before someone 
 turns you into a puddle of goo (which is still fine by the way) . Yes halo and cod are good games 
 but for someone who wants to just blow people up this is the game for you. Pick it up, get online 
 and beat the hell out of everyone in site or learn how truly bad you suck and hang your head in 
 shame for the rest of your life......
  
  Just buy it plain and simple and let the headshots fly.
  
  Over all if you like this game and 
 you wanted it for the counsel get it. if your PC can work with UT3 then buy the PC version. Over 
 this game is plain fun. Just buy and you be the judge yourself.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizzyKid
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  The good stuff:
  - Strong, competitive online community.
  - Robust mutators and rules allow for very customizable matches.
  - Warfare offers solid vehicular 
 mayhem, with some strategic depth.
  - Detailed graphics which scale well on mid-range machines.
  The bad stuff
  - Few changes to 
 the game from past iterations.
  - A clumsy, cluttered and featureless browser makes it awkward to set up and join matches.
  
 
  Unreal Tournament 3 once again brings fast-paced, action-packed gameplay in well crafted and highly 
 detailed maps. You've likely played it before, but Unreal Tournament 3 makes it feel fresh again. 
 Fast-paced arena deathmatch shooters aren't as popular as they used to be. But Unreal Tournament 
 3 manages to thrive with a variety of maps, gameplay modes and a competitive community.
  
  In Unreal Tournament 3, you aim to be the winner by racking up kills. There is a wide range of 
 weapons at your disposal, each of which have two firing modes. Each weapon also feels completely 
 different from one another. You could be holding the link gun which shoots out projectiles of plasma, 
 or can shoot out a continuos stream which is useful for close-range. Alternatively, you can use 
 the flak cannon which shoots out metal shrapnel in rounds, which spread out and can bounce of walls. 
 Of course, there is also the sniper rifle for anyone who wants to hang back.
  
  If you're not up for deathmatch, then you can partake in capture the flag, vehicle capture the 
 flag or warfare. Capture the flag and it's vehicle counterpart are self explanatory. Capture the 
 flag grants you the translocator, which allows you to teleport around the map. Vehicle capture 
 the flag has much bigger maps, and allows you to control vehicles but not carry the flag in them. 
 Instead, you use the hoverboard to go around which also allows you to grapple onto friendly vehicles. 
 If you get hit by a weapon tough, you will fall off and be stunned for three seconds.
  
  The main attraction to the game tough is warfare. Warfare has you split up into two teams, in which 
 you battle across large maps and battling over 'nodes'. Nodes need to be linked together by your 
 team, to capture the next nearest node. Eventually, you will link to the oposing teams core which 
 will make your team victorious when destroyed. This can be done by capturing and holding the nodes, 
 or by using the orb which spawns at your base to instantly capture nodes. There are also countdown 
 nodes, which don't need to be linked to. These usually spawn extra vehicles, or cause damage to 
 the oposing team's core.
  
  There is a wide variety of vehicles, split up into 'Axon' and 'Necris'. Axon has your more conventional 
 vehicles. There's a fast moving but weakly armored hovering vehicle called the 'Manta' which is 
 great for scouting and dealing with infantry. There is also the 'Goliath' which is a very powerful 
 tank, the 'Scorpion' who's projectiles lock onto very light vehicles and can self-destruct causing 
 devastating damage and there is also the 'Raptor' which is a flying vehicle loaded with missiles. 
 The necris vehicles are all very interesting, and are rather unique. The 'Darkwalker' is a huge 
 walking tripod of death with twin lasers (a bit like from 'War of the Worlds') . There is also the 
 'Scavenger' which can scale walls and roll up into a ball and the 'Nightshade' which is stealthed 
 and can deploy EMP mines, slow volumes and shields. 
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 looks great. It isn't a masterpiece, but levels and environments are highly 
 detailed, even far beyond the playing area. What's even more impressive is that the game runs very 
 smoothly, even on mid-range PC's with little graphical sacrifice. Vehicles blow up nicely too. 
 They disintegrate and show damage when loosing health, and does the opposite when being repaired. 
 At times, it's hard to not be distracted by the gorgeous environments.
  
  If you want to play a match with bots, there are tons of customisable options. You can change the 
 time limit, the amount of players, the score to win and you can select from a range of 'Mutators' 
 which can drasticly alter the gameplay. You can set low gravity, the weapons involved, quadruple 
 jumps, no power-ups and even enable the 'Instagib rifle' where one shot kills.
  
  If you're looking for a fast-paced, adrenaline soaked shooter with a variety of customizable options 
 and a strong competitive community, then Unreal Tournament is for you. It doesn't make many changes 
 to the formula from it's predecessors, but it still feels fresh and provides a welcome change of 
 pace.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksp12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  Hello folks welcome to the inter galactic blood bath yet again!!!
  You know own its own this game is pretty good, but it is not the only game in the series meaning 
 it has to live up o expectation if not exceed them.
  Sadly for me and loads of the other epic game fans it was not up to expectations. I mean you still 
 have the interesting fast paced killing with better graphics and some superb environs and a killer 
 multiplayer but the single player mode sucks as much as ever, making this game a must have for 
 online players only.
  
  After the initial success of gears of war i, a thorough unreal fan was expecting a a top of the 
 list action game. The action is there but there is nothing more that makes you wanna think about 
 after you're done for the day.
  Everything said and done i thought that the lack of a solid offline mode was the achilles heel 
 of this game (for those noobs who dont know what an achilles heel is ,it means weak point) and unfortunately 
 it is a major setback 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariusyka
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Minimum System Requirements
   Windows XP SP2 or Windows Vista
   2.0+ GHZ Single Core Processor
   512 Mbytes of System RAM
   NVIDIA 6200+ or ATI Radeon 
 9600+ Video Card
   8 GB of Free Hard Drive Space 
  Recommended System Requirements
   2.4+ GHZ Dual Core Processor
   1 GBytes of System RAM
   NVIDIA 7800GTX+ or ATI x1300+ Video 
 Card
   8 GB of Free Hard Drive Space 
  See what we mean? Not bad at all. At this stage I don't care if its the PlayStation 3 or the PC 
 version, I just want to play. The game looks great, and the PC was my first choice for Unreal anyway. 
 Bring it on! 
  But after I played this game my opinion change.......
  Play it and you shall see.
  I preffer Unreal Turnament 2004 its more playble and more interesting.... doesnt 
 have that unreal technology but whorts playing.....
  Unreal Tournament 3 besides that unreal graphic has nothing new or interesting...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanzzo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  One reviewer compared it to UT2004, which I guess is fair, but the level of detail, that went into 
 this game is amazing! Ive followed the series since 99, and have always been impressed with each 
 revision. I agree most of these games are just a rehash of been there, done that, but there are 
 some revisions that make it worth playing and buying!
  
  The lighting effects are amazing, and the sound? OMG! Play with a good set of headphones, and you'll 
 be sucked into the UT3 world... My heart always races, and I get just a wee bit more nervous when 
 I can hear a DarkWalker, but not know exactly where it is, until its too late, lol! Amazing job 
 with sound! Did I say that already?? Graphic detail? Its the small nuances, like the enviroment 
 reacting to the rotor wind from a Manta, or how your vision is blurred when you are under water! 
 NIce touch! 
  
  Playbility? It took a little bit for me to get used to the way the pixels are laid out. Taking 
 and enemy down with the Shock Rifle or Enforcer takes a litle more precision, but it doesnt take 
 away from an overall fantastic game. 
  
  If you have the horsies to play it, get it! Im running a DualCore 3.4 Pentium D, with 3GB Ram, 
 and an 8600GT. My res is 1024X768 with high detail, and the game is beautiful! Yes I know the res 
 is not as high as the card can handle, but I usually play all my FPS at level.. Anything, higher 
 and it becomes a problem with my vision, which is not due to hardware :-P!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireStaff93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Although this is such a great game, there is nothing new to the series. Yet the series is known 
 for its tournament-style gameplay. I can't help but feel that this is more of a beta for their 
 new engine. Gears of War 2 is going to be the conerstone of Epic's work, yet there is a huge fanbase 
 still anticipating the 360 version of Unreal Tournament III. This game maintains the formula that 
 was created in 1998, yet with much better graphics and a more pick up and play approach. 
  
  Overall, this is a game which doesn't offer much depth, but doesn't ask for much. It is simply 
 a tournament based game, where it's only purpose is to offer quick brawlswhich will keep the player 
 entertained for a long time
  
  It's a steal at 11.99, yet I can't say where, otherwise i could get sued.
  
  Personally Liked 
 it very much, it's quite Addictive, Yet it might not float your boat. 
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kez1984
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game feels like a shoddy port of a console game than an actual pc game. It quite clear from 
 playing it, that when Cliff "CliffyB" Bleszinski snubbed pc users with comments around the lines 
 of "I think people would rather make a game that sells 4.5 million copies than a million and Gears 
 [of War] is at 4.5 million right now on the 360" that we had an indication of were his motive lies, 
 this guy isn't about making good games or supporting the place he originated from, he's seen money 
 is in consoles and from this port, it's obvious that from now on, we can expect nothing but late 
 lazy ports. If you love pc gaming, don't support this game, don't buy it, buy valve games, they 
 actully have faith in pc gaming, these guys don't give a crap about it. and beyond that, compared 
 to unreal 2004, it's terrible, it's the same thing over and over, with new skins and better graphics, 
 nothing innovative game play wise, just pure repetition. If you want an idea of what these guys 
 are all about you can read more here.
  
  Support the PC, don't buy this crap from these guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgtogi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The main campaign is fun to play although there are many lame lines throughout the whole game. 
 I have laughed a few times at lines like "Respawners have changed the war". A fan off more serious 
 First person shooters like Call of Duty 4 might not like this game. However, the multiplayer is 
 as fun as most shooters out there and a player can easily find a server. I do miss onslaught from 
 UT 2004 and they did not include in Unreal 3 for some reason. There are also noticeable holes in 
 geometry and characters though out the various levels which can lead to the player seeing a hall 
 mirrors. Although infrequent these minor bugs don't cause to much trouble
  
  The main campaign and the multiplayer are fun to play for a while but where Unreal really shines 
 is the editor. It is easy to jump in a design a basic map with having only little knowledge of 
 scripting or art. If you are the kind of person, who likes to design maps you should pick up the 
 collector's edition it has many hours of tutorials to help you out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tremor2517
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Good game but it not so good on the game modes and maps like the last Unreal Tournament it missing 
 3 game mode BR, DD, AS and in case you don't know what I talking about that Bombing Run, Double 
 Domination and Assault lucky for those of you who like me like Bombing Run there is now a mod of 
 it out for the game http://www. relicsut. com/ut3br. htm how ever I do miss Double Domination as for 
 SP I like the story ideal but all it was where all the maps from MP but still it get a 9/10. and 
 maybe one day all the game modes well be made here hoping. There already a load of maps out there 
 for the game which makes the game batter. Also there not that many Models to choice from but there 
 people working on that as well . In time this game will become one of the best UT around let wait 
 and see what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has come a long way since its first release and I mean that in a good way. 
 
  
  UT3 is of corse the newist installment in the UT collection and this time round everything seems 
 to have been improved ten fold.
  
  The story sucks. Im sorry but it does, how could Epic Games take away the Tournament style story 
 lines and replace it with some crappy GoW wannabe? anyway, thay have also made this game look just 
 like GoW and in my books thats not good! as I really dont like GoW. However this game is still 
 amazing, if you can block out the stupid story line and just imagen the game still as its classic 
 Tournament style then you cant go wrong. Oh dont worry all of the matches that you fight in are 
 just like the other UT games they (thank god) havent changed that.
  
  Visuals are simply amazing, I have (like every game I own) been playing this at 100% max settings 
 and its amazing, simply some of the best visuals I have ever seen in a game (Except Crysis) They 
 have also added cut scenes into the game to cut it into different chapters and help you understand 
 more about its terrible story, I simply watched them as I had never seen them before and plus the 
 scenes where so well done and the visuals are just so outstanding that you will find yourself simply 
 unable to skip the scenes.
  
  Weapons in this game (like all UT games) are awesome and fantastic to use, there are all of our 
 faverouts back such as the Sniper Rifle, Link gun, Flak cannon and Rocket Launcher all of witch 
 have a new look and skin to them. You can still drive about in many different types of vehicles 
 including the Manta, Raptor, Goliath and Laviathon plus heeps of new and awesome vehicles. New 
 skins also make these look amazing and fresh.
  
  In addition to the Story mode you have online play, very good indeed. Coop story mode to play with 
 your friends via LAN (I am not sure if you can play over the net on story mode, this is somthing 
 I have yet to try) and the best of all, Instant Action.
  
  There is 1 last think that I didnt like about this game and that was the fact that they took the 
 game mode Assult out of the game. Its a shame as this is my best game mode to play, I hope that 
 they can made this as an addon in some way or intergrate it into the next UT game.
  
  Overall this game gets 10/10 for its amazing vehicles, visuals, weapons and of corse, have the 
 title Unreal Tournament. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3
  
  What's to like:
  - Fast Paced Action
  - Great Controls
  - Great Graphics
  - Great Cinematics
  - Challenging Bots
  
  What you may not like:
  - 
 Bad Menu Navigation
  - No Tournament Per Se
  - Few sound glitches on map loads
  - Unfulfilling Single Player Campaign
  - Smaller Multiplayer Community Than TF2 / COD4
  
 
  
  Story ( ~5 hours )
  
  There is a single player campaign in UT3. Though, unlike its previous installments, it doesn't 
 really use the Tournament Ladder design. This time around, you will be asked to compete in different 
 standalone matches (CTF, Team DeathMatch, etc.) in order to deal with the Necris threat (the enemy) . 
 
  
  So you don't really walk in a world, but instead, you just play the multiplayer maps with enemy 
 bots. This design unfortunately keeps the single player campaign from being taken seriously.
  
  On the plus side, the CG cinematics are really well done. The facial expressions are nice and 
 the textures are very vibrant and detailed. Though, it is a bit disappointing that the characters 
 seem to have been ripped off from Gears of War, the female character (your sister) , simply looks 
 amazing.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 stay true to its roots by providing a very fast and nervous shooting experience 
 -- which has still no equal in the FPS genre. Most of the weapons found in previous titles are 
 back and, in addition to the Translocator to speed up movement, the Hoverboard has been added to 
 the mix.
  
  The Hoverboard is like a floating skateboard that allows you to move rapidly around and replaces 
 the Translocator in maps with Vehicles. It is very useful and you will probably hope you could 
 just use it on every map.
  
  
  Matches
  
  Aside from the mandatory Team Deathmatch and CTF game types, most of the mods found in UT2004 are 
 missing in UT3. The developers are relying on the community to recreate some of the most successful 
 mods found in UT2004 like BombingRun and Onslaught.
  
  What you need to know about the matches is that, for the most part, you won't be competing alone. 
 Matches are usually 4 vs 4 so you will sometimes have to rush for kills before the enemy kills 
 your teammates (bots) enough times to win. This is especially true when your teammates aren't doing 
 their share of the work.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  With the Huge Success of Team Fortress 2 and the complete package Call of Duty 4 delivers, the 
 FPS multiplayer market is divided. We end up with very few servers to play on. For each gametype, 
 we could find at most 2 servers with enough (20+) players to make it an addictive experience.
 
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  UT3 is a really good follow up to UT2004 in terms of graphics and gameplay. The unique feeling 
 is there, the pace of the action is the same and the hoverboard is a really nice addition. Still, 
 it lacks the MP game types that were available in UT2004 and its single player campaign isn't just 
 fulfilling enough to justify the investment.
  
  Bottom line, get it if you already have a circle of friends that intend to play it, else, you might 
 want to stick to COD4, Team Fortress 2 or even UT2004 (for the other mods) , until its popularity 
 increases and its price lowers.
  
  
  7.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what the title suggests, unreal. The minute I played that game I was hooked. 
 Killing people in it is so much fun, you can not help but chuckle with evil pleasure. While playing 
 the game, I found that the vehicles are awesome, but the way you drive gets confusing because the 
 position of the camera changes your direction. 
  
  Using the weapons can be the perfect pickup for a bad day. Story mode on this is suprisingly fun. 
 when you play online, everyone is focused on winning that there is no talking, but still its fun 
 the play death matches. At first glance Unreal tournament looks like just another shooter, if you 
 think that you are dead wrong. Probably in the top 10 shooters and way better than Haze will ever 
 be, no one can resist its call to play it. All in all, I liked this game very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torque1599
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Unreal Tournament series since the original UT. UT 2k4 was an excellent 
 game. One that combined stunning visuals with fast and furious, old school shooter action. 
  
  I bought Unreal Tournament 3 expecting more of the same. That's exactly what I got, but something 
 seems to be missing this time around. It might be a matter of personal taste but Unreal Tournament 
 3 just seems shallow. Like it's all show and no go. The only game mode that is really worthwhile 
 is Warfare, call it Onsluaght 2.0, basically you have a bunch of waypoints that you fight over 
 until one side controls enough of them to draw a straight line to your enemy's powercore then blow 
 it up. Wash, rinse, repeat. The map options are limited in this mode, so the experience wears thin 
 in a hurry. 
  
  The gameplay is similar to UT2k4. There is a cool down time between dodges and the weapons feel 
 more powerful this around with one good hit from the rocket launcher or flak cannon enough to do 
 in a freshly respawned opponent. However, the combat just feels empty and samey. It's the same 
 UT just with prettier graphics.
  
  The whole thing feels like a glorified tech demo for the Unreal 3 engine, which, to be fair, can 
 produce some incredible visials. UT 3 is gorgeous, the details are lavish and the draw in time 
 for the bump mapping is shorter, but still noticeable. 
  
  However, Unreal Tournament 3 just seems short on gameplay. This might be because the modder and 
 mapper communities have yet to kick into hight gear. I will try this game again in 6 months and 
 see what mods are out for it. For the time being, I rate UT 3 a 7 for great visuals and potential, 
 but lacking actual substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played almost all of the UT franchise of games. They have been around for a fairly long 
 time now, and as a franchise, it has always been one of the leading players in the deathmatch type 
 Multuplayer shooter genre. This new installment holds up this conception. It holds all that character 
 that the original games had, while bringing some new things to the party at the same time. The 
 annoying voice of "Flag Returned" is still around, but i guess that holds true to the original 
 games. The maps are very well balanced, like always, and the kills and animations of the charachters, 
 make it feel as if you are playing an UT game. The new additions of some new weapons, (all your 
 old faviroutes are there) and some kick ass vehicles, brings the franchise into the new age of 
 gaming. The weapons and controls of these new vheicals is top notch, each with its own faults and 
 strengths. These are balanced very well throuhout the game, only some maps feel a little bit un 
 balanced, with the vehicles. This is mostly an online game. The whole concept of the game revolves 
 around the online elements of Team Deathmatch. That being said, the single player campaign mode 
 is a lot of fun as well. the AI is not the same as what you would get in an online match, but it 
 is pretty full on and ready to own you if you play like an absolute noob. In the back end of the 
 campaign, you will find yourself replayig some of the missions, because they do get damn hard. 
 Especially on the harder difficulty settings. Overall, its is a great game. IT has the depth fof 
 the many game modes and weapons, to keep you coming back for more. The fast paced nature of the 
 game means that you do need a pretty beffy PC to run it well, but if you got the hardware, it looks 
 really quite pretty and the fframerate with two GTX 8800 ultras in SLI, is very passable indeed. 
 It looks so much better than the PS3 version, and the controls are so much more responsive, which 
 is very important in a game such as this. A good game that will keep you on your toes and coming 
 back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_hellscream
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, it has the fast action, scaring you to bits kind of pace... the people seem to 
 just pop up right behind you lol. But! I do miss the tournament ladder of Unreal 2, granted you 
 couldn't customize your character like this one... but the ladder was extremely fun. If you're looking 
 for a single player tournament game this doesn't really do much the campaign is pretty fun but 
 who woulda thought that the people you are helping somehow put respawners in their city, lol, it 
 almost seems like war with the ability to come back after dying. Although the others had (what 
 seems like) better tournament based campaigns and ladder matches for the characters this one seems 
 to be unique, you can also run people over with the hover cars, it will appeal to some and it will 
 not appeal to others. I do with there was more of a character selection, whatever happened to a 
 wide assortment of people like in UT2K4? So all in all the game is fun and has the editor so you 
 can try to mess with it, haha. (This game is $30 at EB or GameStop for some reason Best Buy is 
 still trying to sell it for $50 through this site when you click "get it from") 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  As I write this, I'm reminded of an interview article with some of the people behind this game 
 (Epic) , and how they had mentioned that one thing they'd noticed is that according to their data 
 collected on people that have bought UT '03 and '04, is that less than half actually played the 
 game online. Thus, one of the "BIG focus"es of this newest installation was on improving the SP 
 game for those that likely won't be playing online.
  
  To get it out of the way, they did improve it, though given their efforts in other Epic-made games 
 (Gears of War, namely) , and other games using their engine (Bioshock) , they still have a long way 
 to go to making an Unreal title with quality story telling.
  
  But who am I kidding? Those on this site reading this won't even care, and some may not ever play 
 the campaign at all. But for those that are interested, you play this soldier guy who used to have 
 to worry about dying, and nearly avoided getting killed by some Necris chick. So now he's been 
 enlisted by Izanagi where he meets a UT vet (Malcolm) and starts to learn what it's like to work 
 with newer deathmatch technology, and using his job as a way to get back at the Necris for the 
 slaughter he'd nearly been a statistic of.
  
  Obviously, there are parts of the story that feel a bit forced, like coming up with an acronym 
 for the flags... but all in all, it's good filler, and good practice for the online if you decide 
 to turn up the difficulty proper.
  
  One thing that Unreal has always been famous for is being able to bring deliciously pretty graphics 
 with an engine that can also do it quickly, with great scalability even on lower-end systems. That 
 being said, you really get your money's worth here with a system that can have the details cranked 
 to max. Anyone that says otherwise needs their eyes checked.
  
  Using onboard sound, the audio does its job and there's a good bit of surround sound going on. 
 Though if I'm honest, this title is motivating me to look for a dedicated sound card again.
  
  Speaking of upgrades, there is good news for those that were thinking about or have an Ageia 
 PhysX card. Even on the stock maps, UT3 sees a measurable improvement in performance for those 
 equipped with the PhysX hardware. Granted though, the largest improvements happen either in more 
 heavily loaded maps (i. e. greater than 16 players) , and especially on the AGEIA-made maps that 
 were designed with the PPU silicon in mind. As a side bonus, it at least does indicate that future 
 games that use this engine (Gears of War, IIRC) will also see an improvement.
  
  Compared to most computer games, and particularly earlier iterations of UT, UT3's menu system feels 
 a bit awkward. My first guess is that they decided on this as common ground to work with when porting 
 the game to the PlayStation3 (and upcoming Xbox 360 release) , but it doesn't feel like you can 
 find everything where it's supposed to be as quickly with the new interface. Still, though...
 
  
  Many of the old favorites come back. Pretty much all have been redone to look prettier/more detailed, 
 and some feel retweaked. The rocket launcher's firing methods are more accessible, the BioRifle 
 has a more visible charge, and the minigun's alt-fire in this iteration feels much more unique 
 than what it used to be in UT99 for example.
  
  Obviously, one of the reasons to release a new UT is to introduce new game modes. New (to me) is 
 Warfare, which allows controlling of check points to open up the enemy core, and optional points 
 that grant certain bonuses to make a difference. Obviously, the bigger difference-makers come in 
 maps that let you access say the only flying craft, or the Leviathan (and basically skewer their 
 power core well before they can weaken your armor enough to start worrying) .
  
  Speaking of the leviathan, it leads me to talk about the ally A. I. in particular. They sure don't 
 have a problem hunting down each other, but when it comes to actually doing certain objective-related 
 stuff or anything other than hunting each other down, they seem rather brain dead on the matter. 
 It's a bit annoying to hear one of my allies mention how we should all "jump into the leviathan" 
 and basically be a rolling death kr3w, but then nobody actually does. Or when a couple of allies 
 are standing right next to me with link guns whilst I'm in a tank and I don't get at least one 
 repairing me whilst I employ my superior firepower. It would be nice if they'd at least employed 
 a little more tact, but I have to wonder if it's depending on what difficulty I'm playing...?
 
  
  Nevertheless, the game gets credit on many of its technical merits - it's silky smooth, it's **** 
 beautiful, and manages to remain brutally fast while doing so.
  
  As an evolution of the series, it does its job and helps make up for the awkwardness that were 
 UT03 and UT04. As an entry to try and redefine the genre and evolve the first-person-shooter, not 
 so much. But you'd be a fool to ignore its presence. And an even bigger fool not to get this game 
 if you've got a system equipped with a PPU (ideally, an OpenAL sound card, too) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DazKurupt
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  UT3 is about the user generated content and there is a flood of it so many various maps , mutators, 
 characters , gametypes to download and play this game has infinite content. 
  
  The UT3 Editor that comes with the PC version is a wonderfull tool , along with some programs like 
 photoshop, Maya , Zbrush, 3DSMax you can make virtually any type of character/weapon/map mods with 
 custom textures which is great. Talented Modders have already made and posted many great mods that 
 range from a top down shooter, a SSBB type 2D gametype, real life weapons AK-47, Character mods 
 such as , Cloud and Zack, Old Snake, Master Chief, Spawn , Samus, Crysis suit, Bender, etc. There 
 are also more map mods then I care to count and alot of them are genius. 
  
  My favorite part of UT3 is the fast paced killing and the announcer dude who says Killing Spree 
 , Double kill , Multikill. Headshot and so on. The sound is really great and with good speakers 
 its awesome. The Graphics are awesome as well the Sci fi maps are beauty's. If you like sci- fi 
 fps this should be at the center of your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzVoid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Before I played this game, I though that it will really suck (I don't say that UT2004 was a bad 
 game; It was not as good as UT'99) . When I played this game - I was shocked.
  
  Good graphics with no high system requirements, bot speech, detailed maps with lots of features 
 ("portals" from map Gateway, children of warp zones from UT'99) - nice look.
  
  I'll try to compare both games now - what I've liked, what not. List of good features from UT3:
 
  very very balanced weapons - now rocketlauncher is not the greatest. Neither flak cannon. Impact 
 hammer is back! And it's still crushing your opponents, painting your face with their blood. Humanity 
 - now most of the characters are normal human beings, like it was in UT'99. Still got a cyborg 
 team. Lot's of scripted features - maps are now very very interesting, good for brainstorming your 
 team tactics. Warfare - much more balanced, that Onslaught. Also good for tactics.
  
  What is sad - no assault game mode. No domination game mode. Not deadly as was UT'99. Too many 
 features of tuning the game now hidden in configuration files.
  
  Well - if you have missed one of the best cybersport FPS - UT'99, you MUST play UT3. If have played 
 UT'99 - you will see it again, refreshed and cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  The Unreal Tournament series is quite old now, soon it'll reach the 10 year mark. It's also one 
 of the best FPS series around, a status it gained after bringing to the masses two phenomenal installments: 
 the classic funfest that is UT99 and the rock-solid, adrenaline pumpin' UT2004. So it's no surprise 
 that when UT3 was announced it caught the attention of many. And November 19 '07 came, and UT3 
 was released... and the game got off to a bumpy start, receiving mixed reviews from both the community 
 and the media. So lets take a magnifying glass and scrutinize Epic's latest baby.
  
  First off, I was quite amused by the media, which kept playing the redemption song: UT3 is a return 
 to the roots, to what you loved about UT99, no more of that future-sport cr*p etc. Then I played 
 the game and noticed that it wasn't too much of a return to the roots, it was more of a departure, 
 a departure to the warmer climate of console-city. Sure, the core gameplay is nicely executed, 
 UT3 is indeed similar to UT99 from this point of view: it's loud, spammy and grounded. But the 
 transition to console-town brought a host of extremely annoying problems which we'll discuss in 
 the following paragraphs.
  
  I'll start with the all important weapons locker. From this point of view, UT3 is a success. The 
 weapons do indeed feel spammy and thanks to their look, sound and animation they also 'feel' very 
 dangerous. There have been some changes of course, mostly to help with the balancing. The Bio-Rifle 
 is actually useful now and the alt-fire allows you to set up small traps for players who aren't 
 paying as much attention as they should. The Stinger Minigun replaces UT2004's Minigun; it's also 
 very deadly, but for the sake of balance, Epic made it a bit slow to start. There's also a new 
 Sniper Rifle, which I must say, is the best the series has ever had. Those who've played UT99 know 
 how easy it was to get a headshot, while UT2004 players know how difficult the Sniper was to master. 
 UT3's Sniper is somewhere in between... and that's exactly where it should be. It's sad to see 
 the Mine Layer is no more while the AVRiL is a bit different now, it feels less bulky. It's worth 
 noting that the Enforcer is back as the primary weapon, but it doesn't feel as deadly as the original 
 enforcer; it can be quite effective when dual-wielded though. And finally, the Shield Gun (a vital 
 tactical element in UT2004) is replaced by the old Impact Hammer, which has very little use. It 
 can be used to jump in high places but since the jump boots are back (and in abundance I might 
 add) there's little use for that function. Small changes have been operated to all weapons actually, 
 the Translocator is one such example. If you remember from previous installments of the series, 
 the Translocator allowed you to switch back to your previous weapon by simply clicking alt-fire 
 and fire in rapid succession. Well, now that function is gone. This is disappointing to be honest 
 because that little feature helped the flow of CTF games very much. The Flak Cannon's alt-fire 
 is also very weird, its arc is a bit gravity defying: it seems to go upward a bit as soon as you 
 shoot. Overall though, the weapons locker is OK and covers any type of situation you might encounter. 
 Also, I'm not going to go over every pick up so I'll just say that the jump boots, thigh pads, 
 shield belt etc. are back, there's no more adrenaline. But if you ask me, adrenaline was an elegant 
 solution, now you just have arenas littered with pickups that I'm sure will be confusing for most 
 newbies.
  
  Now that the weapons are out of the way, lets talk vehicles. Epic made a good effort with this 
 element as well. The Axon vehicles are mostly unchanged, just tweaked here and there and the results 
 are good. They feel more balanced although the HellBender's steering is a bit too sensitive. New 
 are the Necris vehicles, which look spectacular but for the most part play as you'd expect. The 
 Scavanger is probably the weirdest of them all, its alt-fire makes it roll up into a ball and just 
 roll across the landscape at high speed. The big Darkwalker is probably a bit overpowered as it 
 can take out vehicles a bit too easy, leaving the Axon faction at a slight disadvantage. But overall, 
 the vehicles are excellently done, there's a vehicle in here for everybody.
  
  From now on though, it's going to start hurting. The weapons and vehicles are well done but you 
 need adequate environments in order to take advantage of them... and here's where UT3 starts to 
 shake. First off, the Deathmatch map selection is poor and uninspired. The levels are too small, 
 you just swing that Rocket Launcher and there you have it, a frag. Out of the DM maps, CarbonFire, 
 Deck (a remake of the classic Deck 16) and ShangriLa felt decent, the rest were just mediocre. 
 UT2004 had some brilliant 1on1 levels, UT3's smaller maps are really nothing special. CTF mode 
 also suffers from weak map selection. So far, only OmicronDawn and Coret (another remake) were 
 actually remarkable. This is especially disappointing after UT2004's stellar line-up of CTF maps: 
 Maul, Geothermal, Orbital2, Citadel, Magma... nothing in the current line-up can compete with those 
 maps.
  
  On the other hand, the Warfare (WAR) and Vehicle CTF (VCTF) maps are generally well done, both 
 visually and in terms of gameplay. WAR mode is a combination of the old Onslaught and Assault modes 
 and it works quite well. Each map has its own twist and for the most part everything is well balanced. 
 Now there's a little orb that when carried to an enemy node will convert it to a friendly node 
 instantly, which can turn matches completely upside down in a minute or two. Side nodes also carry 
 different benefits now (like extra vehicles and pickups) so it's a good idea to know the maps well. 
 So far I've been loving Torlan (which is also a remake and has 4 versions here) , Dusk (a level 
 who's layout reminds me a lot of ONS-Dawn from UT2004) and Serenity, (which comes in two versions) . 
 But in my opinion, the jewel of this year's installment is VCTF. It's obviously not as complex 
 as WAR but that's the point, VCTF offers a simple, straightforward (and very focused) experience. 
 Most of the maps in VCTF mode work really well, specially Sandstorm (the name is very appropriate) , 
 Suspense (the same level that rocked in the UT3 demo) and Corruption. These two modes also replace 
 the Translocator with a Hoverboard, which is tons of fun to use. I will not go into details, suffice 
 to say that this feature is pretty neat, definitely one of the better ideas of this game.
  
  In VCTF and WAR, UT3 finds its redeeming qualities, but the game has a lot of small problems 
 that drag it down. I'll start with the campaign mode, which is a ridiculous attempt at storytelling. 
 I wonder what exactly was the problem with the Ladder Mode? It has been present in the series since 
 the first game, so why change it? And more importantly: why change it with this ridiculous mode? 
 Anyway, that's ultimately unimportant, the campaign sucks, nothing else worth saying about it. 
 What really counts though is the lack of tweaking options. Anyone who played UT2004 knows that 
 the game has a myriad of customization options, UT3 on the other hand has little. In some cases 
 it lacks even the basics. Recent patches have brought some additional functionality, but there's 
 still a long way to go. For advanced tweaking, please consult the .ini files (not recommended if 
 you don't know anything about it) . Actually, the game's menus are a disaster, even the server browser 
 is lacking in options, which is puzzling since multiplayer is the bread and butter of this game. 
 Furthermore, character customization is very limited. The system is interesting but there's little 
 in the way of variety. Even voices and taunts are limited in number, and quite lame compared to 
 previous installments. What's the point of censoring mature taunts if you're game is all about 
 violence anyway? There are also some minor AI problems, bots still have difficulty driving the 
 Leviathan for example (same as in UT2004) , and in DM mode, they occasionally walk right passed 
 you sometimes. Thankfully, patches have been gradually sorting out these problems so don't forget 
 to install them before firing up the game.
  
  What more is there to say? Ah yes, lets talk a bit about graphics and sound. First off, the game 
 is quite well optimized. Visually, UT3 is impressive but the bloom is overdone. Pardon the expression, 
 but the game will literally vomit bloom into your face, making it hard to see who's shooting from 
 where. Architecturally though, the new oriental theme is beautiful, although the huge amount of 
 details can be distracting. In terms of sound the game is alright, except the new taunts, which 
 I mentioned earlier. The music is OK too but it tends to slip into the background, there's not 
 one piece of music that sends shivers down your spine like UT2004's ONS-Severance or ONS-RedPlanet, 
 that's for sure. But there are a lot of sound queues that I felt were spot on and the weapons and 
 vehicles sound very dangerous.
  
  Overall, UT3 isn't as consistent as I expected, but I feel that it has great potential. Maybe Epic 
 will do what they did with UT2003 a few years ago, when they took that game as the foundation and 
 built the brilliant UT2004 on top of that. It's also worth mentioning that the modding tools are 
 excellent and quality mods are already starting to come out. I remember seeing a demo of a Domination 
 mod, and another one of Double Domination, two game modes present in previous installments of the 
 series. Epic has also proved that it intends to fix many of the small problems that plague the 
 game and that's also good. As for a recommendation: I don't know. If you're still comfortable with 
 your version of UT99 or UT2004 then you should wait a while longer. UT3 servers aren't particularly 
 full and as I mentioned already, there are still many annoying problems that need fixing. Know 
 that UT3 is still a pretty solid release but if you're expecting this to be the ultimate UT then 
 you might want to lower your expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseMolina18415
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - The new UT Engine have awesome graphics effects.
  - Warfare has been upgraded to a new level with many new vehicles and machines.
  - It's still 
 exciting and addictive.
  - Online Playing enhanced.
  - Personalize your character change any parts as you like as Glasses, Torso, Shoulders and more.
 
  - The new Hoverboard it's very fun if you like the skateboarding X-D
  
  The Bad:
  - The weapons are the same in UT2004. Only have new designs and a few changes.
  
  First, thank 
 you for see my review :-)
  
  Unreal Tournament 3, before named UT2007, bring us new challenges and more gore with impressive 
 special effects and graphics than up the game to a new level. The CTF, Deathmatch and Warfare as 
 very well detailed and has been modified a little. Some CTF Maps can be vehicles like Warfare Maps, 
 its so cool :-)
  
  In Warfare Maps also has a new artifact that allow you capture a prime node
  insistently, and 
 also the hoverboard is very useful because you can travel in the maps with more speed that walk. 
 Default key is "Q".
  
  New vehicles like the powerful LEVIATHAN and the NECRIS DARKWALKER create great damages and destruction 
 in the battlefield and the multiplayer is more hard and fun.
  
  Play it... and shoot some blasters and make some "Headshot's" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psi256
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Computer game developers should take note of what Unreal Tournament 3 has accomplished. John Carmack 
 has said that developing a 3D game engine is incredibly difficult for the PC. The difference between 
 the low-end and the high-end of 3D hardware is somewhere on the order of 1000x. So producing a 
 game engine that scales nicely on all that hardware is a monumental task. Yet UT3 runs on an extremely 
 wide range of hardware, looks beautiful on modern graphics accelerators and still puts on a solid 
 framerate. All while being rock-solid and stable and even making use of quad-core processors to 
 boot.
  
  UT3 has stayed true to its roots, which is a fast-paced 3D shooter that does give you time to blink. 
 You cannot have any distractions while playing this game in an online mode where pause is not available. 
 Just try to answer the phone, turn your head, take a drink of water, etc. Impossible. 
  
  The only downside I can see is the dreadful loss of the Assault mode, which is near and dear to 
 me. I still play UT2004 Assault online. Well made levels like Convoy & Robot Factory never get 
 old.
  
  In an age where many are predicting the demise of PC gaming and buggy, lack-luster titles are being 
 dumped out on the shelves, it is refreshing to see a content-rich, exciting, well-made sequel like 
 this grace our beloved PC gaming world. I urge you to support the development of quality games 
 by forking over the $40-50 to buy this game. Thank you for reading.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  This game is basically UT2k4 with gears of war graphics. It is the same fast pace gameplay. They 
 have added new gametypes such as vehicle capture the flag and warfare, but also left out a few 
 gametypes such as last man standing, bombing run, onslaught to name a few. Warfare is a lot of 
 fun and offers great team battles and strategy. The single player campaign allows you to play with 
 3 other friends (4 player co-op) . I personally prefer UT2k4 tournament style play. With the game 
 you get over 40 maps and all are outstanding. But if you get bored with them you could just download 
 over 100 maps that have already been made as full release since the game comes with a map editor. 
 I have never seen so many maps in so little time. There are also plenty of mods and even the gears 
 of war characters have been created to add to your roster. 
  
  However, here is the problem. Where are all the online players? UT3 has currently sold over 1 million 
 copies, but most of them are sold on the PS3. And with the Xbox 360 version coming in June, it 
 seems most people are waiting to buy this game on consoles instead of the better PC version. Since 
 the game is spread over PC, xbox 360, and ps3 we have a lower population of online players than 
 if it was PC exclusive as UT2k4.
  
  In conclusion, the game rocks but epic should bring back the older gametypes and characters from 
 UT2k4. They should also go back to the tournament style single player and then I would give this 
 game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jopickard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Well, I need to get more RAM for my PC to run this at high res, as it is hard to see the enemy 
 at lower res. Graphics are very good, and Bot AI is excellent; I can only beat the Bots on the 
 DECK map which is the old DECK 16 map with nicer graphics. The new terrain is magnificent. Make 
 sure you apply Patch 1.2. You should be able to find this at reduced prices now, and it is well 
 worth the money then, IMHO, if just for the new maps alone. The keyboard keys work a little differently, 
 and my mouse seems overly-sensitive, but I guess I can remap them to UT standard. And it seems 
 easier to die now than in UT 2004. I keep coming back to master the new maps. Great new taunts 
 by the Bots, too. I shot a female Bot in the head with the bio rifle (shoots toxic waste) and she 
 responded, "Hey, I don't want that stuff in my hair!" As soon as I get more RAM, I am going to 
 practice up on Instant Action (vs. the Bots) then head online. The hardware requirements are a 
 little steep, but I guess this is an omen I needed to upgrade my PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IncipitOmega
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  If u played UT before u know the drill, it's the same fast-paced UT that gets crazy on-line... the 
 only thing that I'm missing a little here, is, that there are fewer weapons in it than in UT2004, I 
 think there's less skins (not sure of that though) and the maps seem a bit small and few. The community 
 on-line is not yet as big as in its predecessors, but I think its gonna grow quite soon, and with 
 it also the modding and map-making community.
  The visuals are great, it runs on a new UT engine, the sound is cool and the music is nostalgic with 
 a little modernization in it... it brings back the unforgettible feeling of the first Unreal Tournament 
 (Which is great) but ofcourse with an new astonoshing look.
  I must say UT3 grows on you, meaning, being a fan, it has not let me down once.
  Any one that wants 
 to play a fast & crazy game on-line, this, I recommend ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok while i may be a fan of the Unreal Tournament Series this one just lacks any originality of 
 the game whatsoever, i mean come on epic, do somthing new you just took UT2k4 and put a fresh new 
 coat of paint on it and shipped it out , and now you can see why noone is buying the game anymore.
 
  
  Pros.
  Graphics
  Gameplay (somewhat lacking but good)
  Maps
  
  Cons
  BAD single player, i mean why just why. 
  Grahpics, ( too gray looking the theme of nex gen games)
 
  No innovation ( nothing new) 
  lackluster online (LOL u thought ut2k4 was bad just get a wiff of UT3)
  
  thats the problem 
 with this game, noone is online, nobody give a $hit about this game anymore because when you don't 
 push innovation then nobody cares anymore, all i can say epic is include some more game maps. like 
 WTF happend to Bombing run not many ppl played it but if u revamped it it would be better, overall 
 its ok but not worth the full 50-60 dollar purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HAV0C_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  
  While there are few changes that can be considered major, UT3 still manages to turn out as one 
 of the best fps of 2007. In fact, it came very, very close to being perfect. 
  
  Graphics: 9.9/10. Almost perfect, Imperfection was fixed by the official 1.1 patch.
  The most 
 noticeable improvement in this installment of UT is definitely the graphics powered by the unreal 
 engine 3. On high-end PC's it is capable of delivering incredible graphics at 1280*1024 resolution 
 and average of 55-65 FPS, and it still manages not to slaughter frame rate on mid-end machines. 
 Another great addition is the unique, awesome-looking Necris vehicles, which, for the most part 
 are very well balanced against the human vehicles. Weapons look great, from the model of a weapon 
 itself to the ammo that is flying toward an enemy, who is about to be scattered all over the place.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10.
  The Good: An intense, fast-paced and very addictive multiplayer, shredded bloody chunks of players 
 flying everywhere, and the hover board is a nice idea. No matter where you are or what you do, 
 whether you are running, driving or flying, the game looks good. A. I. finally shows signs of intelligence 
 (mostly) , and the creators made a descent attempt to create a storyline and campaign for what was 
 always considered to be a multiplayer-focused game. Mouse/keyboard controls are more suitable for 
 this game then console controller. 
  The Bad: some of the creators' decisions just don't seem reasonable: The awesome single player 
 onslaught mode has been removed.. WHY?!?!? It was great!! There are actually fewer weapons here 
 then in UT2004, the first example that comes in mind is: UT2004 had 2 sniper rifles, regular and 
 the lightning sniper rifle, UT3 has only the regular one. 
  
  
  Sound: 10/10. One of my favorite parts of the UT series is the announcer (voice is not the same 
 but very similar to the announcer from earlier games, it sounds more aggressive now) . As you are 
 playing, you will hear him say "godlike", "head shot", "monster kill", "rocket scientist", "rampage" 
 and a lot more things like that. Makes the fast-paced game play even more entertaining.
  
  Conclusion: If you enjoy FPS, online multiplayer, or if you're just looking for a really good shooting 
 game, look no further. This game WILL live up to your expectations. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I used to play UT '99 , it was my first game i played online and it was way much better than Q3 
 . After that i also played UT2k3 and 2k4 so now it's time for UT3.
  
  First of all like i alread said , if you know UT2k3 or 2k4 you'll know the basic formula of UT3. 
 There are some slight changes in the weapons and in the movements of your character but that's 
 basically it.... there are a few new game modes which i don't really feel like explaining them 
 right now. 
  
  There are also a few modes gone like Assault and Domination which i think is pretty dumb since 
 it won't be that much of work for the developers to do in my opinion. 
  
  The only real bad thing about UT3 is probably that i still miss the community UT'99 and UT2k4 had 
 , lots and lots of people and many servers. I don't really care about the servers but sometimes 
 you come online and there are only 1 or 2 servers with a good ping in Deathmatch mode where there 
 are people to play with.... and that really concerns me but that leads me to another bad thing 
 about UT3...
  
  There are not really interesting maps in UT3 , maps are often really small with narrow corridors 
 and on top of that, there aren't that many maps which will lead probably lead to getting sick of 
 playing that same map over and over again. You can play a map a very long time if you like the 
 game but still the lack of variety will get you quit the game.
  
  So without a real community there aren't many maps coming out and there aren't many custom maps 
 on servers but maybe that'll change , if you think you want to play a fun Multiplayer game, UT3 
 is something for you! 
  
  p. s. : If anyone isn't sharing my opinion and has questions just pm me :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subz3ro999
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Overall, classic UNREAL game, truely legendary, powered by the Unreal Engine, v3. Graphics- 10/10!!! 
 Gameplay... definate 10/10, Fun-O-Meter 1000000000/10 8) :D Keeps you coming back for more, and 
 may turn out to be toooo adictive. Good gameplay with bots, AI is very realistic, Nice weaponary, 
 lovely scenery in and around the maps, great physics engine and VERY realistic stuff, vehicle CTF 
 nad Warfare are real Fun for Everyone!!! Booyyyyaaaaa!!! Good weapons to look out for are the: 
 Rocket Launcher, Longbow AVRil, Flak Cannon and of course, the REDEEMER!!! Good Vehicles to look 
 out for- Hellfire SPMA, Goliath etc... Great Storymode/Campaign mode, good story behind the whole 
 game! Awesome Multiplayer enjoyment and will keep you on the edge of your seat until your team 
 wins :D Two General Teams, Red/Blue, you choose. Many weapons have more than 2 firing modes, and 
 you start off with two basic weapons: the Reaper and the Impact Hammer. Short and shweeet... Good 
 job by Midway, and Epic Games, Thumbs UP!!!! GENERAL TOTAL = 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  ... I'm glad that this type of game still exists because this is pretty much how fps began. Running 
 very fast a blowing up everything in your path with some ridiculous weaponry never gets old. I'm 
 also glad that the vehicles are still here as well. Vehicle Capture the Flag is my favorite so 
 far. I like that the developers added a hover board for those unlucky enough to miss a vehicle. 
 You just press a button and whip out a board. But this is not a good idea if you're getting shot 
 at because you'll get knocked off and slam into the ground, which is rather fun to watch. 
  The graphics are quite amazing if you can run it all on high with a decent frame rate. The water 
 sparkles, the explosions are flashy, and the models are just beautiful. I recommend you purchase 
 the limited edition because it includes an art book with some amazing pictures and a DVD with behind 
 the scenes footage, as well as the history of Unreal. 
  This game is definitely one you should own if you've played Unreal Tournament games in the past 
 and liked them. And even if you haven't, you'd probably find something to like in this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattyocaster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is getting to somewhat familiar territory for me. It's the year 2000 and I've decided 
 that we need to get onto the internet (Read: Dialup) so we request a disk from BT which came with 
 some "free software", not all of it was the usual online security fare either. Buried deep within 
 the grooves of the CD was something magical, a videogame experience like I had never... err... experienced, 
 the Unreal Tournament Demo. I installed, I played I became addicted and bought the full game and 
 to this day I still sometimes thrash it up to have a blast... on a 64bit Dual Core Windows Vista 
 PC with a GeForce 7950 in it instead of my old Windows 98 Cyrix 266 With a Voodoo 3 2000 (wehey!) . 
 Well at least they made it fairly future proof!
  Back to the present, So Unreal Tournament 3 contains the usual game types (Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Dual and Capture the flag) and some not so usual game types (Warfare and Vehicle Capture the Flag) . 
 DM and TDM for those who aren't into the gaming scene are simple get as many kills as possible 
 in the allotted time or first person to get to xx kills wins (TDM is for a combined team score 
 not just individual score) . These are executed pretty well with awesome graphics and rewarding 
 sound effects (Normally a score will make a sound which fits into the music like an extra beat 
 etc.) as well as the multipliers (Double Kill, Multikill, Megakill, Ultra Kill and so on) and the 
 sprees which you get for each set of five frags without getting fragged yourself. 
  Now if gratuitous violence with a bit of reward wasn't enough, we have the other game types. Capture 
 the flag is where all of the players are split into 2 teams, each team has a flag and the aim of 
 the game is to steal the other teams flag and prevent your own from being stolen. Now there isn't 
 much to say about this other than it can be a good laugh, especially if you know the people you're 
 playing with as this may help you organise tactics. Yes, What I just said does imply that you can 
 play it online, however unlike other games this has bot support, meaning that if you're not into 
 online gaming or you like to practice between LAN parties, then you have every opportunity!
  Now we're getting to the more interesting game types, Warfare and VCTF!
  VCTF is essentially 
 regular CTF with a radical upgrade in movement since you have a standard hoverboard allowing you 
 to travel anywhere relatively quickly, or you can use one of the readily available vehicles with 
 only one main rule, you can't carry the flag inside a vehicle. You might be thinking "Well whats 
 the point of vehicle CTF then?" well it does make a lot of sense. Most of the vehicles when not 
 actually involved in direct conflict can take a fair beating except for the Viper and the Manta, 
 both of which are sort of Hoverbikes which means your exposed and there isn't much vehicle to absorb 
 the hits so their own health depletes pretty quickly however both of these are very fast and agile.
 
  This brings us neatly onto the vehicles. Hovercraft, Buggy, Truck, tanks, walkers, Juggernauts 
 and mobile artillery platforms. There are 2 major sides where the vehicles are concerned, there's 
 Axon and Necris. The Axon vehicles are more conventional such as buggies and tanks. Obviously these 
 vehicles have an odd spin on them such as in the case of the Scorpion it has 2 blades which swing 
 out of the front of the vehicle (I'm sure you know what they're for!) mortar launcher (possibly 
 best describes it) and nitrous which if you get out while it's fully engaged sets it to self destruct, 
 you're ejected well clear into the air and when the buggy hits it's target, BOOM! The Necris Vehicles? 
 Where the hell do I start, theres the Hoverbike called the Viper which is almost a cross between 
 the Scorpion and the Axon Manta (Hovercraft with plasma main fire which can jump) , they have stealth 
 vehicles, vehicles which have a drone following them which fires on targets which can turn into 
 a ball and roll around the map or of course the Dark Walker... a gargantuan walker with 2 seats 
 which has a primary "heat ray" weapon and a secondary weapon which is essentially a giant horn 
 which knocks anyone under the walker to the ground ready to be shot or stood on!
  Onto the final gametype, Warfare. It's a cross between Onslaught (control a series of nodes in 
 a dot to dot fashion to the enemy base to prime it to be destroyed) and Assault (Complete certain 
 objectives to complete the level) . Now these levels nearly all have vehicles and are typically 
 set out in an Axon vs Necris battle with various objectives unlocking bonuses such as extra respawn 
 points, vehicle spawns or possible something more mission critical such as a unique vehicle (Leviathan 
  6 Wheeled Ion Cannon with 4 hardpoints for passengers!) or an exploit in the enemies base (often 
 reflected if they get access to it too!) .
  While Warfare may sound overly complicated, it's not as bad as it sounds, once you get playing 
 it starts to make much more sense. On the whole it is a fantastic looking game when run on a high 
 end computer and it can be scaled down to run pretty well on any machine that isn't all that old. 
 As well as this the sound effects seem very solid as well, the explosions have a plausible thump 
 to them, the vehicles with tyres squeal slightly while turning tightly at speed and the weapons 
 themselves seem to sound plausible such as the mechanical clanking of the Stinger and the hydraulic 
 noises the AVRiL Longbow makes while reloading. 
  However if you don't have a particularly up to date PC but you're the proud owner of a PS3 or an 
 XBOX 360, the console versions of UT3 will be released sometime next year. If you're in 2 minds 
 whether to get the PC version of the game or one of the console renditions as you weren't Impoverished 
 by buying a console and have a good PC too, I would say you want the PC version. While the console 
 versions are apparently getting support for mods and add-ons these may cost you money while on 
 the PC they'll be free, and also It's down to mod makers whether or not they bother to make them 
 for consoles since modding in the past has been a PC only venture. You might be wondering what 
 this has to do with anything, well Here's some names for you. "Tactical Ops: Assault on Terror" 
 and "Red Orchestra". Do they sound familiar? Well they were all first created as mods for Unreal 
 Tournament games.
  On a more geeky note, the same technology for UT3 went into Gears of War, Stranglehold, Bioshock, 
 Medal of Honour: Airborne and RoboBlitz. The reason for all this is because the engine is so flexible 
 and easy to write for, which is why modders go to town on it and the results are usually fantastic!
 
  Basically, you must buy this game. I'm telling you to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is just less of everything that made the previous UT games good. 
  
  There are less playable characters and factions. There are less game modes (Bombing Run; Mutant; 
 Invasion; Assault were not included) . The skill to use different weapons in different situations 
 has been lessened in favor of more powerful, a. k. a. imbalanced, weapons where only one, or two 
 main ones are all players need to dominate the game. There are also less graphic options as well 
 as less offline (Bot) match configurations compared to the first two Unreal Tournament games as 
 well. On top of this there is an even smaller community than the last two UT games because of (dis-) connection 
 errors and bugs that still plague the game after the 1.2 patch (not that there were that many servers 
 up in the U. S. to begin with) .
  
  All of this lack of content and features is a direct result of Epic/Midway shifting gears toward 
 the console (PS3) market. 
  
  I cannot recommend this game for either SP, or MP compared to the offerings the previous games 
 shipped with. UT3 is an unfinished, shallow gaming experience and feels like a placeholder for 
 Unreal Tournament 2008, like Unreal Tournament 2003 was for UT2004. 
  
  UT3 for the PC is an "Epic" (pun intended) failure and will probably do better on PS3 and Xbox 
 360 if it is ever released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  I give up. i have tried many FPS's in the last few years..... halo, fear, pariah.... ect. and i always 
 come back to UT. it doesnt matter what UT you play they are all superior to every FPS known to 
 man. once you get used to the speed of a UT game all of the others are moving in slow motion. everybody 
 knows the rule if you are playing a UT game....."if you stay still you die." this being the fact 
 you are always on the move, in constant motion looking for your next kill while keeping an eye 
 on your back..... planning your next move that will win you the game. only UT fans know what im 
 talking about. this is why all other games are slow and hard to get through. i only have the demo 
 of UT3 but its just like UT2004, all action and no time for sight seeing. i am now going to buy 
 UT3. i was going to hold off until i bought a new PC so i could enjoy the graphics in a proper 
 fashion but i cant wait. XP and direct X 9c will just have to do for the time being. way to go 
 guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Unreal 3 should be unreal 2007 but oh well it'll have to do. Unreal 3 has some amazing game play 
 mostly all on the multiplayer aspect that everyone plays to death. The single player campaign to 
 this game is kind of good to play if you're bored. The main character you play with looks like 
 the guy from gears of war, (gears of war is based unreal 3 engine so I guess it would make more 
 sells that way?) . Single player campaign is just like a rotation of maps on instant action nothing 
 special. The special cards that you can play; that you have won during single player can come in 
 handy if you can't beat a certain stage. They should have continued the campaign at the end I wanted 
 to see Malcolm die in my hands. Anyways back to the game itself the mode warfare it's just like 
 onslaught from unreal 2004 but there some stupid orbs that can instantly capture nodes links to 
 your nodes and power core, (don't like orbs, better just doing the normal way) . Anyways there's 
 some interesting warfare maps like avalanche which if your enemy have taken the node that controls 
 your power core you can cause an avalanche do destroy it, so you can save you from being beat. 
 Vctf maps are okay to play once in awhile if you're bored playing warfare 24/7. Death matches or 
 tdm's can be crazy and the maps can be amazing but vehicle maps are better. The levy tank is just 
 like the unreal 2004 one but the weapon you can shoot while driving is very bad can't kill nothing 
 with it, (unreal 2004 had better bigger shots) . one thing that's missing in this game that I liked 
 from the previous unreal game is that gun like the redeemer, but takes 5 secs to shoot a super 
 laser from a satellite, (man if that was added I would be playing unreal 3 allot more) .
  
  Overall unreal 3 can be crazy but fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megadupek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  When I look at Unreal Tournament 3 then one thing comes to my mind: This is what I expected from 
 Quake 4! I have to say that Quake 4 really disappointed me. The levels there look boring and have 
 not really much detail. Unreal Tournament 3 comes with new levels, improved game types and an engine 
 that runs even on old PCs (and mine is old - Athlon 2600+/GeForce 6800) . It brings back the good 
 old competition feeling that I missed since playing Quake 3. The style of the levels is simply 
 astonishing. A mixture of Sci-Fi, Chinese architecture and organic design. I love it! I really 
 enjoy just looking at the levels. The new vehicles rock as well. It just gets crazy when a Darthwalker 
 starts to frag everyone in a small deatmatch level. I like also the redesign of the old Onslaught 
 levels like Torlan. They now look even better.
  
  If you liked Quake 3 and UT2004 then you will love Unreal Tournament 3. For me it's the BEST multi 
 player first person shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsukasagoeth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 doesn't really try to re-invent the wheel. That's a good thing, since the tried-and-true 
 UT formula has promised fun since the first game. However, I feel that the changes that were made 
 did more harm than good. For starters, the Warfare mode is alright, but I don't believe Epic should 
 have put so much focus on Warfare mode. Unreal Tournament has always been a shooter designed to 
 be just plain fun, and I feel Warfare makes takes the game away from its roots towards the turf 
 of the Battlefield series. Also, the Assault gametype, which, if I'm to understand correctly, was 
 put into UT2004 by player request, is mysteriously missing. There isn't a lot of variety in the 
 characters, on a side note: There are five "factions" and five or six different player models in 
 each sub-branch. Sure, it's not an incredibly small number of skins, but UT2004 boasted a good 
 50 or more different character skins, and I feel like some of that variety is lost. Also, UT3 takes 
 a more serious approach, chronicling Reaper's journey to get revenge on the Necris High Inquisitor 
 Akasha. While Epic hit it off well using a serious, gritty story for Gears of War, UT has always 
 been a more fast-paced, energetic series, and I personally thought that the dark feel didn't really 
 work for the game. All in all, I definitely feel that UT3 is a good game, but I don't really feel 
 like it has the spark that differentiates a good game and an Unreal game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurelogicsBack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  UT2004 was the greatest thing since sliced bread. UT3 is **** Gameplay style hasn't changed but 
 the weapons were not properly balanced in UT3, the AI is the worst I've ever seen. Easy should 
 be considered hard. The updates keep pouring in with major overhaul changes that should have been 
 integrated during initial development - not after release. Patches are welcome, but the changes 
 that they're making to the game indicate that the initial release of the game is more like a beta 
 release. There's nobody playing the damn game - most servers have a population of zero and if you 
 find one you'll probably have a lot of lag - close to 200br. Listen, if you live in Southern California 
 and you can't find any servers close to you with any population you know something's wrong. Absolute 
 absence of an auto team balancing option during gameplay resulting in a complete swing. Nothing 
 has been done to cure bunny hopping and there are no mid range weapons - just long and short. I 
 guess they thought that vehicles would be the mid range weapons. 
  
  It seems as though the designers were marketing this game as a huge step toward including a single 
 player campaign that strays from the tournament gametype - and it is included, but it's far from 
 what they promised. Every single mission is a tournament mission with a superthin plotline strung 
 along. It's really more of a training mission set for multiplayer. Real let down. And even on easy, 
 your team AI is pathetic - they'll take key vehicles and sit at your base when you need the vehicle 
 at the enemy base to take down their core. You won't be able to get in it and replace the AI teammate. 
 However, the opposing team is on time and cunningly powerful against you and yours. It's a totally 
 unbalanced game. Period.
  
  On the upside the graphics are pretty and it seems as though they tried to make the game feel the 
 same. But it's not. And that's just not fun in Unreal. It's not balanced. Don't buy it. At least 
 until they release another 9 patches to fix what they f-d up. Well, you can buy my copy from me 
 if you like. I'll sell it cheap, I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owner34
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I think there is only one thing to say about this game, This rocks. Unreal tournament 3 is the 
 best FPS on the pc. The multiplayer is fast and exiting. My favorite game type is Vehicle CTF but 
 all other modes rock to, i just suck at them. If your not a big fan of FPS's i think this game 
 could make you like them more. The new vehicles in this are spectacular and the combat is great. 
 The only thing I dont like about the game is nothing. I like everything about the game. If you 
 want to use the editor alot be sure to buy the special edition because it comes with toturials. 
 If you didnt like the old unreal games you probably wont like this one. I havent played campaign 
 because my computer doesnt have enough GHZ, so makesure you have enought if you want to play campaign. 
 But the game is best in multiplayer online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  System:
  Pentium D 3.0ghz
  xfx geforce 8500gt fatal1ty
  2 gigs of ram
  (im running 1360 x 768, textures and world on 3 just fine) 
  
  UT3 immediately brings back 
 memories of older first person shooters in which you could literally shut your brain off, run around 
 at 4000miles-per-hour, and shoot people with some of the most insane and creative weapons ever 
 made. This formula for the online fps gaming community was abandoned and locked in the closet probably 
 sometime after the first counter-strike came out, with a few exceptions out there (painkiller, 
 or UT2004 off the top of my head) When picking up UT3, it is like a walk down memory lane, but 
 if that is a good thing, its up to you.
  This was my first Unreal game to date, so I can't really compare it to others, I draw my experiences 
 from the quake series. And UT3 plays almost identically to Quake III, theres a single player that 
 is story driven, but still creates the same deathmatching experience you get from playing online. 
 ANd the online, well its one of the most fast-paced, death matching experiences you can get. If 
 theres anything that distinguishes UT3 from these older titles i guess are new weapons? (I never 
 played the older UT games so im guessing) , Graphics, and maybe a few new game modes. 
  If I have any problem with UT3 is its lack of innovation, even if the point of the game is to recreate 
 a classic deathmatch experience. THe game just feels so very standard, a few new modes would have 
 been cool unique to the UT3 experience. But I still give the game props, because it is diffulcult 
 to get creative without messing with the formula. What it boils down to is that if you still play 
 your Quake III or older UT games (again I don't know, but i'd imagine it would be somewhat similar) 
 than you can skip this one. Especially if you do not have the computer for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgplatypus
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Being a long time fan of FPS games ( all the way back to rocking the very first wolfenstein) I 
 felt cheated by this new edition to the series, but I suppose I should have known better. If your 
 interested in playing this game at all, I'd consider it a rental at best. My reasons are as follows:
 
  1) The single player was a joke. If anyone is planning on buying this game and does not have internet 
 capabilities you've basically went ahead and wasted sixty dollars. CPU characters are sadly predictable 
 and the entire campaign is over in a very short amount of time. If you don't have the ability to 
 play online I would seriously consider not purchasing this game. I suppose this should come as 
 no surprise because Unreal tournament has functioned much the same in the past couple installments. 
 
  2) Re-hash frenzy! In my opinion there isn't enough material on this game to consider it a new 
 title! Sure, the graphics are stunning, there are a few new implemented game modes, and the vehicles 
 are OK, but there really isn't much difference between this title and it's predecessor. It kept 
 me captivated for a few hours, but there really isn't anything that wanted to keep me playing. 
 After the initial excitement I felt like I was playing Unreal II with updated graphics. Am I wrong? 
 Is there something I'm not seeing? Can we kill a dying horse yet? It's been dragged for far too 
 long. 
  3) Latency issues. Even if the game had more going for it, the networking was terrible when I had 
 played online. I have yet to come across another PSIII title that had such choppy lag. Often I 
 found a one to two second delay on my bullets firing. Maybe it's gotten better in the past month 
 but it never really changed. 
  
  If I am wrong, please let me know what I'm missing out on. I'm so glad I rented this game before 
 I actually went ahead and bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  Not much really, aside from the fact that there are two new game types, and the graphics are brilliant.
 
  
  As things stand ATM, the two new game types are Vehicle Capture The Flag and Warfare. There are 
 a couple of tweaks here and there, such as the new hover board that allows you to shoot round the 
 larger maps a lot quicker (and it's wicked cool) , and the ability to play dead. You can just see 
 how people will utilise this feature - anybody for a bullet in the back! 
  
  The graphics are of course the biggest change, which is expected. Don't think you're getting Crysis-like 
 goodness, but the engine definitely holds its own against anything else that other developers might 
 want to throw at it!
  
  The single player campaign is of course a waste of time, but it's a good way to refresh your skills 
 if you haven't played Unreal Tournement 2004 in a while. Of course, the meat of the game is multiplayer 
 against human counterparts, and naturally this is where the game excels. 
  
  There is the always active community that helps to add that more spice to the game, and I definitely 
 look forward to remakes of the more classic maps.
  
  The jist of the matter is that UT3 gives you more of what you like wrapped in far better packaging 
 than UT2004, and thus is a game you should consider investing in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament holds a special place in my hearth. I think it's the best online shooter ever. 
 So I was very excited when the new instalment arrived. 
  
  I'm not going to talk about how good this game looks and sounds because you are probably aware 
 that it is top notch in that regard. And the best thing is that you don't have to have a monstrous 
 pc to play it. If only more games scaled this good.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed from ut2004, I think this is a good thing. Why fix something that isn't 
 broken right ? As always UT manages to deliver ultra fast shooting madness at its very best. 
 
  
  The single player campaign is a big joke though. What a load of stinky horse manure. The story 
 is crap and what's the point of having a campaign when you can just as well play single player 
 against bots on the same maps? I would have liked it to be more like the previous games were you 
 got to play trough an actual tournament and I realy was hoping they would explore that further 
 (you know with crazy announcers and replays and such) . 
  
  Also slightly disappointing is the number of maps. Allthough, by now, there are a lot off user 
 made maps you can download. The quality of these maps is often equal to those that came with the 
 game. 
  
  
  I bought this to frag online and it doesn't disappoint there. I can always find a fast server to 
 play on and the competition is realy good. Mind you, if you are new to this game ,practise on bots 
 first cos otherwise you will be fragged constantly. If you manage to beat the bots at the 'skilled' 
 level
  you might stand a chance online. 
  
  So all things cosidered UT3 is a very cool fps. They have made a mess of the single player campaign 
 and there are not enough deathmatch maps maybe but no other game can deliver the thrills this game 
 has to offer. Get it NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  UT3 retains most of the features present in the previous UT games, the weapons and vehicles are 
 similar, even some maps have been reproduced with higher detail. The game introduces a warfare 
 mode, which is like onslaught, you have a series of nodes that need to be linked (captured) before 
 the enemy core can be damaged, but you can also carry an orb that can instantly capture nodes rather 
 than spending time destroying the node to capture it. This makes is slightly similar to the sorely 
 missed bombing run game mode. The most obvious thing about UT3 is how they took influence from 
 Epic's other successful game  Gears of War. UT3 features a four-man squad, a new enemy (Necris) 
 cut scenes between the chapters but most importantly it features a campaign story that isn't just 
 explained as a series of tournaments, even though that's exactly what it is.
  
  The campaign tells of a war, and battles to gain control of various locals or maps. They are presented 
 on a global map sometimes giving you the opportunity to choose between alternative battles. To 
 make things slightly more interesting they introduce a card system, that lets you add players to 
 your side or increase your vehicle armour. They can only be used once and are just designed to 
 make some missions easier, again they don't really add much to the game. During the campaign the 
 characters will try to explain why Flags are capped and why Enemies respawn, which just doesn't 
 float at all and frankly is a little insulting. Before missions you may here the same introduction 
 several times which completely pulls you out of what little story there is. The missions are just 
 maps from the game with certain enemies and a specific setup, sometimes with a slight redesign 
 in terms of lighting or effects. Only unlike in UT2k4 you can't choose your squad members or progress 
 through a ladder system. A lot of work has been put into the campaign, the cut scenes in particular. 
 Unfortunately these things do little to make the game any better when you are just playing bot 
 matches between the cut scenes and none of the characters are interesting.
  
  The one good thing that comes from the campaign is the introduction of the new enemies and their 
 new vehicles, some new vehicles have a similarity between the human vehicles but really they bring 
 something fresh to the battlefield, they operate differently and just become rather imposing. One 
 is a war of the worlds type three legged contraption which roars as a secondary fire to knock enemies 
 down, another is a ball with legs that you can roll over enemies and spin out some sharp blades. 
 It makes the vehicle matches on some maps more interesting when there are differences in balance, 
 or just creates a fresh feel when its Necris vehicles only. The other introduction is the hoverboard, 
 fast moving single user vehicle that can latch you onto vehicles but doesn't work on water (McFly 
 you Bojo) but should you get hit while on one, you get knocked down and are very vulnerable to 
 attack for a few seconds. Vehicles are fairly well implemented but I think matches without vehicles, 
 especially against bots are more fun. The upside of vehicles is that you can more easily dominate 
 with them, and you will get more monster kills etc in them. Aside from the occasional tip or description 
 from a fellow squad member about a map during the campaign there is not a lot of incentive to play 
 through it. To add some incentive Epic lets you unlock characters during the campaign, these can 
 then be used during instant action battles and your character selection, some are only unlocked 
 via side missions and others are available through codes. The characters feature interchangeable 
 body parts, so you can customise your own character in a few different ways.
  
  The rest of the game is thankfully quite good and graphically it's no slouch. Gears of War has 
 better textures but the level design and color is more vivid in UT3. The effects are also very 
 nicely done, plenty of gibs fly when the action heats up, the biorifle charged up goo is very satisfying 
 when it sticks on enemies and blood smears over your screen if the action is close. The game is 
 designed to be a little bit darker than previous games, the weapons look different and the maps 
 are grittier. Although more colourful than Gears it still is a bit bland or brown at times compared 
 to the previous games, this helps though when blue and red units stand out against a more placid 
 background and it keeps the action up. The sound in UT3 is very good, from the dialogue to the 
 weapon and pickup sounds, the music also is up beat and complementary to each of the levels. As 
 usual the announcer is good value.
  
  The enemy AI feels very familiar to the UT series, especially UT2k4, they do similar things and 
 are certainly as competent, in some ways though they are still a bit over skilled in vehicles, 
 mostly again due to the AI having better aim than smarts. They may try to emulate your actions 
 more than previous games, and they cover you more when you have a flag. Orders for each team member 
 can be given through an in game menu, basic things like attack and defence are included, although 
 in general the AI seemed to do just fine without specific instructions, even though it can be quite 
 deficient at defending an exposed core. I didn't have anywhere near the level of AI frustration 
 I had during the ladder campaign in UT2k4, although most of those problems were related with a 
 specific game mode (Domination) that is no longer present. 
  
  The maps across the board are great, their design and flow is extremely polished, some feel a bit 
 more like a quake game than unreal but this is a good thing.. Many of the maps use some great design 
 principles in terms of weapon and spawn placements, and the levels are easy to remember thanks 
 to the high detail, although some more deathmatch maps would have been nice. Overall the inclusion 
 of the Campaign in UT3 was probably a waste of Epic's time; it adds nothing to the game and probably 
 takes away from it. Had they opted to go for more maps, more game modes and a better tournament 
 system involving management of your own team I think they would have benefited more from it. The 
 other thing worth mentioning at this point is the lack of people playing UT3 online, while you 
 can find a game fairly easily it might not be the game type or map you would rather play. If you 
 are more inclined to play against human opponents this could become a problem, but against bots 
 this game matches the best and is a blast. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  ok so i am a huge fan of ut2004. played it until my fingers bleed. every day, all day. (on my old 
 pentium 4) it was alot of fun and i expected this game to be good. it has some incredible maps 
 and new ones are coming out recently. if you like dm or tdm like i do, this game is for you. sure, 
 there's not a whole lot of people playing. but i have never had a problem finding a server with 
 players. granted, there isn't alot of them. but there are some. even at 4am in the morning i have 
 found a server to play on. you might be wondering, why should i get this? why should i spend $60 
 on it? well sure, there are other games, cod 4 comes to mind. but nothing beats the satifaction 
 of good old team deathmatch. and this is where ut3 has an edge. it is the best for this gameplay 
 mode. also, try the robot in heat ray that shoots fire! you can rack up alot of kills this way. 
 there are maps with vehicles. a great addition to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etoknx2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  this game is aboslutley amazing, so fast paced, so much fun.
  
  you can have ridiculous 64 player spamfest deathmatch on an eight man level. Although it is stupid 
 it is fun, but you can also play warfare where the real fun is at, if you have played ut2004 its 
 pretty much just onslaught with a few differences. Mainly orbs and the new hoverboard, which i 
 feel make the game less stagnant at times.
  
  the only problems with this game is it has been consolified, no dodge jumps, heavier characters, 
 etc. also it has terrible gui, one of the worst i have experienced, so clumsy. Also i would have 
 liked to have more characters like anubis, malcolm and some other old faves. I know this is unreal 
 3 and its time for change but even having them as some kind of unlockable would be nice.
  
  none the less though this game is probally the best typical fps out today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  As a long-time Unreal Tournament fan, my take on the game is based on certain expectations. This 
 time, when I got hold of the game, I could not play it because of the old graphic card. So I spent 
 a good deal of money to install an ATI 3850 512 MB card.... and also a server level power supply 
 because my card is a power monster. And since I already spent some good money, I got me a Core 
 2 duo processor and 2 GB ram.
  Then the first thing I did was to dive into UT3.
  My first experience in the off-line instant action mode was simply breath taking. Not only the 
 graphical setting stunned me -- but also the enemy designs and the physics of the weapons stole 
 my heart. I believe this felt too good, also because of the graphic card. Yeah, for the first time 
 of my life -- I could play a game with maximum options on.
  The maps are all designed on the basis of the past games -- covering ruined city to moving space 
 craft or factory to shrine. 
  The instant action game includes all past challenges like capture the flag and adds some new elements 
 like warfare and solo fights. The campaign mode follows the Unreal tournament championship path -- 
 but that proceeds like an unfolding story. I have not experienced the on-line or multiplayer mode -- 
 so I leave that part out.
  The actions remain as intense as before. UT has been famous for past pace action -- and its flawlessly 
 delivered here.
  The most entertaining part for me is watch the enemies move. They look like they came out from 
 the "Predator" movie, they are big, they growl and they are fast too. 
  Even my 12 year old daughter got hooked into the game.
  I believe those who did not enjoy the 
 game, it was because of the graphical limitation of the computer. If you have a PC that rocks all 
 current games, you will simply love UT3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  As I write this, I'm reminded of an interview article with some of the people behind this game 
 (Epic) , and how they had mentioned that one thing they'd noticed is that according to their data 
 collected on people that have bought UT '03 and '04, is that less than half actually played the 
 game online. Thus, one of the "BIG focus"es of this newest installation was on improving the SP 
 game for those that likely won't be playing online.
  
  To get it out of the way, they did improve it, though given their efforts in other Epic-made games 
 (Gears of War, namely) , and other games using their engine (Bioshock) , they still have a long way 
 to go to making an Unreal title with quality story telling.
  
  But who am I kidding? Those on this site reading this won't even care, and some may not ever play 
 the campaign at all. But for those that are interested, you play this soldier guy who used to have 
 to worry about dying, and nearly avoided getting killed by some Necris chick. So now he's been 
 enlisted by Izanagi where he meets a UT vet (Malcolm) and starts to learn what it's like to work 
 with newer deathmatch technology, and using his job as a way to get back at the Necris for the 
 slaughter he'd nearly been a statistic of.
  
  Obviously, there are parts of the story that feel a bit forced, like coming up with an acronym 
 for the flags... but all in all, it's good filler, and good practice for the online if you decide 
 to turn up the difficulty proper.
  
  One thing that Unreal has always been famous for is being able to bring deliciously pretty graphics 
 with an engine that can also do it quickly, with great scalability even on lower-end systems. That 
 being said, you really get your money's worth here with a system that can have the details cranked 
 to max. Anyone that says otherwise needs their eyes checked.
  
  Using onboard sound, the audio does its job and there's a good bit of surround sound going on. 
 Though if I'm honest, this title is motivating me to look for a dedicated sound card again.
  
  Speaking of upgrades, there is good news for those that were thinking about or have an Ageia 
 PhysX card. Even on the stock maps, UT3 sees a measurable improvement in performance for those 
 equipped with the PhysX hardware. Granted though, the largest improvements happen either in more 
 heavily loaded maps (i. e. greater than 16 players) , and especially on the AGEIA-made maps that 
 were designed with the PPU silicon in mind. As a side bonus, it at least does indicate that future 
 games that use this engine (Gears of War, IIRC) will also see an improvement.
  
  Compared to most computer games, and particularly earlier iterations of UT, UT3's menu system feels 
 a bit awkward. My first guess is that they decided on this as common ground to work with when porting 
 the game to the PlayStation3 (and upcoming Xbox 360 release) , but it doesn't feel like you can 
 find everything where it's supposed to be as quickly with the new interface. Still, though...
 
  
  Many of the old favorites come back. Pretty much all have been redone to look prettier/more detailed, 
 and some feel retweaked. The rocket launcher's firing methods are more accessible, the BioRifle 
 has a more visible charge, and the minigun's alt-fire in this iteration feels much more unique 
 than what it used to be in UT99 for example.
  
  Obviously, one of the reasons to release a new UT is to introduce new game modes. New (to me) is 
 Warfare, which allows controlling of check points to open up the enemy core, and optional points 
 that grant certain bonuses to make a difference. Obviously, the bigger difference-makers come in 
 maps that let you access say the only flying craft, or the Leviathan (and basically skewer their 
 power core well before they can weaken your armor enough to start worrying) .
  
  Speaking of the leviathan, it leads me to talk about the ally A. I. in particular. They sure don't 
 have a problem hunting down each other, but when it comes to actually doing certain objective-related 
 stuff or anything other than hunting each other down, they seem rather brain dead on the matter. 
 It's a bit annoying to hear one of my allies mention how we should all "jump into the leviathan" 
 and basically be a rolling death kr3w, but then nobody actually does. Or when a couple of allies 
 are standing right next to me with link guns whilst I'm in a tank and I don't get at least one 
 repairing me whilst I employ my superior firepower. It would be nice if they'd at least employed 
 a little more tact, but I have to wonder if it's depending on what difficulty I'm playing...?
 
  
  Nevertheless, the game gets credit on many of its technical merits - it's silky smooth, it's **** 
 beautiful, and manages to remain brutally fast while doing so.
  
  As an evolution of the series, it does its job and helps make up for the awkwardness that were 
 UT03 and UT04. As an entry to try and redefine the genre and evolve the first-person-shooter, not 
 so much. But you'd be a fool to ignore its presence. And an even bigger fool not to get this game 
 if you've got a system equipped with a PPU (ideally, an OpenAL sound card, too) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  UT2004 was the greatest thing since sliced bread. UT3 is **** Gameplay style hasn't changed but 
 the weapons were not properly balanced in UT3, the AI is the worst I've ever seen. Easy should 
 be considered hard. The updates keep pouring in with major overhaul changes that should have been 
 integrated during initial development - not after release. Patches are welcome, but the changes 
 that they're making to the game indicate that the initial release of the game is more like a beta 
 release. There's nobody playing the damn game - most servers have a population of zero and if you 
 find one you'll probably have a lot of lag - close to 200br. Listen, if you live in Southern California 
 and you can't find any servers close to you with any population you know something's wrong. Absolute 
 absence of an auto team balancing option during gameplay resulting in a complete swing. Nothing 
 has been done to cure bunny hopping and there are no mid range weapons - just long and short. I 
 guess they thought that vehicles would be the mid range weapons. 
  
  It seems as though the designers were marketing this game as a huge step toward including a single 
 player campaign that strays from the tournament gametype - and it is included, but it's far from 
 what they promised. Every single mission is a tournament mission with a superthin plotline strung 
 along. It's really more of a training mission set for multiplayer. Real let down. And even on easy, 
 your team AI is pathetic - they'll take key vehicles and sit at your base when you need the vehicle 
 at the enemy base to take down their core. You won't be able to get in it and replace the AI teammate. 
 However, the opposing team is on time and cunningly powerful against you and yours. It's a totally 
 unbalanced game. Period.
  
  On the upside the graphics are pretty and it seems as though they tried to make the game feel the 
 same. But it's not. And that's just not fun in Unreal. It's not balanced. Don't buy it. At least 
 until they release another 9 patches to fix what they f-d up. Well, you can buy my copy from me 
 if you like. I'll sell it cheap, I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaWRTs
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I am Unreal Tournament fan and i think It is really amazing game and worth playing . When I first 
 played Unreal Tournament 3 i couldn't leave computer and i played it 7 hours in a row . I haven 
 t finish Unreal tournament 3 yet but i going to finish it . Unreal tournament 3 is almost faultless 
 Graphics is perfect , voices are perfect , game story is great and there is more great things what 
 can say for Unreal Tournament 3 . There is one thing what i don t like at all specifically my favorite 
 weapon Flak Cannon second shoot has gone slower and it is much harder to kill enemy's . I have 
 played Unreal tournament 3 less than 10 hours because i don t have any possibility to play it ( 
 i first played it in my brother computer ) . If you have any possibility to play Unreal tournament 
 3 then use it .
  Ok that s will be all . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  Great new vehicles, reimagined returning vehicles. wonderfully perfect weapons, every single weapon 
 from bio rifle to redeemer is perfectly fun this time around (except the enforcer) peerless level 
 design, great visuals, great game modes. great player community, lots of good things are sure to 
 come.
  THE BAD
  Horribly painfully stupid single player campaign, week enforcer. very vanilla user interface, basically 
 no UT interface has been as good as the original but this games server browser is just plain battlefield 
 2.
  
  THE RANT
  I'm sorry after gears i expected something original not campy boring cheesy and pointless. the 
 whole story is presented in a fashion were things are a perfect blend of obvious and confusing 
 kinda like a bad Japanese rpg, you know something unbelievably stupid is gonna happen but you have 
 no possible notion of what's gonna happen because it's all so convoluted. how does that happen, 
 well take a team of muscle bound knuckle heads and set them on a path for revenge with a little 
 campy or just weak political dialogue and some horrible voice work compounded by some stupid characters 
 further amplified by the rather pointless nonlinear gimmick. all i want is the tournament and that 
 is pretty bare bones, how come you had to mess up the tournament mode with a stupid story and horrible 
 characters. animations and assets for the story are weak, and character models never feel as cool 
 as say the ones from uc2, similar to ut2004 necris still look like idiots, ok and now this human 
 clan looks like a bad rip on the gears fellas but with a different color pallet in mind. i also 
 wanted to point out that the starting weapon in ut3 is some how weaker feeling than the crappy 
 assault rifle from the last game. and again it's really hard to get dual base weapons so this starting 
 default is kinda weak sauce. oh and the UI is just as weak as last UT, looks like it was made by 
 a graphics designer, not someone who thinks about how people will use the user interface, or how 
 the meta game experience counts towards the end result. rants aside i love this game. the new vehicles 
 are perfect and tons of fun, the new levels are great, some are simply timeless, while remakes 
 are perfect reimaginings of the levels we came to love. so the campaign is stupid but bot skirmish 
 is still a blast, and the AI is great, online play, the meat of the game, is near perfect. i would 
 usually knock this title back so many for it's stupid blunders in regards to the UI, and the campaign 
 but the heart of the title is intact. the control scheme is perfect, simple and fluid after half 
 a hour to a hour you just melt into the responsive controls, something i can't say about many better 
 games, unreal tournament is a achievement in the fact that it takes the simple act of fragging 
 and makes it so endlessly entertaining. i didn't think i could have this much fun in a game full 
 of endless surreal violence. this game is pact with the right mix of nastalgia and cunning so it 
 delivers one of the simply best online and skirmish experiences ever, really this game is only 
 challenged by it's predecessors but it has enough new to make old unreal fans really enjoy it. 
 this game is comparable in performance to call of duty 4 so know if you can handle that you can 
 handle this one, ut3 may also play on lower spec machines than cod 4. as a avid unreal fan i can't 
 wait for mods to take effect on this one. ok!
  
  THE BREAK DOWN
  
  GAMEPLAY
  I adore this title and the retro taste it leaves in my mouth, it is immediately satisfying to anyone 
 who likes blowing up stuff, and the fluid simple controls combined with the new touches like a 
 hover board and a glut of new vehicles and maps really make this one feel awesome. this isn't portal 
 but it isn't quake 3 either.
  10
  GRAPHICS
  This title offers not only one of the leading engines of this generation but it also has some of 
 the best art talent this side of the milky way, levels play fantastic and look even better (with 
 maybe two exceptions) characters animate wonderfully vehicles are a sight to behold especially 
 the dark walker, the pyrotechnics are top notch the gore is over the top. no weekness here.
  10
  SOUND
  voice work in general is just luke warm to horrible i kinda grew to like the campy 
 AI taunts and voice work but the campaign cinematics have a combination of boring voice actors 
 and horribly written dialogue. weapons and enviroments and explotions sound perfect, so everything 
 gameplay centric is good but the whole package isn't
  7
  VALUE
  There is a perfect online support plus a coop option that is fluidly intigrated to make the campaign 
 less painful. but similar to halo this game is ment to be a multi only title and as such doesn't 
 have a persistance in it like say halo3, no matchmaking by skill or anything of that sort. this 
 leaves a few holes in the package. but the gameplay is fantastic and unique.
  8
  TILT
  This isn't a revolutionary title like portal, it isn't a completely derivative game like halo3, 
 or tony hawk either, it's been almost four years since we got our last ut so this title is warranted. 
 i love it, i love buying something and knowing i could live off that game alone for two years through 
 mods and free support from epic through map packs and mod competitions. i enjoy the simplicity 
 of it. i recomend this one to all my friends and now to you.
  9
  OVERALL
  9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  For those who complain about Unreal Tournament 3 being the same old same old, really just need 
 to shut up. Cause as I recall, when Epic did try to make something different ( Unreal Championship 
 2 which was a very good game) most of you didn't even look at it twice yet alone give it a chance. 
 So dont complain when the new starts to feel like the old.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 feels alot like Unreal Tournament 99, which is a good thing cause it brings 
 back that hardcore in your face carnage. The games is able to run well on even the oldest pc's, 
 granted that your settings are set properly There is no assualt , domination, or bombing. Instead 
 the elements of those three game modes are put together to create a new mode called warfare. 
 
  
  Where take controlled of your enemies nodes that lead to the enemy core node for you to destroy 
 while defend your own core. DM, CTF, and VCTF are all in as well. There some good maps, but there 
 aren't as many. The taunting is very limited, and they dont have as many characters to choose fom. 
 The weapons are as powerful as they were in UT99. Well...... almost. The redeemer for example though 
 still devestating, doesn't hit as hard as in UT99.
  
  Although not a flawless game it's still pretty fun as UT has always been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  UT3 doesn't really add too many new things. I mean, they take away the awesome monster hunt mode, 
 and for some reason team deathmatch is STILL limited to two teams, even though in the first Unreal 
 Tournament you could have three or four teams, which could be a lot more exciting.
  The game's still pretty awesome. The campaign has lots of cool cutscenes, even though the plot 
 and the emotions of characters are extremely poorly conveyed so there's really no sympathy built 
 up for anyone, at least not very early on.
  The game opens up in a city with no name or backstory. Then, suddenly, a bunch of monsters attack 
 and an exciting battle ensues. A few main characters (you can tell they're main characters because 
 they don't have on helmets) shoot some badguys accompanied by witty lines and minimal use of eachothers' 
 names. Then the main character gets hurt and the game skips ahead to where all of the survivors 
 of the planet are suddenly in some generic, oriental place working with some corporation or something 
 like that, and they have to fight generic foes.
  Malcolm, who I remember from the very first Unreal Tournament, comes in as an important character 
 in UT3, but sadly he can't be played as in multiplayer, at least not as far as I could tell.
  I'm really disappointed by the campaign in that it's just a big mess of bot matches. I'd actually 
 been hoping it would include a legitimate campaign with big levels and special super-enemies, especially 
 after seeing the commercial that made it look like it'd be an epic game like Gears of War. But 
 it ain't. Still, the campaign's pretty fun, especially because of the four-player co-op, which 
 is just players versus bots.
  Speaking of Gears of War, UT3 was made by the same people who made Gears of War, and even if someone 
 didn't know that ahead of time, anyone who's played Gears of War would know that the designs for 
 all the characters are so like Gears of War that they could've easily been ripped straight from 
 it. Men are big, muscle-bound and wear enormous suits of armor that would surely hinder their mobility. 
 Main characters never wear anything that covers their face, but extras will always wear helmets 
 that cover their whole head. Women are cute and utterly lack any muscular build, but at least there's 
 more than one female character, unlike in Gears of War (though Gears had two if you count the lady 
 who does the voice for what I assume is the Locust leader) . The token black guy of the game (excluding 
 Malcolm) is black to a ridiculous level, like Cole Train from GoW. The actual main character of 
 the game looks way too much like a mix between Dom and Fenix from GoW.
  What's really terrible is that, because the story is just made up of bot matches (as far as I got, 
 maybe it actually changes along the way!) , they try to fit respawning into the storyline. They 
 actually do a decent job of establishing it, but if you think about the idea of respawning in warfare, 
 it seems really stupid. The idea is that soldiers never actually die, they just respawn so they 
 can keep fighting. That seemed much more tolerable and likeable an idea in Unreal Tournament when 
 the single player campaign was actually a tournament. By the theory that you can have soldiers 
 respawn, you could also have people in populated cities respawn. If someone gets hit by a car, 
 instead of having a tragic car accident, they can just automatically respawn the victim and charge 
 the driver a respawning fee for the victim because corporations have to make money somehow.
  For some weird reason, all of the characters in the single player campaign look like the exact-same 
 helmeted man. Even the main character's own sister is a helmeted man in-game, which is especially 
 obvious in the very first fight. I'm absolutely positive that something is wrong with my installation 
 or something because surely something so stupid would not have been allowed to happen before releasing 
 the game.
  
  Though I complained for pretty much this entire review, this game is awesome. I miss monster-hunting 
 and four-way team deathmatches, and the campaign isn't a hardcore-epic adventure like I'd imagined, 
 but otherwise, the game has everything anyone could want from an Unreal Tournament game, or anything 
 similar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silencer008
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Even though I'm giving it an 7 doesn't mean its what a normal 7 is. What I'm trying to say is that 
 the game is Unreal Tournament 2004 with better graphics and only one side of new vehicles. There 
 are also things that they took out of UT 2K4 like Assault mode, and Bombing Run ( one of my Favs) . 
 Another annoying thing that they did was try and turn the Story Mode into an actual Story. The 
 previous method was very enjoyable, with the tournament and all. And to do it they made stupid 
 rationalizations like the respawn point system in war, and FLaGs... i mean come on, Field Latus 
 Generators.... Another annoying thing was, if they 're going to re do one of their games, at least 
 leave the good stuff. What I'm talking about was the weapons. The only all purpose weapon of UT 
 2K4 was the mini gun, but they replaced only that with a slower, less affective Stinger. My current 
 bashing doesn't mean i hate the game, there are plenty of things i like about it, many of the new 
 vehicle designs are quite useful, the only bad one is the SPMA (Useless) . Another interesting improvement 
 is the Hover-board which allows you to cross the field of play quickly. The reduction of characters, 
 however, is a bit disappointing. But on the continuing upside the introduction of the "Orb" in 
 Onslaught... sorry "Warfare" is nice and can help speed the game and give it a more strategic type 
 of play. Also many of the levels are interesting and offer a changing scenery, meaning that each 
 side is different. A good example would be Corrupt, the Asian style level of CTF, It offers a similar 
 yet different landscape per side. Now to get down to the end of this boring, one sided review with 
 a few technical specs. Number one, the game seems to require decent graphics to look nice, nothing 
 in the range of an 8 series Nvidia but a decent card should get the job done with everything on 
 high ( i myself have a 7950 GX2 and everything on high at 1280 X 1024, Runs great) . The biggest 
 thing to worry about would be space, the game requires 8GB of free space, a little on the heavy 
 side, don't you think. There is also the processor issue, well its not really an issue, but if 
 you bought a computer in the last 2 - 2.5 years you should be fine in that Dept. however it would 
 be nice and run great with a dual core setup, not saying it won't run with a really good single 
 core, but just to be safe find your self a dual core, it helps with other games as well. The bottom 
 line is that with some visual tweaks and some new stuff ( and lack there of stuff) , Unreal Tournament 
 III is Unreal Tournament 2004. My rating is a 7 because even though some game-play from UT 2k4 
 is missing (Bombing Run : ( ) some of the good stuff remains, and there is a much better Multiplayer 
 system. I would recommend this game for its mulitplayer, graphics, and for the fact that its UT 
 2K4's younger brother! Enjoy the Game!
  
  P. S. If you've seen the commercial on TV, it's not that epic... at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  A few months ago, a little sci-fi shooter by the name of Halo 3 landed on the Xbox 360. You might 
 have heard of it. Hailed as the greatest online experience to ever hit the Internet in the history 
 of forever, I eagerly locked away a weekend to take Master Chief online. Yet after spending a day 
 of driving Warthogs and capturing flags on Xbox Live, it still hadn't lit the fire of fragging 
 passion that I was expecting. 
  
  I brought this up with some Halo 3 devotees, and their reasoning behind my disappointment was simple. 
 "You just don't like sci-fi shooters with a fast pace and a need for twitch skills. You'd rather 
 play more realistic shooters, where your tired, 31-year-old's nerves can handle the dawdling pace." 
 Their sentiments seemed to ring true, as I realised that I've stuck exclusively to realistic shooters 
 over the last couple of years. 
  
  After recently playing Unreal Tournament III (UT3) , I've realised this reasoning is absolute garbage, 
 and that they were just making excuses for a tired online game.
  
  You couldn't find a game more removed from the realistic shooter genre if you sent it through a 
 wormhole to the other side of the galaxy, where life-forms wage war with black hole bombs and giant 
 laser-powered sand worms. Yet I absolutely adore UT3. It's the first new, old-school shooter since 
 Quake III Arena, with a firm focus on faster-than-light combat, ridiculously cool weapons and a 
 cast of characters, vehicles and levels that have been ripped straight from the pages of a schlocky 
 sci-fi novel. 
  
  In other words, it's the same Unreal Tournament that we've loved since the first UT was released 
 last century. The original UT tore our PCs to shreds back in 1999 and since then we've had two 
 other UT games, which actually makes this the fourth UT title. They've all stuck to the same formula, 
 based around hyper-speed deathmatch action, but throwing in more goodies each time. This year sees 
 the winning formula return, with a single major game mode addition, alongside a massive visual 
 revamp designed to show us what the video cards of 2007 are capable of. While we usually encourage 
 innovation in gameplay, by sticking to the older style of UT gameplay, UT3 actually feels new. 
 Where all of its competitors have slowed down to focus on more realistic, tactical gameplay, UT3 
 has proudly snubbed this trend, and as a result feels unique. 
  
  UT has never been known for its strong singleplayer game, and sadly UT3 doesn't shake this trend. 
 If you're looking for a deep and involving storyline, go play Half Life 2. However, if you'd like 
 to train against competent bots to come to grips with the surprising depth and breadth of UT3's 
 various modes and mechanics, the singleplayer game is a good place to start.
  
  Between throwaway cut scenes telling a cardboard cut-out of a story, the singleplayer game slowly 
 introduces you to the skills you'll need to avoid becoming a pile of bouncing gibs when you finally 
 summon up the courage to go online. It eases you into deathmatch, then CTF, then the other game 
 modes, as well as teaching you how to double jump and use the various vehicles and weapons. That's 
 not to say it's very satisfying though, even with the awesome voice calls from your AI-controlled 
 team mates. No matter how good today's AI is, and UT3 has some of the best we've seen, there's 
 still no beating the cunning co-ordination of Homo sapiens. It's especially noticeable when vehicles 
 enter the mix, as the AI struggles to not drive into walls or shoot in a straight line. Without 
 a compelling storyline, the singleplayer ends up being a fairly sterile, though highly informative, 
 extended tutorial. 
  
  However, the singleplayer does include four player online co-op, so you can take on the bots with 
 a few pals. I found it to be very laggy though, even when hosted on my 24Mbit/sec ADSL2+ connection. 
 Hosting behind a NAT-enabled router was about as much fun as chewing on a three-round burst of 
 UT rockets, although using the 1.1 beta patch finally enabled it to work. Yet even with Cam by 
 my side, warping and teleporting as he was, it was still nowhere near as much fun as firing up 
 a 1 vs 1 duel server, proving that UT3's real strength lies where it always has - multiplayer.
 
  
  My rating is 10/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samthecyber
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  To anyone who's reading this, i've only played the demo yet I've become addicted, I've never payed 
 over $30 dollars for a game though, but because of that demo. I'm paying the full price for a game 
 that is finally worth the money! 
  
  Even in the demo, you could use vehicles, hoverboard, play online and for a demo that's great. 
 That shows me that this game is worth anything. Get the game, I am. 
  
  The weapons in the game are Impact Hammer, Enforcer, Flak Cannon, Link Gun, Shock Rifle, Rocket 
 Launcher, Sniper, Chaingun and the Redeemer! And that's not even including the enemy weapons!
 
  
  The vehicles are great! The Walker, The Fury, The Scorpion, The Goliath, The Raptor, and loads 
 more! 
  
  The storyline is awesome, mining colonies on different planets created gladiorial arenas to keep 
 the people happy. Then the necris (evil aliens) attack and kill ur colony which includes ur family 
 and friends, u go out hunting for revenge!!
  
  The muliplayer part is great too with warfare, ctf, vehicle ctf, deathmatch, team deathmatch modes. 
 
  
  I'd rate this as a game u must play b4 u die. 
  
  Go Unreal tournament 3, worth the whole $49 and more!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassbomber20
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I know I'm gonna annoy some people with this review but here goes. 
  
  I've owned every single UT game ever made, and honestly they've all been great experiances, but 
 they're all starting to just blend into the same old thing with better graphics smacked onto the 
 final product. That said the graphics are AMAZING and onpar with Crysis as far as I'm concerned. 
 The only real complaint that I have is the feel. It's the "Been there, done this before" feel and 
 I started to get it after a few rounds. Granted I'm also running a lovely fever so I'm sure that 
 is affecting my mood. But I find it alarming that I was feeling this after an hour of play.
  
  Again, it's been a rock solid series! And nothing beats playing some UT with a custom iTunes 
 playlist of all sorts of heavy metal. But I think they could have livened this up a little bit 
 more maybe. It just feels like something could have been included to really push this game through 
 the roof.
  
  You could save $40 and pick up any of the other UT's and get the same experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I was waiting to get this game for so long. When I finally got it I realized that I couldnt play 
 it because I didnt have a good enough video card. So I had to wait until today to get a new video 
 card. The game plays great on a 8400 video card. My 23 inch monitor has a 3ms response time but 
 it still has a LITTLE lag. I did not like the feel of the game compared to UT2004 however. I think 
 that 2004 is the best Ut game so far. Offline is ok the compared to Ut2004 offline. However when 
 you go online its the best thing ever. It beats the old ut2004 hands down for online. This game 
 has amazing graphics. I think that the best thing about this game is that there is hoverboards 
 =D. I think that hoverboards are the best feature of the new game. There isnt much third part support 
 however but that will solve itself with time. So overall this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaffleFries55
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  singleplayer=well your teammate suxors and its boring, but it helps you understand teh game and 
 maps better
  
  multiplayer=faster paced that past ones and the weapons are actually worth using without going 
 to modded servers or instagib servers.
  
  The graphics are very good and much better than UT2004. The weapons are basically the same with 
 a different look, but they added alot of new vehicles like my favorite the viper ( ( (a motorcycle 
 type vehicle) ) ) and they added weapons like the charges and others. It plays just like the past 
 unreals with a few changes, but its much faster paced so those who like sniping! THIS ISNT 4 YOU. 
 but this game is for those hardcore gamers and those who want to get the most out of a short time 
 period. its very addicting and awesome. So you should buy it, collector's edition i would buy unless 
 you want to learn how to mod or your just that kind of person that has to have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbholt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  As this was in the UT family of games, I was expecting great things out of this game, but I guess 
 $50-60 bucks doesn't buy much anymore. First of all, THIS IS NOT A TOURNAMENT!!! Why the heck are 
 they carrying the name of one of the all-time software greats if it is going to be just another 
 and another and another deathmatch mission. I know a lot of us were looking for a update to UT 
 2004, with the tournament format, the players, etc. in other words, all the things that were so 
 good in that game.
  
  Instead, we get a bunch of missions in a "campaign" which are really very poorly tied together 
 and have nothing to do with a "tournament." There are some outstanding graphics which can be enjoyed 
 with the right card (8800 gtx here) , so that is a plus. But the storyline is poor and many of the 
 original concepts were eliminated to make way for linked nodes and irreparable cores...
  
  The Multiplayer game may be fun, I haven't tried it since online gaming usually results in online 
 cheating. Maybe this game is different, but for single player it is poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jlobel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  its a good game and the unreal 3 engine really helps the game out it just takes a little bit of 
 time to get into it. but once ur in it all the little things the unreal 3 engine does for the game 
 really benefiets it. i would reccomend it to anybody who likes playing fast paced fps's. i really 
 enjoy the deathmatch which has always been good, i am sumwhat let down that they took out assualt 
 and claimed they combined it into warfare which is better then onslaught but its really almost 
 identical. I wish instead of that stupid duel mode they braught back domination that was the best 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XlagooferX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was exellent, good singleplayer. but multiplayer was pretty awesome but barlely 
 any players out there so if your a person who gets a game only for multiplayer then wait for a 
 few months! i thought this game was awesome for the singleplayer playing with all the bots! anyways 
 if your a person who loves singleplayer get this game trust me its freaking awesome! when i first 
 got it i played for 3 hours of SINGLEPLAYER! 
  
  But trust me this game is a kick ass game! But if your an FPS fan go for this game there is actually 
 a decent amount of people on like 5 times a week but other than that this game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament is a game that has had quite a long run in the gaming community. Its popular 
 for mods, and a very fast paced multiplayer.
  
  The good
  ____________
  
  Unreal tournament plays a lot like the old ones and fans of the series will no doubt like it and 
 feel right at home. A lot of the weapons are back from previous ones.
  
  The graphics are very nice looking. Some maps have some nice graphical things like sand storms 
 that reduce your viewing distance by a lot. Kind of changes the game play and makes it neat. All 
 the vehicles and weapons look really nice to.
  
  All the modes you've come to expect from your traditional unreal are back pretty much. 
  
  
 And common who doesent love tripods. And thick ass laser beams that they shoot.
  
  The online is a crazy hellish blast fest and it just really stands our because, fps's have taken 
 a turn for the slower type like gears or rainbow six. It just really feels like a nice change.
 
  
  The effects of the weapons look really nice to. And a very nice frame rate.
  
  The sound is really nice to
  
  Theres this cool skateboard hoverboard like thing to which is 
 neat
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  But the singleplayer is a peice of crap. And it seems like they should of had more vehicle ctf 
 maps or, just more maps in general since the game seems so geared to online.
  
  There seems to be a lack of people online playing which kind sucks. Not many servers with people.
 
  
  It feels alittle to much of the same also like they could not come up with that many new ideas.
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Though anyone who has played the old ones or likes a good frag um up should play this NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  When the original Unreal came out in 1998 it became a fairly popular online game which gave Epic 
 an idea... develop an Unreal game that plays like Unreal's online mode and thus Unreal Tournament 
 was born. Unreal Tournament 3 is the second sequel to Unreal Tournament (UT 2003\2004 are really 
 the same game) that continues the series' tradition of being pure, rocket in your face action. 
 Does Unreal Tournament 3 live up to its predecessors? No.
  
  So, as any Unreal and Unreal Tournament veteran knows, Unreal has always been the series with fairly 
 generic, serious sci-fi stories while UT focused on a futuristic blood sport in the same setting. 
 What Unreal Tournament 3 tries to do, is combine the serious sci-fi storyline of Unreal with the 
 fast paced bloodsport gameplay mechanics of Unreal Tournament, and in doing so they created a mess 
 of a game that feels nothing like either.
  
  Believe it or not, Unreal Tournament 3 has a story, I know I was shocked too... and that's a problem. 
 Instead of focusing around climbing a tournament ladder, you play as a cliche certified badass 
 called Reaper (that's his nickname) whose colony is attacked by Necris (emo, goth, vampire wannabes) 
 and Krall (those lizard guys who shoot green plasma from a staff in the original Unreal) and he 
 and his team of colony militia align themselves with Izanagi Corporation to wage a war against 
 the Krall and Necris. Where does the tournament come into the plot you ask? It doesn't, the futuristic 
 bloodsport has absolutely nothing to do with the plot of UT 3. So not only is the attempt at bringing 
 an Unreal style story into UT pretty poor (though to be fair, neither of the Unreal games had remarkable 
 stories) , but it has nothing to do with the tournament like the title implies.
  
  Although the tournament doesn't come into play in the game's campaign mode, UT 3 still plays like 
 a UT game... for the most part. I know what you're thinking, "how can a game that doesn't feature 
 the tournament in the story, play like the tournament?" That's actually a good question, it shouldn't, 
 but it does. You've got your classic deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag, along with 
 duel (a game mode that plays like Rocket Arena) , Vehicle CTF, and Warfare which is basically Onslaught 
 from Unreal Tournament 2. This is all good for Instant Action and multiplayer, but for the campaign 
 it makes absolutely no sense no matter how the "story" tries to justify it. They even go as far 
 as giving the capture of a flag in the campaign's CTF a special purpose.
  
  Okay, I'm finished complaining about the campaign mode. Let's go over what really matters in a 
 UT game now, the gameplay. UT 3 manages to mostly stay true to the series' basic premise in this 
 department, it even goes as far as bringing the Enforcer and Impact Hammer from the original game 
 back into play. Fortunately, UT 3 manages to capture the classic UT feeling in the way it plays 
 in deathmatch, team deathmatch, and duel because they haven't changed at all in design. When you 
 start to play Capture the Flag, Vehicle CTF, and Warfare, though; the game starts to insult your 
 intelligence. Okay, so CTF plays like CTF and Vehicle CTF is just CTF with vehicles, but now you've 
 got arrows that magically appear in the game world right above the ground telling you exactly where 
 to go to get to the enemy flag, and what to do as if the game mode's title wasn't enough of a hint. 
 This concept was briefly touched upon in Unreal Tournament 2's Assault mode, but the arrows weren't 
 dominant and the reading aloud of objectives didn't hurt since Assault mode was a lot more complex 
 than Capture the Flag.
  
  Warfare pulls the exact same thing, immediately after starting a Warfare match arrows will appear 
 on the ground telling you where to go, and you'll hear either "Get your Orb", or "Capture the Prime 
 Node". Thank you master of the obvious. Anyway, as I've mentioned before Warfare is basically Onslaught, 
 but there's a couple changes. First of all, you now get an Orb that if used on an enemy Node will 
 immediately transfer its control over to your team. If the orb carrier is killed, you have twelve 
 seconds to pick it up or it's sent back to one of the orb stations. Another change is special "objective 
 nodes", this is where the promised Assault meets Onslaught combination is supposed to come into 
 play. Capturing (usually) two special nodes gives your team an advantage over the enemy, usually 
 it's something simple like lowering a drawbridge so your tank can cross it. This is nice I suppose, 
 but next time don't say that it'll make Onslaught anything like Assault, Epic.
  
  Anyone whose read my Unreal Tournament 2 (004) review, or asked me my opinion on that particular 
 title knows that I did not like the map design of that game. It was usually generic, bland, and 
 unimaginative. Unreal Tournament 3's map design is not just generic, bland, and unimaginative, 
 but also the maps are painfully small, and poorly designed. I'm not kidding when I say that the 
 smallest UT maps are as big as the largest UT 3 maps. The basic design and weapon placement in 
 the maps are also usually pretty poor. The only decent maps are Deck (Another remake of Deck-16 
 from the original Unreal's deathmatch) , Gateway (only because it's the most imaginative of the 
 lot) , Coret (Surprise, surprise, a remake of a classic UT map) , and Torlan (another remake) . You'll 
 note that three out of four of those maps are remakes. Epic should really consider teaming up with 
 Digital Extremes again since Digital Extremes basically left the series in the middle of Unreal 
 Tournament 2003's development.
  
  I feel like I've done nothing but complain, so allow me to touch upon Unreal Tournament 3's more 
 positive features, and the features that are at least half positive. Okay, I've already pointed 
 out that the game at least plays (mostly) like the Unreal Tournament we all know and love, but 
 there is a new feature introduced in this title... and that's character customization. With character 
 customization you're allowed to take one of the character's from the existing five teams and customize 
 them by choosing a helmet, face mask, shoulder pads, torso, arms, leg, etc. There's not many choices, 
 but it's still a nice feature. UNFORTUNATELY (you knew that was coming) , because Epic decided to 
 try and make the game sensible, you're teamed up with bots that are also on that team. So if you 
 customize a Necris character and play an instant action CTF game, you'll be teamed up with all 
 Necris. Strangely enough, this doesn't apply to the enemy team... the enemy team can be a combination 
 of Necris, Iron Guard, Krall, and Liandri robots. Epic, if you want to make the game sensible, 
 don't just make it only half sensible.
  
  I think I should at least briefly discuss the video and audio. UT 3 is a beautiful game to look 
 at, you won't get any arguments from me there. Unfortunately most of the eye candy in UT 3 is in 
 the map backdrops, the maps themselves are not very eye catching, it's the scenery in the background. 
 Still, UT 3 has some very nice visual effects. The audio is okay, the music isn't very good even 
 though some of it goes back to the good old days when UT's music was fast paced and catchy, the 
 voice acting is also fairly forgettable. Speaking of voice acting, what happened to my offensive, 
 borderline racist taunts such as "You fight like Nali"? Instead we have a bunch of sissy taunts, 
 there's no cursing, and no childish name calling.
  
  Okay, so I lied, I didn't actually say many positive things about Unreal Tournament 3. This is 
 likely because there's not many positive things to say about it. The game was clearly designed 
 to cater to more casual Playstation 3\XBox 360 players and as usual, the game suffers because of 
 this. On top of that, Epic tried to combine an Unrealesque single player story\campaign with Unreal 
 Tournament gameplay, and this just doesn't work very well making the game feel like the mentally 
 deficient step child of both series'. Unreal Tournament 3 isn't all bad, but when you can just 
 play either of the past UT games there's no real reason to waste your time with this release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  You are Reaper, a young man whose world was raped by an invasion years ago led by the Necris - 
 a growing race of human beings modified by the substance known as "nanoblack" - high inquisitor, 
 Akasha. You, your sister Jester, the religious zealot Bishop and friend Othello form the Ronin, 
 a group of mercenaries seeking the right financial backer to exact for the families murdered by 
 Akasha.
  
  Getting to the Necris homeworld is expensive and difficult after all, requiring a ship, a jumpgate, 
 and the intelligence to get in and locate Akasha. As it would happen, mercenary work is plentiful. 
 The resources of the G. E. D. (Global Earth Defense) have been stretched thin over the years, and 
 mega-corporations like the Izanagi, Axon, and Phayder Corporations are at ends to secure limited 
 resources in critical locations by any means necessary.
  
  The Izanagi hire you and the rest of the Ronin to take on odd jobs under the direction of Malcolm, 
 a former Tournament champion. You will lead the Ronin in securing existing locations under attack 
 by competing corporations, to take additional facilities which present a tactical advantage, and 
 to fight back against incursion by the inevitable Necris invasion. The jobs will take you across 
 continents, into forests, across archipelagos, into the desert, across snowy canyons, and onto 
 distant planets.
  
  Every location is beautifully rendered by Epic Games' Unreal Engine 3. The team has done a wonderful 
 job creating an atmosphere unique to each location. Trees sway, mists rise, water ripples, and 
 it becomes obvious why so many developers have been keen to snap up the technology for blockbuster 
 titles like Bioshock and Mass Effect. Not only is it possible to sit back and take in the exquisitely 
 modeling arenas, but to look closely at the character models, as well. Even face-to-face with another 
 character, which is unlikely given the pace of the game, every facial pore and dent in the armor 
 leaps out of the screen in vivid detail. With the possible exception of Crysis, Unreal Tournament 
 3 was probably the best looking game at the time of its release.
  
  Of course, it can be difficult to take in its beauty when the average lifespan of the player is 
 under thirty seconds. Like its predecessors, Unreal Tournament 3 is an incredibly fast-paced game. 
 Gamers familiar with a first-person shooter interface will be quick to learn the basic functions 
 of UT3, which uses a fairly standard WASD keyboard setup for movement and mouselook function for 
 aiming. Mastering the nuances of movement, however, will take some time. Gone is the dodge-jump 
 system from its predecessor. So, too, is the shield gun. Instead, the player must rely on rapid 
 short hops and accurate aiming to ensure their own survival in UT3, and there are plenty of weapons 
 to aim.
  
  Every weapon in Unreal Tournament has two types of firing with the primary and secondary mouse 
 buttons by default. The Biorifle, for example, primarily rapidly fires small globs of hazardous 
 green globs that damage the opponent. The secondary fire will, when held down, form a mass of hazardous 
 goo that can be released on one massive shot over an arc. Sometimes it can change the way the weapon 
 is used. The shock rife, a particle weapon, fires an instant, infinitely long shot with the primary 
 fire and slow-moving balls of destructive energy with the secondary fire. When the energy ball 
 is shot with the beam, it explodes in a massively damaging sphere, typically destroying anything 
 in a fairly large radius.
  
  As if the large arsenal were not enough, there are a number of new vehicles and redesigns. Some 
 are upgrades, such as the single-player Scorpion, which now fully encloses the player and has a 
 turbo-boost feature. Some are downgrades, such as the Hellbender, whose rear cannon has lost much 
 of its oomph and whose steering is awkward. But a number of interesting Necris vehicles with beam 
 weapons, tentacles, and traps keep the vehicle lineup interesting.
  
  Included game variations include Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Vehicle Capture 
 the Flag, and Warfare. Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch are standard enemy elimination rounds where 
 you need to kill your opponent before they kill you. The one with the most kills, or frags, is 
 the victor. Capture the flag is just that, run to the flag of the other team, take their flag by 
 walking over it, and return it to your own without getting fragged, which drops the flag. Vehicle 
 CTF is the same only with tanks, hovercraft, and the rest of the assorted UT3 mobile armament. 
 Warfare is a variation of Onslaught, a game mode introduced in UT2004 that opened up huge maps 
 with nodes that needed to be controlled to allow access to new vehicles, player spawn points, weapons, 
 and the ability to take out the enemy core, the ultimate goal.
  
  Gone are Assault, Bombing Run, Domination, and Double Domination game variations. Of the four, 
 the loss of Assault is particularly disappointing, as its goal-oriented gameplay would have fit 
 seamlessly with the single-player campaign.
  
  As it stands, the single-player campaign is a bit thin. One might recall a generic action movie, 
 where the characters are one-dimensional and plot contrived. As Reaper, you pick some assignments 
 handed down from your employer, the Izanagi Corporation, while others are optional. Completing 
 one mission over another has little bearing on the main plotline of securing Izanagi resources 
 from competitors while Reaper tangentially seeks revenge on the Necris. Certain missions reward 
 the player with "cards" that can be used for upcoming levels. The cards allow the gamer to add 
 additional squad members beyond the default or upgrade vehicles. Unfortunately, the cards merely 
 fill a gap in the game, since the missions are often heavily weighted against the player. For example, 
 a Warfare mission might have you begin with one less teammate than the opponent, or a core that 
 is already vulnerable to attack. Without the cards to compensate, the difficulty can border on 
 frustration.
  
  Still, the single-player campaign is lengthy and the NPCs non-player characters) are generally 
 intelligently designed, offering some depth for gamers looking to play alone. Though giving orders 
 does not often seem to matter, they do work well in teams and will support the player in a pinch. 
 Your opponents and comrades alike degrade and gloat in an entertaining manner; though it has no 
 tangible bearing on the gameplay, it certainly provides atmosphere. All in all, it is entirely 
 possible to thoroughly enjoy UT3 without ever going online.
  
  Online, however, is where Unreal Tournament has and continues to shine its brightest. Online is 
 a sizable community of dedicated and casual players that range from the hardcore to the newbie. 
 Maps that single players believe they have mastered take on new dimensions as human beings find 
 nooks and crannies to exploit that would go unfound in single-player. Human beings require a change 
 in tactics, faster thinking, and thicker skin. The taunts are somewhat more real when they are 
 generated by actual people that have humiliated the player.
  
  Finally, there is the bevy of content created by the users themselves. Epic Games provides players 
 with a development kit with every game so that players can create modifications, such as new maps 
 and character models. This adds significant replayability, even with the fairly sizable library 
 of included maps.
  
  The downside is that some of the content that made its predecessor stand out has been lost. Gone 
 is the player-favorite Assault, the ability to quick dodge and jump, and the continued absense 
 of the "Ripper" weapon. Further, the additional gadgets are so much fluff on a game that offers 
 little play variety. Several levels are reimaginings of popular historical maps, beautiful as they 
 are. The single-player campaign also feels tacked on, despite significant hype leading to its release.
 
  
  Despite its faults, Unreal Tournament 3 is a great game that executes on a mature gaming format. 
 Fans of the genre will generally be pleased at the improvements in visuals and balanced gameplay. 
 Newcomers will enjoy the game for what it is: a solid first-person, science fiction shooter that 
 does not tinker with its original formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  The Unreal Tournament series has always been a great multi player game, but now the series takes 
 a big step up with Unreal Tournament 3.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 brings back the bloody, intense multi player games. There are not as many maps 
 and modes as there are in Unreal Tournament 2004, but the game types and the maps are fun to play 
 on, and most of the maps are better in Unreal Tournament 3. The game play is still the same, and 
 most of the weapons are back. 
  
  A lot of guns were taken out like the lighting gun, and two guns were changed. The shield gun has 
 been changed to the impact hammer. The assault rifle has been changed into the enforcer. Most of 
 the weapons work better and are easier to aim like the sniper rifle, but the weapons are still 
 a bit hard to get use to.
  
  The graphics in Unreal Tournament 3 look really good. They are not the best, but they are pretty 
 good looking. The character models look pretty good, and the environments look really good. Over 
 all Unreal Tournament 3 is a great looking game.
  
  The sound is pretty good to. The guns sound good when they fire. When guys explode into a bunch 
 of pieces it sounds good.
  
  If you want a great multi player game then you should give Unreal Tournament 3 a try. But if you 
 want a single player game, then you should skip this game. The single player that Epic promised 
 is more of a bot mode wth a story going through it, and sometimes you have to reset your computer 
 because the cut scenes freeze. But if you want a multi player game then you must buy Unreal Tournament 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greeneyes702
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  The Ut series games are based around deathmatch. There is capture the flag and onslaught and other 
 game types but there all basicly the same thing your killing and getting killed. This one has some 
 cool features but mostly nothing we havent seen for the past 15 years. There are a few exceptions 
 like the futuristic weapons do have some charm.
  Its quite a shame that the game is riddled with 3rd party bots and autoaim programs and a community 
 full of people who like to use them. Also people tend to switch to the winning team and go afk 
 during games.
  If the makers of this game could at least try to improve there online match making system or even 
 host official servers it might be worth it. But if your just looking for a basic shooter deathmatch 
 type of game with cool weapons this is a decent game. been there done that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  innovation is far from being mentioned when talking about UT 3.
  well, but sacrifice the game just because doesnt add much to the formula.
  is not right.
  why 
 you play a game? well to have fun dammit!!
  and UT 3 is so fun and for sure funnier than the others from the series, the new graphics and new 
 sound effects makes its much funnier than the other ones.
  all i can say is that even if the changes are few, there make a good diference and makes the game 
 worth to play.
  and needs to be mention that no doubt is the best optimized game of the year!
  beatiful graphics 
 and heavy like the pillow you use to sleep!!
  so that makes the game funnier to play, because the framerate is never something to worry about.
 
  conclunding: UT 3 still gives the same experience from the others, but is the best one cause has 
 a new taste, a very good one, and even with few changes is the funniest of the series.
  despite of the few innovation, the only bad point to add here is that there are to few maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonwilles
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I just played through the single player campaign on hard and I gotta admit that I was impressed. 
 Before I played through the game I had read a bunch of the reviews for it that whined about how 
 bad the single player game and how awful the menus were. I don't know what everyone was expecting 
 but the game is well made, well polished and far more accessible than people made it out to sound.
 
  
  Anyway here's my review.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Superb. They scale well and the shader effects are very nice. Explosions and gibs look good and 
 physics effects are believable in an over the top sort of way. Polygon count is out of this world. 
 Art direction is also very good. It keeps true to the Unreal syle and is a blast to play through. 
 Also bump mapping on the vehicles is awesome, i feels like you are driving an actual model right 
 in front of you.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Fast paced action devilers an unrivaled intense experience. Nobody else is pushing hard core fast 
 paced action. The gameplay is tighter than in 2004 and the gravity has been tured up so the shots 
 count a little bit more than before. What I love about UT3 is where else are you going to nuke 
 somebody with the rockets and then goop 'em with the biorifle until you run out of ammo and whip 
 out a pair of pistols to finish the job. The bots do a good job of making your life miserable in 
 the CTF's and deathmatches but they aren't rockect scientists when it comes to the warfare mode, 
 but its passable. Really, my only complaint with the game comes from the co-operation in the bots. 
 They don't really seem to get the objectives in the warfare settings. The game modes are pretty 
 fun too, as always the deathmatch in UT3 stands out above all other deathmatches period. The warfare 
 also combined the assault and onslaught modes which works really well. The warfare mode allows 
 you to do cool objective stuff, like lower bridges to move a leviathan across the map, or capture 
 an airstrip to launch an ariel attack. The modes also work really well with small and large server 
 populations. The game play remains fast paced and frantic.
  
  Sound:
  
  Guns go BOOM. My biggest complaint about the sfx is the Skrall make a growling noise that is remarkably 
 annoying but all in all the noises are pretty impressive.
  
  Overall:
  
  There is a lot of gripping about the menus, but they are totally functional and get the job done. 
 This is a great game, its a blast and worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoffinDancer
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  i had great hopes for this game, but until they patch some of the big problems, and hopefully fix 
 the barely-functioning server menus and options, i'm going back to ONS in the 2K4 version, and 
 breaking out my rusty sniper rifle in BF2.
  
  i will also refuse to have any interest in anything the FilePlanet / Gamespy collaboration calls 
 a "beta demo".
  
  i hate all the BS you have to go through to get the BD's, from their horribly slow "members-only" 
 maximum-speed - LOL - download servers to their feeble attempts to make us feel like we belong 
 to some "exclusive" club and unique-key crap has turned me off completely.
  
  This game was obviously rushed for the holiday season - something i thought Epic was beyond - and 
 the user community's reaction to it showed, both in their sales and in the online community's involvement 
 and support.
  
  i don't even know at this point if patching the game will bring more online players!! :- (
  
 
  somebody please let me know if / when the next patch comes out.
  
  no thanks,
  CD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisCheezer
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  My account was suspension due to a Bad review of this game?? Why i don't know. but I'm back to 
 reinstate my opinion of Unreal tournament III.
  
  This game is well made, the visual effects are nice and runs perfect. But theres where all the 
 goodness stops. The game play is from 10 years ago. nothing has changed, i thought the Huge maps 
 and use of tanks air ships and others would spice the game up, i was wrong. This does nothing for 
 the game, still you could be playing UT II and wouldn't notice the difference. nothing has changed. 
 as i was playing i was asking people if it was me who was terribly disappointed or was everyone 
 else too, and do u know what just about everyone saidjust play the game". This pure ignorance 
 / dedication to the UT series is exactly what keeps this game on the shelves. the game is awful 
 but people just don't what to admit it. what a let down. I'm rating it a 2.0 because it let me 
 down soo much i have to return it. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament has finally returned all new and shiny in UT3, the newest installment in Epic 
 game's long running and immensly popular Unreal tournament series. OK, yeah, it is shiny thanks 
 to the outstanding Unreal 3 engine, but its actually not new. UT3 might not add a single new feature 
 to the Unreal tournament franchise, but it still lives up to the series high-quality fast-paced 
 action excellently.
  
  The unreal tournament series has always been about fast-paced run-and-gun gameplay ever since the 
 get-go. So series fans will be pleased to see that UT3 does not mess with this formula in any way, 
 shape, or form. The classic modes also return, including deathmatch and its team variant, along 
 with capture the flag (and a vehicle variant) . 
  
  UT3 is actually notably limited here however, especially compared to UT2004, as the only "new" 
 mode is Warfare, which is really just a combination comprised mostly of UT2004's onslaught mode, 
 along with a few sprinkles of the old Assault mode. In all reality, these modes were better as 
 seperate entities. The Warfare mode- while still fun- is still just plain onslaught with a few 
 new features (such as orbs) . So the Assault mode is unfortunately once again nowhere to be seen. 
 Its just unfortunate to see how few modes UT3 has compared to UT2004 (even if several of those 
 modes were not completely appreciated) . This hampers UT3's value quite a bit, at least until the 
 user content starts rolling out.
  
  So is there anything UT3 offers that any of the previous entries in the series didn't have? One 
 thing that UT3 does offer is an actual campaign- at least, that's what it looks like from the surface. 
 In all reality, the campaign is still just as pointless as UT2004's campaign was, as its levels 
 are easily set-up in instant action. At least UT3's campaign offers a bit of a story... Thats more 
 than the previous entries in the series can say... Other than this, UT3 makes a few changes to 
 the gameplay, but they are so minor, they don't change the gameplay at all. Even the AI, though 
 still generally excellent, seems mostly recycled from UT2004. Despite the lack of new stuff however, 
 UT3 executes the basic UT formula to the letter, and doesn't miss a step in doing so. But if you 
 ARE looking for something new from UT, then your better off sticking with whatever version of UT 
 you've already got- for UT3 doesn't offer anything new.
  
  UT3 is a great buy if you want a graphics upgrade however- for UT3 is a perfect showcase of what 
 the Unreal 3 engine is capable of. The graphics here are absolutely stunning- and amazingly well 
 optomized. Even mid-range computers (like mine) can run with a shocking ammount of detail in the 
 graphics with nary a hitch in framerate. The environmental textures are extremely sharp- the character 
 models are excellent, its all great stuff. Sound wise, UT3 does decently enough. The weapons all 
 have an excellent punch to them, and the voice acting has had quite a bit of improvement from UT2004. 
 
  
  In the end, whether or not you should get UT3 depends on what you have, and what you want. If you 
 have a previous entry in the UT series, and think that UT3 will revitalize the series, your gonna 
 have to wait for UT4. If you just want a graphics upgrade or don't own any of the previous UT games 
 however, then UT3 is a worthy pick.
  
  Pros: Classic UT formula still stands strong. Gorgeous graphics. Unsurprisingly excellent AI. User 
 content is undoubtedly on the way.
  
  Cons: Surprisingly limited selection of modes, especially compared to UT2004. The Campaign is still 
 pointless. The Assault mode is MIA, again.
  
  Recommendable for: UT enthusiasts and mod makers will undoubtedly enjoy UT3. If you were expecting 
 something new from the series however, you'll be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  I am sorry to say that the graphics, sound, and all that are pretty much the same as I remember 
 the other UT games. The gameplay is exactly the same and there is no originality at all. I mean, 
 it's like any other FPS out there so there is no need in spending the extra cash just because it 
 says "Unreal". I cannot believe how uninspired this game is compared to the older UT games. The 
 sound isn't that much better and they are still using the same music track as the first UT game? 
 What is that all about?
  
  This is yet another example of how game dev companies hype up games only to disapoint the customer 
 when it is too late (because you can't usually return PC games) . Do yourself a favor, download 
 the demo and see how you like that first. I am willing to bet that you will either go back to the 
 older UT games or wait till this one hits the bargan bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  I've been a UT player since the original and I still say that UT is still the best of the whole 
 franchise.
  
  Good points:
  
  Great graphics.
  Superb sound.
  Some decent maps.
  Single player isn't too bad.
  AI is as good and as bad as ever.
  Deck! :D
  
  Bad Points:
 
  
  Feels like a console game.
  Menu system is annoying.
  The game feels slower.
  No real graphics options.
  Some of the Necris vehicles are way too powerful.
  Where did all 
 the game modes go?
  They took out the "Flak Monkey" announcement WTF!?!?!
  Can't change announcer.
  New weapon announcements are lame!
  
  UT3's graphics are awesome. 
 It has really good lighting, shadows, models, textures just like you'd expect from an Unreal game. 
 A massive disappointment is there's hardly any graphical options that can be changed, I guess this 
 is what happens when you go multi platform.
  
  The explosions, weapons sounds are just as good as they've ever been. The thing that lets down 
 the sound department is the new weapon announcements. There's no "Flak Monkey" WTF!?!?!? The announcer 
 can't be changed either (as far as I know) unlike the last game.
  
  UT3's gameplay hasn't changed a great deal although it does feel like a slower game, this could 
 be because the weapons have been tweaked but whatever they've done I don't like it. 
  
  The game modes have been seriously cut down, there's no Domination, Bombing Run, Mutant, Last Man 
 Standing etc etc... what the hell happened?
  
  The introduction of the Necris vehicles makes the slightly revamped vehicle modes seem a little 
 fresher but the some of the Necris vehicles do seemed to be a little bit overly powerful. I could 
 and should be address in a future patch hopefully.
  
  I'm glad that there's some classic maps included, Deck is my all time favorite map.
  
  Overall 
 this game does have it's enjoyable moments and the multiplayer is enjoyable but the game feels 
 like a lazy multi platform game with half it's modes missing. The new menu is annoying, slow and 
 clunky. Bring back the old menu system.
  
  I don't know what Epic were thinking when they made some of the decisions they made for game but 
 I don't think they had us older UT fans in mind.
  
  If you want to play this game I would suggest that you wait until the community starts producing 
 mods, maps, a price reduction on the game itself and of course the release of Chaos UT3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedmetalhead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  
  UT2004 stays the best in the series. unreal 3 has offcourse much better graffics and all that but 
 its couple of years later. 
  though the grafics are really very well done. 
  in the series it doesnt realy matter for me if new stuff comes in, just give me an new tournament 
 in killing another. 
  they did well with some new stuff. like new machinery. like that darkwalker is very cool. 
  except 
 the new single player sucks big time
  it sucks that they have a story this time, a guy like me just wants an other tournament. 
  i 
 even didnt finish the single player champain, it was boring, didnt give me that tournament - feeling.
 
  the enemy AI is very well done
  the friendly AI is bad. tell a guy to attack but he keeps standing close to you. they should have 
 done better with the friendly AI, expecially with that new warfare gamemode.
  
  then we have the multiplayer, wich is fun all the time offcourse. like you would be expecting how 
 it is. its realy fun to play multi. so if youre playing a lot multiplayer, this game is a must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk9780
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  If you were expecting UT3 to be a refined up to date polished version of the original UT game, 
 sorry to disappoint you. UT3 lacks that small spark of ingenuity that made the original UT game, 
 a game that within contained true obsession. This poor reincarnation of the original classic feels 
 more like a poorly made 'Eastern European' Western, than a true Hollywood classic. 
  There's really nothing to inspiring about UT3, from the cheap looking 'front end' interface, with 
 rather lack lustier types of game play.
  The weapons have been somewhat tweaked, sorry again tweaked in the wrong direction. I can only 
 pray and hope there is a mod out soon.
  There is one small positive aspect to UT3. The UT3 editor, yes I know most UT games also carried 
 an editor, but this time there is also a series of easy to follow beginners guide video tutorial 
 on the bonus DVD. 
  You may be asking yourself is the game worth buying, surprisingly the answer is yes; 
  UT3 does 
 nothing refreshingly good, but still it does manage to full fill the need for death and destruction 
 without having the player wondering if in this day and age if what he or she is doing is 'Politically 
 Correct'. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shot_gun
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  If you play this as a single player campaign, it's a freaking joke. I actually stopped playing 
 it, checked out the cutscenes on youtube and called it quits. It's Unreal TOURNAMENT and there 
 is nothing TOURNAMENT about the campaign. Give me a freaking break.. Fans of UT will quickly see 
 the DUMB logic of forcing a square peg into a round hole. It should've been called just Unreal 
 3 if they didn't want to do a tournament. (I actually liked Unreal 2 for what it was) .
  
  So enough of that. If, however, you get past that and enjoy CTF (+/- vehicles) , Onslaught and Deathmatch 
 ONLY then you'll probably be impressed with the graphics and refreshed attitude. So that makes 
 this a good INSTANT ACTION or LAN party game but no much more than that. Character voices are MUCH 
 BETTER and graphics are OH SO SWEET but that wears off pretty quickly.
  
  Anyone saying this is above an 8.5 is either a fan boy that hasn't yet played Crysis, COD4 , or 
 even Half life Episode 2 for that matter...... or just dumbfounded at graphics alone. . STORYLINE 
 SUCKS HERE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-Tiger
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Wow... I am stunned. I was expecting a slight letdown to be honest. To explain that statement I 
 have to explain my extreme love of the original UT. 
  I am an old school guy who remembers playing on a 56k (or worst) modem on my old P3 Slot 1 system... 
 and buildings levels and custom character skins... etc. When UT2003 was on the way I was beyond 
 excited and to be honest a little disappointed with the changes and tweaks they added (or removed... 
 aka Sniper Rifle) . To be fair the game only got better... and UT2004 fixed things and I eventually 
 had no complains or concerns (they even gave back the Sniper Rifle - sorta) . In fact I was just 
 as insane about UT2004 and it's gameplay.
  
  Then rumour mill about UT 3 (or UT2007 or the other couple names they came up with) ... and the 
 INCREDIBLE screenshots and movies related with this game and the Unreal 3 Engine started appearing. 
 I was optimistic and excited. Well turns out the delays became somewhat silly to the point where 
 I kinda stopped listening.
  
  Then the Demo of UT3 showed up out of nowhere... and initially I was a little worried since my 
 expectations had grown to the point that there was no way they could be met... especially after 
 my UT to UT03 mini letdown... and then the LLLoooooonnnngggg wait for this game to arrive. WELL... 
 I played the demo and was BLOWN AWAY.... and figured there was no way the complete game was going 
 to this kewl as well.
  
  Then I got the real game... and I am a kid again... playing "UT". This is ALL the best of the original 
 UT with ALL the kewl stuff from UT2004 that we all grew to love... ALL mashed together WITH my 
 dearly missed original sniper rifle... to make a milestone game. The music, the announcer... all 
 of these elements have been slicked up and updated... but they really harken back to UT past glory.
 
  
  This is a masterpiece and If it had not been release at the same time as Crysis and Call of Duty 
 4 so it had to share the limelight we would talking about as the best game in recent memory. I 
 wont try to break down the game play and the graphics... it get's into a who has the "biggest" 
 computer debate. A good system will play it great... and with enough eye candy... so that should 
 be enough for an "opinion" review of the game such as this.
  
  I can not recommend any game more highly... even when I try to reduce my clearly biased opinion 
 has a UT Fanboy.
  
  There are certain milestone memorable games in the FPS world (at least for me) ... I have to list 
 Wolfenstien 3D, Doom, Quake, Unreal Tournament, Half Life, Medal of Honor (original) , Half Life 
 2, Call of Duty, Farcry and Crysis on the list. I now can be happy to add Unreal Tournament 3 to 
 my personal must play/experience list.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - Well, it's UT. Fast-Paced online combat.
  
  - Warfare - Well, it's pretty much Onslaught + the Orb things. Pretty cool addition, but basically 
 the same game.
  
  - Torlan is back!!
  
  - Unreal 3 Engine. It's gorgeous, although I kinda feel like I'm playing Gears of War.
  
  - 
 An abundance of new and very good maps.
  
  Cons:
  
  - A bit too fast-paced. Even faster than last game! It's wayy to hard to kill someone when they 
 aren't in a vehicle.
  
  - Well, Warfare also. I wanted something new, and this really is just Onslaught. I don't get why 
 reviews refuse to say it.
  
  - No new weapons!! Well, unless you count the impact hammer and enforcer (I don't.) I mean, I know 
 the whole tried-and-true thing, but please, new weapons always make it fun - there really aren't 
 enough.
  
  - No Lightning Gun or Grenade Launcher!!! My two favorite weapons from '04 (- the Redeemer, but 
 they made that kinda lame) . I mean, if you aren't adding new weapons, don't take those out!!
  
  - Where the game modes at? 6? Bombing Run? Domination? Last Man Standing? Anyonoe? ANYTHING?
 
  
  - Options. Graphics options are limited to resolution and 1 detail slider. No AA, AF, or specific 
 sliders. Annoying.
  
  - This whole Necris thing. Unreal Tournament is a Tournament, just that. I always liked how it 
 wasn't all like SAVE THE WORLD, like every other futuristic shooter. Well, they jumped on that 
 bandwagon.
  
  - Necris vehicles are unfair. I mean, they look really stupid (damn tentacles!) , and they are too 
 powerful, as well as too difficult to kill. Completely unwelcome addition.
  
  - Where is everyone! There was 1 playable server for Team Deathmatch. Come on people, play!!!
 
  
  - The Scorpion's plasma beam is gone! What gives! Grenades? Weak.
  
  - Oh, and did I mention... TOO DAMN FAST!!
  
  Well, this is one game that won't eat up the hours 
 as I'd hoped. Back to '04, I suppose. (At least until some new mods come out. Go ChaosUT3 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Almost 4 years without a new UT, and after the content-galore that UT2004 was - ladies and gentlemen, 
 Unreal Tournament 3. From the very 1st informations and screens 2 things were obvious: - this will 
 be more like UT99, not like UT2004 - graphics will rock
  And yeah, they succeeded in both. But apparently, they did notice that UT2004 came out aswell and 
 people still love it, because the lack of many UT2004's (but any other UT's too for that matter) 
 key features somehow are missing.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when you boot up the game is the menus. They're not really confusing, 
 hence all the people saying that, but it's so damn empty. Where are all the HUD options? The dozens 
 of graphics options? The bot skills options? The detailed match options? They're all gone. As you 
 probably know, the game is/will be out for the PS3 and X360 too, so that's probably the reason 
 - Resistance and Halo 3 players appearently do not want to lose hours to make their gameplay perfect 
 - they just want to put in the disc and play. But OK, this is from a guy who passed years on UT, 
 less devoted UT players might not really care about this problem - but they will in a way or another.
 
  
  As if the lack of options wasn't enough, there's a lack of content. 40 maps? 6 gamemodes? Where's 
 Onslaught? Assault? Mutant? Last Man Standing? Invasion? The classic Bombing Run? Domination? Double 
 Domination? Where did all these classics go? I can't explain why they have so much less now. At 
 least the weapons are pretty much what we came to expect after UT2004, with a few balance problems 
 maybe but nothing big. So as you see, this is a run and play game, with virtually little to none 
 ways to enchance your gameplay. But is the core game good?
  
  Yes it is. UT was always ahead of time graphics, extremely frantic and violent gameplay, and lots 
 of skills needed if you want to survive. This didn't change at all. The dodges are now limited, 
 the maps are generally smaller, and as I said the options are little to none - but when the game 
 is ideal (good map, good difficulty, etc.) , the fun is there. But it's also true the game does 
 absolutely NOTHING new to make UT-haters turn into liking this game - too bad they didn't do much 
 to make it likeable to a big UT fan like me.
  
  Unreal Engine 3. With this I said everything about graphics. Impressive, well optimized, moddable. 
 Perfect for the game, although a bit too dark - not like Doom 3 Engine, but Unreal Engine 2 was 
 a lot more versatile. Moddable, yeah. Mods and competition will keep this game alive, because Epic 
 made nothing to make this game big. Obviously we need the community to come out with the old maps 
 remade as new, and after we'll swim between mods, this game might even get a lot higher grade from 
 me, because even Epic might want to make more content later on. But if you're willing to pay 60 
 Dollars/Euros for a game that will probably be good in months, you might aswell pay half price 
 in months when you'll be sure it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGJoel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to make a sequel to a first person shooter and manage to make it feel more original than 
 the first one. And to be honest, Unreal Tournament 3 does not quite pull it off. But it does give 
 the series a much needed update to a very fast and intense FPS. If you are a fan of the Unreal 
 Tournament series, or are just looking for a great game, then this game is for you.
  
  This game does not have anything completely original, but it does have everything you love about 
 FPS's of all types. It has a multitude of weapons, most have been in previous Unreal games, but 
 that is not a bad thing. Still has all the same vehicles, but also Necris vehicles which are completely 
 awesome. For game types, it introduces Warfare, which is basically a remastered version of Onslaught. 
 Unfortunately, they took out Assault mode, which I feel is a bummer because of all the awesome 
 custom maps that the extreme modding community of UT made. This also goes for Invasion, but I do 
 not miss this one quite as much. Still, the mods will be coming out soon, so if you feel that this 
 game is missing a lot from UT 2k4, just be patient and they will come. Even without the mods, this 
 game is still intensely fast and exciting.
  
  The things that I don't like, however, are as follows: Of course, the menus are a bit annoying, 
 but that is no reason to turn the game down. There are not as many characters, but you can take 
 the pre made ones and change armor and whatnot. The campaign is not the same tournament style thing 
 that previous ones have been, but that is not what I dislike about it; nobody ever bought the game 
 for the campaign anyway. The campaign actually has a story, which consequentially affects the maps. 
 All of the maps are based off of the environments and planets of the campaign. This means there 
 is no Morpheus 3, Hyperblast 2, or Facing Worlds. This was possibly the biggest regret I have about 
 this game. But again, this does not mean you should pass this game by.
  
  Overall, I feel that this game was underrated and overshadowed by games like Halo 3 and Call of 
 Duty 4, which pumped up the hype meter until society could not take anymore and everyone bought 
 the game. This game was not perfect, but you should not overlook it when deciding which new FPS 
 to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceBolt77
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  UT3's unreal engine offers great textures, shading, and frame rate for the PC and PS3 alike. It 
 is surprisingly flexible in its ability to run on the average video card. Settings can easily be 
 tweaked to optimize performance while still maintaining an entertaining playing experience. Now 
 for the meat and potatoes. If you are the kind of gamer looking for an in-depth, immersive single 
 player campaign/story mode, UT3 is not the game for you. Single player campaign is stale and stern. 
 The average gamer will complete the story mode in approximately 10 hours. Clearly, the focus is 
 on the multiplayer aspect of this FPS. Multiplayer... About that... Normally Gamespot is, for the 
 most part, pretty accurate in its descriptions for the newest, latest greatest titles for consoles 
 and PC. One highly crucial detail that was somehow forgotten in its review, is there is NO OFFLINE 
 OR ONLINE SPLITSCREEN MULTIPLAYER. God it is annoyingly repetitive to type in caps, and such mechanics 
 would be frowned upon by my college professors; however, people need a clean crisp outline, if 
 for no other reason than to get on with their lives. The online multiplayer offers a variety of 
 types of death match/CTF action, both free-for-all and team play, but once again, you CANNOT PLAY 
 WITH YOUR FRIENDS in the same room. It is truly quite sad, in my opinion, in this Next Gen Era, 
 that a company can actually fail to incorporate such a standardized feature. Whether they were 
 pressed for launch, short on funds, or just plain lazy or ignorant - I still find it hard to believe 
 how splitscreen could not be integrated into the game. As much as the game has been recycled (virtually 
 no new weapons, although there are great new vehicles and maps with stunning visuals) , one would 
 only assume they had enough time to creat a splitscreen mode. Multiplayer action with your friends 
 is more popular and fun than ever - especially in this day and age - and it pains me to see a solid 
 game be undermined by such an elementary flaw. Ultimately, if you are a gamer who prefers to play 
 alone, particularly in online play, then UT3 will be a fantastic game for you. If you are the gamer 
 that prefers to play with friends, in heated competition either online or offline, I would not 
 recommend this game to you. All in all, UT3 is almost, but not quite where it should be, especially 
 for a 60$ game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dule89
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  8.5 points???? Oh, come on!!! This game is really worth playing it and UT3 deserves 10 points for 
 minimum. I have spent so much time with that game like never before. The duel-mode is so great 
 if you're playing it via the internet. The graphic is similar to GoW, WOW. Please buy this game 
 and you won't make any mistakes. UT is becoming better and better and even greater. The graphic 
 engine is so cool, the models look so realistic provided that you have a modern PC. I have an e6750 
 dual core processor with a 8800gts 640 and the game runs so smooth with maximum details.
  UT3 rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhannibal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  This game is really underrated... It has a cool graphics system somehow stable and can work on 
 average PCs and look great in comparison with the somehow overrated crysis that doesn't work on 
 most of PCs and if it does, it works at the minimum which isn't fabulous as some people claimed... 
 Meanwhile, the vehicles aren't the same, and this can be called a change :D... This game, stands 
 not better but slightly below the marvelous underrated COD 4 (You ll see that either critics or 
 users provided COD4 a total score higher than its gamespot rate, and I think it must be the shooter 
 of the year not crysis by any meaning) ... I think games evaluation method should be changed a bit 
 for gamespot... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott25126
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  If you are an old veteran of the series, there are enough new elements to keep it playing fresh. 
 If you are new to the series, you might just cry when priorities steal you away.
  
  Great game. Although, it is not an entirely new experience (most sequels arent.. halo2/3, Cod2-4, 
 etc) , the changed elements make it feel fresh and new.
  
  Something you should know about UT fans are that they are the most opinionated of this game. Because 
 of the User interface (menus) being "consolized", there were a lot of vocal people saying they would 
 not even play the game. Crazy? You bet.
  
  The reviews were surprisingly harsh to be honest. Probably mostly due to the fact that the single 
 player mode was kind of cheesy/lame. In the past the single player has been about a bloody tournament, 
 ala Russell Crowe. However, this time around, they made it about a war. Regardless of the story (which 
 isnt bad, but not all that great either) , the gameplay is there.
  
  However, this is a multiplayer game. There are those out there that will simply buy it for the 
 single player. If you are one of those people, dont get this game. Rent it. Its a great game, but 
 the story is weak (as said previously) .
  
  
  The game is 100% about the online multiplayer. IF you have a PC or a PS3 you will love this game 
 online. Every ounce of the games development has been focussed on online player. Online multiplayer 
 of UT3 puts halo 3 multiplayer to shame (and cod4 in my opinion) . 
  
  If you like FPS online multiplayer, then look no further. Get this game. Its the best out there 
 currently, and you will be playing it for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  UT3 is one of the greatest first person shooter games I have ever played. It is soooo entertaining 
 that I can't get bored of it. The Ai is amazing; the levels are superb, the extra touches they 
 added since 2004 are noticeable and make sure the game get an amazing rating. 
  I have tried the PC version and the only thing that really sucks about it is that u need to upgrade 
 ur PC big time to get the full experience u want. 
  If a player really likes the game, and wants to get it on the PC then they should be aware of the 
 game requirements. IF they get it on the PS3 or any other consol then they will be able to love 
 and enjoy the game. 
  
  In conclusion, this game ROCKS! one of the best in the series, and AMAZING !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigRadi0Head
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  1st i must say that this game is a cool game and i recommend any UT fan or FPS fan to get it
  but i have some notes about the game that makes it less than perfect
  
  1-the removal of some 
 cool game mods from the game like double domination and my favorite bombing run
  
  2-the story line is not that strong, it should continue like the older UT with no story line at 
 all
  
  3-there r much less mutators in UT3 than the ones in UT2004
  
  4-the game is a little short
  
  5-the difficulty variation, the game is so easy on normal mode 
 but it's soooo hard in hard mode "i didn't try insane mod :) "
  
  but there r also some cool new stuff in the game
  the best is the vehicle capture the flag and 
 the co-op mode
  and off course the amazing graphics
  
  if u have the money to spend and the PC to play the game at the recommended setting then u should 
 get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realtrance
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes there's no need to change a tried and true formula. The core of this game is solid, and 
 has been for years. The new vehicles in Warfare mode are really, really cool, and with 32 players, 
 it's like a FPS/RTS, UT-style, unlike anything else out there. Makes BF/BF2 look positively geriatric 
 by comparison, in terms of exciting play.
  
  The main problem is that the game is very crash-y, on a lot of systems, apparently, in MP mode 
 -- you'll get a UT3. exe "hungapp" message on busy, high-pop servers almost every ten minutes, sometimes, 
 and this makes the game a lot less fun to play for now, and totally screws up any validity to the 
 leaderboard info.
  
  If Epic figures out how to fix the problems, it'll be yet another UT to play for years to come. 
 We'll have to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpo911
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  I havnt played a lot of the previous games in the series but this one made me relise what i missed. I 
 havent played campaign yet but online multiplayer with a friend is the most brilliant expierience 
 of a First Person online shooter ever. Although you die so much in the game online that is cool 
 to respawn every time. Later on youlle learn how to play. Youlle aim perfect, Move away out of a 
 ememies shots the right time, dodge, jump the right distance.......... I MUST SHUTUP BEFORE I SPOIL 
 EVERYTHING FOR YOU GUYS! Buy the game you wont regret it. Its the most Brilliant First Person game 
 ever made With stunning graphics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmersenne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 3 seems be better for pc as GOW was full of bugs. although u need a unreal profile 
 to save ur progress just like GOW.
  
  Its still the same type. there is campaign mode with a story but it evolves around the same old 
 gameplay. the doesn't mean its boring its hell lot of fun and worth playing,
  
  theres a editor to create ur own maps. i heard this maps will also be playable on ps3 directly.
 
  
  one thing i liked is u don't a high end pc to enjoy the smooth gamplay and graphics its runs very 
 well on x850xt.
  
  good work epic.
  
  nothing more to say just writing to fill up 100 letters.
  
  Go buy it
  
  go unreal engine 
 u rock 
  
  What 100 words gamespot u should pay me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePower69
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Well ill keep this short as possible.
  
  
  Ut3 is the latest game in the Unreal series. It has come along way and if you have never played 
 or seen a single game of UT in any form , your probably not a gamer. 
  
  Basically i have found the game to have some ups over its predecessors and a few downs. 
  
 
  Several new vechical (god @@#@#@#@ i cannot spell this bloody word and the auto speller will not 
 help lol) , Several new "war machines" were added with a "necris" theme. They are pretty cool and 
 are fairly different to the ones in the previous versions. Theres a giant "walker" machine that 
 shoots a giant red laser flame at its enemies which i liked alot. I think they did a great job 
 on all the new "war machines" they added in and i wont spoil the rest for you :) . 
  
  The graphics are next gen and are simply stunning , alot of games actully use the Unreal engine 
 and its no surprise that it delivers alot. It runs smoothly maxed on my comp , thats max rez max 
 text and world detail. I do have a higher end machine but im yet to run into any memory leeks or 
 any model errors. But this is kinda what you expect from the entire UT brand name. 
  
  In terms of game play not a real lot has changed but that is kinda what makes UT , UT. However 
 a little disappointing was the removal of some of the great classic game types. Assault , Last 
 man standing no longer exist which im sure all us vet UT players feel should have been kept. But 
 at the end of the day the core game modes are there still and thats ok.
  
  My only real gripe with the new UT is the game menu's and ui feel almost like it was made for console. 
 The UI's and game menu's do feel clumsy and i really don't like CONSOLES  :\ I must stress that. 
 But im sure someone will release a mod defaulting it back to its previous versions. 
  
  At the end of the day there are minor changes and some for the better some for the worse. I'm waiting 
 to see how Mod friendly the new UT is. I don't mod and have little idea what to do in that regard 
 but one thing that has made the UT Brand great was its Very mod Friendly "coding?". Every UT has 
 had a rather large community of modders , mappers and Artists which can make the game last forever 
 in terms of repeatability. Time will tell on that front but i have no reason to doubt it would 
 change :O.
  
  So really if you have a reasonable computer its worth "upgrading" to UT3 , but if you have a poor 
 computer you will have just as much fun with one of Unreal's predecessors. So really at the end 
 of the day i think it does come down to graphics. Its hard to improve on the unreal brand already 
 and i think most of us will play it on and off for many years to come. 
  
  I hope you gain something from my review , good luck and may your shots always hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  The Unreal Tournament series has gone through it's highs, and lows. In fact, I see a pattern. Unreal 
 Tournament '99 was fast, furious, fresh, and it's stable of unique modes meant it was the king 
 of fragging, it even beat out the prior champion, Quake. I still play Unreal Tournament '99 to 
 this day, it is one of the greatest examples of how well a series can start off.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2003 was... disappointing. It was gorgeous for the time, sporting the new Unreal 
 Warfare 2 engine. It was a fun game, but it was too indifferent, and it axed one of the original 
 UT's best modes, Assault.
  
  Then Unreal Tournament 2004 came out, and it whupped UT 2k3's ass. It even ended up being better 
 than the original. Rather than feeling like a dumbed down expansion pack running on a new engine, 
 UT 2k4 was fully realized. Even single player was worth riding out, as it gave real meaning to 
 the term 'bloodsport' as you created a team, funded them, held rivalries, and had true championships. 
 It felt like a real tournament. And Assault was back. UT 2k4 still looked gorgeous as well. 
  
  Now we have Unreal Tournament 3. I shake my head in sadness, as this is the lowest point in 
 the series to date. No, it is not a bad tournament, I will still be playing it and enjoying it 
 until the next tournament, but like 2k3's addition to the series, UT3 feels like a dumbed down 
 (or in this case, euthanized) expansion pack running on a new engine. The game is easily the best 
 looking game on the market, Unreal's highly stylized mix of sci-fi corridors, hallways, and alien 
 planets and mortar and brimstone castles reeking of 'destroyed beauty' fits perfect on the Unreal 
 engine 3. It looks Unreal, more so than any other addition. But once you look past these pretty 
 graphics, you find what made the other games so fun, just isn't there. Assault is once again missing. 
 The fun adrenaline combos are gone. And the carnage is too. Yes, if it weren't for a few swears 
 and the rare full body gib, Unreal Tournament 3 would easily garner a Teen rating. The game moves 
 so fast, you can barely see any blood when you shoot, and blood no longer stains walls or streams 
 from victims, and you can't take out specific limbs. Only full body gibs. A friend of mine says 
 it was the engines fault, but I told him to look at Gears of War. Gears of War may not spatter 
 blood on every wall, but it at least has an understanding of the carnage necessary for it to earn 
 it's M rating and wear it proudly. I am not a violent person, I do not condone violence, but when 
 I buy a game which has a cover showing a man standing in 3 waterfalls of blood, I better see at 
 least one waterfall of blood in the game. Just because UT3 is very, very disappointing, does not 
 mean it isn't fun. You still get to frag lots of stuff. It's got great physics, especially if you 
 have an AGEIA card. The new NECRIS vehicles are delightfully morbid. And although the singleplayer 
 is missing the tournament mode where you build a team, the new campaign mode adds extreme strategy 
 and is easily the biggest addition to the game. The weapons you love are all there too, even the 
 return of one of my old favourites.. the impact hammer. Nothing says 'I love you' like smashing 
 a person into tiny giblets with a mechanical air piston. The enforcer from UT 99 is back as well, 
 and although it looks and acts almost entirely different, it does contain a nod to the original 
 Enforcer; if you use secondary fire long enough, the player will turn it sideways gangster style. 
 It's nice to see these weapons return, and of course, no UT game would be complete without classics 
 like the flak cannon, still my favourite tool of destruction, and the makeover it gets in UT3 is 
 very, very cool looking. 
  
  All in all, UT3 is disappointing. It's simply an expansion pack for UT2k4, minus several gameplay 
 aspects of that game, and a new engine to compensate. But if you have enjoyed any other Tournament, 
 once you get past your initial disappointment, the tournament is still worth signing up for.
  
  Graphics: 10 - Best looking game on the market
  Sound: 10 - Screams, splatters, explosions, 
 and bullet casings galore, with the standard hyped up techno soundtrack. Whats not to love?
  Gameplay: 7 - This is not anywhere near as fun as 2k4. It is saved by the extensive...
  Replay: 
 9 - It has it's flaws, but humanity is still the most dangerous game, and even the ancient sport 
 of deathmatch can be unique each time you play.
  Value: 6 - Though it's replay will go down the tube once the next tournament comes out, unless 
 the next tournament sucks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament III is a fine and carefully designed computer game. It incorporates the use of 
 Gears of War's graphics from studuo Epic and hence has a darker feel to it than its prequel titles. 
 UT3 certainly shapes up to be a fun game; suffice to say that the storyline does need work.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  When you want to think about UT3, you want to think about UT2 (004) with better 
 graphics and fast paced killing riots. On Casual difficulty, the average player will have a ball 
 - mowing down hordes of baddies (Krall and the Axon/Necris corps) with the Stinger Minigun or laying 
 waste to the world with the redeemer. Whatever weapon you get, I assure you, you will acquire a 
 certain taste for each. For example if I picked up the rocket launcher, I'd quickly switch back 
 to the minigun because I like the way the AI shuffles backwards whenever receiving my unholy volley 
 of lead in their chest.
  
  
  STORY
  Some think this is the most important part of video games these days because graphis are becoming 
 so ridiculously advanced. Well I'm one of those people. The storyline in UT3 is **** You're hired 
 by Malcolm, the nine-time tournament champion to defend Terra against the swarming undead (pun 
 intended; respawners) Necris. And Malcolm was hired by Izanagi Corp. Yeah, random. Anyhoo... the 
 storyline gets a bit repetitive and just lacks the right amount of UMPH to propel it through the 
 potentially great title. 
  
  
  
  Yay. Grphx. UT3 has some mesmerising visuals - to say the least. After all, it takes after GoW's 
 amazing visual prowess. There are a (very) few technical glitches where the wireframe does allow 
 some rendering issues on the protagonist (Reaper) model, but this is barely noticeable and with 
 the atmoshperical bloom and HDR lighting capabilities there by your side, it will be the last thing 
 you look at - trust me.
  
  
  SOUND
  I respect UT3's soundtrack. It doesn't mean I like it in any way, in fact I personally do not see 
 anything unique about it. But I DO respect it. Now there's one thing that all Unreal fans love 
 about the series: Kill Quotes. Nothing satisfies a gamer more than to hear HEADSHOT or GOD... LIKE 
 after jogging happily through 20 mobs, whether PvE or PvP. I remember hearing DOUBLE KILL... TRIPLE 
 KILL... MULTI KILL... and then I got some insane kill, not knowing what the speaker dude was annoucning 
 as I was yelling out at the top of my lungs UBERRRR KILLLL.
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  The Unreal franchise has been known for releasing smashing multiplayer titles. However, the online 
 playerbase for UT3 is dead... which is bizare. I mean, the multiplayer is fantastic and the modding 
 community has a billion things to **** up, but still - the online numbers are dwindling. Nonetheless 
 the multiplayer action is fantastic with different game types to play. The choice between Team 
 Deathmatch or just plain insane Deathmatch will be there whenever you want to hunt some head through 
 a sniper scope or feel like bio-rifling someone's legs off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  alright basically this game has had alot of changes, maybe no new weapons but they are different 
 to the original :) . all the weapons i reckon are worth using now unlike on ut2004 i wouldn't use 
 certain weapons. vehicles have changed quite alot, they're alot better n ow like driver seats can 
 now shoot instead of having a gunner seat for some vehicles. the new necris vehicles makes the 
 game a bit interesting thought the scavenger is somewhat very difficult to learn how to use lol. 
 adrenaline has been removed possibly in a mutator they'll release later? i dunnoes i hope they 
 bring it back because it made the game quite unique :) . i think they should have brought back assault 
 because that was one of my favourite game modes. warfare is basically just onslaught lol but with 
 orbs. these orbs let you capture nodes instantly which can really help turn the tides when ya losing 
 ^^.
  
  My opinion on this game.
  really awesome but could be better, like maybe bring back assault, more weapons and make adrenaline 
 a mutator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W1r3d
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  With great visuals and fast paced gameplay this game makes up for one really exciting ride. Lets 
 start of with the graphics. From my point of view they are just stunning. Maybe not Crysis stunning 
 but they are up there. The Character skins are also among the tastier ones i have seen so far in 
 a FPS game. The characters themselves both look and feel really heavy when you play. You can really 
 tell that there has been a lot of work put into these models and textures. Although if you look 
 hard enough you will find small slips and missed tweaks, but these are just minor things and if 
 you play the game the way it's supposed to you will probably never ever notice them. You will be 
 to busy dodging the rockets and flak. The Materials on the surfaces feels like it is something 
 that Epic has really nailed. Metal looks like metal and skin looks like skin. As for the levels 
 i am rather astonished and surprised about some of the textures being very low res. There are also 
 some instances where the bump seems really out of place and just slapped on. Again i'd like to 
 point out that all in all it blends together to a really nice whole. And if you are out there fragging 
 you are not likely to notice any of these things. Which brings me to the Gameplay.
  
  The very fast action in UT3 makes it an ideal game to pick up and play. It is a game that is easy 
 to play for like the 5 min before you head on down to the bus or a 5 hour session on a LAN-party. 
 Beeing as fast paced as it is your eyes will be constantly scanning the terrain for approaching 
 enemies/vehicles/guided rockets and your mind will most likely be preoccupied with your next frag/objective 
 etc. So if you start playing it the chances are that you will in fact be running to that bus instead 
 of walking. Since those five minuets will fly by like a ferret on speed. Some other very intressting 
 gameplay is the hoverboard which is avalible in the vehicle CTF. This is just a blast to float 
 around on. Although you might want to stay clear of the water. If you happen to get shot on when 
 on the board you will instantly fall over and be caught on the ground for like 2 seconds or so. 
 Which is plenty of time to get fragged. So be cautious when using the hoverboard. This is also 
 one of my favourite new things in the game. You are actually able to fall over!!
  This is especially true if you encounter vehicles like the darkstalker. Which has a secondary fire 
 that lets out a 'scream' that knocks you down and leaves you lying on the ground while it has a 
 fair chance to reaim. 
  
  The weapons in the game makes up for some really interesting choices. Obviously we are seeing the 
 reoccurring rocketlauncher and flak cannon. Alongside with a wide array of other weapons. Almost 
 every one can be found in previous UT games. Almost all of the functions are still the same but 
 with some minor changes. Likt the "minigun" which now has a secondary fire that shoots bolts instead 
 of just firing a less rapid but more accurate stream of bullets. The Graphics on the weapons are 
 really well made and they are just really nice to look at. And with the different firing modes 
 you can really alter your strategy according to what weapons you currently carry. 
  
  With the addition of vehicles this adds upp to a very complete game in all aspects. It is the same 
 as with the weapons. Almost all the vehicles can be found in previous UT games. But they are really 
 at the next level in terms of graphics. They have also included a really neat "surfing" feature 
 which enables you to slingshot with your hoverboard. This is done by attaching yourself to the 
 rear of a vehicle and then you can basically tag along for the ride. You might want to choose a 
 fast vehicle with a good driver for this task. You don't wanna end up flatfaced on a wall or roadkilled 
 by oncoming vehicles for that matter. 
  
  So if you are looking for something with a fast pulse and a insane tempo. I strongly recommend 
 this game. The phrase "easy to pick up but hard to master" absolutely applies to this game. It 
 is also well woth exploring all the different game-modes that are avalible in this game. As each 
 has it's own rewarding gameplay. But also to find which one you are best suited for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mb6799
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  I have been playing UT for a while was really kind of put out that epic took thier sweet time in 
 getting a new PC version out . I was truly amazed that it was way better than imagined. Just switched 
 to a new Machine that was build well enough to get 100% of the packed artistry into this game also 
 a great value with the addition of the anthology in the collectors edition . I am looking forward 
 to building some new maps with the editor DVD tutorial. Way to go EPIC!!!!
  
  I like the way the levels progress and the different way to wage war within the game. Vehicles 
 are very intresting and well thought . I really think that the sound is great and a improvement 
 over previous versions. For those of us who prefer to play on PC verses the TV box it is a great 
 thing and a much better value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeda_blade
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I played UT2K3 and UT2k4. 2k4 was a big improvement over its predecessor giving us wide open spaces 
 and huge outdoor locations and there was so much to like about them that I was hooked to UT2k4 
 and left Ut2K3 behind not that I regret much but essentially both games were the same with UT2k4 
 having better content better maps and everything better than K3. 
  
  I played this game and thought that this would be a natural progression of the old with bigger 
 maps and wide open spaces with a lot of new modes. I was rewarded with wide open spaces and very 
 good graphics but nothing new and radical like the old I agree with gamespot's review that in this 
 day and age where hyper realism defines all the shooters that I have come across UT3 is suprisingly 
 fresh with quick and furious multiplayer and extremely entertaining modes. 
  
  The graphics are very good with wide open spaces beautifully rendered and maps with great layouts. 
 The game seems to keep it graphics crisp even in very fast and furious battles. Even on my old 
 PC I was blown away by the graphics and environments. 
  
  The sounds were dead on and the sound track a haunting reminder of its roots. Which I am sure a 
 lot of UT fans will recognize.
  
  The gameplay is superb with a little modifaction of the old physics that defined UT2K4. The game 
 is just as fun to play as the old.
  
  But the question that needs to be asked is that is it a new game in itself. With a lot of us having 
 a 6 series or a 7 series Nvidia and equivalent ATI cards the game will look like UT2K4 and with 
 lesser modes. Therefore due to the lack of any new content with Vehicle CTF not counted as a new 
 one I will give it 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJoel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Takes a little time to adjust from 2004 but you will soon learn this game was worth the wait. The 
 new Unreal Engine rocks and can compete with the best of them out there today. If your focus is 
 on mulitplayer, this game is a must have. Look for continuous updates from Epic as they have always 
 done with UT Takes a little time to adjust from 2004 but you will soon learn this game was worth 
 the wait. The new Unreal Engine rocks and can compete with the best of them out there today. If 
 your focus is on mulitplayer, this game is a must have. Look for continuous updates from Epic as 
 they have always done with UT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Aight, so, basicly, forget single player, there is one good reason:
  BOTS ARE #$%@#.
  ok maybe not THAT bad if this is your first time playing a arena-run-and-gun-FPS. But the multiplayer 
 is where this game is at and for one reason or another, it doesnt fully deliver.
  
  Basic lowdown:
  graphics: 10
  gameplay: 8
  Sound: 9
  Story: 6
  Tilt: 8
  
  your not 
 interrested in the details of those marks, because they speak for themselves. However the gameplay 
 might need some explaining:
  People that played UT2k4 to the death will have a REALLY hard time adjusting. Mainly it's because 
 of a couple of tweaks:
  - The removed the dodge-jump (jumping at the highest peak of your dodge)
  - new weapon balances 
 
  * link primary is stronger, alt fire is less strong (doesnt have the foot-damage-multiplier anymore)
 
  * biorifle is stronger and easier to hit people with
  * rocket launcher is the UT2k4 one (which is the 3 barrel rocket launcher)
  * flakcannon has 
 less range with alt fire
  * minigun (called Stinger now) has a new alt fire, which is both imbalanced and feels rather useless 
 (imbalanced for good players, useless for the not-so-good)
  * shield gun has been replaced with UT99's Impact Hammer, which has a new alt fire that does NO 
 damage but knocks-off ANY powerups (incl armor, shieldbelt and Udamage)
  * The old sniper rifle is back, lightning gun is gone
  * shockrifle feels about the same but 
 shockcombo seems stronger (imbalanced according some)
  * enforcer is now slow-firing and alt fire is a burst firemode (note, every shot does 20 damage, 
 seems low for a starter gun, but you can wield 2 of these if you pick another up, making them formidable 
 weapons compared to the others)
  - The translocater is still in the game but has a crappy range and it does "float" as it used to.
 
  - they introduce warfare which replaced onslaught and assault
  - they introduced Vehicle Capture The Flag
  - they introduced the hoverboard for warfare and 
 vCTF
  - they introduced a duel mode 
  
  That's about it i can come up with. Generally these things are all quite good and entertaining. 
 Personally wouldve liked to see the old rocketlauncher back, but hey, cant have it all.
  
  The only REAL downside is the lack of maps. There arent many choices whatsoever. I think it has 
 about 40-50 maps in total, for 4 different game modes (DM/Duel/TDM, CTF, vCTF and Warfare) . It 
 seems really strange they left out Domination, or even double domination, but i guess it's not 
 very popular anymore and it's probably something the mod community will make in the weeks to come.
 
  
  That said:
  crappy singleplayer (it's not even a tournament anymore, they just make up bad excuses to use the 
 game-maps as battle grounds :S )
  Great multiplayer
  overall lack of maps (especially CTF, it only has 6 !! maps and NO FACING WORLDS!!!)
  
  So 
 it looks great, sounds good, plays good (except for singleplayer) and in general it's a solid package.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GP1mil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game has been changed around, seems a little console like and can get annoying navigating 
 through the menus. ( New patch makes it a little better) . Graphics are nice, but there are texture 
 pop-ins here and there that do tend to get a little annoying, but over all in Epic's fashion UT3 
 is pretty scalable on a wide range of machines that do not have serious performance hits. There 
 is a single player story part to this, where you have to play the various tradionaly type UT modes 
 like CTF, DM and TDM but in a story driven way. Single player part is kind of shallow and doesn't 
 really matter since this is suppose to be a UT frag fest. Instant Action is still there which is 
 fun if you still love to just play the bots, which can have the AI adjusted, this years UT's AI 
 does seem to be a little more intelligent then previous ones on how they go about the maps objectives 
 once the AI level is turned up a notch they can get a little pesky with rocket launchers and shock 
 rifles. I haven't notcied a lot of character options yet but at teh start you are given 4 clans 
 or groups that have 4-5 characters within each group. The cool thing about this is that once you 
 pick a character, each character has different options on the armor and gear that he or she wears 
 and the player can mix and match the different gear to make it look better in his or her own way. 
 The online portion of this game is still the same ol same ol UT but not as many maps as previous 
 installments which I guess Epic is leaving that up to the mod community or future patches.
  
  If your a casual UT fan that loves fast pace frag fests this game is worth checking out, but 
 if your hardcore UT fan might wait until mods start rolling out or classic maps from previous UT's 
 starting to pop, but overall the game is entertaining in this years UT installment
  
  Specs:
  Vista 32-bit Business 
  AMD Athlon 64-bit X2 6000+ 3.0GHz
  2GB G. Skill DDR2-800 
 
  256MB nVidia GeForce 7800GTX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinky666
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Who loved UT99 will love UT3.
  Who loved UT2k4 will hate it.
  
  Compared to the UT2k4 series, it's a total step back IMHO.
  If you want to play for real, without 
 the "lego style" u need a rather high end rig.
  The game is alot more FPS hungry on low settings then UT2k4 was on high settings.
  
  Most of 
 the times the gameplay is screwed up with more or less pathetic bugs, which I didn't expected from 
 a good producer like EPIC is.
  They had alot of time to finish things properly, and if they would've released the demo 2 months 
 earlier they could've fixed alot of stuff.
  
  The ammount of maps in vctf and warfare is a disaster, and untill the first bonus pack is released 
 it will get damn boring to play on the same maps every time over and over again.
  Epic said there will be huge warfare maps, that could be played with up to 64 players...
  Well 
 I rly didn't find any.. max is 32 imo, and even then it feels like a rush hour in San Francisco..
 
  
  The vehicles are nice. Some are more usefull, a couple of them really sucks (the new HB) . But, 
 depends on the POV thou, they're really unbalanced.
  
  The first beta patch fixes alot of bugs and problemsm but unfurtunately brings some new ones.
 
  
  So to finish quickly:
  +A great game from the UT series with awesome graphics
  +A big community
  -You need a rather high end rig to play on decent framerates
  -Too many un-needed 
 bugs
  -The ammount of maps is a joke
  -Epic promissed alot of stuff, which isn't there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shedding
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  They turned the best online competition game into rubish. The graphics are amazing.. however, they 
 hardly let you discern your enemy. The background images are too distracting. The action is so 
 fast pased you can hardly aim at enemies now.. everyone seems to just bounce around in the teleporter. 
 It is a sad day.. this game does not compare to UT98,99 or UT2004.. even UT2003 is better than 
 this. It is rough for me to give this game a lower score, but it just doesn't seem like the programmers 
 gave this game some Tender loving care. The menus just scream "console" and just feels unpolished. 
 They could've taken one more year and contract hardcore UT gamers to consult on the game.. but 
 instead they made this. I am truly dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arenoth
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is so dull and boring compared to previous unreal games.
  No dodgejump, no shield gun, nothing.
  The graphics are horrible, lots of bloom and blur, you can 
 hardly see your enemies.
  the single player "campign" was really ridiculous, it's just playing vs bots with few cut-scenes.
 
  I don't know what were they thinking when they made the UI, it's one of the worse I've seen in 
 years - hell you can't even view your ping in the score table (not to mention PPH like unreal 2004 
 had) .
  
  
  It's really disappointing that such a promising title like Unreal 2007 turned to be a really bad 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slider14206
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is how you would think the progression of Unreal would be. It is beautiful, fast , and 
 has a slight twist on old weapons and vehicles. Plus, it has a cool new hoverboard build into your 
 character to get around. It is a legendary title so worth a buy on that reason alone.
  
  The problem is no one is playing this game on multiplayer servers. I don't know if it is because 
 it is really the same type of gameplay as previous versions or because there is a lot of competition 
 right now with CoD4, Crysis, and TF2 but the servers are empty.
  
  Although the graphics and improvements are great they did not take this to the next level like 
 I thought they would do. I would like to see more character progression as in BF2142 in the form 
 of unlocks, title, or something to show you play the game a lot.
  
  Unfortunately, it looks like UT3 will be a bust sales-wise but it is a very good game. The single 
 player is pitiful as the AI is really stupid but it serves as a training ground for the multiple 
 which as stated before is empty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swnny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Do you wanna kill people for fun? Kill a lot of people in brutal way with flying heads, arms, legs, 
 bones etc? If yes, Unreal Tournament is for you and the 3th generation in the series is not exception.
 
  
  Let start with the modes and maps. Unlike UT2004, Unreal Tournament 3 has only six gameplay modes: 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 1-on-1 Duel, Capture the Flag, Vehicle Capture the Flag and (the new) 
 Warfare.
  Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and 1-on-1 Duel are standard players versus players modes. In CTF you 
 have to capture the enemy flag and protect yours. Vehicle CTF - like CTF but with vehlices and 
 hoverboards on larger maps.
  Warfare is new for the series. Its like UT2004's Onslaught - two teams, two bases and must destroy 
 the enemy's base, but before you need to "unlock" the base with capturing strategic points on the 
 map with the Orb (the new "thing" in the game) .
  
  In Vehicle CTF and Warfare you can control a lot of sci-fi vehicles like tanks, cars, dark walkers, 
 tripods and etc. Everyone of them has special powers. Tripods can roll and kill all enemy players 
 on the road, the Scorpion is extra speed and can pull out two blades (one for each side - left/right) 
 and cut everything on his way.
  
  Now the cool stuff - weapons. Everything from Unreal Tournament 2004 is back with new amazing design. 
 Impact Hammer, Enforcer, BioRifle, ShockRifle, LinkGun, FlakCanon, Rocket Launcer, SniperRifle 
 and Redeemer - with all of them you can tear your enemies to peaces in brutal ways. A lot of fun 
 with flying peaces from the body and breathtaking explosions. All you need from one game :)
  
  The graphics is amazing - detailed textures, bloom, Depth of field, dynamic lights and shadows... 
 everything looks astounding. Music and sound effects are great. The soundtrack is 'no comment'.
 
  
  There are a lot of problems with retail version, but EPIC works on the (second beta) patch and 
 all of the bugs will be fixed in next few weeks. We only need to be patient.
  
  And for final - the game comes with Unreal Editor. With it can be created new maps, mutators, mods 
 and even new gameplay modes, UI and etc.
  Unreal Tournament 3 is one great game - Must have title!
  
  See you on the battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booboo_lala
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Unreal was like a highway for me now Unreal lll make it like hell because of some big mistake that 
 Epic doing right now these are some of them that make me feel angry : 1. Ugly weapons 2. normal gameplay 
 not in a professional way 3. Goddamn area like garbage 4. nothing new 5. visuals are creepy 6. one 
 of the pc game that like a console game or port game in pc 7. Single player is boring and many many 
 things that make u lagh at this game 
  
 
  lets talk about a good things in this game 
  1. Movies are incredible and perfect 
  2. Graphic is good but not in a shoes of crysis and Call of Duty 4 that make me play all the time 
 
  3. Fast movement like Ut 04 i think this is one part from UT 04 come to this game nothing more
 
  
  
  at the end you choose :1. put your money in the garbage and buy it 
  2. save it or go buy a cod 4 or crysis 
  3. wait for consoles game i think it deserved it
  4. go 
 and play Gears of war the best game ever made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzakj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Great game. You better have the pc powerhouse to run this game with all the shineyness, but even 
 at lowest settings it's not that terrible. There's an actual story to the tournamentish game. There's 
 no actual tournament, but the game is structured around the same kind of ladder. As you play, the 
 story progresses and it's quite interesting to say the least! Epic knows what the gamers want and 
 listens. Expect patches for bigger improvements. Not to forget the greatest modding community ever! 
 Custom maps, custom gametypes, that's what it's all about. The multiplayer is where the game shines 
 the most, but Epic worked to bring the single player on par this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackfnBurton
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I will be excoriated in some circles for this but I have never, ever played any other iteration 
 of UT, so many of the complaints I've heard about this version are somewhat lost on me. Having 
 not seen the previous versions, I can't really compare. 
  
  How did this happen? I don't know, I never touched Half Life until 2003 - me and my pals threw 
 LAN parties (then called Sunday Computer Ultimate Deathmatch or SCUD... get it? Hey, it was the 
 90's.) in the day that revolved around games like SIN, AVP and Starcraft. 
  
  There's a lot of classic games I never played either because I wasn't interested, never heard of 
 them or they just weren't on my radar. My boys just never rolled with Unreal. By the time it truly 
 hit I think we considered run and gun FPS passe. 
  
  But here's the funny thing. After checking out Crysis something interesting happened. I realized 
 that between the Splinter Cell series, Rainbow Six, Far Cry, et cetera I was sick and tired of 
 FPS' where I had to do all this sneaking around in the shadows stabbing people from behind, hacking 
 keypads, and solving physics puzzles. 
  
  I just wanted to boot up and KILL THINGS, like back in the day. And with really pretty graphics 
 too. 
  
  Well enter UT3. This is not the game of the year but it IS just the game I needed right now. I 
 enjoy Crysis but I so do NOT (at the moment) want to spend 30 hours sneaking around in the bushes 
 like I did in Far Cry. I am not in the mood for it. I just want to kill. I'll get sick of it eventually 
 but right now, just hand me the biggest gun you can find and show me where they are. 
  
  That said, there are flaws about UT3 that DO bug me. I can't say I touched the SP campaign in this 
 game, as it really is about as weak as you've heard. I don't think I'd find it interesting even 
 if it was 1981and this was the first video game I'd ever seen. 
  
  But it has it's uses. Like the Mechwarrior series, SP is primarily meant to get you up to speed 
 so you stand a fighting chance in multi player combat. If you're a n00b you might want to take 
 a crack at it. Trust me, there are thousands of kids out there with nothing to do all day but practice 
 headshots while guys like me are at the office. Before you face them, you'd best get your feet 
 wet. To that end, you're best served playing the bots in deathmatch or CTF - at the higher settings 
 they're quite good. 
  
  Speaking of vehicles... vehicle capture the flag seems cool at first until you realize that you 
 can't carry the flag in any of the vehicles, save the hoverboard. Not a HUGE deal but after going 
 through all the trouble to get the flag I'm not particularly interested in walking back - but I 
 understand the reason for it.
  
  I found most of the vehicles (and most of the vehicle weapons) sluggish and unnecessarily challenging 
 to maneuver efficiently, and on foot you'd best have a rocket launcher and be really good with 
 it, or you will have a VERY tough slog of it. All in all I find Vehicle CTF, as implemented here 
 to be intriguing but quite clumsy. 
  
  I can't say whether these gripes are little more than my personal preferences or represent an actual 
 flaw in the game's design - you'll have to decide for yourself. Perhaps a patch will balance things 
 out a bit. 
  
  No, deathmatch is where it's at for me and boy does this take me back. This is old school kill-anything-that-moves 
 combat like I was always meant for. Sure I play plenty of HL2 Deathmatch with my homies but UT3 
 is a step up and it WILL be played at our next LAN party. 
  
  I have to agree a thousand percent with gripes I have heard about the menu - I have a gaming PC 
 because I happen to believe consoles are toys - so why do I have to deal with a menu system that 
 makes me feel like I'm using a toy? I have a mouse, why do I have to hop through a 36 branch menu 
 tree like some sort of digital monkey? 
  
  It took about almost as long as it did for me to install my video card to skip to the video settings, 
 only to find out that there are only two real options? 
  
  Why are there no options for AA, AF, or any of the other high level options PC gamers are accustomed 
 to? Not all of them need necessarily be used in this game but pretty as the graphics are a little 
 AA wouldn't kill me considering the rather decent hardware I am gaming on. 
  
  That aside, suffice it to say that I am sold, I am hooked and so far my blood lust has not been 
 even remotely satisfied. If you're a devoted fan of past UT games you may or may not find something 
 to love here. 
  
  But if you're like me and new to the series, or (also like me) need a break from FPS' that are 
 as complex as Supreme Commander, this may be the game for you. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 84dark84
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  OMG! 
  After so many hours spent on UT99 and UT2004 I could never imagine a sequel could do this... It's 
 amazing!
  
  Graphic: 9.9/10
  It's the last generation, it's dx9 or OpenGL and it doesn't require a monsterPC to play with it, 
 but it's hard optimized and the details are awesome!
  The menu is awful, but they'll fix it in time (with patches...)
  Sound: 9/10
  Some issues with 
 the volumes (but i think it's my old soundcard which is quite broken) . Music and dialogs are very 
 well done.
  Gameplay: 10/10
  it's easier than ut2004 to move, but it's faster and more hardcore while going through the map. 
 Absolutely fantastic weapons, better balanced than ut2004.
  
  A must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Well it hasn't got as many maps as UT2004 but there's so much to do with it. Like make your own 
 maps (like previous ver.) , ladders , scripts & practically create your own game. The levels looks 
 very impressive. Visual effects are stunning. Its definitely one of the best multi-player games 
 around. Its got everything you need. You get so many ways to frag someone and its satisfying !!! 
 Lots of new elements have been added like Shield Generators, EMP Mines, Orbs etc. Its definitely 
 PERFECT.
  And the interface will probably be changed in the next patch release.
  
  UNSURPASSED. UNPRECEDENTED. UNREAL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldavidtw2000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game hardly draws my attention when I have about 6 new other games to play at the same time, 
 but it did.
  it's low system requirement amazes me and proves again Unreal engine has it's stuff, although without 
 AA.
  the entire game is fast, bloody, gorie, crazy, like it used to be.
  this series never disappointed me, since i played it in 1999 (and that was the first FPS for me, 
 which is the reason I became a gamer til now)
  the fast action with some butt-kicking weapons and tons of taunt and laughs never bores me.
  
 it's just a really fast pase game, no hiding around, no stand & aim, everything happens in split 
 seconds.
  the feeling is awesome especially when you accidentally shoot your rocket randomly into the air 
 and enemy jumps right into it, or get blown into it.
  graphics is needless to say, way better than 2004.
  gameplay is nowhere worse, although i still 
 don't think taking out entire assault game mode is a good idea, but oh well.
  this game probably doesn't sell good comparing to like Crysis or other games because every gamer 
 just dumped their pockets dry in this month, but if you still have some money before bank calls 
 you, get it, it's great, fast action, and above all really funny when you see enemy falling after 
 they got headshotted.
  but as you stop moving around and watch it for just one second, you'll be finding your head too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Every match is fast-paced, with characters rapidly moving across the map either to get to objectives 
 or more likely to blow the crap out of each other.
  
  UT3 has alot of gametypes. These include Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Duel, Warfare, 
 and Vehicle Capture the Flag. They are all varied and should appeal to all fans of shooters in 
 some ways. VCTF and Warfare include a selection of well-designed and unique vehicles. All of UT3's 
 vehicles are incredibly varied, each possessing unique weaponry and fulfilling different roles 
 on the battlefield. They are improved when compared to UT2004, as they no longer feel overbalanced 
 against infantry and are much easier to take out. The guns are all incredibly unique and are fit 
 for radically different situations. There is no reload system in the game, allowing you to empty 
 out all of your ammo for a particular gun without reloading once.
  
  The UT series has always been known for a simplistic but easy-to-use interface, allowing players 
 to quickly filter servers and join a game with friends and clan mates. The options menu always 
 provided the player the ability to tweak everything from his FOV, to announcer voice, to crosshair 
 colors, to sound settings, etc. Unfortunately however, since Epic didn't want to alienate past 
 fans of the series running on Pentium 1 PC's, it doesn't offer many innovations besides in the 
 field of graphics. It is hurt by its strangely subpar interface, which UT3 took a step back in 
 this regard, if not two steps back. Missing are the large selection of graphics customization sliders, 
 having been reduced to two sliders: World Detail and Texture Detail. But Epic has promised to fix 
 it. While there are a few quirks with the game itself.
  
  Thankfully, Epic has stated that the upcoming patch will fix most of these issues and that they 
 won't leave their community hanging for too long. But time will tell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WheelerXp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I had always been a fan of the series, but this is a huge jump in graphics for them. The multiplayer 
 maps are done perfectly. Everything has a beautiful shadowing and lighting. I have to get more 
 into the Unreal ED cause i really enjoy modding the weapons and making my own enviroments. I have 
 a 3.2 Ghz Pent D, 4 Gb of 800Mhz ram, 8600 GTS, and it runs perfectly with everything turned up 
 all the way. This says alot beacuse my video card is far from the best. So if i can run this on 
 high, hopefully so can you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Pretty simply put the game isn't necessarily bad, other than the very annoying menu system and 
 the lack of graphics options. Game play is similar to the other UT games of course, but seems like 
 it lost some of its unique aspects. Graphics seem to look washed out on my computer compared to 
 UT2004.
  There are so few people and servers playing this. UT2004 still has more players by far, not to 
 mention COD4 totally blows UT3 away for player base.
  
  Is it worth $50 price tag?, hardly, I feel I would be better off just playing UT2004 instead. Maybe 
 over time with patches and mods it will evolve into a better game, as it is right now, its nothing 
 that great.
  
  Side note, anyone who gives this game a 9 or better is just a fanboy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  So I don't really know where to start. I do not played too much on this one to be 100% clear with 
 this game!
  You must know something about me that I've played the first Unreal Tournament hundreds of hours 
 I finished it at every difficulty level, after get bored with SP I go game with my friends and 
 over the internet! It was so simple and pure fun to play that game!
  After UT 2003 appeared, you must know that UT was the worst in series, I go back to my beloved 
 UT again! I don't know what was the purpose of releasing it! It was like an unfinished game!
  When I've heared that UT 2004 coming.. I said WoW maybe this one will be the "one", however it was 
 much more better than the previus one still not the real one!
  Soon I've heared that another UT coming, I was a bit confused becouse after 2 games that don't 
 even stand in the shadow of the first one I can't believe that a 3rd one will make too much hype.
 
  After I've waited and waited and now I'm waiting again :) becouse I'not waited for this one!
 
  First of all when the demo comes out it was pretty ok! Good game at first site, my reaction was 
 can't wait for the full version, I've preordered from a website.
  When I've got my Unreal my reactions was far from that I feel now! I was happy and curious how 
 it will be!
  Installed and after 3-4 Login. Logout. Login. Logout. I've started to be nervous, but I gave another 
 chance, started again played a few hours, but next day I wanted to continue my single palyer campaign 
 and my progress wasn't saved OMG. WTF???
  So let's start it again, but same results.. so I need to finish it all without leaving the game? 
 The whole game makes me to feel that I start a website for adults :) )
  By the way here is my complete rating:
  
  Graphics - 4/10
  I like graphics in a way but todays 
 gaming is about - Let's make a game that has graphics that cannot run on your PC, and you can't 
 play it, so what to do must buy new PC and when the game can run it 100% you realize that the good 
 graphics hide a boring game, even a highly boring game and you better go back to your good old 
 games where you had fun with all your friends toghether and that bringes good moments and memories 
 back once more! Graphics is good but not necesary to make a game great that's my opinion!
  
  Sound - 6/10
  Yess. Sound. This means so much to a game! Without good sound a game cannot 
 be good! In UT 2007 the sounds are not bad but I say one more time that in the first UT or "classic" 
 as many of you call it, the sounds and music was PERFECT! so I compare this to the first one so 
 even my score of 6 it's too high for it! I cannot understand people, if they can create something 
 good why they can't copy themselfs at least at a level that aproaches the previous product!
  
  Gameplay - 4/10
  Here I don`t really know what to say maybe the problem is with me but if 
 they say that this is a FPS "first person shoter" why i must play with and against stupid vehicles??? 
 I simply cannot understand I hate those vehicles I want FPS carnage not a dumb tank race!
  By the way, the weapons look good, but they hold so less potential than in classic UT. I never 
 forget the sniper and rocket launcher that can shoot 5 missiles!
  
  Fun - 3/10
  The most important thing in a game!! Never forget that people play games for fun! Not for awesome 
 graphics, if I want to see good graphics I go out for a trip in the mountains or I visit an exotic 
 place!
  In some cases I'm happy too see how technology progresses but when this goes against the fun of 
 a game and replayability I say NO! Why I need to play new games and waste my time and money to 
 go asleep in front of my PC and wonder how great this game could be but it's not??
  I say that this UT is not as fun as the original one in 10% of the time!
  
  Value - 8/10
 
  This is the thing that I speak of! I played all games that have been released in 2006-7 and I 
 can say that I am diasppointed in these brand new hardware hungry money eating programs, so if 
 you looking for a good NEW shooter maybe UT 2007 will be a good choice, but if you looking for 
 fun better play Doom 2, Quake 3 or even Counter Strike!
  
  Conclusion
  Save your money and play something else or go back to classic UT, it's fun as always I wanted to 
 play it now but I can't find my CD, tomorrow I will unistall UT 2007 and install UT the "one" :) ) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  It's hard to predict the exact point where you'll fall in love with UTIII. Perhaps it's when you 
 first unleash a laser that melts your opponent's flesh, reducing even the burliest space marine 
 to a pile of smoking bones. Or maybe it's when you get your hands on a Redeemer  the most powerful 
 gun in gaming history  that can vaporise teams of opponents with a teeth-rattling nuclear shockwave. 
 But, if you're a megalomaniac like us, the game will win your heart when you clamber into the cockpit 
 of a War Of The Worlds-style tripod that emits a menacing growl as it rises to full height, then 
 casually sears everything in its path with a crimson energy beam.
  
  By now you should have realised that UTIII isn't Rainbow Six. And even though it's from the same 
 people who delivered Gears Of War, the gut-knotting tension of strategic shootouts is all-but missing 
 from this latest entry in the Unreal series. Instead, UTIII is all about balls-out blasting, lightning-paced 
 gunplay and the desire to frag your friends in the dirtiest way possible, harking back to the halcyon 
 days of mutltiplayer blasters such as Quake and providing a delirious change of pace from the harrowing 
 wartime adventures and surly tactical shooters that dominated the charts in 2007.
  
  But while there's nothing essentially new amongst the carnage, what makes UTIII a brutal joy is 
 its staggering array of weapons; from the time-honoured rocket launchers, sniper rifles and miniguns, 
 to unique blasters such as a cannon that fires skin-eating spiders and a time-distortion bubble 
 where fleeing rivals' are slowed to a snail's pace, each of the game's tools of destruction are 
 a thrill to use and will cause your heart to skip a beat when you spot a favourite spawning in 
 the arena. Even better, each weapon boasts a secondary function that can be used in prickly situations 
 - the Redeemer's fly-by-wire missiles are particularly memorable - and while the armaments are 
 unfeasibly powerful, the developers have maintained a sharp sense of balance, meaning that even 
 the most tooled-up warrior can be stopped if you're smart enough to spot their Achilles' heel.
 
  
  Adding to UTIII's battlefield bedlam are a host of new vehicles  including traditional tanks and 
 jeeps, alongside HR Giger-inspired biomech war machines  all of which can be commandeered as the 
 skirmishes unfold. And if you need a quick getaway, each character now carries a hoverboard that 
 would make Marty McFly proud, a nippy device that leaves you vulnerable to attack but can make 
 the difference between success and failure when chasing an enemy half-inching your team flag.
 
  
  In terms of multiplayer options, UTIII is crammed with familiar classics  deathmatch, capture 
 the flag, you can guess the rest  along with a batch of new challenges that are sure to become 
 fan favourites. One notable new mode, Warfare, challenges players to destroy an enemy installation 
 and a series of bases along the way, a frantic scramble of ever-shifting battlefronts that can 
 see fights lasting for over an hour and reducing the hardiest player to a quivering wreck of nerves.
 
  
  The only downside is that you'll need a PC of HAL 9000 proportions to run the game, and even the 
 most souped-up machine will have trouble handling the intense action. But even if it costs a small 
 fortune to get the best from UTIII, habitual gun toters shouldn't begrudge a penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukillwegrill
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is the grandaddy of Deatmatch 
  it is fun and hugely fast paced with a teriffic competetive nature although i havent played online 
 much yet
  on my computer i could run it at the top detail level (oh yeah) but for the sake of the review 
 i tried it on lower settings to my surprise it still looks really good.
  despite all the fastpace action it keeps a steady framrate
  
  However unreal is far from perfect 
 it has a reliance on difficuly menus and a weak singleplayer also graphically it dosent match the 
 beautifal but also flawed crysis
  all in all its a very good game although it feels just like previous installments albeit with a 
 bit more gloss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  The best *toy* ever- Unreal Engine 3 Edit tools. First of all, I have to not that the tool itself 
 is almost as complicated as any proper 3D software, so tutorials are essential here. That was a 
 reason why I bought collector's edition- the included video tutorials. And the annoying thing is 
 that all online shops are providing different (and often not correct) information on the package. 
 So now I can tell you: it includes 20 (TWENTY!) hours of video tutorials on UE3 Edit tools! (Plus, 
 a tiny art *book* and 2 cool documentary movies) . Those tutorials are so helpful that you will 
 have your own level in an hour (and after you still will have additional 19 hours of tutorials) . 
 And when you are tired from learning, UT3 Deathmatch will help to refresh the brains :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necollix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  
  I'll try to make this review short. As a UT fan, I was totally expecting UT3 to be 2K4 but with 
 fancy visuals and effects. Or at least, that's what I hoped for.
  
  First, the obvious and good. The Graphics are nice and the game scales extremely well for any grade 
 of PC. The action is UT. The weapon balance is great and vastly improved. DM is the same, fast 
 and fun.
  
  But so much has been taken out it's unbelivable. Onslaught has been replaced. Domination is gone. 
 For some reason they made Vehicle CTF. (What the hell?) The menu system is ATROCIOUS. Honestly. 
 There is no customization, no graphic options - and somehow, these lack of settings SOMEHOW span 
 50 different screens. You select one option, then click next, then select one more option, and 
 repeat. A lot.
  
  You cannot create an offline account without creating an online one. (ie. Settings will return 
 to default on game exit)
  
  Another extremely strange thing is the SP campaign. UT2k7 was renamed to UT3. (for multiple reasons) 
 It uses Unreal Engine 3, and it's the 3rd installment of both the Unreal and UT series. (Even though 
 it's the 4th) So they hyped up this SP campaign like it was supposed to be some type of "Unreal" 
 campaign. It's not. At all. It's just Team matches with cut scenes. It doesn't make sense. Unreal 
 Tournament has always had a competitive Multiplayer focus. WHY they worked on a SP campaign that 
 offers NOTHING and is, overall, entirely a waste of time, and then boast about it, is so confusing. 
 In so much as they trashed so many MP game modes and options while they wasted their time on this.
 
  
  I don't believe that UT3 even tracks your stats. (Like 2K4. Time using specific weapons, accuracy) 
 I could be wrong. But I'm almost certain it does not.
  
  OBVIOUSLY, I am comparing this to 2K4. On it's own, (and if you overlook the rancid menu's and 
 submenus with no options in them - Think console) UT3 is pretty good. While the game may deserve 
 an 8-8.5. In terms of what 2K4 had, and what they RIPPED OUT AND GUTTED from it, UT3 is not so 
 good.
  
  All I wanted was "UT2K7". None of this "Trying to add a SP campaign" and some weird urge to cater 
 to the console owners while neglecting the PC owners crap. It seems as though it was entirely made 
 for the console, and was ported to PC 10 months later missing tonnes of content the original had.
 
  
  - M. T. Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I am a UT fanboy. When the first UT went head to head with Quake III Arena back in the day, I always 
 said that UT was superior in every way to the id release. UT 2003 was OK, but something was a little 
 off. UT 2004 was excellent... scratch that,. . .IS excellent. UT III seems to be 2003 all over 
 again. Good game, but seems like it could have been more. Don't get me wrong. If you've never had 
 the pleasure of a good ol' frag fest Unreal Tournament style, you should play on. It's as fast 
 and as frantic as the other games, but there are some 'mini issues' First and foremost, why do 
 my bots always return to the default settings. The menu system is annoying as hell. These were 
 things that were brought up during the beta demo and never addressed in the gold code. Perhaps 
 with the patch some of these things will be rectified. Gameplay fun, but you have to get to it 
 first. Having to go through the crappy menu system, and setting up many things that should stay 
 at your last setting, is a minor point, but still... ya know what I mean here? It's the little things 
 that Epic did so well on UT 2004, that this seems like they just pushed it out the door for Christmas. 
 I'm quite positive that was the case, as Epic some how pulled a rabbit out of their hat and got 
 the PS 3 version to gold in time for the holidays as well. To further prove that point, how is 
 it, that there is a beta patch floating around the Internet already and the game was released less 
 than a week ago. Eh , eh.? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icemantx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The controls feel extremely muddy without the crispness of UT2004s controls. Even with mouse sensitivity 
 up all the way it just feels sloppy and slow. The graphics are nice but what's up with all the 
 black and grey? The levels are so dark, depressing and monotone without any pop or color. As others 
 have also said, the in game menus are tedious at best. I was eagerly awaiting this title and had 
 never tried the demo. I don't know what I was expecting but this wasn't it. I have to say I am 
 pretty disappointed with the look and feel of this edition of Unreal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ro-ut
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  
  I been playing Unreal tourmament 2004 for a while user madecool. This New UT 3 takes a while to 
 get use to but just like UT 2004 you love to play and play. Leave it up to Epic games to make this 
 great game. Works good. But make sure your got the right hardware first before you installed it. 
 I got Windows Vista with 2 GB of memory and a additional 700 MB Ready Boost flash memory . I am 
 able to play using a G Force 7600 AGP graphics card.
  Using Direct x 10. I notice that the graphics are not as clear as they are in
  UT 2004. After 
 about 2 hours of playing I learned enough to really know how to have some fun.
  It's another great Unreal Tournament Game. Thank so much Epic for making this great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hector-macias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Halo was very heavily criticized for not being innovative, the 2nd part wasnt either and the 3rd 
 part is quite boring, with all its childish characters and the same gameplay as before, UT3 not 
 only looks awesome but plays fast, it got brutal fast paced action, not to mention the incredible 
 audio and over the net gameplay. That works for me, I mean, what story are they specting the series 
 to have, thats stupid, tha game clearly aims to multiplayer, I dont care about strategy or puzzles, 
 thatd be the case I buy COD 4, HL2, or anything that acomplishes on that matter, but I just want 
 something to kick around stress and UT3 provides just what I want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragon18k
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  UT3 has brought back, after a few years absence, to my mind what frantic FPS is all about! - FRANTIC 
 FIRST PERSON SHOOTING!!! Halo3 SUCKS! by comparison and everything else COD, R6V, even GOW etc 
 is pedestrian by comparison. (Don't get me wrong though, those are great games that I enjoy the 
 heck out of, but UT has it's own niche and provides a very different experience) For me, there 
 is no other game that packs so much white knuckle, eye burning, wrist aching, action into a session. 
 UT3 brings much of the original UT99 that I loved combined with the good parts of 2K4's (vehix) 
 and improved upon UT2k4 very significantly. I LOVE THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZwOrb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  titles said it all. It's totally underrated. They are yapping that it isnt something new, just 
 more of the old stuff in a better jacket. So halo3 was totally new? sure sure.... it was just more 
 of the old stuff. BUT the old stuff was good, so why change it? Atleast it didn't create a hype 
 like al the other games....
  
  It has come to my attention that the bigger the hype of a game is the better it scores. If they 
 release it without having all gaming sites flash a banner of the game in ur face months before 
 the release then it looks like its not good enough. 
  
  Well don't be fooled by the "been there done that" or the "Crysis ha better gfx" Atleast you can 
 run this game on full ur machines without the need of a pc from the future.... And it offers great 
 gameplay. So what do you need more. IT's a great sequel to the previous games. Maybe one little 
 downsied and that the Console-ish menu. But that doesn't take away the fun. does it?
  
  go buy it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobaka770
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest: The Unreal Tournament 3 is not a reinvention of First-Person shooter, nor it was 
 supposed to be so. Epic Games have spent three years polishing the game mechanics, adding new graphics, 
 modifying the rules and gave us the one thing they know how to do best: a fast-paced, addictive 
 and overall an extremely fun game.
  
  Now let's go point by point:
  
  Graphics (first thing in mind with Unreal engine 3) : heard many questions whether Unreal engine 
 is better/worse than the one used in Crysis. The problem is that these two games are actually very 
 different from each other which makes them hard to compare: where Crysis tries to take over with 
 the realism of the picture, Ut3 doesn't need to look realistic, because it would just make it less... 
 unreal? 
  
  Ut3 graphics are great: everything shines, the weapons look cool and most importantly - it runs 
 smoothly without Intel Quad Core with 8800 Sli cards necessary (and on which Crysis ... khem...) . 
 The environments are absolutely indestructible but this "feature" is logical as the maps can be 
 easier balanced that way and overall lag reduced by lot (although it's true that it brings some 
 frustration especially when Leviathan is being stopped by a tiny tree in Warfare) .
  
  The sound contributes a lot to the overall feeling of massive slaughter. Bots got new phrases in 
 their lexicon and the announcer stayed pretty much the same ( but anyone wanter to get rid of "Monster 
 kill"?)
  
  Gameplay is not exactly the same anymore: you feel the biggest difference on vehicle maps with 
 new Necron beauties and the glider which is very useful as there's never enough vehicles in the 
 spawn area and which i personally find very cool to control (and to avoid enemy bullets not to 
 be kicked off losing insane amount of life) .
  
  The weapons have been readjusted a tiny bit which has an impact on a gameplay making it more varied 
 :Flak cannon and the Rocket launcher are no longer the winners only choice and overall combat is 
 now less distanced. 
  
  What's left?
  Game modes got cut in the number: no more Bombing run or D Domination since the last opus. Assault's 
 gone too which is a shame as it used to have the most interesting maps and had a bit of scenario 
 in it.
  
  Talking about scenario and single-player mode: don't take it seriously - the guys in Epic are just 
 making fun of themselves. ( The war with the respawners, the FLaGs, Malcolm becoming the army general 
 and other jokes) . Anyway the seriousness of the whole thing is being gone with the first mission 
 where you gotta ... nuke your own sister? 10 times? Ouch...
  
  And that makes the round of it. The last word will be about the interface which is stylish but 
 quite minimalistic and not well suited for ordinary PC.
  And I want more Graphic options too!
  
  Overall 9.5: all you need in order to get the most 
 of this game is to turn off your brains for a while. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdBeer69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The good things about UT3 are gameplay, physics, and graphics. The gameplay is just as fun an fast-paced 
 as previous installments, and the Unreal Engine 3 gives you beautiful environments and descent 
 physics affects even on the lowest settings. The load times between maps seem to have been significantly 
 reduced from UT2004 which was probably the first thing I noticed. As far as I know, there is only 
 one new weapon, which will lock onto enemy vehicles and pretty much never misses. Other then that, 
 the AI hasn't improved much, at least on the average difficulties they seem to be as predictable 
 as ever in movement and the paths they follow.
  
  The main downside to UT3 is the lack of content. They didn't leave much to the imagination when 
 it comes to video or audio settings, although what is there is satisfying enough. The classic game 
 modes (DM, TDM, CTF) remain unchanged, yet Onslaught has been replaced with Warfare, which really 
 isn't much of a change, and hardly an improvement. Personally, I loved the invasion mode in UT2004, 
 however it's nowhere to be found here, and with the storyline and creatures introduced in this 
 game, it seems like it would fit in better here then in UT2004. There was also a Vehicle CTF mode 
 added, which is fun, but doesn't make up what's been cut. There are a good deal of new vehicles 
 in this game that are pretty fun to play with, and can really make things interesting.
  
  Speaking of the storyline, it has been significantly altered compared to what it's been in previous 
 installments, since, there's actually more of a storyline in the game. It appears in the Campaign 
 mode, which can be played co-operatively via LAN and internet, which is a nice feature and will 
 keep you in the game much longer if you have a friend to play with.
  
  Overall, the game probably won't last very long unless you play online or just with some friends. 
 With little mutators to choose from, and little to no mod scene for the game at the time being, 
 there isn't much that this game has to offer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Story: Who cares. Blow some stuff up!
  
  Graphics: On par Gears of War.
  
  Audio: Funny and Gritty Voice-Overs.
  
  Missions: Many different modes. CTF, Vehicle CTF, Deathmatch, 
 Warzone, Team DM, etc.
  
  Controls: Classic UT.
  
  Features: Hoverboards, More weapons, Same UT.
  
  A. I.: Not the smartest and prone to get stuck 
 on walls.
  
  Loading Times: Many but fast.
  
  Multiplayer: Same as Bots but enemies are better and way faster.
  
  Requirements: Decent PC. 
 Medium to High.
  
  Weapons: All the classics with one or two new weapons.
  
  The Good: Same 'ol UT.
  
  The Bad: Same 'ol UT.
  
  The Ugly: Nothing. This game is fairly 
 pretty.
  
  Replay Ability: High.
  
  The Bottom Line: Loved the past UTs? Buy this. Didn't? Don't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omarsimpson
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of UT since the beginning. This game continues the legacy very well as I see 
 it. Fun, fast and at times some highly stressful game play. New warefare game type is inventive 
 and challenging. The graphics are exceptional as well. Not one glitch or hesitation, even during 
 intense combat action. Just a well rounded shooter, running on a time tested engine. Lots of the 
 same ole formula that made the game a classic to begin with. If your a fan of UT then you will 
 remain one and get some good fraggin in to boot. As in previous versions of UT multiplayer is an 
 exceptional, fast paced frag fest. Grab a copy today, you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mars_999
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  GET THIS GAME, Support the hardcore gaming platform of choice. PC GAMING RULES, Graphics are great, 
 gameplay is outstanding, and sound is really good compared to the past games. Get online and get 
 some ass whopping!!
  
  Well worth the wait been waiting for this for a long long time. Now it's here I want more. Sick 
 of the to in depth FPS games, need some laid back frag bate gaming once in a while to get me fix.
 
  
  If you love fragging your buddies, get this game. Still fun as the first time I played UT back 
 in the 90's!! PC's RULE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Since 1999, the Unreal Tournament series has been at the forefront of fast-paced, online, PC multiplayer 
 action. It's combination of fast gameplay, outrageous weapons, huge map selection, and easy modification 
 have made it the poster-child for the PC gaming scene and a popular tournament game. Epic's latest 
 iteration of the franchise, Unreal Tournament 3, attempts to continue and further the legacy of 
 its forerunners.
  
  To start off, this game is a different beast from Epic's other recent blockbuster, Gears of War. 
 Whereas Gears rewards slow pacing, cover gameplay, and had more of a focus on the campaign and 
 co-op, UT's strength is its FPS multiplayer.
  
  Every match is fast-paced, with characters rapidly moving across the map either to get to objectives 
 or blow the crap out of each other. This isn't like Halo or Counterstrike, which are slow-paced 
 and tactical, but a game that follows more in the vein of games like Unreal, where players often 
 live for less than ten seconds and are instantly respawned only to watch their body parts and gore 
 fly across the map yet again.
  
  UT3 has a plethora of gametypes, especially when compared to pretty much any other game on the 
 market. These include Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Duel, Warfare, and Vehicle 
 Capture the Flag. They are all varied and should appeal to all fans of shooters in some ways. The 
 majority of these game modes are self-explanatory and should be familiar to FPS fans. Duel consists 
 of two players taking turns on a tournament ladder in one-on-one deathmatches. Warfare is probably 
 UT3's most complicated and developed gametype. It puts two teams on opposite sides of the map and 
 tasks them with taking out the other team's "power core." In order to do that, a team has to capture 
 "power nodes" which eventually link one power core to another. To capture a node, a member of a 
 team has to stand on it and trigger its capture sequence. The node then glows the color of the 
 corresponding team and starts to gain hit-points. When the bar is full, the node is captured. In 
 order to capture a node from another team, players must fire on the captured node until it loses 
 all of its hitpoints. On some levels, teams are granted orbs which instantly capture power nodes 
 that they touch, regardless of their status. Once a core is not connected to any nodes, the shield 
 around it drops and the opposing team gains the ability to damage it. Some maps include objectives 
 and special nodes which grant teams rewards such as alternate routes, or special vehicles. Maps 
 range in size, from small to large ones requiring at least five minutes of travel to get from one 
 end to the other.
  
  The weapons included in UT3 are standard Unreal Tournament fare, meaning they might seem strange 
 to newcomers to the series. You have weapons such as the Flak Gun, which is a highly modified shotgun; 
 a shock rifle, with two firing modes which fire orbs or beams and allow you to pull off devastating 
 combos; a rocket launcher, which allows you to load up to three rockets at once and fire them in 
 three different ways; a link gun, which serves as both a weapon, a repair tool, and a teammate 
 damage booster, and many more. The guns are all incredibly unique and are fit for radically different 
 situations. There is no reload system in the game, allowing you to empty out all of your ammo for 
 a particular gun without reloading once. This might seem strange, but is actually a nice design 
 decision considering the pacing of matches. Weapon-switching is extremely fast, even though it 
 has been slowed down a bit from the previous version of UT. This means that you will often see 
 pro players fire five different weapons in the space of two or three seconds. Again, the pacing 
 of the game is just insane compared to other shooters.
  
  VCTF and Warfare include a selection of well-designed and unique vehicles. On one side, you got 
 the Axon vehicles, including ones ranging from the small Manta hovercraft (reminiscent of Halo's 
 Ghost) , all the way up to the enormous, seven-seater Leviathan with multiple turret defenses and 
 a deployable cannon mode. On the other side, you have the much more exotic Necris vehicles, including 
 ones such as the infamous Dark Walker, a tripod with several firing modes and huge amounts of armor. 
 All of UT3's vehicles are incredibly varied, each possessing unique weaponry and fulfilling different 
 roles on the battlefield. They are improved when compared to UT2004, as they no longer feel overbalanced 
 against infantry and are much easier to take out.
  
  For UT3, Epic decided to try something new with the series and give it somewhat of a single-player 
 campaign. While an improvement over the virtual tournaments found in the past games, and it can 
 be played in co-op, UT3's campaign is really nothing more than a series of gametypes fought against 
 bots tied loosely together by the occasional cutscene. The story is nothing worth following, and 
 all you really need to know is that an army of Necris (undead) have invaded a random planet out 
 in the middle of the galaxy and that you are part of a team of muscular behemoths who are fighting 
 back against them. The campaign often seems to drag on at times and the characters have even less 
 personality in them than in Epic's Gears of War. To add insult to this, Epic decided to have it 
 end in a cliffhanger, as all games do nowadays. But, the difference here is that you really won't 
 care about what happens next. UT3's meat and potatoes is in the multiplayer, and thats always been 
 the case for the series.
  
  Running on Unreal Engine 3, this is Epic's second game using their newest technology. It looks 
 superb, and the amount of detail put into the environments is astounding for a multiplayer game. 
 Epic has clearly learned a lot since Gears of War, and it shows, producing a game whose looks are 
 top-tier in the market. Added to all of this, it runs extremely smoothly on high-end rigs and can 
 be scaled down easily to run fast and look good on older ones, which has always been a hallmark 
 of the UT series.
  
  Since this game has such a focus on multiplayer, I believe its appropriate to mention the interface 
 and range of options found in this game. The UT series has always been known for a simplistic but 
 easy-to-use interface, allowing players to quickly filter servers and join a game with friends 
 and clan mates. The options menu always provided the player the ability to tweak everything from 
 his FOV, to announcer voice, to crosshair colors, to sound settings, etc.
  
  Unfortunately, UT3 is a step back in this regard. Missing are the large selection of graphics customization 
 sliders, having been reduced to two sliders: World Detail and Texture Detail. Oh, and a V-sync 
 checkbox. The server browser interface has an odd console feel to it, and won't even let you get 
 to the list of servers without first picking a gametype. The browser itself is less helpful than 
 previous iterations, giving even less information than before. Thankfully, Epic has stated that 
 the upcoming patch will fix most of these issues and that they won't leave their community hanging 
 for too long.
  
  All in all, UT3 is a superb old-school-style shooter. It plays great, looks beautiful, and runs 
 well. However, since Epic didn't want to alienate past fans of the series, it doesn't offer many 
 innovations besides in the field of graphics. It is hurt by its strangely subpar interface, but 
 Epic has promised to fix it. While there are a few quirks with the game itself, UT3 remains a faithful 
 entry in a successful multiplayer game series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic-Blade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Unreal was always know for it's great community and the flexibility to embrace every tweak made 
 even by the community members itself. This one will be no different in that.
  
  Alright, it has some bugs... yet. Like it's predecessors, it'll probably have patches, so no worries!
 
  
  Gameplay: AMAZING! CTF and DM are more UT99-Oldschool-ish, which is good! Say goodbay to that shield 
 crap and bouncing players of 2k4's days!
  
  Warfare is onslaught with LOTS of new features. You can play it like the more classic ONS you're 
 used to or you can turn it into a more complex match and push your strategies a bit further.
  
  Graphics: This is Unreal Engine 3. Enough said here.
  
  Well, another Unreal title has 
 born, and now it's up to the modders and mapmakers to turn this into a game that will keep you 
 playing for years and always coming back to download more stuff to play under new backgrounds!
 
  
  All that and the games even comes with a single player campaing with storyline! If its crappy or 
 not, I don't think it matters too much, after all, Unreal is multiplayer. And the best there is 
 on that, no doubt.
  
  So, instead of reading this, go play some CTF ond good old Coret and Hydro maps and see how a game 
 can make the old look new!
  
  And yes, I am Unreal fanboy, and a proud one. It's engine is great and the game is just the best. 
 If you don't like this, go play UT2004 or UT99, those are great too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I am one of UT's biggest fans having played the whole series going back to the 1999 original. I 
 have been salivating over UT3 for so long, sucked in by the hype and the beautiful trailers put 
 out over the last 18 months.
  
  Yes its the same old UT style of gameplay - I didn't expect anything else - its what we all know 
 and love, intense, fast paced arcade action. Indeed, UT no longer has any rivals given that Id 
 soft took a different direction with the Quake series to make it a Battlefield clone. Simply there 
 is no other First Person Shooter like Unreal Tournament.
  
  Unfortunately UT3 is somewhat of a let down and here's why ....
  
  The graphics are pretty 
 good, but nowhere near the standard that was put out in the trailers, similar to what happened 
 with the recent Crysis. These companies hype games up so much over a long period of time, it is 
 unsurprising that when they are released, gamers feel let down. What's confusing me about UT3 is 
 that the graphics don't appear to be as good as Rainbow six vegas or Medal of Honour Airborne, 
 both of which were built on the Unreal engine.
  
  I am also unimpressed by the character models. It feels like there's something distinctly lack 
 lustre about them.
  
  Whilst the graphics are high end, this game runs flawlessly with everything maxed out, with nice 
 frame rates.
  
  The game comes with several game modes, the flagship being the new Warfare mode which is based 
 on UT04's Onslaught mode. Warfare is overly complicated which detracts from the run and gun fun 
 of the game. Onslaught in its old form was sheer genius, and Epic should have stuck by the old 
 adage, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it".
  
  The major let-downs of UT3 however relates to the maps. Yes while the graphics are good, the maps 
 are overly busy with decoration. Many of the maps are similar and its hard to tell them apart. 
 There is a lack of variety, with the maps mostly taking a Neo-gothic industrial theme. Another 
 puzzling feature is that this is supposed to be a futuristic sci-fi shooter so query why there 
 are several maps which involve running around ancient Japanese architecture.
  
  The most glaring omission from UT3 however appears to be revamps of UT04's best maps, namely Facing 
 Worlds / Face Classic, Primeval, Citadel and Dawn, although they did see fit to put a Deck map 
 in.
  
  
  However the biggest failure of this game is the maps themselves, many of which are simply too large 
 for this style of gameplay.
  
  In addition to the missing classic maps, are the missing game modes. For heavens sake where is 
 the hugely popular Assault Mode, which many other developers have since copied in other games ? 
 Also, although it never really seemed to take off in UT04, I absolutely loved Bombing Run Mode.
 
  
  The weapons in my view are a huge improvement over previous UT games which is instantly noticeable, 
 however its a shame to see the awful bio-gun is still included. Also given that this game harks 
 back to the first game in the series i would have liked to see the inclusion of The Ripper.
  
  Surprisingly, in what has previously be a solely online game, a single player campaign has 
 been included, although it is pretty poor consisting of a number of bot death matches linked together 
 by cut-screens.
  
  The sound in UT3 is probably its best feature - nothing new but it is still as great as ever. I 
 love the status announcers and there's something rather tongue in cheek with the sexy female voice 
 in Warfare telling you to "Grab your orbs".
  
  Overall, I feel disappointed by what has been released, but I am not too concerned because in the 
 past, Epic have had the best support of any game developer out there. We can expect regular updates, 
 maps and bonus packs free of charge and I suspect that it won't be too long before the missing 
 maps and game modes cited above are released in a free update. If not, UT has always been infinitely 
 customisable, and with a rabid modding community behind it, they will take care of and gaps left 
 by Epic.
  
  
  To be honest, it is with great disappointment that I have to say that UT04 is far superior to UT3. 
 This reinforces the fact that UT04 is one of the classic games of all time, and goes to prove that 
 great graphics don't make a good game. It is also noticeable that there are many more people still 
 playing UT04 online than UT3.
  
  Although this is a fairly critical review, you must understand I am a UT fan-boy. If you have never 
 played UT before this is a must buy. For now however I will be going back to UT04 and will be checking 
 back when the bonus packs and mods come out. Nevertheless, this is still a great game, and I can 
 now understand why Gamespot gave it the lower than expected rating.
  
  
  If you agree with this review, please rate it.
  
  Edit June 2008
  With regard to the above, 
 Epic have released the first free bonus pack which includes an official version of the Facing Worlds 
 map. In addition to which, the community has already made the "Best Maps" cited above and made 
 a bombing run mod and a Ripper weapon mod. The game however is hampered by a lack of players in 
 what Epic descibed as the "most competitive FPS Xmas of all time" given the simulataneous releases 
 of Crysis and COD4 and admitted the game has been a over-hyped marketing disaster. Shame beacuse 
 it's damned good.
  
  Given the mods and free bonus content I have now increased my overall review score to 9.0
  
 
  
  
  Graphics 9
  Sound 10
  Stability 10
  Gameplay 8
  Value 10
  Overall 9.0
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrEpyx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This game reeks of derivative fast-twitch run and gun. It suffers the same fate as any other FPS 
 whose existence is solely to shoot at other moving people darting across the map. There is no strategy 
 here, just wham bam thank you maam. If you played any other Unreal Tournament game, you aren't 
 missing anything. 
  
  The graphics are typical Unreal Engine, crisp, yet dark. Super fluid fast-paced action, and yet 
 it is severely lacking in character. UT has the same issues as Halo: Mess with the gameplay too 
 much, and you loose the feeling of the series. Leave too much of it alone, and people will cry 
 rehash.
  
  The main difference is that you can rehash Halo a dozen times and its still going to be fun. This 
 fast-twitch nonsense has been played out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  REVIEW.
  Well, having played by years all the unreal tournaments, it wasn't a surprise that epic games made 
 it awesome again.
  Starting by the outstanding visual design and maps, the game won't make you get disappointed, the 
 game includes lots of maps that sometimes you will like to play them until you can play it whit 
 your eyes closed.
  The game also introduces a great offline experience, including a campaign, team death match, death 
 match, the vehicle CTF (capture the flag) and the duel, that is the worse for my case.
  Graphics are amazing, good explosions, vehicles, water, weapons and the alien races are all well 
 designed, If you have played the older UT, you will automatically think in good graphics.
  Sound is a little the same with a little mix of every thing, its just right, but if you are new 
 on the game, maybe this is the best sound and music for an fps out there, and for old ones the 
 old music with some remixes is surprisingly good.
  Menu fells a little too not prepared, and some vehicles might be handful for the game.
  THE GOOD.
 
  Graphically outstanding-campaign will make you feel the real experience of a team- all weapons 
 have 2 different uses, and some one even have a 3 use-every vehicle have different use, but some 
 times you will prefer the most powerful- IA is one of the best i ever played vs. or as a friend- 
 don't need to much pc for get good graphics.
  THE BAD.
  Menu feels like not finished- some vehicles feel handful vs. the most powerful- campaign STORY 
 is boring and slow, but that doesn't mean that is boring to play it.
  
  Unreal tournament 3 is one of the best ive ever played since the first one, and will make you come 
 back for more and more (offline-online) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  This game is a massive improvement on the old game. No more stupid double tap jumping and annoying 
 adrenelin. This game plays a bit more like COD4 ie kinda a bit more realistic, you dont need 8 
 fingers to be good at it. The single player is a great training camp which introduces the maps 
 and elements of the game, so when you go online you have some kind of chance to do well. The graphics 
 are awesome (and unlike Crysis which at the moment has a pointless VERY HIGH setting which no one 
 can use even on a sli rig.) but i would still say that Crysis has slightly better graphics but 
 UT3 plays like a dream even on the highest of settings.
  Yeah the interface is a bit consoley but hey who cares, its the game play im interested in and 
 that is absolutely brilliant. If you are into Multiplayer First Person shooters then i would highly 
 recommend this game as a Must buy. If you want a single player shooter and you system can handle 
 it, go for Crysis or the excellent Gears Of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Well i will sum it up with few words 
  
  - Graphics 
  
  Not so detailed as Crysis, but still very good with good performance even in average machines
 
  
  Also UT3 does not support AA for some reason... and that is not a good thing for 2007 standards
 
  
  - Gameplay
  
  1) The single player part is very swallow with a very weak story.
  You just fight bots for the shake of fighting...
  The single player is just a training ground 
 for the real purpose of the game which is the multiplayer.
  So if you want a game with a real single experience this game is surely going to disappoint you.
 
  
  2) The multiplayer is almost the same with the previous UT games except few exceptions so i am 
 not going to bother to talk about it
  
  also the controls feel consolish and the menus are very bad designed
  
  - Sounds
  
  Probably 
 the best part of the game
  They are very accurate
  
  - OVERALL
  
  Its a good game if you are a multiplayer junkie
  but single player will disappoint you
  
 
  The game is swallow and nothing really new for the genre
  
  Score 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay videos...
  
  http://media. putfile. com/UT3-66
  
  http://media. putfile. com/ut3-81
  
  
  
  
  Epic have really not gotten into my good books 
 lately, i really wanted to enjoy both UT3 and GeOW and couldn't see them ruining it, but they've 
 managed to make just two very mediocre games. This is more because they just don't feel finished 
 at release and pretty much broken. It's such a shame because both games have great graphics and 
 sound with alot going for them but just doesn't end up working.
  
  Now Epic we're saying theres a single Player now in the game and how it's great and all that so 
 i was expecting something like Unreal mixed in with UT which woulda been great. Instead all we 
 got was multiplayer with bots and cutscenes and i just don't see why he even bothered talking about 
 it ever and don't know why they made time making the cutscenes when they could have been focusing 
 on the multiplayer instead. The game just feels really rushed because theres sooo much missing 
 from the game and soo much that just doesn't work.
  
  The other big problem with the game is how the menus feel sooo console like and suckage, yet again 
 no AA on a Unreal engine 3 game which is completly stupid. Theres sooo much clicking through menus 
 and they're sooo restrictive and annoying, i just want to load up to a server browser like with 
 Valve games such as CS. Also the server browser is just very bad and which this one displays pings 
 i don't see why i have to keep going back and forth to change gametype, why can't i have them all 
 show.
  
  When you get into the gameplay it just doesn't feel that great and just something missing, it's 
 like it has no personality. UT04 just seems much more fun and superior to UT3 and thats a big downer 
 because i can just stick with UT04 and save money if i havn't already bought it. Missing elements 
 from UT games previous and adds nothing else as a improvement so it just feels very very old and 
 just doesn't impress. What's even worse is how theres only a handful of servers like similar to 
 Gears of War and i'm sure theres dedicated servers, although they didn't add in spectator mode 
 which is a little weird. You may say the games only been released but if theres not many servers 
 now then there wont ever be, TF2 and COD4 both had thousands of servers on launch day.
  
  There are some nice elements however like customizing your character and the graphics and also 
 the sounds in the game which are the best parts of UT3. However you don't really care because the 
 multiplayer just doesn't seem very fun, specially when you can get UT04 for 5 these days and it's 
 better gameplay.
  
  To sum up really the games not as good as previous ones and not as fun, it all seems rather bland 
 and just not very interesting. I just can't see any point to releasing it and specially when it 
 feels sooo unfinished, Epic have really screwed up, however i bet the PS3 version does better due 
 to the standard of FPS games on the PC being higher.
  
  
  
  I say save your money and buy something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate1222
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 doesn't innovate, but rather, it builds on what fans already love about the 
 series. Those with mid-end rigs won't get the same visual quality as their high-end peers, but 
 the sheer scale and frantic action remain the same. The crew at Epic (and for that matter, Midway) 
 have chosen a practical approach by designing it so that mid-end users can still experience this 
 awesome title. In the future, other PC game developers would be wise to do the same-it draws in 
 a much bigger consumer base. Most PC gamers I know have mid-end rigs (2Ghz CPUs, 1GB RAM, nVidia 
 6/7 or ATI x1000s) . While the cost of nVidias 8 series and ATIs x1500+ are coming down to the $100 
 range (a GeForce 8400 512MB is now under $120) , most are still wary of upgrading. Until they do, 
 UT3 will probably whet their appetites and encourage them to bump up for a new 512MB card. It has 
 definetely convinced me to do so! If it rocks this hard on my 7300 256MB, it's going to blow my 
 mind out of my skull on a 512MB card! The modes are, for the most part, the expected and demanded; 
 DM, TDM, CTF... with an added treat-VEHICLE CTF and WARFARE! Vehicle CTF is as the name implies: 
 CTF with vehicles and the huge and elaborate arenas that utilize them. Once you've played VCTF 
 you'll wander how you ever tolerated not having it in your fav FPSs, trust me. Warfare is a wee 
 bit like the old "BOMBING RUN" from UT2003: destroy the enemies core of their base. Each base (RED 
 and BLUE) has a core that must be destroyed to assure victory. The core can only be exposed via 
 the controlling of nodes. Their are (usually) 3 nodes per arena. Each team must gain control of 
 the nodes by either destroying the protective casing or bringing an orb from their base to the 
 respective node. Once the majority of nodes are in control of one team (example: RED team controls 
 2/3 nodes) the opposing teams core becomes vulnerable-blast off the casing and do a touch down 
 dance. Of course, they've thrown in vehicles, turretts and specific nodes for unlocking them in 
 some arenas to keep it interesting. The Campaign mode is basically a training mode with a story. 
 And of course, if you prefer OFFLINE play, their are BOTS. The Bots are actually quite tactical: 
 enemies are a pain in the ass, allies try to cover you and make a decent effort to accomplish the 
 goals. The arenas themselves are practically stars of the show in their own right. From Asian themed 
 to frozen wastelands to space stations orbitting planets (these usually have teleporters to allow 
 you access to the very planets they orbit) , the variety never dries up. If your rig can handle 
 it (2Ghz CPU, 512MB RAM, nVidia 6800/ATI Radeon 9600) or you own a PS3/XBox 360, I highly recomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordfakie
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  I'am an old UT games since UT99 came out and I'm a pretty good known Capture the Flag gamer on 
 UT2004 and I must say that I hated Unreal3 since the first time I played it. They just went back 
 to the feel of the old UT99 wich is an outdated game. Wht they do that? Physics are wrong, no double 
 dodge jump? That is sad. No Adrenaline? Come on!! I feem like I have only one leg when I play it. 
 Also the graphics look extrmely cartoony. End of story, people who stayed stucked playing the original 
 Unreal Tournament may enjoy this game but newer gamers that liked UT2004 will totally hate Unreal3. 
 I think Epic and Midway should consider a big patch for this game and fix all their mistakes. Not 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiteX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  UT3 seems like it was first created on the consoles then ported to PC. The main menu is horrible, 
 not only the layout but the color scheme as well. The option settings have been extremely toned 
 down and the game modes have taken a serious hit. Warfare replaces Onslaught and Assault, it's 
 basically onslaught with new vehicles and some extra little touches. Besides that mode there is 
 the DM, TDM, CTF, Duel, and the wtf?! CTF with vehicles thrown in. Overall I was very disappointed 
 to see such little customization for a UT game. I recommend picking this game up in about a year 
 once patches and mods are out. It's really a waste of money to buy it right now unless you will 
 use the UnrealEd. That is basically the only reason I bought the game at release. Even though I 
 was disappointed, the core combat still is fun, the graphics are amazing, and it's something I 
 will be playing for years to come just like UT99 and UT04 before it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Well IMO this is a good game but 2k4 still reigns as the best to me. Graphics are pretty good and 
 this game runs extemely well on my rig with pretty high FPS. I havent played all the maps yet but 
 the ones I have are fairly enjoyable. One thing i like about 2k4 was all the different characters 
 in the game... Maybe this game doesnt have as many elements but not sure yet. Trust me this game 
 feels similiar to the predicessors but In it's own way has some differences which is good. I like 
 the high speed twitch type game and this one fits the bill, online has been pretty challenging 
 and find myself getting lost in the enjoyment. This game isnt perfect but over time I think it 
 's short comings can be overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akafresh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 looks, and feels Great! The Unreal engine does it again in a fast pace first 
 person shooter that any can pick up and play. Unreal Tournament 3 has some of the best graphics 
 I have ever seen in any game, not to mention the considerably awesome levels. But although this 
 game is fun the levels look extremely similar to the ones of Gears of War. True, it is the same 
 company, but is this a good thing? You tell me what you thing. Overall the game has fabulous graphics, 
 fast but fun game play, and if your good at first person shooters this game will not be any problem 
 learning. Oh and mulitplayer is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinistery
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament has always been the best FPS alongside natural selection and half-life 1 and 
 2. Even to the consoles, UT3 will resurrect the beautiful maps and the fast paced game play halo 
 has so much sought to destroy. The maps were created in mind with extensive game play and non-stop 
 heartbeat action. Through the years, Epic has made unreal tournament only better and better. There's 
 no question why everyone shouldn't give unreal a try. They may discover something way more fun 
 out of their daily routine. Its one of the best ways to beef up your reflexes without doing all 
 the boring excecise :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NineT9mustang
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the best of all worlds... Has the classic Unreal Tournament feel, new Unreal Tournament 
 feel, huge maps, small maps, awesome vehicles which can be turned off or on, fast paced...
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 has had the background of Unreal Tournament 2004, Unreal Tournament 2003, 
 Unreal Tournament 1999, Unreal, Unreal 2, Unreal Championship 1, Unreal Championship 2, and a few 
 more... so naturally, with the communities support this game has evolved into the best it can be... 
 a definate 10 in my book...
  
  Cons:
  User Interface. BUT, This will be fixed, and it has been addressed, so in one of the upcoming updates/patches, 
 you will see a fix for this, which leaves this game with no Cons :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTXII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  When you heard Unreal Tournament, you see images in your head of crazy head-to-head battles online 
 with Sci-Fi looking graphics and silky gameplay.
  
  Well, that's basically what Unreal Tournament 3 is. It's a reiterated version of the series with 
 a huge improvement on the graphics and gameplay elements. The series has been, by far, one of my 
 favorite due to the impressive fire-fights online and the great first person shooter gameplay.
 
  
  It's the same here, and the formula hasn't changed much, aside from a few additions (i. e. new vehicles 
 and weapons) . Though the formula is the same, it still feels new and refreshing.
  
  As with all other UT games, the story mode is basically a throw-away and is basically a joke and 
 usually isn't really worth playing. It's mainly for those few gamers that cannot play online or 
 do not want to. And if you're going to buy UT just for it's terrible off-line play, then you're 
 wasting your money, because the online is really where it's at. It's an incredible experience.
 
  
  Graphics-wise the series takes a pretty big leap forward, though it still doesn't stand up to the 
 well-known graphically incredible game, Crysis. But, that does not mean that the game's graphics 
 are terrible, because they are not. They look excellent.
  
  The online is basically what you will expect; it's insane 32 player battles make it a running riot. 
 There's beams of light emitting from everywhere, there's people running, driving, and flying all 
 over the place. It's fast-paced and it's a very fluid formula.
  
  The PC version is amazing, due to the sheer speed you have with your keyboard and mouse. Though, 
 it will take a great deal to run. For me, I have two 8800Ultra's and it runs very, very well. Frame 
 rate stays very steady.
  
  If your PC has the balls to play this game, then there is no question as to whether or not you 
 should buy it.
  
  -UTXII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyFrost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The Bad:
  
  The first thing I noticed launching the game is that this installment has the worst user interface 
 and server browser of the UT series. It is an abysmal failure. I won't spend much time describing 
 all the failing aspects, but one major oversight is the inability to view the players currently 
 in a server.
  
  The input settings are just unacceptible. The sensitivity adjustments scream "console." No longer 
 can you fine tune your mouse settings via the UI. Additionally several needed options are missing 
 from the UI: weapon bob, landshake, mouse accel... etc. In short the mouse feels wonky.
  
  The game has been crafted for console and they did nothing to give the PC version a PC feel.
 
  
  One more bad thing before I move on to the good. YOU SHOOT FROM YOUR EYES AND NOT YOUR GUN! Are 
 your serious epic.... how did that happen!
  
  Oh one more thing.. again. Don't point out the games problems in the official forums. They don't 
 like hearing the bad stuff. You will get banned. I have not, but many have and thier post deleted.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  The map list is solid and mostly playable.
  
  The graphics a fairly scalable for different generations of PC's.
  
  The guns are pretty balanced. 
 They have made some efforts to switch the dominance from hitscan to spam weapons. For example, 
 flack and rockets are instant kills basically on direct hits. The link gun and stinger are both 
 very powerful as well. The shock rifle and sniper rifle are both a little lack luster at the moment 
 due to the input issues. Hitscan is doable but not very viable at this time.
  
  I have not played any vehicle based game types, but from what I have heard people have enjored 
 the addtions to this style of play.
  
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I think this is a good FPS for competition. I think though for the moment it feels slightly out 
 dated and a step in the wrong direction. I understand that they wanted a UT99 feel, but it is too 
 cluncky. The game does have a good speed and huge potential for some good team play and is a contender 
 for tournament play. However, with games as polished as CoD4 out there, it might not cut.
  
  This is a worth while purchase, but I am dissapointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Bigg
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Unreal is a great game but , the single player aspect is nothing more than a deathmatch that tries 
 to tie in to the story. It is ok at best. he the multiplayer is excellent. Although it looks like 
 Gears of War, ir is still a great game. Worth buying if you are into multiplayer. The conflict 
 is great and everything is fun. The framrate holds up when it needs to except for respawning then 
 it gets a little crazy. If you got a monster machine then you are ok. I recommend that you get 
 this for the multipayer and the modding aspect. This is really exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PullTheTricker
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Some people say its a graphicly enhanced UT2k4 on steriods and some people think its the true successor 
 to its original UT99. Wich I disagree both with... UT3 is in my eyes a failed attempt to cater 
 to the console fanbase.
  
  I don't want this review to end up like a Wall of Text so I won't go too deep into the details 
 of my impressions.
  
  UI Interface feels like a console interface wich gives me the impression Epic didn't bother creating 
 a unique menu for PC version. Available Settings are very limited compared to UT2004.
  
  A. I hasn't improved much from UT2004 and is still broken and feels frustrating at times. 
  
 
  Maps are too visual centered wich leaves the map design suffer on behalf of that because a good 
 map is not just all about fancy looking colours. Many map designs don't mix well with VCTF
  
  UT is a very competitive game... and every time I get killed the camera immitates my death 
 wich feels kinda cheap and only screws up my view. A Death Cam would have been really nice feauture 
 so I can learn from my mistakes and see why I died. Wich both CoD4 and TF2 have.
  
  Epics decision to go with Gamespy integrated Servers is big minus in my books.
  
  If I won't 
 criticize, Epic will keep using the same formula over and over again. So if you're in for some 
 Online DM or CTF play then this game is satisfying. But don't expect anything huge since Epic hasn't 
 taken the chance to add any new innovative gameplay aspects
  
  
  All in all, for a game that is trying to exceed its previous titles in terms of gameplay UT3 is 
 a bit disappointing and kind of a step backwards. Maybe my expectations were set too high since 
 I've been anticipating this game for almost 2 years.
  
  Campaign / Single Player 7.0
  
  Online / Multiplayer 8.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugesbri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  The only reason I don't the give UT3 a perfect 10 is because of the tutorial movies bundled with 
 the collector's edition. The tutorials are great, but, they needed to also have lessons on how 
 to import Character models (people, aliens, etc.) and show how to make them work in the UT3 space. 
 
  One thing that's missing is the third person view from UT4. I found this helpfull when roaming 
 over the large terrains (seeing my character running and interacting with the environment) . Third 
 person gives the game a different feel.
  Maybe in the future an over the shoulder view like "Gears of War" can be incorporated into UT3. 
 Hope fully someone in one of the communities will record some movies on "how to's" to share with 
 us. Otherwise, another great experience created by the guys at EPIC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is another great installment to this great franchise. From it's first release, 
 Unreal Tournament was one of the most famous first person shooters. This new experience brings 
 totaly new maps, keeps the old weapons but in new modern edition, and adds some funny new ways 
 of playing. You can now play the popular "Vehicle Capture The Flag", "Duel" and other new mods. 
 The online mode is made to be very simple to use, via personal user account, and you can quickly 
 join any match on the internet without any issues. 
  
  The graphic of Unreal Tournament is what makes it the best. It is in one time modern and realistic. 
 You'll like Unreal from the first enter in the great designed menu, which has never been made so 
 perfect. The textures and the characters in the game are realy made great.
  
  The sound... Yes, the good old soundtrack of Unreal... The classic songs are still here, and they're 
 also modernized. You're gonna want to turn on your speakers on high when you first hear it. Also, 
 the voice acting is great.
  
  You have pretty much characters to chose while playing Unreal Tournament 3, the old humans and 
 bots you liked so much.
  
  The single player story, as I understood, continues from the old games, Malcom appears again, with 
 his same look.
  
  Overall, this is a must-have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duke852456
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament is the game of the year. 
  
  Any one playing it over and over again will realized that it is off the hook.
  
  The maps are 
 all in great detailed and the vehicles are just amazing to ride in. The weapons have increase its 
 value as being off the hook. The rockets do what a real rockets doo and when you blow someone up 
 the explode like they just swollen a rocket. The flak gun is great for kill oppents at close range. 
 They out did with the sniper gun by making a great long range weapon. 
  
  I recommend to anyone who whats a great first person shooting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is a glorious game with beautiful environments and images. The gameplay is 
 fast-paced and delivers constant entertainment. I expected a stunning FPS game and UT 3 certainly 
 lived up to its potential. The bot difficulty has increased dramatically from the other games, 
 which is a good improvement. It was frustrating to have to boost the difficulty level to extreme 
 levels for a solid challenge. The special effects of each weapon are exciting to witness over and 
 over again. Overall, UT 3 is absolutely perfect for any gamers looking to immerse themselves in 
 a realistic world with unreal gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddatie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  UT3 is a fitting continuation to one of the most revolutionary FPS titles to date. All of the HALO 
 fanboys seem to forget that UT 2003 did the whole vehical/ strategy combat first. The new engine 
 is absolutley stunning!! I'm running on a 3ghz core 2 duo with 3gig of Corsair XMS and 2 Nvidia 
 8800 GTS (512MB) in SLI. I realize not every system will have the same results as mine, but it 
 still looks and runs nice on my son's 3ghz P4 Nvidia 7800 (256Mb) with 1 gig of ram. So with this 
 said, I have seen and played both ends of the spectrum and the game does not disappoint. The vehical 
 capture the flag is a riot. The facelift of the traditional weapons are awesome and the good old 
 sniper rifel is back ( without all of the powder smoke from 2004) !!! The charecters have that awesome 
 "Gears of War" appearance and the smoothness of gameplay reflects the fact that the same design 
 team were used for this title. It looks like UT3 along with Bioshock and Crysis will have a home 
 on my hard drive for quite some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tccsii
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is a glorious game with beautiful environments and images. The gameplay is 
 fast-paced and delivers constant entertainment. I expected a stunning FPS game and UT 3 certainly 
 lived up to its potential. The bot difficulty has increased dramatically from the other games, 
 which is a good improvement. It was frustrating to have to boost the difficulty level to extreme 
 levels for a solid challenge. The special effects of each weapon are exciting to witness over and 
 over again. Overall, UT 3 is absolutely perfect for any gamers looking to immerse themselves in 
 a realistic world with unreal gameplay. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
